hi, good morning.
i hope you’re doing 0k.
i’m victoria derbyshire.
welcome to news.
let’s bring you the latest headlines.
the prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
he’s said to be undergoing tests "as a precaution".
he will continue to be kept informed as to what is happening and to be in charge of the government.
as i say, i hope, we all do, that he has a speedy recovery and he gets back to number 10 and can take charge in the way he would want to.
express our nation’s well wishes to prime minister borisjohnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus.
all americans are praying for him, he’s a friend of mine, he’s a great gentleman.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
a serious mistake, and people she made a serious mistake, and people are right to be angry about she was to apologise, it it, she was right to apologise, it was clear yesterday she could not inue to be the face of public advice campaign.
refuge says the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests for help since the lockdown began.
"better days will return" — the queen’s rallying message for the nation.
she says the will suceed in its fight against the coronavirus.
a tiger — and six other big cats — at the bronx zoo in new york test positive for the coronavirus.
it’s thought the animals were infected by a zoo keeper.
good morning, and welcome to news.
our top story this morning.
the prime minister borisjohnson has spent the night in hospital, where he was admitted for tests, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
downing street says it’s a precautionary step as the prime minister continues to show persistent of the virus.
he remains in charge of the government but the foreign secretary dominic raab will chair this morning’s coronavirus meeting.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being criticised for visiting her second home twice, against her own lockdown advice.
the first minister nicola sturgeon initially defended catherine calderwood before agreeing that the doctor’s behaviour risked undermining confidence in the government’s public health message.
the queen has said the "will succeed" in its fight again the pandemic, if people remain united and resolute.
in a rare address to the nation, the monarch thanked the public for following government rules to stay at home.
she acknowledged that self—isolating may be hard at times, but concluded on an optimistic note — echoing the words of dame vera lynn’s second world war song, we’ll meet again.
reports from japan say the government is preparing to declare a state of emergency as coronavirus cases continue to increase.
in tokyo, the number of cases has doubled over the past week to more than 1,000.
and a tiger — at a zoo in new york — has tested positive for covid—19.
it’s thought the four—year—old animal contracted the virus from a keeper but she’s expected to recover.
our first report this morning comes from our political correspondent chris mason.
the man charged with leading the country’s response to this virus is experiencing the unpleasant reality of it.
it was a week last friday that we heard the prime minister had coronavirus.
hi, folks, i want to bring you up to speed with something that’s happening today, which is that i have developed mild of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
and on the advice of the chief medical officer, i have taken a test, that has come out positive, so i am working from home.
i’m self—isolating.
number 10 made it clear borisjohnson would continue to work this remotely from his downing street flat, and he chaired what he described as the first ever digital cabinet meeting from self—isolation.
last thursday night, he joined millions of others in expressing his gratitude to those working in the health service.
thanks, , thank you.
thanks, all.
but, it was clear in another post on twitter on friday, that he was still unwell.
although i’m feeling better and i’ve done my seven days of isolation, alas, i still have one of the symptoms, a minor symptom, i still have a temperature so in accordance with government advice, i must continue my self—isolation until that itself goes.
last night, downing street issued a statement.
i want to express our nation’s well wishes to prime minister borisjohnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus.
all americans are praying for him, he’s a friend of mine, he’s a great gentlemen, and a great leader, and as you know, he was brought to the hospital today.
but i’m hopeful and sure that he’s going to be fine.
he’s a strong man, strong person.
borisjohnson has spent the night not here, but in hospital.
his officials are adamant he is still leading the government’s response to the pandemic.
but this virus is crippling the economy, robbing us of our usual liberties and straining the personal capacity of the prime minister to respond to it on our behalf.
chris mason, news.
let’s get the latest from our assistant political editor norman smith who’s at his home in north london.
it must be hard for boris johnson to the government from his hospital bed.
that is a statement of the obvious.
it is true you can hold video while it is tme you ran hold video conferences, , added to which, he is ell man i am sorry, norman, not a well man i am sorry, norman, the sound is getting worse and we very fourth word
but we got the of it.
jest of it.
—— the gist of it.
maybe we will go to orman.
we will talk to a back to norman.
we will talk to a professor in a moment, from the ersity of east anglia about boris johnson’s rsistent ymptoms.
ybody who as had a coronavirus, peopla talked out being wiped out, otentially that could be what is pening with the prime minister.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being caught visiting her second home — in breach of her own social distancing guidance.
catherine calderwood made a public apology and received a police warning after she travelled from edinburgh to her other home in fife, for two consecutive weekends.
alexandra mackenzie reports.
this is a vital update about coronavirus.
to help save lives, stay at home.
catherine calderwood will no longer front the public campaign against coronavirus.
after pictures were published in the scottish sun, she was forced to admit that she had travelled from edinburgh to her second home in fife the last two weekends.
she initially apologised, then resigned, saying during an uncomfortable media briefing yesterday, scotland’s first minister stood by her chief medical officer.
her advice and expertise has been invaluable to me, and it continues to be so.
if i am to do what i need to do to steer the country through this crisis to the very best of my ability, i need her to be able to focus on the job that she is doing.
but hours later, nicola sturgeon agreed, she had to go.
many have expressed their anger and disbelief at catherine calderwood’s actions.
police scotland say that they have spoken to her and emphasised that the stay—at—home rules apply to everyone.
and as we enter a third week of lockdown, which has been observed by most, calderwood will step back.
she said the people of scotland must have complete trust in those who give advice in the difficult months to come.
alexandra mckenzie, news, glasgow.
well, in the last hour, scotland’s first minister nicola sturgeon has been giving her reaction to calderwood’s resignation.
she made a mistake, she made a serious mistake, and people are right to be angry about it.
she was right to apologise.
it was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public health advice campaign.
but candidly, yes, i did hope i could continue to call on her expertise.
because, to be frank, in a situation like this at this particular moment in time it is far from ideal for me as first minister not to have that continuity of advice, but by last night it became clear that the bigger risk was the damage it could be doing to the important message the government is putting forward right now.
so these are not easyjudgments.
at this point in time the normal rules of politics or news management couldn’t be further from my mind.
i’m simply trying to do the best things and the right things to best equip us to get through this challenge as well as we can.
let’s again with our assistant political editor norman smith, who’s in north london.
i will boris johnson funding is from hospital?
ith great difficulty.
tors won’t say you have ease off, at the least, they will be asking for and recuperation.
he will not the hands—on focus he would never ind the fact he is earty not well.
as we know from own own experience, it is very hard ring the necessary energy and ocus and drive to work if you are ling not too good never mind to of the hardest in the one of the hardest jobs in the country and at a time of crisis.
the ion is how long is mrjohnson likely to be hospital.
he was dmitted on the advice of his ors.
not at his request.
we are old it was precautionary to carry tests, to see him face—to—face.
is possibla he have to stay in, albeit listening to robert ick who aid they promised i was oing well though he did not rule a out the sibility he would have to tay in longer and as long as medics emed cessary.
today he is in hospital having the test.
but he will continue to be kept informed as to what is happening and to be in charge of the government.
and as i say, i hope, we all do, that he has a speedy recovery and he gets back to number 10 and can take charge in the way that he would want to as soon as possible.
i’m sure this is very frustrating for him, somebody like boris who wants to be hands—on running the government from the front.
but nonetheless, he is still very much in charge of the government.
any prime minister wants to be seen to be in control, out and about, and me like this there is a leadership issue to be seen to be icly encouraging, helping people hrough this.
know boris ohnson through this.
you know boris johnson will have been trying to work his hrough this.
nevertheless, he way through this.
neverthelass, he has been out of action, out of the front line for ten days now.
i suspect that indicates how hard—hit been by this virus.
it means he has been by this vims.
it means if it continues and the doctors say need a period of you do need a period of recuperation, then, the government ave to look at alternative will have to look at alternative procedures, dominic raab technically secretary of state steps in.
but you could see a more minent role, i guess, for michael and matt hancock who already ave been pretty central to our ponse to coronavirus because we facing huge decisions day by day of the severity of the in terms of the severity of the lockdown and in terms of our broader egy about how we emerge from his.
so, these are very nervous es.
times.
norman, thank you very much for the t.
professor hunter, tell us what kind of tests like boris johnson be and hat kind of persistent having and what kind of persistent could he be experiencing.
no personal knowledge of the prime minister’s record but at this of the illness i imagine he is still few brow, still coughing and also having some degree of possibly also having some degree of shortness of breath —— febrile.
ically people would get over typically most peopla would get over the sentence in a week
but it is not ual to continue to have or longer.
if his are ually getting worse than getting ter, then, the sorts of things would be happening in hospital, uld be having chest x—rays, possibly ’ scans of his lungs, a of blood tests, and people ould monitoring his vital observations, his pulse and thing rate and also quite likely is called the oxygen saturation what is rallad the oxygen saturation which is a marker of how well the are functioning in terms of etting oxygen into your blood.
any more particularly at risk than anyone in their 505 without an underlying health ition?
i don’t know whether he smokes.
i don’t know whether he has any other condition.
people in their 05 are at a increased risk veloping severe disease and ndeed of developing fatal disease.
that much more at risk than saying somebody in their 405.
but it arty, and we have seen that eople of all is clearly, and we have seen that people of all ages, whether or not are ffering from a they are suffering from a pre—existing disease, can actually lop vere illness.
50, his develop severe illness.
so, his doctors will indeed be monitoring a few days.
him for a few days.
even when you talk to people who ad it or believe they have had all people who have tested itive for it, even when they get the most high—profile like or persistent cough, ctually, the effect on the body ause your immune system has had fight this, you are knackered.
could happen to boris ohnson.
it is a fact.
yes, olutely.
we’ve ary quite dramatically.
a lot of will the illness will actually have very mild and ctually get back to full will actually get back to full health quite quickly.
but many will articularly if you are in a not, particularty if you are in a more at risk group and a ticket if ave had more severe disease.
people ran be nder the weather for if not weeks after recovery rom this infection.
but it takes of us in very different ways as are learning.
thank you very much.
professor paul r.
in the next few minutes we will talk to the sister of a nurse ied after testing positive for covid—19.
and we will talk to her ger sister zuma in the next younger sister kazuma in the next few minutes.
because he to come on pay tribute to her sister.
—— because she to come on air.
the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests for help over the past week — that’s according to refuge, the country’s largest domestic abuse charity.
it says there was also a 150% rise in people visiting the helpline’s website.
these are the first statistics which give a picture of the potential consequences of social distancing for abuse victims.
tomos morgan reports.
it’s been bad.
i didn’t care if i didn’t wake up from the night before.
i just knew what was going to happen.
ijust wanted the days to go past, but itjust got worse.
tara told me she has been mentally and physically abused by her partner for six months.
he deleted her social media account, stopped herfrom seeing herfamily, and controlled all aspects of her life, and, since having to isolate with him, things escalated.
you must stay at home.
it’s been getting worse since the lockdown, as well.
mentally abusive, verbally.
erm, been hitting me, just causing an argument from nothing.
if i fight back and say something wrong, he willjust hit me.
new figures seen by the give a picture of the potential consequence of lockdown for victims.
the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests over the past week.
refuge, the country’s largest domestic abuse charity, who run the line, say there has been a daily rise of 150% in people visiting the website.
tara has now fled her abuser and is being supported by a charity in wales.
but charities and campaigners have expressed concern that those in violent relationships could be at serious risk as the lockdown continues.
the homicide rate will go through the roof.
you can’t stop the perpetrator unless he’s visible.
rachel williams suffered violence from her husband for 18 years.
when she decided to leave he shot her with a sewn—off shotgun.
she is now one of the country’s main campaigners battling on behalf of those still suffering.
we will never do enough until we eradicate domestic abuse and violance - end of.
we have an epidemic in the with a pandemic on top.
police chiefs and both governments in cardiff bay and westminster say help is available for anyone experiencing domestic abuse, and that people should contact if they need advice or feel they are at risk.
good morning.
welcome to news.
last year, areema nasreen fulfilled a lifelong ambition of graduating from university to become a fully—qualified nurse at walsall manor hospital.
last friday, it was announced that she and a fellow nurse aimee o’rourke had died.
yesterday, the health secretary said three nurses have died so far duing this coronavirus outbreak.
areema nasreen’s colleagues described her as an "amazing nurse" who "put her patients first and herself last".
her sister is kazeema and she wanted to come on air today to pay tribute to areema and we can also talk to another family relative samara afzal who is also a .
i want to say to you we are so sorry for the loss of your sister.
i know ant to pay tribute to her, so, tell us about her.
he was just a rare goal.
not at work.
put herself last in the mmunity -- girt.
time she community -- girt.
any time she found somebody suffering back home, uld send money.
anybody who anted to go to pilgrimage, she pay for the poor to go.
you would pay for the poor to go.
you used to go with them coming every , she would help out with veryone there.
if you are to be ill go to the hospital, she was with hem all night.
it was not work, she put rself last verywhere, in the community.
she ped every body with everything.
lost an amazing nurse and lso an amazing person in life who ffected everybody by this.
she as an amazing sister, mum, my nger sister, we were so close her.
she said to me, sit down, and i was packing her stuff.
i didn’t know she wasn’t going to come back.
when did she first become ill?
ad done her last shift before nnual leave, she came home.
i can’t he dates in my head.
she said he had a slight leg ache.
if you ad a 12 hour shift, that is have had a 12 hour shift, that is why.
she texted two hours later saying the pen was coming up.
i never thought anything.
you have to stand are different.
and when she found out this was all ening, the shortage of staff, he booked bank shift at walsall or hospital.
it was a monday.
she me up and said, we are really ort.
idid short.
i did a shift with her.
i said she didn’t look good.
she said, do this shift together, we ill go home together.
i had been king her temperature at work and as getting higher.
she’d never hought anything of it.
we ate ether.
she handed over the night aff.
that was the last handover.
really sorry, i can hear that this is really, emotional or you.
you.
what did it mean to your sister to urse?
be a nurse?
when she first looked after my nan, only a ittle girl herself she was only a little girt herself
but that inspired her more and more.
me at walsall manor hospital, she applied for the housekeeping she applied through the job, she applied through the newspaper.
a year later, she got me re and our younger sister and all helped.
her passion started wing, looking after patients.
she went into health care and that, said, i want to do it but there is no one in the entire who has graduated, she was uite worried.
she asked my dad, my band.
she said, i am rried now, husband.
she said, lam married now, with kids.
but my sisters were ing to help her, so, she went nto nursing.
that is when i said, ’t worry about anything.
that is at she did for four years, she had tress.
he and my sister did everything for her.
i was looking at ister’s to eat where she wrote your sister’s to eat where she wrote how much she loved her job as a e.
-- tweets.
last april, when he graduated, she , thank you she graduated, she said, thank you to walsall manor hospital for eving in me.
countless people truggled to believe they have the to dream.
but please follow hrough, and with commitment, passion and support, dreams do me tme.
come true.
the hospital has been mazing oughout her urney, my ourney, throughout her journey, my journey, and the support that we have had.
ere clearly so supportive to you were dearty so supportive to her as she was studying.
hospital, they believed in her.
he wanted to believe in herself but pushed her to do it.
if it wasn’t for them, she would have kept ing, ran i do it?
she was thinking, ran i do it?
she was asking for was amazing they supported her.
i said to my mum, when this is all , if you want to think about over, if you want to think about your daughter, go past her ward, her ies are a life there.
she was or four onths and see you —— nurse.
she back there
but she ever came back.
samara afzal is a relative of areema nasreen.
i wonder what tribute you would like to pay to areema nasreen.
was full of life every time you her, bursting with energy.
one the very few people you have to ound
and she would be full of ositive vibes, always motivating ybody.
at a family event, she would be the one to come up to you how you were, the first to any elderly relative who needed form of p.
and she was any form of help.
and she was absolutely passionate about nursing.
uld have chat about medicine, sometimes, if there was something unsure about coming she she was unsure about coming she would send a message.
you could tell dedicated to her b.
but at she was dedicated to her job.
but at the same time, she was very balanced family.
fantastic with her family.
a fantastic rola model to asian women because very do you see someone who has family, three children to look er, still working 12 hour shifts a nurse.
that is quite rare in south asian community and i want to be remembered as a fantastic model for all the asian women.
onder if the grieving process has even more difficult because family and friends are not able to together obvious reasons, come together for obvious reasons, full social distancing reasons.
lutely.
we have not been over to ouse and normally with south ian families when there is a th, everyone on that day will the family house to support hem, give them hugs, bring over so the family don’t have to do nything for a few days.
that is has made it so much more fficult.
especially the children, ally feel for them.
again, when a bereavement, the children get to have their cousins around, get distracted.
it is they get distracted.
it is heartbreaking thinking, her mum, her ren have sat there together, they don’t have the extended family, friends, as they would, and of the funeral, it is a in terms of the funeral, it is a sign of respect when hundreds of get together.
that almost ves a little bit of relief.
but ain, only five or six are allowed the funeral which makes it very fficult for the family, not only they grieving but organising the eral by themselves.
thank you, we appreciate your time.
an i say hank you to walsall manor ospital, the support we are getting from them is truly still getting from them is amazing, , from the managers.
you so much to the staff.
and we are so grateful for the work sister did and so sorry for the of your amazing sister.
you so much.
the queen has given a message of reassurance to britain and the commonwealth, urging people to remain united and resolute in the face of the coronavirus pandemic.
in a rare televised address from windsor castle, she paid tribute to the and key workers and urged people to take comfort in the fact that better days would return.
and though self—isolating may at times be hard, many people of all faiths, and of none, are discovering that it presents an opportunity to slow down, pause and reflect, in prayer or meditation.
it reminds me of the very first broadcast i made, in 1940, helped by my sister.
we, as children, spoke from here at windsor to children who had been evacuated from their homes and sent away for their own safety.
today, once again, many will feel a painful sense of separation from their loved ones.
but now, as then, we know, deep down, that it is the right thing to do.
while we have faced challenges before, this one is different.
this time we join with all nations across the globe in a common endeavour, using the great advances of science and our instinctive compassion to heal.
we will succeed, and that success will belong to every one of us.
we should take comfort that while we may have more still to endure, better days will return.
we will be with our friends again, we will be with our families again, we will meet again.
but for now, i send my thanks and warmest good wishes to you all.
with me is afua adorn, freelance journalist.
also, i’m joined by the activist and writer ejel khan.
afua, how did hearing from the queen affect you personally?
it’s one of momentous occasions.
you know the queen comes out, it is rious.
the part when she talked we will see our friends again, will meet again, i have to admit elt bit choked up when she said at at the end.
i thought, gosh, we had so many comparisons to the spirit, to the war and that ind of war effort.
when she said t, it really that, it really did hit me and i thought, wow.
it was interesting how lked about how we needed to have unity, how we needed to come ther to approach this
but we ded to have unity in our eparation, we need to have unity come together to stay apart to stop this virus from spreading.
so yes, definitely choked up at the i thought it was interesting hough that she didn’t reiterate the nment’s advice.
she didn’t reiterate the message that has been out by government, by boris ohnson and the team at downing treet, but did talk about us taying in our homes, staying apart ming together to stay apart
so yes, i thought it was interesting, i said i was choked up at and like i said i was choked up at the end.
were you choked up, ejel?
id you find it?
it was a how did you find it?
it was a positive message.
i thought it was a pbeat message, and she mentioned the postal and workers.
the public at large.
she about prayer and meditation, which i find useful.
and she spoke opla of no faith too being ited united in these difficult times.
a lot of people are finding social tancing d.
it was an upbeat distancing hard.
it was an upbeat message not just of this country but rger ommonwealth too.
yes, the larger commonwealth too.
yes, you found it inspiring, then.
she ’t use there was that famous eference to the second world war vera lynn’s we will meet again.
didn’t talk about the battle ainst coronavirus and fighting it, nstead poke about calm and instead she spoke about and disciplined, , quiet, good resolve.
utely, victoria.
you are right.
didn’t come out like the warrior een like perhaps we have seen in past in 19a0 and obviously before first gulf war in the 905 well.
she talked about that great ish keep calm and carry on spirit.
it felt more like that.
it felt like the calm implication.
she need the country to be proud of ourselves when we come out of the end of this.
we need to be of the actions we have taken, need to be proud of how we have of how we have kept indoors and rried on.
it wasn’t really a rior queen
but i think we needed at ran, steely, class act queen ich of course she really is.
that really quite upbeat.
i agree she was positive in her message, like i said ending with "we will meet n".
i think, pecially fter again".
ithink, especially after the weekend we have had where a lot ople have been struggling with the we had such good weather, came in at a point when we eded another boost
and it was the keep calm and carry on" nice "keep calm and carry on" message
and i think we needed that.
briefly, ejel, afua was really brieﬂy, ejel, afua was right, she did remind us that we all got a part to play and this collective effort.
was that portant you?
yes, because she wasn’t just speaking as monarch, he was peaking as a human being, meone who is over 70 and having to lf—isolate herself.
her son, who also ver 70, just recovered from oronavirus
so i felt she was aking as a human being xperiencing the same difficulties re so it was a positive and as we are so it was a positive and uplifting message for the whole to take on board.
thank you ery much, both of you.
really reciate it.
take care.
a tiger at a zoo in new york has tested positive for the coronavirus.
the four—year—old female, named nadia, is thought to have contracted the virus from a keeper at the bronx zoo, who didn’t have any symptoms.
it’s believed to be the first known case of an animal infected by a human with covid—19.
now, it’s time for a look at the weather with carole.
hello, again.
yesterday, we had the warmest day of the year so far.
porthmadog in wales reached 22.
2 celsius.
this afternoon we are not expecting temperatures to be as high.
we say goodbye to this morning’s rain with a lot of weather around but still showers will be well scattered, some in scotland and northern ireland could be heavy with thunder and lightning.
here, too, gusty winds, 55 miles an hour, slowly easing through the afternoon.
a top temperature today likely to be 18 in london.
under clear skies tonight, with a few showers, temperatures will fall away.
the wind continues to ease in the north west.
in towns and cities, between two and six celsius.
cool enough in sheltered pockets to see a touch of frost and any patchy mist and fog
will quickly lift tomorrow leaving us with a day but take a cloud in the north west, lighter winds than today.
we could see the odd shower with highs of 20.
hello, this is news.
good morning, lam victoria derbyshire.
the headlines: the prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
he’s said to be undergoing tests as a precaution.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
domestic violence charity refuge says the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests for help since the lockdown began.
"better days will return" — the queen’s rallying message for the nation.
she says the will suceed in its fight against the coronavirus.
good morning.
care homes in britain say they’re at risk of becoming overwhelmed if covid—19 cases continue to spread through their homes.
it comes after at least 13 residents at a care home in glasgow died after a suspected coronavirus outbreak.
the country’s biggest charitable care provider, , has confirmed suspected cases in over half of its facilities.
let’s talk now to sam monaghan, of , who says in their 220 homes one in ten staff are now unable to work because of the virus.
and typically relies on four care workers a day to support her.
but this weekend had to move in with her parents as she says staff were not provided with the proper protective equipment making the visits to her unsafe.
good morning
both of you.
sam monaghan, how desperate is the ation becoming in care homes?
ery sperate indeed.
there is in he equipment and the testing to sure we don’t have spread of oronavirus.
it is a desperate uation where we are moving ppues lies around between homes to sure they have sufficient pues plies but we are increasingly nding there are critical pieces of pment like gowns and long—sleeve rons which cannot get access o.
have you wrung the government’s ne?
ine?
we should be ringing all of he providers the government otline, and we are in a constant alogue a range of suppliers to make sure that both from the rnment source but also other ppliers we are able to keep nadequate or to keep inadequate lv.
y, but we are being told some government supplies are being ritised obviously for the , that then means we are not ting the supplies.
our staff, who the second front line, are nabla to do the job they are being ked to do in terms of caring for eopla with ovid—19.
that’s teresting you describe it as the cond front line.
i wonder how many ents in your 220 homes have residents in your 220 homes have of covid—19 or have tested ive, if hey have been able to get a test for covid—19?
yes, we had 3 residents who have sadly died and we have 80 people who have but haven’t been able to died but we haven’t been able to confirm whether that has been the of the virus but there have been strong suspicions it has.
we currently have 43 residents who have positive for covid—19 but we have nother 346 who are not nfirmed.
so we have staff trying anage the of that and void the risk of spread on an ing basis.
and i would just add at i have had already 10% of my taff at moment who are staff at the moment who are currently either sick or self ating and they are going above beyond
but we need to give them tools to be able to do that.
are amazing people but we need equip them for the task.
you spoke of those off, 750 staff i think is 10% of your staff.
have any your staff ers died?
sadly, of your staff members died?
sadly, last week we lost one of our staff ers and we have another staff member in hospital at the moment.
it’s hugely hard
and it also auses eal concern and fear amongst staff generally, and we are eking to reassure them, we are king to move the equipment that ave around to make sure they are but there are real difficulties cannot bring people into and we cannot bring peopla into those environments who have the ase because it would just spread further.
we cannot take people less are assured they don’t present a contagion risk.
of course.
monk, good morning.
how are you?
i’m 0k, thank you.
could you the audience of your remind the audience of your condition and how carers would ally help you.
i have .
i am ery physirallv disabled, i use a heelchair and hoisted to get in and bed in the morning which is normally have two carers visit he morning to get up and dressed, and in the evening to get bed.
how has that been since ocial distancing guidelines were brought in, edith?
well, i mean there are a few changes, so of regular care schedule was my kind of regular care schedule was stretched and altered and different coming because obviously some peopla coming because obviously some carers were going into isolation and off sick and couldn’t risk oming.
it also kind of i felt osed because although i was aying in my flat and taking on the idance because i am on risk guidance because i am on the at risk list of people who should be olating, you cannot stay two isolating, like you rannot stay two metres away from someone helping you essed.
so i felt quite get dressed.
so i felt quite vulnerable because they carers ’t have any protective didn’t have any protective equipment, they were wearing gloves shing their hands but beyond and washing their hands but beyond that they had nothing extra.
they bviously in the community going to door, however many calls have, be it more going home home.
ifelt more at with to home.
i felt more at risk with them than i did just in my home.
rstood.
did that make you feel retty anxious?
yes, it did.
ifelt yes, ijust felt like there no point me social distancing staying on lockdown when i had big risk of front line workers coming into my home, and i think i found it quite anxious
and i think arers were quite worried about too because obviously they are ting themselves at risk.
how do feel about moving in with your ents?
obviously it is good you that choice, your parents are ere to help you, but it makes me there must be so many people with sabilities who in normal mes are living independently but tually it’s really challenging ight now.
yes, so i am really grateful that my parents can still me.
are in their 605 so it is going to be probably quite ically hard for them
and we physically hard for them
and we don’t know how long it will last, least as a household now we an just stay in olation because therwise i would not have a choice, still be in my flat and i would still be in my ﬂat
and obviously just i don’t know when the would get protective carers would get protective equipment or even if they are going ith, thank you for updating us.
good to talk to you.
stay well, our parents.
and sam monaghan, thank you for telling us about the ation in your care homes.
situation in your rare homes.
cleariy an issue of personal ective equipment for people ing into homes, and carers loyed by the care provider .
says is the he has run all he says is the boss he has all the suppliers and the government ine and still cannot get personal protective equipment for working in care homes with peopla working in rare homes with many elderty people.
you may remember last week we spoke to ann andrew who runs four small care homes in and stockport.
she wasn’t able to do her usual online supermarket shop for their 75 residents and was worried they could run out of food by the middle of this week.
well, after she appeared on news, ann says she’s had an outpouring of help.
tesco, their regular supplier, has been in touch and helped them to order more than 80 items in one go.
they’ve also received free food and flowers for residents from other national and local businesses.
tesco said in a statement, "we understand the limit of three items per product makes it difficult for people like ann who normally buy in large quantities and are sorry for the experience she has had.
our wholesale business booker is better set up to meet the needs of customers with larger orders for their businesses, and booker has been in touch with arm to set up accounts for her care homes.
" and lots of you on twitter offer to help her and her residents as well, are all amazing.
thank you.
now on news, it’s your questions answered.
with me to answer some of the questions you’ve been sending in on coronavirus is bharat pankhania.
a senior clinical lecturer at the university of exeter medical school.
and also i’m joined by anwara ali.
thank you both forjoining me.
how can speak to a during this pandemic?
my has given no ructions with how to establish contact.
hielding my father, who has cancer, and i have questions that.
what am i meant to do?
111 could help me either.
i’m sorry to hear that.
i work in hamlets, and we are triage and consulting patients by lephone, so in answer to the stion, fiona has had no luck ntacting her or 111.
she can tact her to find out that he case.
50 that is the clinical is the rase.
so that is the clinical commissioning group, and where she get the number from that?
hat should be on the website, if ooks where she lives in her urrow.
on the council website mud the surgery website?
-- or the surgery website?
both will have .
if the staff are unwell and abla to work in that case she uld look up the council as well he surgery website because will give the information of to call in that case.
0k.
there’s so cancer charities like cmillan who may be able to offer me help.
they have some really ful online forums with frequently asked tions answered.
0k, thank you for that.
this is from john der.
re people who use mobile hones at risk of getting ronavirus?
when out shopping i see pla wearing masks and gloves but touching otentially ontaminated surfaces and then ding phones to their heads.
thank .
it’s quite obvious, isn’t it, hat this poses a risk of nsmission from dirty phones to he face, the mouth, the nose to ction and therefore i would vise, yes, please make sure that frequently, not occasionally, requently wipe your mobile phone with ordinary wipes.
keep it ean because clearly it is a conduit picking up infection rom somewhere onto the phone, onto mouth.
thank you.
that is very your distance away from your mum because you are bringing ential infection the strategy are some way off and one would hope borisjohnson would be ecovered by then.
thank you.
earlier i spoke to professor paul hunter who is a professor of medicine at the university of east anglia.
i asked him what kind of tests borisjohnson might be having — and what kind of persistent he might be experiencing.
i have no personal knowledge of the prime minister’s held record but body at this stage of the somebody at this stage of the illness i would imagine he is still afebrile, still coughing probably afebrila, still coughing and possibly also having some degree rtness of breath —— febrile.
of shortness of breath -- febrila.
typically these are of most a would get over in a week but people would get over in a week but it is not unusual for people to tinue have for a bit longer.
if his are getting than getting better, the sorts worse than getting better, the sorts of things that would be happening in tal, he would have chest hospital, he would have chest x-rays, possibly a scan of his s, a range of ood tests, and lungs, a range of blood tests, and peopla would be monitoring his vital rvations, his pulse and observations, his pulse and breathing rate, and also, quite ly, what is called the oxygen turation which is a marker how the lungs are functioning in of getting oxygen into your lood.
in the united states, donald trump said he hoped borisjohnson would make a swift return to health — calling him a great gentlemen and a great leader.
the president also predicted that the is nearing the peak of the outbreak, saying he could see light at the end of the tunnel.
health officials who have been more cautious.
our north america correspondent peter bowes reports.
new york city, still the epicentre of the corona —— coronavirus outbreak in america.
as the death toll rises and officials warn they are running out of equipment, the country braces for a major escalation of the pandemic.
more than 3,000 military medical personnel have been deployed to hospitals around the country to ease the burden on doctors and nurses, stretched to the limit.
americans have been warned to expect some of the nation’s darkest days.
the next week is going to be our pearl harbor moment, our 9/11 moment.
it is going to be the hardest moment for many americans in their entire lives.
we really need to understand if we want it —— to flatten that curve and get to the other side, everyone needs to do their part.
latest figures suggests the rate of new infections in new york is slowing down, although officials say it is too early to say whether the fall in cases is significa nt.
at the daily white house briefing, president trump said he was encouraged by the better news.
things are happening.
we are starting to see light at the end of the tunnel and hopefully in the not too distant future, we will be very proud of the job we all did.
and you can never be happy when so many people are dying, but we will be proud of the job we did to keep the death down to an absolute minimum, the least it could have happened, with this terrible, terrible virus.
trump praised officials in california where the virus is spreading more slowly than the country’s other hotspots.
the state was one of the first to introduce social distancing and stay at home orders.
one of the president’s senior advisors said data from italy and spain, where fewer people are dying, could be a sign of how the outbreak is going to progress in the .
we are very hopeful over the next week, although we will see a rising number of cases of people who lose their lives to this illness, we also hope to see a stablisation of cases across the large metro areas where the outbreak began several weeks ago.
despite the glimmers of hope, americans remain hunkered down as the nation holds its breath for what is to come.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being caught visiting her second home, in breach of her own social distancing guidance.
catherine calderwood made a public apology and received a police warning after she travelled from edinburgh to her other home in fife, for two consecutive weekends.
alexandra mackenzie reports.
this is a vital update about coronavirus.
to help save lives, stay at home.
catherine calderwood will no longer front the public campaign against coronavirus.
after pictures were published in the scottish sun, she was forced to admit that she had travelled from edinburgh to her second home in fife the last two weekends.
she initially apologised, then resigned, saying during an uncomfortable media briefing yesterday, scotland’s first minister stood by her chief medical officer.
her advice and expertise has been invaluable to me, and it continues to be so.
if i am to do what i need to do to steer the country through this crisis to the very best of my ability, i need her to be able to focus on the job that she is doing.
but hours later, nicola sturgeon agreed, she had to go.
many have expressed their anger and disbelief at catherine calderwood’s actions.
police scotland say that they have spoken to her and emphasised that the stay—at—home rules apply to everyone.
and as we enter a third week of lockdown, which has been observed by most, calderwood will step back.
she said the people of scotland must have complete trust in those who give advice in the difficult months to come.
alexandra mckenzie, news, glasgow.
well, scotland’s first minister nicola sturgeon has been giving her reaction to calderwood’s resignation.
she made a mistake, she made a serious mistake, and people are right to be angry about it.
she was right to apologise.
it was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public health advice campaign.
but candidly, yes, i did hope i could continue to call on her expertise.
because, to be frank, in a situation like this at this particular moment in time it is far from ideal for me as first minister not to have that continuity of advice, but by last night it became clear that the bigger risk was the damage it could be doing to the important message the government is putting forward right now.
so these are not easyjudgments.
at this point in time the normal rules of politics or news management couldn’t be further from my mind.
i’m simply trying to do the best things and the right things to best equip us to get through this challenge as well as we can.
the austrian chancellor has said their restaurants and hotels will step—by—step from mid may at reopen step-by-step from mid may at the earliest.
more specific sions later on this month.
the ncellor says, from may the 1st, aim is to reopen shops and hopping malls, and the aim is to maller shops reopen mid april.
o, the partial ockdown being fted to some extent in austria.
the headlines on news: the prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
he’s said to be undergoing tests "as a precaution".
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
the says it expects the rate of new infections to stabilise in the coming days but the surgeon—general warns the number of dead will continue to rise.
the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases in south korea has decreased to below 50, its lowest daily number since the outbreak peaked in february.
the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases in south korea has decreased to below 50, its lowest daily number since the outbreak peaked in february.
south korea has been widely praised for its approach to tracing and testing for cases of covid—19 but is warning against complacency.
laura bicker in seoul has more.
eight weeks on and here we are.
we now have 47 newly—confirmed cases within the last 2a hours, 16 of whom are overseas arrivals, in fact, within the last two weeks, over half of all the cases that have been confirmed here in south korea are people returning home from the likes of europe, the and canada.
however, the vice health minister today has issued a warning.
they are extremely worried about complacency.
life here is slowly getting back to normal.
you must remember, there has been no lockdown here in south korea.
they advised people to work from home where possible which people have been doing.
they advised people to wear masks, to stay socially distanced, two metres apart, and most people have been doing that, however, there have been slight breaking of the rules over the weekend as the beautiful spring weather arrived.
so, the government has advised people to maintain the social distancing measures for just another two weeks if they ran.
and that’s because they are trying to get schools reopened.
from today it will be compulsory for austrians to wear if they want to go food shopping, and it’s the supermarkets who’ll be footing the bill.
this follows mixed advice from global authorities on the effectiveness of wearing a mask to limit the spread of covid—19.
whilst popular in countries like south korea and japan, in the and other countries, people have consistently been told that — other than n95 medical grade masks — the use of face masks won’t help.
but, a study has now found the distance that particles can spread through coughing and sneezing is further than previously thought, and indicated that wearing a mask could be beneficial to protect others.
let’s talk now to one of the authors of that report, lydia bourouiba from the massachusetts institute of technology.
and margaret harris from the world health organization, which does not advise wearing masks for the general public.
margaret harris, the current advice is what?
is not that we do not advise it, ay do not use medical masks cause there is a severe shortage medical mask and we need those health care workers at high risk exposure because of the of exposure some because of the procedures you need to do to save will increase the amount of rus in the atmosphere.
we do say you wish to wear a mask that is ne, but do not use a medical mask, other kinds of face barriers.
combining it with the other ings we know will protect you, washing, environmental hygiene, you are coughing and sneezing, red with your elbow to ensure you really limit the spread of hing.
anything.
wearing a mask, is it to protect you peopla from you?
or other peopla from you?
it is to protect other people from .
are getting increasing you.
we are getting increasing evidence people may have mild toms they may not even be aware hey actually have the virus that have a lot of virus in their oat and nose.
they have no toms, they may not be coughing, but in the sunshine, we will sneeze ust.
the main reason for with dust.
the main reason for wearing a face covering of some kind it is one of those beautiful ones people are producing, there is astic stuff out there, is a fantastic stuff out there, is simply to protect others from you.
very simply, what did you find?
it focuses on developing hnologies to reveal what we can see with aked eye and in this use, we see with the naked eye and in this case, we looked at violent alations from sneezing, coughing, key finding was during those halations we are omitting the air inhaled and in doing so that is omitted at a high momentum, that cloud when coming out is apping droplet sizes within it ing them forward than they could each if we did not include the physics in this description.
uch further forward, how far a cough or eeze travel?
sneezing for ample, the most treme, can reach with that cloud ome up to 27 .
coughing, up to 19 feet.
normal exhalations, seven it is important to understand is the continuum of the droplet es.
particularly those invisible a to he aked eye, they are enhanced they wouldn’t go critically far the presence of this cloud.
without the presence of this cloud.
six feet is this two metres distance told to keep between each ther.
if coughs and sneezes are velling further, it would sound it is sensible to wear a mask.
major implication of the work is we think about these coughs and zes and subjects in alth care setting, patients who are coughing neezing, there is no way to consider within that two distance health care workers will not afe without that protection.
and in everyday life, a protective barrier that is not high—grade, for everyday life, ’s barriers, thinking about the cloud, would be a way to remove from that cloud and deflect energy from that cloud and deﬂact it to the side, reducing that zontal range to reach others.
still have some emissions ally.
it is important whoever is aring this is conscious of the this is not full protection to hers but a reduction of exposure ers.
particularly not full to others.
particularty not full protection to the wearer because are not high—grade and fully ealad.
it is about protecting ers.
others.
margaret, something else in the , to do with the tiger in the onx zoo in new york which has parently reportedly been infected ookeeper who was not showing symptoms.
it is really surprising to do you read that that a me, how do you read that that a human ran apparently infect an al?
animal?
we have seen that humans ran infect pets, pets, people living closely their pets, peopla living closely with their pets in hong kong, and infected by their owners as ell.
what we have not seen and this he good news he animals do not seem to be infecting us.
a lot anxiety was, what if my dog got it?
but you do not want your to be ill.
so, again, if you any pet to be ill.
50, again, if you have any or if you are -isolating cause you have been self-isolating because you have been exposed to someone else, remember to isolate from your pet.
self-isolate from your pet.
thank you very much.
and the tiger by the way is expected to make a full recovery.
the coronavirus pandemic is a huge blow to economies across the world.
are likely to be hardest hit financially by the lockdown.
the institute for fiscal studies — an economic think—tank — says those on low incomes are seven times more likely to work in sectors which have effectively shutdown, compared to those on higher incomes.
joining me now is our business presenter ben thompson.
is this group so much more badly affected than others?
good morning.
it is not just those on low incomes but women and under he singles out stock it 25s
the singles out stock it suggests those groups are most to be working in jobs that re shut down a result of this rus.
in hospitality, travel, urism.
the sorts of you tourism.
not the sorts ofjobs you ran do from home.
because they are omer facing obs you need to be present to do them.
the points out it is a double whammy for those groups will be working jobs they cannot do.
question is ther they go back to those whether they ran go back to those jobs when this virus outbreak is , whether business can just pick over, whether business ran just pick up.
we have seen headlines about the of businesses that might truggle to survive over the next ple of months given their business shut down overnight.
there concern about those coming the end of college or university rees looking to get into the job arket in september but given the ertainty about the jobs market now, there are clearly no right now, there are dearty no plans to take on people at the end he ar.
those two groups, young eople, women and those on low pay, likely to ffected by this most likely to be affected by this shutdown.
an i mention debenhams, is statement has come in, debenhams had today filed a notice ent to appoint an of intent to appoint an administrator in the .
explain the ficance of that and what it eans.
means.
like all retailers now struggling, —— what the pandemic has undertined is those already on shaky dations are finding it even tougher than they would have.
this hing new for debenhams, it has lready sought administration and ught out.
it has asked its was bought out.
it has asked its landlords for rate, rent reductions.
ere renegotiating the rent they were renegotiating the rent they pay on some of their stores.
nhams traditionally being quite hit by the rise of online, if are going into their stores on streets, paying overheads, so arty a a number of problems.
and hat we re expecting to hear is are trying to come to a deal
ere
they can cut their rent further afeguard their future.
no means is this guaranteed but look at last week with retailers going under, this could be irst a long line finding it the first of a long line finding it tough to be and a quick word about car sales, not a massive surprise there has a huge slump in them.
no, and might wonder we are talking rar sales when there are more ressing issues, carmaking is a huge industry the so therefore les will determine the future of industry over the next few ars.
what have heard from the rganisation at represents car makers, reported a 44% slump in makers, they reported a 4496 slump in new rar egistrations last month.
is significant because remember is a lagging indicator, this is looking back.
these restrictions on esses only coming into force of he month so it suggests the start he month wasn’t great either, nsumer confidence down, fewer of prepared to put our hands in our ckets.
as it is a big industry big employer, what happens now determine the future.
but there a glimmer of hope.
if you look at has happened to car sales across ope, italy’s sales down 8511, across europe, italrs sales down 8596, and in spain down 69%, so ilst awful igure, he worst whilst an awful figure, the worst since records began as far as sales ncerned, it suggests the is faring as badly as some of our ounterparts.
thank you, and a ple of messages from you.
i asked itter, are you keeping your head above water, and sam gillespie as a sola irector of a limited says as a sole director of a limited company i won’t get any support and me goes for my freelancer riends.
kerry says, my husband is a -employed ricklayer and i’m a rarer for my isabled son.
nfortunately we won’t receive any ents until une or uly.
so they qualify for the from the hancellor but those payments won’t until the summer.
she says, herefore my husband has had to urn to work.
we have some savings not enough to carry us that far we should be isolating.
that ause her vulnerable son.
thank you for those.
in a televised address from windsor castle, the queen has paid tribute to the and key workers, keeping goods and services going amid the coronavirus pandemic.
the queen gave the message of reassurance to britain and the commonwealth, urging people to remain united and resolute.
she also acknowledged the grief, pain and financial difficulties that many were facing but urged people to take comfort in the fact that better days will return.
and though self—isolating may at times be hard, many people of all faiths, and of none, are discovering that it presents an opportunity to slow down, pause and reflect, in prayer or meditation.
it reminds me of the very first broadcast i made, in 1940, helped by my sister.
we, as children, spoke from here at windsor to children who had been evacuated from their homes and sent away for their own safety.
today, once again, many will feel a painful sense of separation from their loved ones.
but now, as then, we know, deep down, that it is the right thing to do.
while we have faced challenges before, this one is different.
this time we join with all nations across the globe in a common endeavour, using the great advances of science and our instinctive compassion to heal.
we will succeed, and that success will belong to every one of us.
we should take comfort that while we may have more still to endure, better days will return.
we will be with our friends again, we will be with our families again, we will meet again.
but for now, i send my thanks and warmest good wishes to you all.
hello, this is news with victoria derbyshire.
the headlines: the british prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
he’s said to be undergoing tests "as a precaution".
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
the says it expects the rate of new infections to stabilise in the coming days, but the surgeon general warns the number of dead will continue to rise.
it’s better news for south korea as the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases falls to its lowest level since the peak of the outbreak.
and a tiger and six other big cats at the bronx zoo in new york test positive for the coronavirus.
it’s thought the animals were infected by a zoo keeper.
last year, areema nasreen fulfilled a lifelong ambition of graduating from university to become at walsall manor hospital.
last friday, it was announced that she and a fellow nurse aimee o’rourke had died.
yesterday the health secretary said three nurses have died so far duing this coronoavirus outbreak.
areema nasreen’s colleagues described her as an "amazing nurse" who "put her patients first and herself last".
hersister, kazeema, said we’ve lost "an amazing person".
a rare girl.
not just at work.
she put herself last in the community, back home.
any time she’d find someone’s suffering back home she’ll send money.
someone wants to go to pilgrimage, it’s like a muslim opportunity just to go, if you’ve got money, you go, but she used to pay for the poor to go.
she used to go with them.
we every year used to go to the pilgrimage, she’d help out with everyone there.
a few people got ill.
we took them to the hospital, she was with them all night.
and it was notjust work.
she put herself last in every way, in the community she helped everyone with everything.
i just we’ve lost an amazing nurse but we’ve lost also an amazing person in life that’s affected everyone.
affected by this.
an amazing sister.
mum.
she lived with me and areema, my younger sister, lived together.
so close.
i spent five hours with her before she went on the ventilator.
we just sat and talked.
shejust looked at me and she said, "sit down.
i want to see you.
"
and i said, "i’mjust packing your stuff.
"
she said, "no, sit down.
" i didn’t know she knew if she’d come back.
when did she first become ill, kazeema?
she done the last shift, she came home.
tell her every evening what’s on.
she had a slight leg ache going on.
she had a slight lag ache
and i said,
yeah, you have had a 12 shift, hat’s why.
when she hour shift, that’s why.
when she text two hours later again and said in is coming up, i never the pain is coming up, i never thought anything because you have understand the are got to understand the are different.
everyone has totally erent symptoms.
then she found out this was happening and the tage of staff, she booked a bank hift at the walsall manor hospital.
a monday when she woke me up said we are really short, come down.
because i’m a health care istant.
did a shift, but assistant.
so i did a shift, but when i saw her i said, you don’t good.
she said let’s do this hift together and go home together.
hecking her temperature while i was checking her temperature while she was at work and it was going and higher.
never thought anything of it because it was different.
then we ate gether and she handed over with night staff and that was the time i’m really sorry, eema.
i can hear that this is kazeema.
i ran hear that this is really emotional for you.
what did to your sister to be a it mean to your sister to be a nurse?
0h my god, when she first ked after my nan was only a looked after my man in was only a little girl herself but that pired more and more.
—— she inspired her more and more.
-- she was.
she applied for a health care and got t, then a year later job and got that, then a year later she got me there because me and my ers always did everything sisters always did everything together.
she worked in health care rom hat she said i want to do it
but there is no one in our entire who had graduated.
she was uite worried
but i asked my dad, husband, and they said if you ant to do it do it.
she said, look, married now, i’ve got kids.
then she went into nursing.
that’s when i said, look, go as a free woman, worry about anything and come as a free woman.
that’s what did for four years, ad no stress, nothing.
did everything gether.
when she graduated, i said if it wasn’t for my sister i wouldn’t be standing here.
kazeema en, paying tribute to her ister who died last week from onavirus.
turkey has one of the fastest growing outbreaks of covid—19, with a steeper rise in cases than italy, spain or the .
more restrictions on movement have been introduced, but a full lockdown is not in place.
over 27,000 cases have been confirmed, and 574 people have died.
orla guerin reports from istanbul.
police checkpoints at the edge of istanbul.
the latest stage of turkey’s fight against the virus.
31 cities now sealed off to all but essential traffic.
still, president erdogan says, the wheels of the economy must keep turning.
so many are still going to work.
wearing masks is now compulsory.
staying home is not, except for those under 20 or over 65.
istanbul’s mayor, a key opposition figure, has a lot on his hands.
his city has the highest number of cases.
he told me there should be a general lockdown before it’s too late.
: when we counted, there were about 1.
1 million people using public transport on a workday, and we’ve seen a lot of private cars out on the streets.
15% of the normal population is still on the move so between two and 2.
5 million people — equal to the population of a european city.
do you think it’s crazy that this number of people are still being allowed to move around?
absolutely.
here, as elsewhere, the virus is killing those trying to save others like dilek, whose relatives shared this video with us.
she was a nurse and an only child.
turkey’s death toll is still in the hundreds, not thousands, but its corona outbreak is one of the fastest growing in the world.
i can not sleep well.
i am so concerned.
my grandparents are old — 89, 90.
this turkish molecular biologist, based in the , is tracking the virus in his homeland.
the cases are increasing very rapidly — much more rapid than many countries, including italy, spain and the and china — so this is very alarming.
as the virus spreads, many of istanbul’s storied streets have fallen silent.
the blue mosque, a historicjewel, no longer open for communal worship.
the message now — pray at home.
orla guerin, news, istanbul.
there is a warning of a global surge in domestic violence due to the covid—19 restrictions.
the secretary general is appealing for the prevention of violence against women, to be made a key part of the world’s response to the pandemic.
in britain, a national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests over the past week as tomos morgan reports.
it’s been bad.
i didn’t care if i didn’t wake up from the night before.
i just knew what was going to happen.
ijust wanted the days to go past, but itjust got worse.
tara told me she has been mentally and physically abused by her partner for six months.
he deleted her social media account, stopped herfrom seeing herfamily, and controlled all aspects of her life, and, since having to isolate with him, things escalated.
you must stay at home.
it’s been getting worse since the lockdown, as well.
mentally abusive, verbally.
erm, been hitting me, just causing an argument from nothing.
if i fight back and say something wrong, he willjust hit me.
new figures seen by the give a picture of the potential consequence of lockdown for victims.
the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests over the past week.
refuge, the country’s largest domestic abuse charity, who run the line, say there has been a daily rise of 150% in people visiting the website.
tara has now fled her abuser and is being supported by a charity in wales.
but charities and campaigners have expressed concern that those in violent relationships could be at serious risk as the lockdown continues.
the homicide rate will go through the roof.
you can’t stop the perpetrator unless he’s visible.
rachel williams suffered violence from her husband for 18 years.
when she decided to leave, he shot her with a sewn—off shotgun.
she is now one of the country’s main campaigners battling on behalf of those still suffering.
we will never do enough until we eradicate domestic abuse and violance - end of.
we have an epidemic in the with a pandemic on top.
police chiefs and both governments in cardiff bay and westminster say help is available for anyone experiencing domestic abuse, and that people should contact if they need advice or feel they are at risk.
tomos morgan, news.
that number is 08082000210.
the rate of infection in italy may be showing promising signs of stabilising, but authorities are nervous about anything that could lead to a new outbreak.
last week, they sealed off an entire villagejust outside rome — all its residents included — after a cluster of cases was discovered.
jean mackenzie reports rome.
ome.
we are 1,900 people.
we are in quarantine.
once a sleepy hilltop village, now a militarised red zone.
everything happened very quickly.
army came and said nobody can enter, nobody can exit.
the town was sealed off after 77 cases of coronavirus were discovered here last week.
how do you feel about this?
very upset.
we are so confused.
people call me on the phone and say, are we sick?
what is up?
the virus started in a care home and spread quickly, without doctors realising.
two people died.
the rest were taken to hospital.
how are you feeling?
: "i’m feeling well, i don’t have a fever.
" this doctor was also infected.
she is recovering in the next—door village.
: at first it didn’t look like corona.
it all started with some people getting sick, as they usually do because they are very old.
we even have a 104—year—old woman.
to quarantine an entire village is unusual.
but given everything italy has gone through, authorities were just so nervous about having an area so contaminated and the thought it would be allowed to spread.
now the village is being turned into a human coronavirus laboratory.
everyone is to be tested and this is day one.
: it’s an interesting place because it is a small village and quite contained with a population of more than 1,800 people who could be tested quickly.
the researchers are trying to work out exactly how the virus spread through a community and how many people display symptoms, and then they will trial possible treatments.
our sacrifice will be used for the entire scientific community.
this tiny microcosm may well provide significant answers on how this virus lives and dies.
the organisation for economic coordination and development, a of countries brought together to stimulate economic progress and trade, has revised down growth forecasts and warned countries will ling with the economic fallout be dealing with the economic fallout of coronavirus for years to come.
we are joined by angel gurria who has been the ’s secretary—general since 2006.
so you were at the helm of the organisation in the last global crisis, so how does this compare?
it is different but it is worse.
it is to affect the social, the uman side, the health side, but it eave very big wounds and will leave very big wounds and eventually scars, on the economic cause of the perhaps hundreds and thousands of smes whose lihoods will be at stake.
then course the very seriously hit tors like tourism, like the ervices sector, the hospitality tor, and all the businesses had a very serious conference and the explosion in the , all these ployment claims happening by illions over a few days.
i will show you how dramatic, how mtal rutal the problem will be.
sure.
ganisation has revised down orecasts for global economic growth his year, but you have revised down to 1.
5% and you now say that ptimistic.
do you think the economy will grow a little bit in 2020?
no, i think what is oing to happen is that for every of containment efforts, there ill be an impact of about two percentage points on the growth.
if this lasts on average let’s say months, then we will have an impact of six percentage points of hat means that practically every country united states, pe, japan, europe, japan, all of the countries and increasingly and very some developing countries will be in the red.
and the greatest lem is not ust the numbers, but problem is not just the numbers, but also the consequences.
as i said, uman side, the unemployment and not all countries have the firepower to deal with the unemployed, the smes, etc.
even many tries n’t have the firepower countries don’t have the firepower to deal with the health crisis and the immediate need to tend to the sick and the people want to keep away from dying.
es, so let me ask you.
you have it out dearty
yes, so let me ask you.
you have laid it out clearly what the omic impact could be, but also ocial and and the of it.
therefore do you think ations should be guided only by the mic curve or do we also have to take into account the damage of down is doing?
that is a false ilamma because the sooner we deal the virus itself, the faster we out of he economic can get out of the economic consequences and it will be less nsive.
it will be very expensive rase, but it will be less in any use, but it will be less expensive if it lasts less.
efore this discussion between conomics and, if you will, the cal side, human side, the moral side, all of that is pletely theoretical.
you go and deal with the suffering, with people to save lives.
you deal the virus, you deal with the nemy, and then to the extent that because of confinement efforts, because of isolation efforts, you duce the time that it takes.
ran reduce the time that it takes.
then it will be easier to get out of roblem later, so this is a very losely related, it is really one gle problem.
then you have the her problem which is the recovery forward.
thank you for your ime today.
we appreciate it.
good to your prime minister.
that very kind.
he may well be tching from his hospital bed.
ank you for talking to us.
angel gurria, the ’s secretary—general since 2006.
clearly there is a lot to do, and best wishes to prime minister boris on who in hospital having precautionary tests after he loped covid—19 about ten ago and hen had a test which proved positive, but persistent toms hanging around so that’s he has been taken into hospital.
you are watching news.
japan’s prime minister, shinzo abe, has proposed a stimulus package worth 1 trillion dollars.
it comes as he is preparing to declare a state of emergency for the capital tokyo and a number of other large cities.
the number of covid—19 cases injapan began to grow rapidly last week.
in tokyo there are now over a thousand confirmed cases, more than double the number a week ago.
the number deaths in france has topped the 8,000 mark, as previously undisclosed fatalities in care homes are ken into account.
but the rate of infection is slowing.
france posted the smallest increase for two weeks, with far more people now being tested.
police forces across the country have been using a variety of ures to keep people at home.
his is from police.
ay at home whenever you can, stay at home whenever you ran, don’t go out on the streets with fam.
one local council in your fam one oral council in derby praised police for using uage that people in the area uld understand.
let’s bring you a ok at the weather now with carol kwood.
hello again.
yesterday was the warmest day of the year so far, 22.
2 celsius in porthmadog in wales.
as we go through the week, some of us could see something higher than that.
today, it is cooler than yesterday, sunny spells but also a few scattered showers.
the rain we had this morning continuing to push away leaving brighter skies behind.
squeezing the isobars across the north west.
still windy, 55 miles an hour.
in the afternoon, slowly coming down a little bit.
behind the rain this morning, a lot of sunshine.
a few showers, some in scotland and northern ireland could be heavy and thundery.
in between, we will see some sunshine.
a top temperature up to 18 degrees.
heading on through this evening and overnight, under clear skies, the temperature will fall away quickly.
a few showers around, the winds across the north west easing.
we could see patchy mist and fog forming, that should not be problematic.
these are the temperatures in towns and cities.
in rural areas, lower, and some will see a touch of frost.
a colder night than last night.
tomorrow, there will be a lot of sunshine, some fairweather cloud building through the day.
not as windy across the north west.
this weather front will introduce thicker cloud and patchy rain.
tomorrow’s temperatures ranging from nine in lerwick, up to 20 in london.
tuesday into wednesday, high pressure is still with us but look at the isobars turning to a southerly direction.
across the north west we have a weather front introducing some cloud and rain.
slowly slipping southwards.
that rain will be fairly patchy, some drizzle, brighter skies follow on.
we hang on to a lot of sunshine especially across england and wales.
temperatures could get up to 2a degrees.
more likely around the london area.
by thursday, still a lot of weather around.
still our weather front as a weak feature producing cloud across scotland, northern ireland, northern england, highs of 23.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
the british prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
he’s said to be undergoing tests ‘as a precaution’.
i’m sure this is very frustrating for him, someone like boris he wants mnning for him, someone like boris he wants to be and running from the front, onetheless he is very much till in charge.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
she made a mistake, she made a serious mistake, and people are right to be angry about it.
she was right to apologise.
it was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public health advice campaign.
the says it expects the rate of new infections to stabilise in the coming days but the surgeon general warns the number of dead will continue to rise.
the next week is going to be our pearl harbor moment.
it’s going to be our 9/11 moment.
it’s going to be the hardest moment for many americans in their entire lives.
but it’s better news for south korea — as the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases falls to its lowest level since the peak of the outbreak.
and a tiger — and six other big cats — at the bronx zoo in new york test positive for the coronavirus.
it’s thought the animals were infected by a zoo keeper.
hello and welcome to audiences in the and around the world.
we’re covering all the latest coronavirus developments here in britain and globally.
first, the ’s prime minister borisjohnson has spent the night in hospital, where he was admitted for tests, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
downing street says it’s a precautionary step as borisjohnson continues to show persistent of the virus.
he remains in charge of the government but the ’s foreign secretary dominic raab chaired this morning’s coronavirus meeting.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being criticised for visiting her second home twice, against her own lockdown advice.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, initially defended catherine calderwood, before agreeing that the doctor’s behaviour risked undermining confidence in the government’s public health message.
elsewhere in the world, the has had more than 9 thousand 600 deaths confirmed.
the country’s surgeon general warned people that the coming week will be their ‘pearl harbor’ or ‘9/11’ moment with deaths from covid—19 expected to peak.
in asia, the japanese prime minister shinzo abe has said the government plans to declare a state of emergency as early as tomorrow.
dollars as new infections from the virus spike in tokyo.
spain’s health ministry says that deaths have gone down for the fourth cutive day.
spain has the consecutive day.
spain has the highest -- second highest death toll world after italy.
and austria has announced plans to ease some coronavirus restrictions, as many countries consider how to move on from lockdowns to a new phase in fighting the pandemic.
our first report on the situation here in the comes from our political correspondent chris mason.
the man charged with leading the country’s response to this virus is experiencing the unpleasant reality of it.
it was a week last friday that we heard the prime minister had coronavirus.
hi, folks, i want to bring you up to speed with something that’s happening today, which is that i have developed mild of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
and on the advice of the chief medical officer, i have taken a test, that has come out positive, so i am working from home.
i’m self isolating.
number 10 made it clear borisjohnson would continue to work remotely from his downing street flat, and he chaired what he described as the first ever digital cabinet meeting from self isolation.
last thursday night, he joined millions of others in expressing his gratitude to those working in the health service.