and it will become lighter — and we should start seeing increasing amounts of sunshine further north and west.
so, temperatures a little bit better for belfast, there.
for edinburgh, 20, 21 degrees — 23 or 2a in the south—east.
now, this weather front gets squeezed out, you will notice, because high pressure starts to build in across the near continent as we move into thursday, and that will settle things down.
there may be a little bit of cloud left on it from that weather front, maybe an odd shower, but it looks like it will turn increasingly and bright through the day as that area of high pressure starts to build in.
much of the country, in fact, is looking at this stage on thursday, and you will notice we start to tap into some warmer air from the near continent, the high 20 celsius, perhaps, in the south—east.
as we move to the end of the week, this area of high pressure really establishes itself over the near continent.
low pressure to the west means we will start to draw up very warm southerly winds.
so, a bit of a repeat performance to howjuly ended, tapping into the hot air over the near continent.
so, it does look like things are set to warm up by the end of next week.
it will start rather cool and fresh, low pressure will bring rain at times, especially in northern and western areas, then we will start to draw up that warm southerly wind.
it could even get quite hot in the south—east.
: it’ time to relive the ultimate game show.
: total wipeout is once again splashing on to your screens, as paddy and i take a look back at some classic episodes.
correct, fred.
we’ll be scrutinising every single flip, ﬂop and fall along the way.
argh!
is he, as some people are saying, just trying to put a brave face on the fact that he’ probably going to lose and trying to come up with an explaination before the fact, or is it something darker, is he trying to provoke people, conspiracies on the right, into disorder, which might provide a more intense disruption of voting?
eunice, can you talk a bit about the front runner?
joe biden is still fairly quiet, but his choice of running mate is going to make a splash — what factors will he be weighing up?
well, the advisers ofjoe biden are very concerned that having someone who will be a loyal vice president.
there is over ten potential candidates, but i think there are three main candidates.
there is kamala harris, susan rice and elizabeth warren, i think they are the three leading contenders.
in the debates about what do they bring to the table, what are the important things forjoe biden?
is it experience in foreign policy, the ability to come up with actions on russia and china, the ability to also help manage the pandemic?
is it loyalty, is it widening the electoral base ofjoe biden, because he’ doing very well with floating voters, although the typical centrist, democratic voter, and perhaps less well with younger and female voters, also african—american voters.
so i think he’ going to ponder around these kinds of issues.
and i also think he is very worried with having somebody with he gets along well.
he had a very good working experience with president obama when he was his vice president, and i think he would like to see replicated the same type of experience.
one interesting thing is, there’ been in the last days, quite a big campaign amongst his donors against kamala harris on the grounds that she’ not sufficiently loyal, which is a bit of a strange accusation made to a politician when they were all of them competing to be the democratic candidate to be the president, to run for the presidency.
so we’ll see.
i think we’ll know in the next few days, but i think if he is going to value above all experience in foreign policy and the ability to widen his electoral base and, of course, someone with whom he gets along well.
henry, presumably president trump watching closely, because there is one thing to say sleepyjoe and painting joe biden as a do—nothing grandpa, but it’ hard at the same time to present him as extremist.
but if the choice of running mate is a progressive, that becomes easier?
that’ right.
right now, everyone’ hanging on this choice, which i think will probably be a woman of colour, because at the moment we’re living through, certainly in the , with the black lives matter movement, but also biden’ own commitment to civil rights and the advancements of black americans.
but it’ still three months to go, anything can happen between now and then.
biden has been relatively silent, broadcasting from his basement in delaware because of the coronavirus crisis.
we can forget he has also been prone to gaffes in the past, with the african—american man he accused of being not black enough if he didn’ support him.
anything can happen out of biden’ mouth and we need to be prepared for that.
trump could also pull off what we call an october surprise, even a military intervention somewhere.
the conflict with china, the confrontation with china, is certainly ramping up.
so i wouldn’ discount anything happening between now and november.
and a wild card really is the coronavirus.
if a vaccine were to be found effective between now and then, that could also just throw the race into completely new territory with president trump claiming victory on that.
we hear you, we’ll be watching closely.
britain’ spies have a new — that is, a new chief of the secret intelligence service mi6.
the role made famous in the james bond series goes to richard moore — libyan—born, turkish—speaking, with interests including porcelain and cricket.
we don’ know whether he prefers his martini shaken or stirred, but we do know we live in dangerous times.
mark, what does it take to run an intelligence service?
i think they’ve got the perfect candidate, given the workings of the whitehall machine at this particular moment.
he had a career as an mi6 officer running agents, effectively.
is that normal, for someone to become an intelligence officer and then become an ambassador?
it’ unusual, actually, but i have to say, when you talk to people in the service, they now say that a period outside, most recently as political director of the foreign office, is very much a desired characteristic of someone who’ got to run that service.
they want people to be known around whitehall and in that position, he clearly was, in downing street and all the other key customers, as they see it, for secret intelligence, they want somebody who flits easily, who is not too ingrained in the culture of secrecy and tradecraft and will step blinking onto the stage of being a chief of the service, perhaps ill—equipped to take on all the demands.
in terms of his experience and portfolio, there’ no doubt, when we look at what’ happened in the last couple of months in the , that reshaping of intelligence around the chinese target is going to be critical.
russia, of course, we heard last week about the russia reports in the sense that perhaps the intelligence services had been complacent, that was the accusation from the intelligence and security committee at parliament.
and lastly, i think he’ bound to bring a focus on the mediterranean region.
he is steeped in turkey as a culture, he speaks turkish extremely well, he tweets in turkish as well as english, and he was ambassador there.
he will be looking to see how far president erdogan’ recent assertiveness might threaten the peace of the region.
henry, i want to take up the china point with you, making china the target is all very well, but it is very difficult to get any information out of jinping’ china, or is it easier for some people?
certainly china has its own allies.
in terms of pakistan or north korea, we’re talking about states with whom china has a very close relationship, there is intelligence sharing going on all the time between those three.
there was a period directly after the 9/11 attacks where the and china seemed to be in a betterfooting when it came to intelligence sharing, the overall relationship was better, and that is what we have to remember, that intelligence cooperation is always going to be dictated by the overall state of diplomatic relations between states.
right now, as we see the become increasingly confrontation with china and vice versa, also britain is becoming more and more assertive against china.
the idea that they would actually be sharing intelligence, i think, is beginning to recede further and further.
every state will share the intelligence that suits them, that will further their aims, china is no different.
when it comes to matters of islamic terrorism, which they tried to paint the uighers with in xinjiang, who are turkic—speaking people, so people who the new mi6 director might have more of an insight, that is a place where they might find common ground.
but i think, increasingly between the west and china, it is becoming a more and more fraught relationship.
eunice, give us a european’ take on this — it is one thing to gather intelligence on societies like china or russia, but obviously, for chinese and russian agents inside open societies, whether the , europe or north america, these are much more porous and open places to gather information, surely?
europe has hardened its stance on china and russia just this week, the issued sanctions against russia and china and north korea on cybercrime charges and other activities.
and we’ve also seen the hardening of stances towards china since at least last year.
the european commission, in its strategic review, defined china as a strategic rival.
so there is a recognition that china is a very important economic partner for europe but there is a great deal of awareness of the security challenges that it poses.
and many european countries, france in particular, are getting increasingly impatient and angry with chinese interference and chinese activities in terms of cyber crime, data collection and so on.
so we see a change of attitude.
now, the way that europe will deal with china will not be the confrontational manner of the united states, because i think all the economic stakes that are involved.
but we’ve seen that hardening of positions.
eunice, henry, mark, we have to leave it there, it has been a fascinating half hour, thanks to you for watching.
hello.
we’ll keep a fresher feel to our weather for part two of the weekend.
and today, it looks like there will still be some showers around.
they’ll be well—scattered across the southern half of the , but because we have the remnants of this weather front in the north — it’ given some fairly heavier bursts of rain through the night — it will take a while for that cloud to break up.
and once it does, the moisture is there to trigger some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
as i say, few and far between further south.
and here, we’ll see some of the higher temperatures.
again, for northern ireland, after some sunny spells through the morning, we’ll see the showers tending to become more frequent here.
so, 17 to 24.
it’ a little bit below saturday, only because it’ll be a cooler start.
i think it’ll feel pleasant enough if you’re in the sunshine.
the clear skies through the night as the showers tend to ease away, but some rain does creep close to the south coast.
more likely a feature for the channel islands.
a fresh night once again.
and just a few sharp showers dotted around on monday as well, but the potential for more persistent rain on tuesday.
welcome to news, i’ lewis vaughanjones.
our top stories: tiktok says it is there for the long run after president trump says he will ban the chinese—owned video sharing app in the .
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections.
that is the fifth—highest in the world.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
and pierre—emerick aubameyang scores twice as arsenal beat chelsea to win the cup.
the general manager of tiktok has said the chinese—owned video—sharing app is here for the long run, after president donald trump said he would ban it in the .
vanessa pappas told tiktok users in a video statement concerns about data protection.
tiktok is mostly used to share short videos, usually about 15 seconds long, and it has grown rapidly in the last year, now boasting more than 800 million active users worldwide.
but it is owned by a chinese company, bytedance, and it is this last fact that concerns the security forces.
there is in fact a precedent for this announcement.
india has already blocked the app, and australia is also considering a ban.
here is our technology reporter chris fox.
well, the app has been decompiled by security researchers.
they’ve looked deep into it, and as yet, they haven’ found a smoking gun.
there’ nothing obvious in the app that seems to be sending information back to the chinese.
but, as with any chinese company, they can be compelled to give information to the chinese security services, and any app on your phone can gather lots of data while it’ there.
even american apps like facebook do this.
they can scoop up your location data, your contacts, and things like that.
and they store that on servers outside of china, so tiktok is run as its own entity outside of china.
they run it as a separate business, and they say they store the data outside of china, so it’ not subject to chinese jurisdiction.
but i think the fear is that, with all that information about american and other consumers that they store on servers, could potentially that find its way back to the chinese security services, and then put information at risk?
that’ the concern.
tiktok has said it does not give any information to the chinese government.
tiktok itself isn’ operated in china.
they have a different version of the app, called douyin.
and they’ve said that they are planning to stay in america, in the , for the long run.
they don’ have any intention of closing down.
there have been some rumours swirling that they might be bought out by another company, like microsoft, but at the moment that hasn’ been confirmed.
earlier i spoke to dan primack, business editor at axios, the news website.
i asked him what we know about this potential deal with microsoft.
they have a deal.
microsoft — bytedance has agreed to basically divest 100% of tiktok, or at least the operations of tiktok, to microsoft.
and the deal is on donald trump’ desk.
the surprise for both microsoft and tiktok, bytedance, together was trump’ comments from last night, because they believed that this was a solution to the problem.
so what’ going on, then?
if that was an elegant solution, not go for it?
it’ a question nobody seems able to answer.
and it’ worth noting trump said last night that they were going to ban — he was going to ban tiktok very soon, or at least that’ what the full report said.
it has been 2a hours.
he has done no such thing.
so, granted, tomorrow’ sunday.
monday, he could do it.
it is unclear if it is the date issue.
it’ unclear if this is pure politics, kind of an anti—china, red meat thing for his base.
it’ unclear there’ some speculation on twitter, cetera, some tiktok users, particularly younger ones, have caused some problems for the trump campaign.
they kind of overbought tickets to a rally they never used.
they’ve done things like that.
it’ unclear.
trump himself hasn’ clearly said what his problem with tiktok is.
and just — do you have any problems with tiktok?
what do you feel about the privacy concerns?
there’ clearly a lot of anxious people out there.
is that overblown, or is it legitimate?
i mean, i’ not somebody who’ been able to reverse engineer the code, so i can’ speakfor sure.
but what i can say is this is notjust washington, or donald trump concern.
for example, wells fargo, which is one of the biggest banks in the united states, about two weeks ago they told all of their employees to remove tiktok from any of their work devices.
amazon did the same thing actually to all of its employees, although it then rescinded that, said it had been sent in error, but has never quite explained department in the first place, let alone in error.
50 clearly there are concerns notjust from government officials, but also from some private enterprise and private technology companies.
and just a bit of an unfair question.
ball time — what do you think happens next?
where do you see this going?
i have to believe this microsoft deal gets done.
itjust makes too much sense not to.
again, trump technically does have the ability, most likely, to block this.
not by blocking the microsoft acquisition so much, but the back story a little bit was that tiktok was created by the acquisition of something called musical.
ly, and trump could basically say that that deal, which is several years old, was invalid.
thus tiktok as we know it effectively doesn’ exist.
south africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country on the continent.
it now accounts for more than half of africa’ diagnosed infections.
paul hawkins reports.
mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
8,153 people have died from it in south africa, but it could be much higher.
the south african medical research council says the number of people dying from natural causes from 6 may to 21june is 60% higher this year compared to the same period in 2019 and 2018.
the government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed infections in the country.
that is at least half of all the confirmed coronavirus cases on the continent.
and a third of them are in gauteng province, where hospitals like this are struggling to cope, as this member of staff explain.
the staff is not there.
we have a gross shortage of staff.
it’ chaos, it’ crazy.
nurses are testing positive as well, and it’ a mess.
our facilities and our hospitals — covid—19 cases are all over the place.
there is no ward which doesn’ have a covid—19 person.
so how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
we are not.
south africa imposed a strict lockdown in april and may that slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual reopening in june.
despite that, cases have surged, the president pointing out however that
but that is of little consolation to south africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings in its health system.
the cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus, are getting bigger every day.
our healthcare system is failing our people.
it’ failing the entire country.
it was not ready for this virus.
the country has tested over 3 million people and brought in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of the coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
in france, the seven—day average of new infections passed 1,000 per day this week.
rates of infection in germany remain low, but health officials there have expressed great concern over an uptick in cases in the country.
spain is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings.
gavin lee is on the spanish island of majorca.
well, across spain, the authorities are worried about the speed of the spread of the pathogen.
there’ been an average of 1,000 cases here this week — that’ ten times more than this time a month ago.
and across europe too, well, if you look at france, for example, double the number of cases compared to this time last month, germany too.
and also, if you look at the likes of italy, better news there, because they have had a slight increase.
but belgium — five times the number of cases compared to a month ago.
in germany, as of next week, they are going to make it mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk to have a covid test.
now, that includes in europe, parts of spain, in luxembourg too, but for the moment, not for the .
now, here in majorca, there have been fewer cases, around 27 covid cases a day.
but there’ been the first confirmed case of tourists being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased, as one person out of a party of ten, currently close by here in palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
it is a worry, but no big concern at the moment, and reason for alarm.
let’ get some of the day’ other coronavirus news: the australian state of victoria is expected to introduce new lockdown measures, tougher than any seen in the country before.
the restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next week, are likely to see all shops forced to shut apart from supermarkets and service stations.
it is reported there will also be tighter restrictions on individuals’ movements.
thousands of people have taken to the streets in germany’ capital, berlin, to protest against the country’ coronavirus restrictions.
demonstrators say the measures, including wearing facemasks, violate their rights and freedoms.
germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic than other european countries, but cases are starting to rise again.
classified documents from inside the british military raise fresh questions as to whether special forces in afghanistan may have tried to cover up the killing of civilians.
the previously secret material was disclosed as part of a court case following a panorama investigation last year which highlighed allegations that british forces had a policy of deliberately killing fighting aged men, even when they didn’ pose a threat.
the ministry of defence has denied such a policy existed.
our defence correspondent jonathan beale reports.
this is how elite troops target the taliban — controversial night raids with the aim to kill or capture enemy fighters.
this shows afghan commandos on a mission with american support.
but it was the same tactics used by british special forces during their time in helmand.
last year, panorama heard allegations the had killed unarmed civilians, with testimony from survivors of a raid in 2011 who said the british shot family members when they posed no threat.
we’ve blurred their faces to protect their identity.
: they tied his hands in front of me.
if you’ve tied someone’ hands, how can they fight?
lawyers representing one of the afghan families are now challenging the ministry of defence here at the high court.
they’re trying to find out whether there was a proper investigation, or whether there might have been a cover—up.
and they’ve just forced the mod to release these highly sensitive documents, which show that there were serious concerns about the raid within the british military.
in heavily redacted —mails sent soon after the raid, one british officer asks another soldier replies with reports that two of the afghans were shot reaching for weapons.
he says while another —mail highlights the anger of an afghan officer, who suggests one says the documents warrant a fresh investigation.
it’ deeply alarming, it’ deeply serious and the government needs to come clean.
if that doesn’ merit some kind of inquiry, because at the end of the day, you’re talking about war crimes, potential war crimes, then i don’ know what does.
the british military’ own report into the raid, released to the court, says the four men killed were all armed, and that one was a known taliban commander who’ been targeting coalition forces.
in a statement, the mod said the mod recently closed down the unit investigating allegations of potential war crimes in afghanistan.
but these documents, at the very least, highlight concerns about its transparency and the secrecy surrounding britain’ special forces.
jonathan beale, news.
you are watching news.
the headlines: tiktok says it’ there for the long run after president trump says he’ll ban the chinese—owned video sharing app in the .
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus in october, according to the country’ health minister.
but some experts are concerned at russia’ fast—track approach.
on friday, the leading infectious disease expert in the , anthony fauci, said he hoped that russia and china were "actually testing their vaccines" before administering them to anyone.
so what do we know about these and other vaccines that are being worked on?
one russian vaccine is being devised on by the moscow—based gamaleya institute and the second by the vektor state laboratory in siberia.
there’ no public data proving the vaccines’ safety or success.
two chinese companies, sinovac and sinopharm, have launched final phase three trials.
a third vaccine from can—sino biologics is being used to immunise the military.
three western coronavirus vaccines are in final phase three trials.
one from biotech firm moderna, another by the university of oxford and britain’ astrazeneca, and the last by germany’ biontech with pharmaceutical pfizer.
rishi desai is the chief medical officer for the healthcare education platform osmosis and a former epidemic intelligence officer with the center for disease control.
he’ in oakland, california.
thank you very much for speaking to us.
what do you these claims in russia, make of these claims in russia, let’ start there, that this ine could be out and vaccine could be out and administered by october.
that pretty quick.
to put it seems pretty quick.
to put it into perspective, to make a ine usually takes a decade the world record, if you of it as a race, the think of it as a race, the fastest we have done it is four years
and so right now started in nuary seven onths later they predict may ctober, that is ten months
and that would be shocking.
rally there are three phases.
phase one, two, three.
one, is it safe and you number one, is it safe and you do that on home and that make ns.
phase two also in umans, what size dose and the phase, what is the ility for this to work well.
so all three phases must be in the and what we on’ have right now from ssia is data.
we have these releases and statements ich are super exciting if you the rest of the world atching this and there is a interest for what we lot of interest for what we need is data, do they go ough the stages?
what did data show and right now we ave none of that.
it is citing but honestly it is nclear what was done.
how ual or unusual would be to hare that kind of thing?
viously companies in ifferent countries are in mpetition under normal ircumstances and there would uge calls for greater cooperation this time around.
is the norm?
the norm is what is the norm?
the norm is to show and publish your data.
singla company out there every single company out there working on this legitimately uing data and i think issuing the data
and i think there is a lot of scrutiny sted on data because we posted on the data because we want to make sure it is safe, and foremost, and that it orks.
you can’ make these aims if you can’ show the ata behind it.
you need to your work, that you ctually did the work and you making up answers.
are not making up answers.
no-one wants to be making up ers under these answers under these circumstances.
give us a our of the timescales involved in testing for safety?
ure some people thinking i’ sure some peopla thinking would think 0 we can test and here no immediate reaction, great
but maybe there ome some side effects to ake months or years to show.
we have enough time to for safety?
exactly the concerns.
there are some hings you might look at that be years down the road but do not have time for that generally speaking, what ’re talking about when we say ety is the order of months.
he order of months, what is pening?
do you notice ything?
you might ifferent doses, is it still to do?
these are steps taken on the order of months, ally, and it normally takes ong time because you have nding issues, you need olitical well, you need the researchers on the same page.
a lot of that has happened in an ditious timeline because expeditious timeline because the whole world is focused on .
money pouring in and this.
money is pouring in and researchers are working ether and sharing data and this has been sped up in a eally great way but, of urse, you must still be utious because if you are oing to unroll this and have lions of people getting this accine you want to make sure you have crossed your tease and dotted your eyes and oing it in a transparent ay.
if not, no—one will trust thank you ery much for your thoughts, doctor.
sri lankans are heading to the polls on wednesday in an election that will have far—ranging impacts on sri lanka’ politics, rule of law, and foreign policy.
the election has been delayed twice due to the coronavirus pandemic, meaning campaigning has lasted months.
sunday is the last day of campaigning.
our correspondent, anbarasan ethirajan in colombo, takes a look at what we can expect.
a buoyant sri lankan president, gotabaya rajapaksa, is on a campaign trail once again.
almost nine months after his landslide victory in the presidential poll, he wants to sweep the parliamentary election.
rajapaksa wants this man, his brother mahinda, to be his prime minister.
mahinda was president twice before, and gotabaya was his defence secretary.
the election is happening amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
sri lanka has managed to contain the outbreak, with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
the entire world is new subject to covid—19 infection.
sri lanka is one of the best countries to face it successfully and to save its own citizens.
therefore, gotabaya rajapaksa has shown he’ a unique leader, and because of that, people have a new hope.
however, the rajapaksa brothers still face accusations of rights abuses during the war with the tamil rebels which ended in 2009.
they deny any wrongdoing, but the rajapaksas’ supporters, mostly drawn from the majority sinhalese, dismiss the criticism over rights abuses.
sri lanka has enjoyed a relative political stability for the last nine months, especially after the devastating easter sunday bomb attacks last year.
president gotabaya rajapaksa’ party wants to capitalise on that to secure a two—thirds majority in parliament so that they can change the constitution.
for example, to give more powers to the president.
this man, sajith premadasa, is one of the main challengers.
he’ promising a more inclusive sri lanka.
but the opposition is divided, splitting anti—rajapaksa votes.
some are worried that a two—thirds majority in the current election could lead to an authoritarian rule.
this comes at a time where we have seen increasing attacks on civil society, on media, on lawyers.
so, the space for dissent is shrinking.
and the question is whether it will shrink further post—elections?
and the signs so far are that it is likely to happen that way.
sri lanka’ economy has been battered by the covid—19 crisis.
many sri lankans feel only a strong government will be able to revive the economy.
anbarasan ethirajan, news.
greece has always been a popular summer holiday spot for tourists around the world.
but this year it is making a splash by permitting recreational diving at archaeological sites for the first time.
ancient greek history?
check.
scuba—diving, check.
social ancing?
heck.
if these are the things on your to do list summer, this archaeological wonder is open public for the first time ever.
located off the coast of the island of source in greek, this bonanza story was off—limits for of history was off—limits for decades.
: this is irst time, not just the first time, not just in greece, but a pan—european , that uch a site, such a level, that such a site, such a large shipwreck with so many is open to the public objects is open to the public and divers.
for almost 2000 5- , the 15th century years, the 15th century shipwreck was lost to history cess to underwater sites as access to underwater sites is typically restricted in ce.
but with the marvels of odern day technology, thorities can now monitor the ite with derwater cameras.
have installed in specific ations the cameras in order be able to recognise if nybody or anything like a hicle has entered the otected area and what runs ehind this live streaming is a cial algorithm with rtificial intelligence that is to recognise in real—time rious lasses of object.
for onswimmers, there is a virtual lity tour of the site.
asting warm clear aters and thousands of amphora torage jars.
call it the acropolis of rex.
—— shipwrecks.
in sport, arsenal have won the cup finalfor a record 14th time, beating chelsea 2—1 at wembley.
arsenal’ captain pierre—emerick aubameyang who scored both his team’ goals — lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90—thousand empty seats, because of coronavirus restrictions.
victory secured arsenal’ place in the europe league next -’i-hl the team’ manager mikel arteta says that’ an additional bonus for the club.
it is a double reward for us.
it is really important for this club in every way to be in europe.
we have gone into this competition and winning it as part of our history, 1a now, i contributed, we all did it so i am so happy.
that is it from me.
i will be back with the headlines in a oments time full.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @lvaughanjones.
hello there.
the heat and humidity ebbed away during the course of saturday and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
but again, as we know, on friday, we were just of 38 celsius.
we had our third hottest day on record.
just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten degrees down on that on saturday.
so, it felt a little cooler, but it most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable for sleeping — and we’ll keep that fresher feel around for the day ahead — but there will be scattered showers around.
we’re under the atlantic influence again.
low pressure to the north throwing in this weatherfront, which has given some fairly heavy rain across the northern half of the country through the night.
still around, i think, first thing, but look at those temperatures.
a much cooler start to the day for many.
and what we have in the north, that cloud and rain, will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that moisture, that will be the spark, if you like, for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
now, we’re not expecting that many showers across the southern half of england, across wales and the midlands and east anglia, but they can’ be ruled out.
and temperatures will be a few degrees down on saturdayjust because it will be a cooler start to the day.
still a fairly fresh breeze through the channel.
after fairly few showers in the morning across northern ireland, they will tend to become more frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones further north as well — but equally, some spells of sunshine in between.
and, of course, it’ the british grand prix race day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
there’ just that small chance of a shower.
just a small chance.
and through the evening and overnight, those showers will tend to ease away, as you can see, with the risk still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
but another fairly fresh night for most parts.
as we go, then, into monday, we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in, but it is only slight
and i still think there will be the odd shower around.
and already looming large in the atlantic, the next low pressure system.
so, if we do see some of that rain, it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
then, we may well have some slow—moving, sharp showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
however, as we go into tuesday, we’ve got the atlantic low potentially coming in, bringing us some more significant and persistent, quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
it will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
that’ certainly one to watch.
as ever, you can find out more information from our website.
this is news.
the headlines: president trump says he will ban tiktok, the chinese—owned video sharing app, in the .
it comes amid concerns the app could be used to collect americans’ personal data.
tiktok denies any chinese control and says that it is in the for the long run.
more than 500,000 coronavirus have been confirmed in south africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
south africa is the hardest—hit country on the continent and accounts for half of all reported infections in africa.
it also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
spain in particular is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings, most notably from the .
response to coronavirus with infectious disease chief anthony fauci, as cases continue to rise across the country.
he’ the most famous doctor in america, and as head of america’ institute of allergy and infectious diseases since 1984, anthony fauci has advised six different american presidents on everything from ebola to .
over the last few decades, he has also seen his effigy burnt, heard the cries of protesters calling him a murderer, and had smoke bomb thrown at his office window.
since the beginning of the year, he has been in the thick of a new battle against coronavirus.
for americans, he has become a trusted presence behind the podium at white house covid—19 briefings.
but as a struggles to contain the pandemic, six months after its first known case, tensions have been rising between fauci and the president.
fauci has criticised the president’ response on a number of occasions, pushed back on the president’ claims that the outbreak is improving, and attributing hasty state reopening is to the recent surges.
the white house is targeting fauci by briefing reporters about his alleged mistakes.
the move to undercut him comes as the continues to see surges in covid—19.
according tojohn hopkins university, there are well over 4 million cases confirmed, and more than 150,000 americans have died.
fauci, we’re now about five months into this pandemic in the united states.
if i’ asked you back in april if this was the situation we would be in at the end ofjuly, is this about what you would have anticipated?
i think the answer to that, katty, would have to be be no.
i would have hoped that once we had the initial surge under control — as you recall we were particularly hard hit in the new york metropolitan area — that we would have come down to a baseline that is really a low baseline, namely hundreds to, you know, a few hundred cases a day.
but that is not what happened.
we had the big surge, then it came down, but it plateaued at a level of about 20,000 cases per day for several weeks in a row into may and june.
and then injuly, with the attempts in some southern states to open up again, namely open up the economy, we had surges of cases that is really quite unfortunate.
and that’ not what i would have predicted or liked to see, because we went from a baseline of about 20,000 cases a day up to 30, 40, 50, 60, and a couple of weeks ago we even hit 70 new cases a day.
that has now gone down a bit to between 50,000 and 60,000.
that’ not good,.
that is so high that you want to get a baseline that’ much, much lower than that.
so what went wrong?
did people just get impatient?
i think there were a couple of things, not one single factor that you can see went wrong, but a couple of things.
in the united states, right from the beginning, we shuts down only by about 50%, even though it was a lot of inconvenience and a lot of very, very important negative effects on the economy and employment.
but in reality, we did not shut down nearly as intensively as was shut down in other countries, including the european union.
and then the other aspect of it is that when we reopened, in the sense of, you know, we put out these guidelines for opening america again, and they were well thought out guidelines which had several checkpoints.
the first checkpoint was a gateway.
in other words, you had to have a diminution of cases before you could move to phase one, and then phase two, and then phase three.
and each of the different phases became a little bit more flexible in opening things up.
the problem is we did not have a uniform adherence to that.
and what happened is that some states, and i’ not going to name them, but some states actually skipped over some of the checkpoints.
and in other states, even when the mayors and governors and others did it right, and give the right instructions, many of the members of society just disregarded them.
that’ a sure—fire invitation to get a problem.
so as you watched that, you watched the states jumping the gun, you watched people behaving in an irresponsible way, you knew it was going to go wrong.
you knew it would not end well.
how frustrating was that, as you were trying to manage the pandemic?
well, it was quite frustrating, katty, because i was getting on the media and and radio virtually pleading, particularly with the young people, because the recent resurgences that we’ve seen, if you look at the average age of the people in that, it’ about a decade to a decade and a half younger than what we were seeing earlier on in the outbreak.
and when i was looking at the film clips, you were seeing they weren’ wearing masks, they were congregating in bars.
it became really quite frustrating, because it became predictable what would happen if people did not adhere to the guidelines.
so we’re in this position that’ bad today.
when you look forward, fauci, for the next four orfive months, how is it going to be?
well, i hope it’ going to be considerably different, katty.
do you have any reason for optimism?
well, i hope that the country — i always say, and i still do, i have faith in the american citizens and the people living in this country that they will appreciate what went wrong.
as we get up and say, you know, that’ the reason i’ trying to do a lot of outreach, not onlyjust me but many of my public health colleagues who are out there talking to the populace, explaining to them that there are really four or five simple things that we know from experience can turn things around.
and we’re trying to preach that as far and wide as we can.
universal wearing of masks, physical distancing, six feet or more, avoiding crowds, avoiding bars, and if the states and the regions and the counties go along with it, closing bars if necessary, and physical hand hygiene such as washing your hands.
if you just do those five simple things, you’re going to be able to turn a lot of this around, so hopefully we’re getting that message out.
i’ glad you still have faith in people, because my faith is being tested at the moment.
i just wonder what makes you think that — you’ve been preaching this message, doctor, for the last few months and people are not doing it, and i wonder whether you actually would like to see much stricter enforcement of the rules.
for example, here in washington, , there is now as of this week a $1,000 fine, potentially, if you don’ wear a mask on the street.
i go into the street, and people aren’ wearing masks.
do we actually need to get a lot tougher?
does there need to be stricter regulation as there was during the lockdown is in europe?
yes, i have always been, katty, in favour of a balance, of being really strict in areas where you feel it is going to have an impact.
i’ sure that there’ some of this in the , but in the united states, there’ this independent spirit, that people in general don’ like to be told by higher authorities what to do.
i don’ think that that’ an excuse for us not being a bit more strict with people, particularly with regard to masks.
the problem with mandating is that sometimes that gets people pushed in the opposite direction, and you’ve got to figure out how you’re going to enforce the mandating.
so you’re right, i do have faith in the american people.
i hope that when we strongly, strongly recommend that, that peopla will adhere to it and there will be lessons learned from what we have experienced over the past few weeks with the surging of cases in the southern states.
so let me ask you more about masks, and first of all a medical question.
can you clarify for me what the current thinking is on whether masks protect the wearer, as well as the people who are around the wearer?
so if i wear a mask, does it protect me in any way, as well as stopping me spreading the virus if i have it?
yeah, there are more and more studies that are coming online that are indicating that it’ a bilateral type of protection.
originally, the data was showing that if you wear a mask, it prevents you from infecting someone else.
we get that experience from hospitalised patients with other diseases, including this disease, to prevent the spread beyond the person.
but, since we know now that about 20—a5% of the cases are asymptomatic, and that clearly people who are without are transmitting the infection to others, that the recommendation of universal wearing of masks is more geared towards having people who don’ know that they’re infected from spreading the infection to others.
however, there’ also data accumulating when you do what’ called meta—analyses of studies that in fact there is a degree of protection.
we don’ know the exact percentage, but clearly there’ a degree of protection, of protecting yourself from others, when you wear a mask.
so i believe we know that there is now a benefit that goes both ways.
and the benefit would be that i’ less likely to get it if i’ wearing a mask, or that the severity of the disease if i did get it would be diminished because i was wearing a mask.
do we know that yet?
we don’ know that yet.
there’ a discussion about the size of the inoculum, and what impact that has on you getting infected and what the course of the infection is, but there’ not enough data.
the only data that we do know is that it protects from infection.
we don’ know whether it’ going to protect you from severity.
we just don’ have enough data to make a comment on that.
when the president, as he did again yesterday, retweets things from people who say you don’ need to wear a mask, how unhelpful is that from a medical perspective?
well, you know, i mean, this issue of tweeting and retweeting is something that i’ve never understood or gotten involved in, but i can tell you, you’ have to say it’ not helpful if people get signals about not wearing masks, when we’re trying to get people to universally wear masks.
so you would ask the president not to do that, if he listens to you?
well, katty, that’ not the way it works.
i think my feeling about what we should do with masks is very, very clearly understood by everyone, including those in the white house.
what about hydroxychloroquine?
and i ask you about this because it’ come back into the news because the president yesterday evening, in the white house, stood there and said that he believes in it and that it is safe, and again seemed to be touting this drug.
is the president right?
again, katty, it’ not productive or helpful for me to be making judges on right or wrong.
but what i can say is what i have said all along — that the overwhelming body of data from trials that were well run, randomised, placebo—controlled trials, indicate that is not effective in treating coronavirus disease or covid—19.
the reason i ask you this, fauci, is because there’ a lot of misinformation out there, and a lot of people don’ trust what they’re hearing, either on the internet orfrom their leaders.
you are one person in the united states who according to the last opinion poll has a 65% approval rating.
people do trust you.
and i wonder whether, just in terms of your ability to fight this pandemic, your effectiveness in fighting this pandemic, you do actually need to call out the president and the country’ leaders when they say things that are unhelpful, and potentially set the country back?
because people trust you.
and again, katty, i have to get back to see what happens is that that becomes the story, as opposed to the message.
so, if what you say is true, which i believe, i don’ follow approval ratings, but if people are listening to me, i want them to hear loud and clear what i’ saying.
we should have universal wearing of masks, and the scientific data to this point, this might change with other studies, but the scientific data up to this point indicate that the use of for the treatment of covid—19 is not effective.
0.
the president has also retweeted a tweet which said that you are misleading the american people.
and just to put this on the record, have you misled the american public during your advice during this pandemic?
no, that’ easy for me to answer.
no, categorically, i have not misled the american public during this outbreak.
you’ve said before, fauci, that during the course of your career you have spent decades preparing for this possibility of a pandemic like covid—19.
when you were preparing for something like this, did you ever imagine that the politics would make it difficult to effectively manage this kind of situation?
that the politics would get so mixed up on this?
no, i did not.
obviously when you are dealing with things that involve politicians, there is always a bit of political manoeuvring.
we’ve seen that in almost every outbreak, but it had been minor and didn’ impact what we were doing with regard to response, but i think it’ no secret from looking at the situation in the united states that there is a considerable degree of political divisiveness to a level that everyone admits, you don’ need me to make that declaration.
i think anyone even those who have more experience and more ability to observe and make judgment on that, that this is a very unusual situation of political divisiveness in this country.
you mentioned young people.
the today is looking at young people in europe.
eems to have effectively managed the reopening process.
when it started reopening a couple of months ago, things went well.
we didn’ see big spikes.
now you have a number of european countries that are concerned.
when you look at the situation in europe, are you worried that they could be sliding back again?
yes, as you said correctly, katty, at the beginning of their opening up, they really did very well.
what i hope does not happen with our european countries is that they get a little bit complacent and as they open up and see that things are doing well and they are able to contain any of these little blips that might turn into spikes that might turn into resurgences, i hope that they pay attention to the fact that the reason that they’ve done well is that they’ve done it correctly and by doing it correctly, i hope they don’ get complacent, essentially stepping over the line and taking additional risks.
it has to do with what i was saying just a few minutes ago when we were talking about the situation in some places in the united states where people essentially skipped over the guidelines.
in europe, they do have guidelines about safely reopening.
let’ just hope that they follow them and not get into a situation where they trigger something that gets out of control again.
could you see new lockdowns, either here in the states or in european countries?
could you see us going back to the situation globally that we were in in march and april if people do get too complacent?
i really hope that we don’ come to that.
that would be very discouraging.
there was enough stress and strain, not only on our populations, both in europe, the and here in the united states, but also the effect that it had on the economy and unemployment and other types of unintended consequences of lockdown.
i hope we don’ ever get to go to that.
i was being asked about what the response would be too the resurgence that we were seeing in the southern states.
i commented that i hope we would not have to go to a complete lockdown and what we might do is at least have a pause in our progression to reopening and maybe even take a step back.
in other words, if you are in phase two and you are getting into trouble, you might want to push back or pull back to phase one and then restart the process of careful, prudent, step—by—step reopening because no one wants to go back to a complete lockdown again.
you look at germany who did it so well, it was the poster child for europe, now you have the german centre for disease control saying they are concerned about spikes in the country.
is it possible to combat this virus when you open up borders and allow people some freedom of movement?
because when we look at the country is doing it will at the moment that seem to have it under control, islands like new zealand or cyprus where the borders are controlled and people can’ get in
and so we have a bubble that they can protect, i’ just worried looking at what’ happening in europe that it’ not possible to have it both ways, to open our borders and have this under control.
you’re right, katty, this is not easy.
anyone who thinks this is easy is really not doing a lot of reality testing.
it is a very difficult situation and we’ve got to do the best we can and we believe that if we do this kind of opening and reopening prudently, then we have enough testing to go around to make sure that we can do the appropriate and adequate identification, isolation and contact tracing.
that becomes very difficult.
we’ve learned from painful experience that if you have a low level of cases and you have the adequate facilities and capabilities of testing, when you get blips of new infection, you can adequately identify, isolate and contact trace.
once you get to a level where there is community spread, particularly given the fact that a significant proportion of cases are without and spread occurs without symptoms, then things start to ratchet up and get out of control.
so if we can keep the lid on things at a level low enough, i believe we can step—by—step open as much as possible of the economy but that doesn’ mean we’re going to get back to completely normal.
i believe in order to do that, we are going to need a safe and effective vaccine to complement the public health measures and that’ the reason the information that came out very recently where we started a phase three trial of a vaccine just a couple of days ago and multiple other candidates over the next few months will be beginning phase three trials to determine efficacy and additional safety of a vaccine.
with that timetable, we would hope, given the fact these trials are ongoing now, for example the one that started a couple of days ago was going to have 30,000 people in the trial, that in the next several months as we get into the late fall and early winter, we might have an answer to the safety and efficacy of vaccine trials and i feel cautiously optimistic.
there is a medical report from the centre for american progress this week in the united states that is very concerned about the production and distribution of the vaccine, even suggesting that it could take up to two years for americans to actually get the vaccine so it’ great the research is producing these positive results now
and i know you’ve said that we could be getting some good news from that in the autumn or in the winter, but, realistically, how long is it going to be before i can get a vaccine?
you’ll probably get one pretty quickly but before most americans can get a vaccine.
i think it would be well into 2021.
i don’ think it will be two years at the reason i say that is because what we’ve done here in united states.
well into 2021 is what, near the end of next year?
let me explain to you i think that’ not necessarily the case.
what’ being done now with the production of vaccine to have doses available that the united states government has invested billions of dollars, hundreds of millions and billions of dollars to start producing vaccine at risk.
eans you are starting to make the doses before you even have proven that the vaccine works.
which means that if the vaccine does work, you’ve saved many months.
if the vaccine doesn’ work, the risk is you’ve lost a lot of money.
you haven’ risked safety, you haven’ risked scientific integrity.
in that context, the companies are telling us that they will have available within 2021 in the first few months to the middle, hundreds of millions of doses and by the end of the year, as many 351 billion doses.
you’re talking about per company.
that being the case, and i don’ know if it will be the first quarter, middle or the last quarter, but in 2021, there should be enough doses if the companies do what we are paying them to do, that they can give widespread distribution of vaccines.
fauci, thank you forjoining us and best of luck to you.
thank you, katty, it’ always good to be with you, thank you for having me.
hello there.
the heat and humidity ebbed away during the course of saturday and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
but again, as we know, on friday, we were just of 38 celsius.
we had our third hottest day on record.
just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten degrees down on that on saturday.
so, it felt a little cooler, but it most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable for sleeping — and we’ll keep that fresher feel around for the day ahead — but there will be scattered showers around.
we’re under the atlantic influence again.
low pressure to the north throwing in this weatherfront, which has given some fairly heavy rain across the northern half of the country through the night.
still around, i think, first thing, but look at those temperatures.
a much cooler start to the day for many.
and what we have in the north, that cloud and rain, will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that moisture, that will be the spark, if you like, for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
now, we’re not expecting that many showers across the southern half of england, across wales and the midlands and east anglia, but they can’ be ruled out.
and temperatures will be a few degrees down on saturdayjust because it will be a cooler start to the day.
still a fairly fresh breeze through the channel.
after fairly few showers in the morning across northern ireland, they will tend to become more frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones further north as well — but equally, some spells of sunshine in between.
and, of course, it’ the british grand prix race day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
there’ just that small chance of a shower.
just a small chance.
and through the evening and overnight, those showers will tend to ease away, as you can see, with the risk still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
but another fairly fresh night for most parts.
as we go, then, into monday, we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in, but it is only slight
and i still think there will be the odd shower around.
and already looming large in the atlantic, the next low pressure system.
so, if we do see some of that rain, it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
then, we may well have some slow—moving, sharp showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
however, as we go into tuesday, we’ve got the atlantic low potentially coming in, bringing us some more significant and persistent, quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
it will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
that’ certainly one to watch.
as ever, you can find out more information from our website.
this is news.
welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’ lewis vaughan jones.
our top stories: tiktok says it’ "there for the long run" after president trump says he’ll ban the chinese—owned video sharing app in the .
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections — that’ the fifth highest in the world.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
and pierre—emerick aubameyang scores twice as arsenal beat chelsea to win the cup.
hello and welcome.
the general manager of tiktok has said the chinese—owned video—sharing app is "here for the long run" after president donald trump said he would ban it in the .
vanessa pappas told tiktok’ more than 80 million users in a video statement that its staff were building "the safest app" possible amid concerns about data protection.
jack kilbride reports.
you have heard you out soaring of support and we want to say you and we are not lanning on going anywhere.
hting words from an fighting words from an application the president is atening to ban.
tiktok, for illions of young americans, is video sharing apple of dances and memes but for donald , it is a national tmmp, it is a national security concern.
we are king at tiktok, we may be banning tiktok, we may be doing other things or a couple of options but a lot of things appening so we will see are happening so we will see what happens.
the issue for the ident is that the application is owned by a nese company, bytedance.
and here is a concern that the it collects from users ill be passed over to beijing.
a concern that has seen ndia already bandy up and stralia talk following suit.
an the app.
but not -- ban the app.
but not everyone is as worried.
there eal national security mplications without media orks.
the question at hand really is this a good way to bout it?
and simply banning ktok is not going to do ything for national security.
tedance denies the allegation according to some reports have agreed to ofﬂoad the operation of tiktok with rosoft taking over and ssuming all responsibility for ecting the data of users, and there are questions about her a ban would even work.
you wouldn’ be able to do it.
china or iran, where there is only one or two intimate providers, in the it is very difficult to be able that as there are so many to do that as there are so many telecom service providers so if you convince them to be even if you convince them to be able to do that there is going a lot of loopholes and in all likelihood it will be, in inion, very close to my opinion, very close to impossible to be able to cessfully do that.
but whether it happens or not, it ear that the move is part of a bigger battle between hington and beijing.
on that also not going anywhere.
—— one that is also not going anywhere.
jack kilbride, news.
i spoke to dan primack, business editor at axios, the news website.
i asked him what we know about this potential deal with microsoft.
they have a deal.
microsoft — bytedance has agreed to basically divest 100% of tiktok, or at least the operations of tiktok, to microsoft.
and the deal is on donald trump’ desk.
somebody told me that earlier today.
the surprise for both microsoft and tiktok, bytedance, i guess together, was trump’ comments from last night, because they believed that this was a solution to the problem.
so what’ going on, then?
if that was an elegant solution, not go for it?
it’ a question nobody seems able to answer.
and it’ worth noting trump said last night that they were going to ban — he was going to ban tiktok very soon, or at least that’ what the full report said.
it has been 2a hours.
he has done no such thing.
so, granted, tomorrow’ sunday.
monday, he could do it.
it is unclear if it is the date issue.
it’ unclear if this is pure politics, kind of an anti—china, red meat thing for his base.
it’ unclear there’ some speculation on twitter, cetera, some tiktok users, particularly younger ones, have caused some problems for the trump campaign.
they kind of overbought tickets to a rally they never used.
they’ve done things like that.
it’ unclear.
trump himself hasn’ clearly said what his problem with tiktok is.
and just — do you have any problems with tiktok?
what do you feel about the privacy concerns?
there’ clearly a lot of anxious people out there.
is that overblown, or is it legitimate?
i mean, i’ not somebody who’ been able to reverse—engineer the code, so i can’ speakfor sure.
but what i can say is this is notjust washington, or donald trump concern.
for example, wells fargo, which is one of the biggest banks in the united states, about two weeks ago they told all of their employees to remove tiktok from any of their work devices.
amazon did the same thing actually to all of its employees, although it then rescinded that, said it had been sent in error, but has never quite explained department in the first place, let alone in error.
50 clearly there are concerns, notjust from government officials, but also from some private enterprise and private technology companies.
and just a bit of an unfair question.
ball time — what do you think happens next?
where do you see this going?
i have to believe this microsoft deal gets done.
itjust makes too much sense not to.
again, trump technically does have the ability, most likely, to block this.
not by blocking the microsoft acquisition so much, but the back story a little bit was that tiktok was created by the acquisition of something called musical.
ly, and trump could basically say that that deal, which is several years old, was invalid.
thus tiktok as we know it effectively doesn’ exist.
dan primack there.
south africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country on the continent.
it now accounts for more than half of africa’ diagnosed infections.
paul hawkins reports.
mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
8,153 people have died from it in south africa, but it could be much higher.
the south african medical research council says the number of people dying from natural causes from may 6 tojune 21 is 60% higher this year compared to the same period in 2019 and 2018.
the government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed infections in the country — that is at least half of all the coronavirus cases on the continent — and a third of them are in gauteng province, where hospitals like thelle mogoerane are struggling to cope, as this member of staff explains.
the staff is not there.
we have a gross shortage of staff.
it’ chaos, it’ crazy.
nurses are testing positive as well, and it’ a mess.
in ourfacilities and in our hospitals, covid—19 cases are all over the place.
there is no ward, by the way, that doesn’ have a covid—19 person.
so how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
we are not.
south africa imposed a strict lockdown in april and may that slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual reopening in june.
despite that, cases have surged, the president pointing out however that: but that is of little consolation to south africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings in its health system.
the cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus, are getting bigger every day.
our healthcare system is failing our people.
it’ failing the entire country.
it was not ready for this virus.
the country has tested over 3 million people and brought in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
paul hawkins, news.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
in france, the 7—day average of new infections passed 1,000 per day this week.
rates of infection in germany remain low, but health officials there have expressed "great concern" over an increase in cases in the country.
spain is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings.
gavin lee is on the spanish island of mallorca.
well, across spain, the authorities are worried about the speed of the spread of the pathogen.
there’ been an average of 1,000 cases here this week — that’ ten times more than this time a month ago.
and across europe too, well, if you look at france, for example, double the number of cases compared to this time last month, germany too.
and also, if you look at the likes of italy, better news there, because they have had a slight increase.
but belgium — five times the number of cases compared to a month ago.
in germany, as of next week, they are going to make it mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk to have a covid test.
now, that includes in europe, parts of spain, in luxembourg too, but for the moment, not for the .
now, here in majorca, there have been fewer cases, around 27 covid cases a day.
but there’ been the first confirmed case of tourists being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased as one person out of a party of ten, currently close by here in palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
it is a worry, but no big concern at the moment, and reason for alarm.
given lee in majorca.
—— gavin lee in majorca.
let’ get some of the day’ other coronavirus news.
the australian state of victoria is expected to introduce new lockdown measures, tougher than any seen in the country before.
the restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next week, are likely to force all shops to shut, apart from supermarkets and service stations.
victoria reported more than 650 infections on sunday, up from 397 cases the previous day.
thousands of people have taken to the streets in germany’ capital berlin to protest against the country’ coronavirus restrictions.
demonstrators say the measures including wearing face masks, violate their rights and freedoms.
germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic than other european countries, but cases are starting to rise again.
classified documents from inside the british military raise fresh questions as to whether special forces in afghanistan may have tried to cover up the killing of civilians.
the previously secret material was disclosed as part of a court case following a panorama investigation last year, which highlighted allegations that british forces had a policy of deliberately killing fighting aged men — even when they didn’ pose a threat.
the ministry of defence has denied such a policy existed.
our defence correspondent jonathan beale reports.
this is how elite troops target the taliban — controversial night raids with the aim to kill or capture enemy fighters.
this shows afghan commandos on a mission, with american support, but it was the same tactics used by british special forces during their time in helmand.
last year, panorama heard allegations the had killed unarmed civilians, with testimony from survivors of a raid in 2011 who said the british shot family members when they posed no threat.
we’ve blurred their faces to protect their identity.
: they tied his hands in front of me.
if you’ve tied someone’ hands, how can they fight?
lawyers representing one of the afghan families are now challenging the ministry of defence here at the high court.
they’re trying to find out whether there was a proper investigation or whether there might have been a cover—up, and they’ve just forced the mod to release these highly sensitive documents which show that there were serious concerns about the raid within the british military.
in heavily redacted —mails sent soon after the raid, one british officer asks: another soldier replies with reports that two of the afghans were shot reaching for weapons.
he says: while another —mail highlights the anger of an afghan officer, who suggests: one says the documents warrant a fresh investigation.
it’ deeply alarming, it’ deeply serious and the government needs to come clean.
if that doesn’ merit some kind of inquiry because, at the end of the day, you’re talking about war crimes — potential war crimes — then i don’ know what does.
the british military’ own report into the raid, released to the court, says the four men killed were all armed, and that one was a known taliban commander who’ been targeting coalition forces.
in a statement, the mod said: the mod recently closed down the unit investigating allegations of potential war crimes in afghanistan but these documents, at the very least, highlight concerns about its transparency and the secrecy surrounding britain’ special forces.
jonathan beale, news.
you are watching news.
the headlines: tiktok says it’ there for the long run after president trump says he’ll ban the chinese—owned video sharing app in the .
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections.
that’ the fifth highest in the world.
russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus in october according to the country’ health minister.
but some experts are concerned at russia’ fast—track approach.
on friday, the leading infectious disease expert in the , anthony fauci, said he hoped that russia and china were "actually testing their vaccines" before administering them to anyone.
so, what do we know about these and other vaccines that are being worked on?
one russian vaccine is being devised on by the moscow—based gamaleya institute, and the second by the vektor state laboratory in siberia.
there’ no public data proving the vaccines’ safety or success.
two chinese companies, sinovac and sinopharm, have launched final phase three trials.
a third vaccine from cansino biologics is being used to immunise the military.
three western coronavirus vaccines are in final phase three trials.
one from biotech firm moderna, another by the university of oxford and britain’ astrazeneca, and the last by germany’ biontech with pharmaceutical pfizer.
i spoke to professor peter hotez.
he’ dean of the national school of tropical medicine at the baylor college of medicine in houston.
he’ also working on a coronavirus vaccine and i asked him what he made of russia saying it would start mass vaccinations in october.
pretty extraordinary for a number of reasons.
first of the technical achievement of making a coronavirus vaccine ovid—19 is actually not that high a .
there are many 5 to do it.
it is kind of an udgement old school roblem in virology to get mething that induces higher els of virus reducing ntibody.
everyone assumes the bon ton of the virus with the spikes eliminating out and that at is involved in is what is involved in attaching to host tissues if ave high levels of you have high levels of antibody, you could potentially good vaccine as well as used in late other bits of the system.
there are many immune system.
there are many “75 to do it.
we are doing it hrough an engineer protein.
yone knows about the oxford accine.
there are several ways it.
the problem is this.
it is not so much making the cine.
it is ensuring there is adequate quality control so now what you are making and you ran make it the same every time, and that you dequately tested and rge—scale clinical trials to he vaccine actually works.
and it is safer not sing a significant level of evere reaction.
that is what ries me when the russians nnounced they are suddenly to make a vaccine and have it by october.
i am not so ied they can’ make vaccine.
it is whether they it is actually safe
and it know it is actually safe and it works.
if there are problems it auses a significant and it causes a significant safety signal across the ulation, that then population, that then discredits other vaccines and is when you start getting measles outbreaks and rything else.
that is the peace that really worries me.
resting.
those knock—on fects of it not working, damaging public confidence, i suppose.
where are we or ving utter aside for a second, the timescales of this, were saying originally people were saying originally definitely not saying till , now possibly the end of 2021, now possibly the end of the year.
where are we on the erent efforts?
there are different efforts?
there are differing opinions and in the states i sent tend to be he conservative side, aying third quarter of 2021, say that because our and i say that because our first vaccines are what we call erational been going operational warp been going into phase three large—scale 000 erson clinical trials 30,000 person clinical trials only now there will be other throughout the rest of the ar.
but it should take about to collect enough data a year to collact enough data on 30,000 volunteers showing it actually works and it that it actually works and it is safe.
i put it at the dle, towards the end of middla, towards the end of 2021, and even that would be a record.
others are saying hat it should be ready earlier elease to the public, and really depends on how good a cine it is, because you can have ccines that partially otect, mainly reduced everity of symptoms, which is ortant because it can prevent spitalisations.
hereas other vaccines will ually block infection and even potentially get herd unity as a consequence.
that important because some ccines will replace existing blic health control measures.
hers will be used as companion technologies ngside it.
you can already alongside it.
you ran already see it gets quite complex and eed a lot of carefully crafted public health saging, which unfortunately now is not coming out of he white house so that is an tional hurdle we are additional hurdla we are facing.
next, sri lankans are heading to the polls on wednesday in an election that will have far—ranging impacts on sri lanka’ politics, rule of law and foreign policy.
sunday is the last day of campaigning.
our correspondent, anbarasan ethirajan, in colombo, takes a look at what we can expect.
a buoyant sri lankan president, gotabaya rajapaksa, is on a campaign trail once again.
almost nine months after his landslide victory in the presidential poll, he wants to sweep the parliamentary election.
rajapaksa wants this man, his brother, mahinda, to be his prime minister.
mahinda was president twice before and gotabaya was his defence secretary.
the election is happening amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
sri lanka has managed to contain the outbreak with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
the entire world is new subject to covid—19 infection.
sri lanka is one of the best countries to face it successfully and to save its own citizens.
therefore, gotabaya rajapaksa has shown he’ a unique leader, and because of that, people have a new hope.
however, the rajapaksa brothers still face accusations of rights abuses during the war with the tamil rebels, which ended in 2009.
they deny any wrongdoing, but the rajapaksas’ supporters, mostly drawn from the majority sinhalese, dismiss the criticism over rights abuses.
sri lanka has enjoyed a relative political stability for the last nine months, especially after the devastating easter sunday bomb attacks last year.
president gota baya raja ksa’ party wants to capitalise on that to secure a two—thirds majority in parliament so that they can change the constitution.
for example, to give more powers to the president.
this man, sajith premadasa, is one of the main challengers.
he’ promising a more inclusive sri lanka.
but the opposition is divided, splitting anti—rajapaksa votes.
some are worried that a two—thirds majority in the current election could lead to an authoritarian rule.
this comes at a time where we have seen increasing attacks on civil society, on media, on lawyers.
so, the space for dissent is shrinking.
and the question is whether it will shrink further post—elections?
and the signs so far are that it is likely to happen that way.
sri lanka’ economy has been battered by the covid—19 crisis.
many sri lankans feel only a strong government will be able to revive the economy.
anbarasan ethirajan, news.
now, greece has always been a popular summer holiday spot for tourists around the world.
and this year, it’ allowing recreational diving at archaeological sites for the first time.
ishleen kaur takes a look.
ancient greek history?
check.
scuba—diving 7 check.
social distancing?
check.
if these are the things on your to—do list this summer, this archaeological wonder is open to the public for the first time ever.
located off the coast of the island of alonissos in greek, this bonanza of history was off limits for decades.
: this is the first time, notjust in greece, but a pan—european level, that such a site, such a large shipwreck with so many objects is open to the public and divers.
for almost 2,000 years, the 5th—century peristera shipwreck was lost to history, as access to underwater sites is typically restricted in greece.
but with the marvels of modern—day technology, authorities can now monitor the site with underwater cameras.
we have installed in specific locations the cameras in order to be able to recognise if anybody or anything like a robotic—operated vehicle has entered the protected area.
what runs behind this live streaming is a special algorithm with artificial intelligence that is able to recognise in real time various classes of object.
for non—swimmers, there is a virtual reality tour of the site.
boasting warm crystal—clear waters and thousands of amphorae or storagejars, they call it the acropolis of sea wrecks.
in sport, arsenal have won the cup for a record 14th time, beating chelsea 2—1 at wembley.
arsenal’ captain pierre—emerick aubameyang scored both his team’ goals.
he then lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90,000 empty seats because of coronavirus restrictions.
victory secured arsenal’ place in the europe league next -’i-hl the team’ manager mikel arteta says that’ a bonus.
it is a double reward for us.
it is really important for this club in every way to be in europe.
we have gone into this competition, winning it as part of our history, 1a now, i contributed, we all did it, so i am so happy.
two astronauts on board the space capsule are hurtling back towards earth right now after the dragon endeavour capsule successfully undocked from the international space station.
it is due to splash down off the western coast of florida later on sunday.
said it was safe to proceed with the landing even though a tropical storm, isaias, is currently threatening the state’ eastern seaboard.
it is the first private spacecraft in space for the this is news.
hello there.
the heat and humidity ebbed away during the course of saturday and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
but again, as we know, on friday, with just of 38 celsius, we had our third hottest day on record.
just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten degrees down on that on saturday.
so, it felt a little cooler, but it most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable for sleeping, and we’ll keep that fresher feel around for the day ahead.
but there will be scattered showers around.
we’re under the atlantic influence again.
low pressure to the north, throwing in this weather front, which has given some fairly heavy rain across the northern half of the country through the night.
still around, i think, first thing, but look at those temperatures.
a much cooler start to the day for many.
and what we have in the north, that cloud and rain, will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that moisture, that will be the spark, if you like, for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
now, we’re not expecting that many showers across the southern half of england, across wales and the midlands and east anglia, but they can’ be ruled out.
and temperatures will be a few degrees down on saturdayjust because it will be a cooler start to the day.
still a fairly fresh breeze through the channel.
after fairly few showers in the morning across northern ireland, they will tend to become more frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones further north as well — but equally, some spells of sunshine in between.
and, of course, it’ the british grand prix race day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
there’ just that small chance of a shower.
just a small chance.
and through the evening and overnight, those showers will tend to ease away.
as you can see, just the risk still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
but another fairly fresh night for most parts.
as we go, then, into monday, we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in, but it is only slight.
i still think there will be the odd shower around.
and already looming large in the atlantic, the next low—pressure system.
so, if we do see some of that rain, it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
then we may well have some slow—moving, sharp showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
however, as we go into tuesday, we’ve got the atlantic low potentially coming in, bringing us some more significant and persistent, quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
it will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
that’ certainly one to watch.
as ever, you can find out more information from our website.
this is news.
the headlines: president trump says he’ll ban tiktok — the chinese—owned video sharing app — in the .
it comes amid concerns the app could be used to collect americans’ personal data.
tiktok denies any chinese control and says that it is in the "for the long run".
more than 500,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in south africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
south africa is the hardest—hit country on the continent and accounts for half of all reported infections in africa.
it also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
spain in particular is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings, most notably from the .
now it’ time for click.
this week: influencers, influencing.
but can you tell which one is the real thing?
hey, welcome to click.
hope you are doing 0.
this week we have something special for you.
you see, every so often, we start investigating a subject thinking it will make a nice, interesting —minute film, but then we tug on a particular thread and it turns out there is something way bigger and way weirder going on than we thought.
talking of way weirder, here’ omar mehtab.
hey mate.
hey, how’ it going?
yeah, good, thanks.
so, do you want to start off by telling us what you were originally sent out to look at?
we wanted to find out how online inﬂuencers, the big personalities you see on social media, have been impacted during the pandemic.
it seemed pretty straightforward.
yeah,
and then things got really interesting, right?
it did.
we started doing a little bit of digging and a pattern emerged of inﬂuencers abusing the trust of their millions of followers for their own financial gain.
our story started here with some of the biggest social media inﬂuencers in the world — a group called faze clan, famous for esports and entertainment.
: put your hands together for faze clan!
they have 230 million followers and were recently valued at $250 million.
social media influencing is the new frontier for marketing.
influencers like faze clan make deals with brands to promote products to their millions of followers.
so these are the first ever faze beats pill.
i’ a big man city fan.
for some, it’ easy to dismiss inﬂuencers, but they are trusted by hundreds of millions of people.
and brands know that when it comes to marketing their products, trust translates into money.
but the pandemic had financially impacted a lot of these companies and so, we wanted to know if that meant that inﬂuencers had also been hit.
but it turned out that things had actually been going pretty well for faze clan.
so just before the pandemic, a new trend was emerging of inﬂuencers moving into huge houses together, and these guys now live in a $35 million estate in los angeles.
hey, everyone.
so would you mind giving me a tour of the house?
yeah, absolutely.
it’ incredible to think that social media inﬂuencers have become so big that these guys are able to live in a mansion in .
it’ meant to help them collaborate and constantly create new content to feed their hungry fans — something which has come in very handy during the pandemic.
this is another spot where we come and spend some time.
oh, my god!
so when you said lake, you meant an actual flipping lake?
yeah!
more people are watching, more people have time to watch more and they want more even when they are done, because they are still on the phones, they’re still looking for content to consume.
what happens during the pandemic where people are home more, right?
we have direct access to our fan base on a seven days a week, 365 days cycle.
and then you have traditional production all on hold, both film and television, and here we are in the gaming space that we can still keep the trains running on time.
and we had even an added benefit of some of our celebrity friends and partners, they are all home also with very little to do, and we could lean on them to help participate in different pieces of content.
we closed deals that were in the pipeline, and we developed new deals during the pandemic.
high life for most.
here’ the thing — the majority of inﬂuencers don’ have hundreds of millions of followers and a slick .
there are millions of inﬂuencers who are sole traders, and they are actually able to make a living with only tens of thousands of followers.
the people who are famous to you on instagram may not be the same people who are famous to me on instagram, because there are millions of them who have varying levels of followers and influence.
over time, once people got followings that reached a certain level, people realised that they were basically owners of mini media empires and once the money became clear in that relationship, people started to seek out more followers, more engagement, more brand deals, and build businesses themselves.
but those millions of many influencers depend on smaller brands, smaller deals, and a lot less of them.
and we found out that many of them have struggled during the pandemic.
zara mcdermott is one influencer who sits in the middle ground.
she has gotjust under 1.
5 million followers and she works with a lot of mid—level brands.
i have seen inﬂuencers taking on jobs that i wouldn’ necessarily see them taking on before the pandemic.
just because i think there is a little bit of an air of like "maybe let’ take as manyjobs as we possibly can".
but this was the moment it became so much more.
right at the end of the interview, zara said something which took our investigation to an unexpected new direction.
so since the pandemic began, we found we have received a really large quantity of —mails from brands selling what i think is counterfeit goods and basically trying to get inﬂuencers to market these on their channels, and ijust believe that a lot of these brands are trying to exploit inﬂuencers during this time by offering them excessive amounts of money for very small deliverables.
and not all of these inﬂuencers had turned these offers down.
hey, guys.
as you can see, i have my new wireless earphones in i literally use my airpods every single day it is cute and they are all wireless.
i have got a lot of dms.
the sound quality is hanging.
really good, and they connect to any bluetooth device.
off—camera of zara’ interview, her manager charli paton told us that her —mail inbox was flooded by companies offering thousands to get them to advertise knock—off products.
so we went to find out more.
some of the more suspicious brands that reach out to us are often willing to pay — and i know they do actually pay a lot more money than the going rate in the industry — sometimes even up to three times the price that we would usually charge for certain promotions.
i think that they prey on the fact that inﬂuencers and management companies don’ always do this due diligence.
they will get through to work with an influencer and potentially be able to scam that influencer’ followers.
so charli was fed up with getting all these scam —mails asking them to promote knock—off products and put their business at risk, so she wanted to find out who was behind it all.
and there was just one product that kept on coming up again and again and again — knock—off apple airpods.
so the first thing to do seemed very obvious — we would go straight to the influences to ask them they were doing this.
we found one influencer called metisha who was getting a lot of ﬂak for promoting a fake airpods brand whose products did not make it to their customers.
but to be fair to her, she did reimburse every follower who got scammed.
there are a lot of scammy, like, companies.
but honestly i haven’ experienced anything like this until the pandemic.
so this didn’ happen to me before the pandemic
and i was quite comfortable, because my girlfriend was like, "oh, i saw this — that a lot of inﬂuencers already do this".
i thought, "oh, it must be legit"
and i didn’ even look into it.
it was my responsibility to make sure this company is legit.
i did not do that.
so, in order to fix it, i have to stand by my mistake and to get scammed, it’ notjust the money — they get angry, you know, people like us or people who are in public actually do this type of promotion without looking into it, and they are totally right.
like, i can’ say anything but to apologise
and i think if someone like kyliejenner do this, they need to, like, get it right
and they have the money, they should reimburse every single person, i think.
if i can do it, they can do it, too.
and then we found out that even the biggest inﬂuencers in the world were being paid to promote these knock—off airpods.
each airbud comes with a charging case and a charging cable.
swipe up to check them out right now.
their whole site is 70% off, and use the code kylie forfree shipping.
kylie and kendalljenner have a combined following of 337 million followers on instagram, and there they were, promoting a company whose earbuds seem to be an exact copy of apple’ airpods.
so we —mailed thejenners, and after speaking to their representatives multiple times, in the end, they declined to comment.
hey, mate.
how are you going?
hey!
not bad, not bad.
we uncovered a lot of videos of inﬂuencers promoting knock—off apple products on their instagram.
this is what happens when people become traders and they haven’ had the training or they are not aware of the laws, they are just flogging any old stuff.
i am actually about to order a couple of pairs for ourselves now, to have a look.
hello and welcome to the week in tech.
it was the week that google announced plans for a new transatlantic undersea network cable to connect the , and spain.
universal and movie theatre chain to make new films —— universal and movie theatre chain cut a deal to make new films available for streaming online faster, from up to three months to just 17 days.
and we heard that , one of the world’ largest tech gatherings, with thousands of people meeting in las vegas, will next year be an all—digital online event.
it was the week that the heads of apple, facebook and google faced claims of harmful conduct before lawmakers.
tim cook, jasper 6055, mark zuckerberg and sunder pichai defended their companies and said they had spurred innovation.
computers at the vatican were reportedly breached by a group of state—backed hackers from china.
a cyber security firm made the claim ahead of a sensitive meeting between the vatican and china.
israeli ultrafast battery charging company storedot company demonstrated a five—minute charge of a commercial drone, which they said would normally take 60—90 minutes.
the company says it will allow a continuous mission using charging stations.
and finally, spot, boston dynamics’ robot dog, is back with a newjob and a new name.
fluffy, here!
ford have renamed spot ‘fluffy,'and have unleashed a pair.
equipped with five cameras, they will help create 360—degree scans of their factory ﬂoor.
so we’ uncovered lots of videos of inﬂuencers promoting knock—off airpods.
the next logical step was to order a couple of pairs or ourselves.
we ordered them from arkensia.
i heard something weighty go through my front door letterbox.
it’ here!
it has taken about a week or so.
hey!
all right?
how’ it going.
a bit of a surprise.
0.
here they are.
all of it is the same.
oh, my god!
look!
i have a pair of airpods here.
hold on, i will mix them up in my hand.
which one is the real one?
the one to the left.
you, those ones.
those ones.
these are fake.
they must be breaching apple’ design work.
who do you actually show these to to get these?
well, go to trading standards.
so we went to see trading standards, and they were well aware of inﬂuencers promoting knock—off goods, and we wanted to know if they could ever combat this.
even though it’ not necessarily bearing the apple trademark, the overall impression of the packaging, the design of the case, the design of the earbuds inside, is designed to give that impression that this is an apple product, and that is clearly an issue.
i think the important thing when we’re talking about influencers in particular is that anybody would look at taking a stepped approach in terms of any formal action against influencers.
in the first instance, we would probably look at providing some advice to influencers.
having had those conversations around advice about consumer law, inﬂuencers then continued to exhibit breaches, and at that point is the time when trading standards could consider more formal action against influencers.
and, because of the way these transactions are happening, it makes it harder for regulators to track the knock—offs.
supply chain that perhaps otherwise would have been more readily detected if they were coming in perhaps in large quantities.
and i ordered them about a month ago.
here they are!
they’re obviously copying apple’ images.
it keeps stopping and starting, these aren’ even functioning properly.
yeah, these are really bad.
i’ going to charge them up because this one works and this one doesn’.
so i charged them and unbelievably, this one earphone still didn’ work.
so i —mailed soundplay about them selling knock—off airpods and mine not even working, but they didn’ reply.
so talk to me about apple, have you found out whether apple are doing anything about this problem?
well, apple did tell us they’re taking action against companies selling knock—off goods.
there is one company we’ve been looking at, however, nova play.
kyliejenner made a video advertising them back in november and made one as recently as may as well, and since then they’ve been operating this whole time.
so for a company that’ being advertised by a massive influencer, you’ think they would pick up on that.
apple’ not about protecting its reputation, let’ be honest, although, i suppose kyliejenner is also a massive personality
so maybe this is a case of the unstoppable force meeting the immovable object.
i tell you, it’ really interesting, stay in touch, let me know how you get on.
apple did provide a statement for us and said that last year alone, they sought the removal of close to a million listings for counterfeit and knock—off products from online marketplaces.
it was about this time that we started talking to some —commerce experts to find out who was behind this wave of knock—off product and influencer promotions.
and there was one word that kept coming up.
drop shipping.
as become this highly accessible business for a lot of people.
all you need is an internet connection and a laptop and you’re ready to go.
the issue of drop shipping is a relatively new phenomenon.
it’ a very, very fast—moving business model that’ constantly changing, we’re constantly seeing new entrants into the market, new platforms that provide the service, so as regulators and enforcers, to a certain extent, we’re always trying play catch up.
we started searching and we found hundreds of people saying they were making a fortune drop shipping.
but what is it?
here’ a little rundown.
the drop shipper goes to an online chinese marketplace, often ali express.
they find a low—priced product, set up a website and add a huge markup.
inﬂuencers are paid to promote the product and send you straight to the website.
when you buy the product, it ships directly to you from china.
the seller could be on a different continent and never even see the product.
drop shippers don’ hold any inventory so there’ no financial risk.
and it’ important to be really clear.
drop shipping isn’ illegal.
for example, here’ kevin david whojust moved into his pretty sweet new apartment in miami.
and he gave us a very honest insight about the insane amount of money that drop shippers are actually making.
you can have a massive business without ever going to china.
right?
i’ve personally sent millions of dollars to china, i’ve gotten millions and millions of dollars worth of products, i’ve never been to china.
those airpods, i’ve actually seen, some of my friends have stores doing hundreds of thousands of dollars a month selling those, right?
someone will spend hundreds of millions, however much money it costs to create it and then china will essentially reverse engineer it.
some sharp drop shippers take advantage of that and they create massive, massive incomes by leveraging those trends and being able to offer those really exclusive high end products for much cheaper.
it’ very easy to take the moral high road
but i think if a lot of people had the skill set and caught a trend at a certain time and were making $1000 profit a day or $10,000 profit a day, i think they would probably think differently about that circumstance.
so we contacted loads of drop shippers and even chatted to quite a few of them and there was one thing that really stood out amongst them all, they’re just like you and me.
some of them even work out of their bedroom.
but the difference is, they’re making huge sums of money.
i couldn’ even afford the rent
so i blew it up, i blew my credit up.
so fast forward, i grabbed one of the products that took me to, it was a super bowl ring, i made $55,000 in that month, quit myjob, and then fast forward, i made over $20 million in the last five years.
drop shipping dramatically changed my life.
all we needed to do was look on youtube at these guys bragging about how much money they’re making and sharing tips on how to get in on it.
and when we were going through all these videos, we found something incredible.
one guy was even showing other drop shippers a template letter to copy and send influences.
it was that easy.
and the template that i give to my students that you can just copy and paste and use for yourself.
it’ right here.
instagram influencer reach out script.
and i’ going to say "hey", and the name of that person "my name is", and you’re going to put your name.
that youtube explainer was a stunning and revealed so much.
the professional looking —mails charlie showed us, sent from the mysterious companies, were actuallyjust from bedrooms around the world.
and the shadowy drop shippers werejust entrepreneurs trying their luck.
like many things, you’ve got your good guys and you’ve got your bad guys, but the problem is, it’ really easy to be a bad guy when you’re an anonymous person sitting behind a laptop.
and gabrielle told us how some drop shippers can easily scam people.
i see stores that come and go that, they literally steal money from people.
one of the stores were selling ironman hat which was like a real hat that goes up and down and they were selling it for $29.
when you go to ali babe and aliexpress, the selling price is what is real, and those stores make millions of dollars within a month and they they just wipe the entire store and they collect the money, they disappear and they don’ ship any products.
and those stores are literally, like, everywhere.
anybody, literally, can identify and source products online, can set up a means to have those products shipped, can do so, to a large extent, with a good degree of anonymity, quickly sell a whole bunch of dangerous or counterfeit products and then exit the system before regulators have had a chance to even catch up, is obviously a significant concern for us.
so we went to the source of all of this — instagram, and they replied, telling us that "there’ no place for fraudulent or inauthentic behaviour on instagram and we removed the accounts brought to their attention.
"
they didn’ answer the question about taking any action against inﬂuencers themselves, however, they did tell us they must follow local laws and vet brands before agreeing to any paid partnership.
so, from zara telling us about the suspicious —mails she’ been receiving, we delved into a world made possible only by the modern internet.
now, a teenager in kansas can persuade an influencer in london to promote a product.
then that leads to someone in stockholm buying something from a factory in china which copies the design of a company in california.
it’ a truly global story.
what are your final thoughts on this subject?
well, with everyone that we’ve spoken to, there seems to be a consensus that inﬂuencers should be held to the same standard as other traders.
and i guess if inﬂuencers continue to promote these imitations goods, their trust will be eroded, too.
so what can people do to protect themselves?
take your time.
don’tjust have that knee—jerk reaction and buy something that you see come up on your feed.
check social media, check review websites.
if there are complaints against the company or what people are saying about the product.
and, if it’ too good to be true then it probably is.
omar, thanks so much.
that’ it from us.
you’ be interested to know, i’ sure, that omar also investigated a couple of other companies that are using and possibly abusing social media inﬂuencers, and you can hear that part of his investigation on the trending podcast which is on sounds.
you can find us on social media and last time i checked, you can trust us.
we are on facebook, youtube, instagram and twitter, at click.
thanks for watching and we’ll see you soon.
hello there.
the heat and humidity ebbed away during the course of saturday and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
but again, as we know, on friday, we were just of 38 celsius.
we had our third hottest day on record.
just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten degrees down on that on saturday.
so, it felt a little cooler, but it most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable for sleeping — and we’ll keep that fresher feel around for the day ahead — but there will be scattered showers around.
we’re under the atlantic influence again.
low pressure to the north throwing in this weatherfront, which has given some fairly heavy rain across the northern half of the country through the night.
still around, i think, first thing, but look at those temperatures.
a much cooler start to the day for many.
and what we have in the north, that cloud and rain, will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that moisture, that will be the spark, if you like, for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
now, we’re not expecting that many showers across the southern half of england, across wales and the midlands and east anglia, but they can’ be ruled out.
and temperatures will be a few degrees down on saturdayjust because it will be a cooler start to the day.
still a fairly fresh breeze through the channel.
after fairly few showers in the morning across northern ireland, they will tend to become more frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones further north as well — but equally, some spells of sunshine in between.
and, of course, it’ the british grand prix race day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
there’ just that small chance of a shower.
just a small chance.
and through the evening and overnight, those showers will tend to ease away, as you can see, with the risk still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
but another fairly fresh night for most parts.
as we go, then, into monday, we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in, but it is only slight
and i still think there will be the odd shower around.
and already looming large in the atlantic, the next low pressure system.
so, if we do see some of that rain, it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
then, we may well have some slow—moving, sharp showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
however, as we go into tuesday, we’ve got the atlantic low potentially coming in, bringing us some more significant and persistent, quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
it will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
that’ certainly one to watch.
as ever, you can find out more information from our website.
this is news.
i’ lewis vaughanjones with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
tiktok says it’ "there for the long run" after president trump says he’ll ban the chinese—owned video sharing app in the .
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections — that’ the fifth highest in the world.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
and the ancient acropolis of the sea opens to divers, but the treasures are guarded by 21st century tech.
hello and welcome to the programme.
the general manager of tiktok has said the chinese—owned video—sharing app is "here for the long run" after president trump said he would ban it in the .
vanessa pappas told tiktoks more than 80 million users ers in a video statement that its staff were building "the safest app" possible amid concerns about data protection.
jack kilbride reports.
you have heard your outpouring of support and we want to say thank you, and we’re not planning on going anywhere.
fighting words from an application the president is threatening to ban.
tiktok, for millions of young americans, is a fun video—sharing app full of dances and memes, but for donald trump, it is a national security --hi--hll we’re looking at tiktok, we may be banning tiktok, we may be doing some other things, there are a couple of options, but a lot of things are happening, so we’ll see what happens.
the issue for the president is that the application is owned by a chinese company, bytedance, and there is a concern that the data it collects from users will be passed over to beijing.
it is a concern that has seen india already ban the app and australia talk of following suit, but not everyone is as worried.
there are real national security implications with our media networks.
the question at hand is really is this a good way to go about it?
and simply banning tiktok is not going to do anything for national security.
bytedance denies the allegation and, according to some reports, have agreed to offload the operation of tiktok with microsoft taking over and assuming all responsibility for protecting the data of users, and there are questions about whether a ban would even work.
you wouldn’ be able to do it.
unlike china or iran, where there is only one or two internet service providers, in the , it is very, very difficult to be able to do that — there are so many telecom service providers.
so even if you convince them to be able to do that, there is going to be a lot of loopholes and in all likelihood it will be very — in my opinion, very close to impossible to be able to successfully do that.
but whether it happens or not, it is clear that the move is part of a bigger battle between washington and beijing.
one that is also not going anywhere.
jack kilbride, news.
earlier, i spoke to dan primack, business editor at axios, the news website.
i asked him what we know about this potential deal with microsoft.
they have a deal.
microsoft — bytedance has agreed to basically divest 100% of tiktok, or at least the operations of tiktok, to microsoft.
and the deal is on donald trump’ desk.
the surprise for both microsoft and tiktok, bytedance, together was trump’ comments from last night, because they believed that this was a solution to the problem.
so what’ going on, then?
if that was an elegant solution, not go for it?
it’ a question nobody seems able to answer.
and it’ worth noting trump said last night that they were going to ban — he was going to ban tiktok very soon, or at least that’ what the full report said.
it has been 2a hours.
he has done no such thing.
so, granted, tomorrow’ sunday.
monday, he could do it.
it is unclear if it is the date issue.
it’ unclear if this is pure politics, kind of an anti—china, red meat thing for his base.
it’ unclear there’ some speculation on twitter, cetera, some tiktok users, particularly younger ones, have caused some problems for the trump campaign.
they kind of overbought tickets to a rally they never used.
they’ve done things like that.
it’ unclear.
trump himself hasn’ clearly said what his problem with tiktok is.
and just — do you have any problems with tiktok?
what do you feel about the privacy concerns?
there’ clearly a lot of anxious people out there.
is that overblown, or is it legitimate?
i mean, i’ not somebody who’ been able to reverse—engineer the code, so i can’ speakfor sure.
but what i can say is this is notjust washington, or donald trump concern.
for example, wells fargo, which is one of the biggest banks in the united states, about two weeks ago they told all of their employees to remove tiktok from any of their work devices.
amazon did the same thing actually to all of its employees, although it then rescinded that, said it had been sent in error, but has never quite explained department in the first place, let alone in error.
50 clearly there are concerns, notjust from government officials, but also from some private enterprise and private technology companies.
and just a bit of an unfair question.
ball time — what do you think happens next?
where do you see this going?
i have to believe this microsoft deal gets done.
itjust makes too much sense not to.
again, trump technically does have the ability, most likely, to block this.
not by blocking the microsoft acquisition so much, but the back story a little bit was that tiktok was created by the acquisition of something called musical.
ly, and trump could basically say that that deal, which is several years old, was invalid.
thus tiktok as we know it effectively doesn’ exist.
dan primack there.
next, south africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country on the continent.
it now accounts for more than half of africa’ diagnosed infections.
paul hawkins reports.
mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
8,153 people have died from it in south africa, but it could be much higher.
the south african medical research council says the number of people dying from natural causes from may 6 tojune 21 is 60% higher this year compared to the same period in 2019 and 2018.
the government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed infections in the country — that is at least half of all the coronavirus cases on the continent — and a third of them are in gauteng province, where hospitals like thelle mogoerane are struggling to cope, as this member of staff explained.
the staff is not there.
we have a gross shortage of staff.
it’ chaos, it’ crazy.
nurses are testing positive as well, and it’ a mess.
in ourfacilities and in our hospitals, covid—19 cases are all over the place.
there is no ward, by the way, that doesn’ have a covid-19 person.
so how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
we are not.
south africa imposed a strict lockdown in april and may that slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual reopening in june.
despite that, cases have surged, the president pointing out however that: but that is of little consolation —— out however that: but that is of little consolation to south africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings in its health system.
the cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus, are getting bigger every day.
our healthcare system, public healthcare system, is failing our people, it’ failing the entire country.
it was not ready for this virus.
the country has tested over 3 million people and brought in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
paul hawkins, news.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
in france, the 7—day average of new infections passed 1,000 per day this week.
rates of infection in germany remain low, but health officials there have expressed "great concern" over an increase in cases in the country.
spain is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings.
gavin lee is on the spanish island of mallorca.
well, across spain, the authorities are worried about the speed of the spread of the pathogen.
there’ been an average of 1,000 cases here this week — that’ ten times more than this time a month ago.
and across europe too, well, if you look at france, for example, double the number of cases compared to this time last month — germany, too.
and also, if you look at the likes of italy, better news there, because they have had a slight increase.
but belgium — five times the number of cases compared to a month ago.
in germany, as of next week, they are going to make it mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk to have a covid test.
now, that includes in europe, parts of spain, in luxembourg too, but for the moment, not for the .
now, here in majorca, there have been fewer cases, around 27 covid cases a day.
but there’ been the first confirmed case of tourists being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased, as one person out of a party of ten, currently close by here in palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
it is a worry, but no big concern at the moment, and reason for alarm.
that is the latest from majorca.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the australian state of victoria is expected to introduce new lockdown measures — tougher than any seen in the country before.
the restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next week, are likely to force all shops to shut, apart from supermarkets and service stations.
victoria reported more than 650 infections on sunday, up from 397 cases the previous day.
thousands of people have taken to the streets in germany’ capital berlin to protest against the country’ coronavirus restrictions.
demonstrators say the measures, including wearing face masks, violate their rights and freedoms.
germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic than other european countries, but cases are starting to rise again.
classified documents from inside the british military raise fresh questions as to whether special forces in afghanistan may have tried to cover up the killing of civilians.
the previously secret material was disclosed as part of a court case following a panorama investigation last year, which highlighted allegations that british forces had a policy of deliberately killing fighting aged men, even when they didn’ pose a threat.
the ministry of defence has denied such a policy existed.
our defence correspondent jonathan beale reports.
this is how elite troops target the taliban — controversial night raids with the aim to kill or capture enemy fighters.
this shows afghan commandos on a mission, with american support, but it was the same tactics used by british special forces during their time in helmand.
last year, panorama heard allegations the had killed unarmed civilians, with testimony from survivors of a raid in 2011 who said the british shot family members when they posed no threat.
we’ve blurred their faces to protect their identity.
: they tied his hands in front of me.
if you’ve tied someone’ hands, how can they fight?
lawyers representing one of the afghan families are now challenging the ministry of defence here at the high court.
they’re trying to find out whether there was a proper investigation or whether there might have been a cover—up, and they’ve just forced the mod to release these highly sensitive documents which show that there were serious concerns about the raid within the british military.
in heavily redacted —mails sent soon after the raid, one british officer asks: another soldier replies with reports that two of the afghans were shot reaching for weapons.
he says: while another —mail highlights the anger of an afghan officer, who suggests: one says the documents warrant a fresh investigation.
it’ deeply alarming, it’ deeply serious and the government needs to come clean.
if that doesn’ merit some kind of inquiry because, at the end of the day, you’re talking about war crimes — potential war crimes — then i don’ know what does.
the british military’ own report into the raid, released to the court, says the four men killed were all armed, and that one was a known taliban commander who’ been targeting coalition forces.
in a statement, the mod said: the mod recently closed down the unit investigating allegations of potential war crimes in afghanistan but these documents, at the very least, highlight concerns about its transparency and the secrecy surrounding britain’ special forces.
jonathan beale, news.
you are watching news.
the headlines: tiktok says it’ "there for the long run" after president trump says he’ll ban the chinese—owned video sharing app in the .
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections — that’ the fifth highest in the world.
russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus in october, according to the country’ health minister.
but some experts are concerned.
on friday, the leading virus expert in the , anthony fauci, said he hoped that russia — and china — were "actually testing their vaccines" before administering them to anyone.
so, what do we know about these and other vaccines that are being worked on?
one russian vaccine is being devised on by the moscow—based gamaleya institute and the second by the vektor state laboratory in siberia.
there’ no public data proving the vaccines’ safety or .
two chinese companies sinovac and sinopharm, have launched final, phase three, trials.
a third vaccine from cansino biologics is being used to immunise the military.
three western coronavirus vaccines are in final phase three trials.
one from biotech firm moderna, another by the university of oxford and britain’ astrazeneca and the last by germany’ biontech with pharmaceutical pfizer.
earlier, i spoke doctor rishi desai.
he is a former epidemic intelligence officer with the centre for disease control.
i suggested to him that russia’ vaccine development is pretty quick.
yeah, to put it into perspective, to make a vaccine usually takes a decade and the world record, if you think of it as a race, the fastest we have done it is four or five years
and so right now we started injanuary and seven months later they predict it may be october, that is ten months and that would be shocking.
generally there are three phases.
phase one, two, three.
first phase, is it safe?
and you do that on humans.
phase two also in humans, what size dose, and the third phase, what is the ability for this to work well?
and what we don’ have right now from russia is data.
we have these press releases and statements which are super exciting if you are the rest of the world watching this and there is a lot of interest.
but what we need is data, do they go through the stages?
what did the data show and right now we have none of that.
it is exciting
but honestly it is unclear what was done.
how usual or unusual would be to share that kind of thing?
because obviously companies in different countries are in competition, under normal circumstances, and there would be huge calls for greater cooperation this time around.
so what’ the norm?
to show and publish your data.
every single company out there working on this in a legitimate way is issuing the data and i think there is a lot of scrutiny posted on the data because we want to make sure it is safe, first and foremost, and that it works.
you can’ make these claims if you can’ show the data behind it.
you need to show your work, if you’re doing a math problem, you need to show that you actually did the work and you are not making up answers.
no—one wants to be making up answers under these circumstances.
give us a flavour of the timescales involved in testing for safety?
i’ sure some people thinking would think 0 we can test and if there is no immediate reaction, great
but maybe there are some some side effects to take months or years to show.
how do we have enough time to test for safety?
exactly the right concerns.
there are some things you might look at that may be years down the road but we do not have time for that full generally speaking, what we’re talking about when we say safety is the order of months.
hat is happening?
do you notice anything?
you might different doses, is it still safe to do?
these are steps taken on the order of months, normally, and it normally takes long time because you have funding issues, you need political will, you need the researchers on the same page.
a lot of that has happened in a very expeditious timeline because the whole world is focused on this.
50 money is pouring in, you’ve got researchers working together and sharing data and all this has been sped up in a really great way but, of course, you must still be cautious because if you are going to unroll this and have billions of people getting this vaccine you want to make sure that you have crossed your ’ and dotted your i’ and are doing it in a transparent way.
if not, no—one’ really going to trust it.
for more detail on where the world is in the race for a coronavirus vaccine, have a look at this article by our health correspondent james gallagher.
it’ at the usual place at bbc.
com/news.
sri lankans are heading to the polls on wednesday in an election that will have far—ranging impacts on sri lanka’ politics, rule of law, and foreign policy.
sunday is the last ay of campaigning.
our correspondent anbarasan ethirajan in colombo, takes a look at what we can expect.
a buoyant sri lankan president, gotabaya rajapaksa, is on a campaign trail once again.
almost nine months after his landslide victory in the presidential poll, he wants to sweep the parliamentary election.
rajapaksa wants this man, his brother, mahinda, to be his prime minister.
mahinda was president twice before and gotabaya was his defence secretary.
the election is happening amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
sri lanka has managed to contain the outbreak with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
the entire world is new subject to covid—19 infection.
sri lanka is one of the best countries to face it successfully and to save its own citizens.
therefore, gotabaya rajapaksa has shown he’ a unique leader, and because of that, people have a new hope.
however, the rajapaksa brothers still face accusations of rights abuses during the war with the tamil rebels, which ended in 2009.
they deny any wrongdoing, but the rajapaksas’ supporters, mostly drawn from the majority sinhalese, dismiss the criticism over rights abuses.
sri lanka has enjoyed a relative political stability for the last nine months, especially after the devastating easter sunday bomb attacks last year.
president gota baya raja ksa’ party wants to capitalise on that to secure a two—thirds majority in parliament so that they can change the constitution.
for example, to give more powers to the president.
this man, sajith premadasa, is one of the main challengers.
he’ promising a more inclusive sri lanka.
but the opposition is divided, splitting anti—rajapaksa votes.
some are worried that a two—thirds majority in the current election could lead to an authoritarian rule.
this comes at a time where we have seen increasing attacks on civil society, on media, on lawyers.
so, the space for dissent is shrinking.
and the question is whether it will shrink further post—elections?
and the signs so far are that it is likely to happen that way.
sri lanka’ economy has been battered by the covid—19 crisis.
many sri lankans feel only a strong government will be able to revive the economy.
anbarasan ethirajan, news.
greece has always been a popular summer holiday spot for tourists around the world.
and this year it’ allowing recreational diving at archaeological sites for the first time.
ishleen kaur takes a look.
ancient greek history?
check.
scuba—diving 7 check.
social distancing?
check.
if these are the things on your to—do list this summer, this archaeological wonder is open to the public for the first time ever.
located off the coast of the island of alonissos in greek, this bonanza of history was off limits for decades.
: this is the first time, notjust in greece, but a pan—european level, that such a site, such a large shipwreck with so many objects is open to the public and divers.
for almost 2,000 years, the 5th—century peristera shipwreck was lost to history as access to underwater sites is typically restricted in greece.
but with the marvels of modern—day technology, authorities can now monitor the site with underwater cameras.
we have installed in specific locations the cameras in order to be able to recognise if anybody or anything like a robotic—operated vehicle has entered the protected area.
what runs behind this live streaming is a special algorithm with artificial intelligence that is able to recognise in real time various classes of object.
for non—swimmers, there is a virtual reality tour of the site.
boasting warm crystal—clear waters and thousands of amphorae or storagejars, they call it the acropolis of sea wrecks.
ishleen kaur, news.
in sport arsenal have won the cup for a record 14th time, beating chelsea 2—1 at wembley.
arsenal’ captain pierre—emerick aubameyang scored both his team’ goals.
he then lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90,000 empty seats, because of coronavirus restrictions.
victory secured arsenal’ place in the europe league next season.
the team’ manager mikel arteta says that’ a bonus.
it is a double reward for us.
it is really important for this club in every way to be in europe.
we have gone into this competition, winning it as part of our history, 1a now, i contributed, we all did it, so i am so happy.
two astronauts on board the space capsule are hurtling back towards earth right now, after the dragon endeavour capsule successfully undocked from the international space station.
it is due to splash down off the western coast of florida later on sunday.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @lvaughanjones.
hello there.
the heat and humidity ebbed away during the course of saturday and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
but again, as we know, on friday, with just of 38 celsius, we had our third hottest day on record.
just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten degrees down on that on saturday.
so, it felt a little cooler, but it most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable for sleeping, and we’ll keep that fresher feel around for the day ahead.
but there will be scattered showers around.
we’re under the atlantic influence again.
low pressure to the north, throwing in this weather front, which has given some fairly heavy rain across the northern half of the country through the night.
still around, i think, first thing, but look at those temperatures.
a much cooler start to the day for many.
and what we have in the north, that cloud and rain, will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that moisture, that will be the spark, if you like, for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
now, we’re not expecting that many showers across the southern half of england, across wales and the midlands and east anglia, but they can’ be ruled out.
and temperatures will be a few degrees down on saturdayjust because it will be a cooler start to the day.
still a fairly fresh breeze through the channel.
after fairly few showers in the morning across northern ireland, they will tend to become more frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones further north as well — but equally, some spells of sunshine in between.
and, of course, it’ the british grand prix race day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
there’ just that small chance of a shower — just a small chance.
and through the evening and overnight, those showers will tend to ease away.
as you can see, just the risk still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
but another fairly fresh night for most parts.
as we go, then, into monday, we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in, but it is only slight.
i still think there will be the odd shower around.
and already looming large in the atlantic, the next low—pressure system.
so, if we do see some of that rain, it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
then we may well have some slow—moving, sharp showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
however, as we go into tuesday, we’ve got the atlantic low potentially coming in, bringing us some more significant and persistent, quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
it will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
that’ certainly one to watch.
as ever, you can find out more information from our website.
this is news.
the headlines: president trump says he’ll ban tiktok — the chinese—owned video sharing app — in the .
it comes amid concerns the app could be used to collect americans’ personal data.
tiktok denies any chinese control and says that it is in the "for the long run".
more than 500,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in south africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
south africa is the hardest—hit country in africa and accounts for half of all reported infections on the continent.
it also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
spain in particular is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings, most notably from the .
coming up at 6 ’clock, breakfast with naga munchetty and chris mason.
but first on news, a review of how parliament has tackled the coronavirus crisis, presented by david cornock.
hello and welcome to westminster in review, a look at parliament’ role in the corona crisis.
boris johnson finally got the job he had always wanted, but the job description had changed.
i must level with you, level with the british public.
more families — many more families — are going to lose loved ones before their time.
the prime minister was almost one of them as the global pandemic landed too close to home.
it left him with questions to answer.
65,000 people have lost their lives because of covid—19.
the prime minister should welcome challenge that can save lives, rather than complaining about it.
it was a crisis that overturned centuries of tradition to change the way westminster works, with unexpected results.
and the are also now embracing this.
and i apologise for my cat’ tail.
are you not doing this by default?
on a wednesday afternoon in late january, the health minister was summoned to the house of lords to answer an urgent question on what was described as the "wuhan novel coronavirus threat to citizens".
it was the first reference in parliament to what was to become a global pandemic that has cost tens of thousands of lives here in the , hundreds of thousands worldwide.
the minister, lady blackwood.
tried to reassure peers.
we are monitoring closely the development of this virus.
advice from public health england and the chief medical officer is that the risk to the is currently low.
the is well prepared for the emergence of novel viruses.
the following day, her boss, the health secretary, came to a sparsely attended commons before social distancing restricted numbers, to tell that population from very low to low.
while there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country, we are well prepared and well equipped to deal with them.
the is one of the first countries to have developed a world—leading test for the new coronavirus.
the world health organization has warned that countries are, quote, "simply not ready for a pandemic" and there has now been significant spread of the virus across the european continent.
italy, in particular, but other cases have been identified in austria, croatia and switzerland.
this is clearly now very, very serious.
matt hancock updates became a regular feature of commons life as the virus spread.
the prime minister delivered his own public health message.
do you know the .
do you know the national anthem?
you’ve got to do two verses.
i think 20 seconds will be sufficient.
happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you six days later, against the downing street backdrop that became increasingly familiar, the tone had changed.
i must level with you, level with the british public.
more families — many more families — are going to lose loved ones before their time.
lockdown arrived ten days later.
our instruction is simple — stay at home.
madame deputy speaker, we are engaged in a great national effort.
to beat the virus.
everybody now has it in their power to save lives and protect the .
home is now the frontline.
and peers soon got a taste of working from home themselves as parliament brought forward and extended its easter break, but not before rushing through what is now the coronavirus act, handing sweeping emergency powers to the police, local councils and the nations of the .
coronavirus is the most serious public health emergency that has faced the world in a century.
we are all targets, but the disease reserves its full cruelty for the weakest and the most vulnerable, and to defeat it, we are proposing extraordinary measures of a kind never seen before in peacetime.
today, this house is being asked to make decisions of a magnitude i simply would never have dreamt of only a few weeks ago, and i know no member came into this place to put powers like this on the statute book.
there were some sceptical voices.
nobody denies this bill is necessary.
but given that this bill gives unprecedented powers to the state to enforce isolation on people who have committed no crime for the first time in our history, will the secretary of state reassure the house that this house will be fully involved in renewing this once this crisis is over, and there won’ be any drift in this matter?
there were fears the might be overwhelmed by visitors.
we have one acute hospital in inverness.
some of these tourist destinations are more than three hours from inverness.
we have been absolutely inundated with people that showed no concern for the local population.
the act covers everything from the management of dead bodies to the closure of schools and the postponement of parliamentary by—elections.
it was passed in just four sitting days with an air of resigned acceptance in both commons and the lords.
fundamentally, this bill is about buying time.
you may not think it, looking at those alarming graphs charting the growth of the disease, but time can help us.
with each day that passes, the science is getting better.
her majesty’ loyal opposition supports this bill.
in normal times, it would be utterly unacceptable.
these are not normal times.
and as a result, we are not just faced with this bill, but we must consider how we as a parliament operate in the weeks and months ahead.
parliament then disappeared for an extended easter break.
when it returned, it was very different.
only 50 mp5 were allowed in the socially distanced house of commons.
others could contribute via videoconferencing.
in the lords, the lord speaker vacated the woolsack and was self—isolating.
today, all of our proceedings will be conducted virtually and will be available for broadcasters.
as a matter of interest, i am chairing proceedings from my home in the isle of wight.
usually vote by crowding into either of two corridors alongside the chamber.
it takes about 50 minutes for the result to be declared.
a first attempt at a new remote system saw the chancellor accidentally vote against his own government.
later, a new form of chamber voting lead to an mps’ conga around the palace of westminster in a division that took 44 minutes and proved a challenge for some.
sorry.
stephen crabb — no.
aye!
stephen crabb wasn’ alone.
that confusing chamber voting system was soon replaced by swipe cards, with proxy votes available for mp5 unable to attend.
parliament’ extended break had seen its own drama.
the prime minister almost died from coronavirus.
initially, borisjohnson had self—isolated in downing street after developing what he said were mild symptoms.
hi, folks.
i want to bring you up to speed with something that is happening today, which is that i have developed mild of the coronavirus — that’ to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
and a few days later, he was rushed to hospital in central london, before being moved to intensive care, where he spent three nights.
when returned from their recess, dominic raab was taking prime minister’ questions.
thank you very much, speaker.
i’ve been asked to respond on behalf of my right honourable friend the prime minister, and i am pleased to tell the house that he is making a good recovery and is in good spirits.
by the time borisjohnson returned to work, he had a new opponent — sir keir starmer, a senior lawyer in a past life, had been elected leader of the opposition.
at question time each week, he challenged the prime minister over his handling of the pandemic, here over plans to track and trace those with the virus.
the prime minister risks making mistakes he made at the beginning of the pandemic, brushing aside challenge, dashing forward, not estimating properly the risks.
if two thirds of those with covid—19 are not being contacted, that is a big problem.
yesterday, the right honourable gentleman was kind enough, actually, to say that he supported our policy and supported our programme.
i seem to remember him saying that loud and clear yesterday.
today — today, as i say — i understand the constraints of the profession in which he used to work — i know how it works — today, he appears to be going back into a position of opposition.
which is it?
is he supporting what we’re doing, or is he against it?
i do support the next stage of the operation but the prime minister is wrong to reject challenge.
65,000 people have lost their lives because of covid—19.
the prime minister should welcome challenge that could save lives, rather than complaining about it.
that figure of 65,000 refers to excess deaths overall.
keir starmer pursued his argument at later question times, after the lockdown eased and the hairdressers reopened.
the prime minister must recognise that huge mistakes have been made.
two months ago at pmqs, i highlighted the weaknesses of early guidance on care homes.
the prime minister, typically ﬂippant, simply said it is not true.
there were repeated warnings from the care sector, repeated delays in providing protective equipment.
this wasn’ hindsight.
they were raised here, day in, day out, week in, week out.
it wasn’ hindsight.
it was real—time for the frontline.
same on testing, and the decision to discharge —— same on routine testing, and the decision to discharge 20,000 people to care homes without tests was clearly a mistake.
our understanding of the disease changed dramatically in the months that we’ve had it.
and when he looks at the action plan that we brought in to help our care workers, i think he would appreciate the vast amount of work that they have done, the that they have been supplied with, the testing that they have been supplied with, that has helped them to get the incidence of the disease down to record lows.
borisjohnson was later to qualify that defence of his record.
the health crisis swiftly became an economic one, with the bank of england predicting the deepest recession for 300 years.
rishi sunak had been chancellor for barely a month before he delivered his first budget in march, one dominated by the pandemic.
at the time, jeremy corbyn was still the opposition leader.
whatever extra resources our needs to cope with coronavirus, it will get.
so whether it’ research for a vaccine, recruiting thousands of returning staff or supporting our brilliant doctors and nurses, whether it’ millions of pounds or billions of pounds — whatever it needs, whatever it costs, we stand behind our .
but opposition leaders wanted more.
we are going into this crisis with our public services on their knees, and as today’ figures confirm, with a fundamentally weak economy, which is now flatlining, with zero growth even before the impact of coronavirus.
many of the businesses in my part of the world, in the highlands of scotland, come through a fellow period over the winter, and it’ not just an issue that they are going to see a reduction in business.
in some cases, they are going to be desperately short of cash coming in through the door.
before the ink was on his budget, the chancellor was writing more cheques, spending hundreds of billions of pounds, including a furlough scheme that saw the government pay the wages of workers laid off due to the crisis.
he was back in the commons in earlyjuly with what the government insisted was a summer statement rather than a mini budget, and an eye—catching scheme to get the economy going again.
for the month of august, we will give everyone in the country an "eat out to help out" discount.
meals eaten at any participating business monday to wednesday will be 50% off, up to a maximum discount of £10 per head for everyone.
labour were a underwhelmed with the overall package.
today, britons should have had a back—to—work budget.
but instead, we got this summer statement, with many of the big decisions put off until later.
but others liked the chancellor’ menu.
i’ sure that the hospitality industry will welcome the measures that he has announced today, albeit that they are quite time—limited.
i think the clothes shops will like them, as well, because once we’ve eaten our way through a month’ half—price meals, we may well be visiting them!
sammy wilson on a scheme some have labelled, in an echo of housing policies, as help to pie.
now, borisjohnson wasn’ the only senior government figure to contract coronavirus.
it also struck the cabinet secretary, sir mark sedwill, the health secretary, matt hancock, and the prime minister’ controversial aide dominic cummings.
cummings was accused of breaking the rules by driving to north—east england mid—lockdown.
press conference in the downing street garden his wife had been worried about their return journey.
and she said, and i think it was perfectly reasonable, "a few days ago you could barely stand up, you said that your eyesight was weird
and it seemed to be weird, we shouldn’tjust embark on a 270 whatever it is mile journey and then end up finding halfway through that you actually can’ drive that far.
" good afternoon.
scotland’ chief medical officer, catherine calderwood, did resign after making two trips to her second home.
northern ireland’ deputy first minister, sinn fein’ michelle ’neill, faced down calls to quit after attending the large funeral of a former leading figure.
and neil ferguson, the scientist known as ‘professor lockdown’ in some newspapers, did resign as a government advisor after it emerged he’ been visited by his girlfriend during the lockdown.
professor ferguson was one of several scientists who became household names as their advice and analysis were seized on.
the government’ chief medical and scientific advisors, professor chris whitty and sir patrick valiance, were often seen flanking the prime minister at downing street press conferences.
they were in demand from parliamentary committees, too, from the early days of the pandemic.
every year in seasonal flu, the number of deaths is thought to be about 8,000 excess deaths.
so, if we can get this down to numbers 20,000 and below, that’ a good outcome in terms of where we would hope to get to with this outbreak.
but, i mean, it’ still horrible.
i mean, that’ still an enormous number of deaths, and it’ an enormous pressure on the health service.
that was mid—march, a week before lockdown.
by the end of april, more than 20,000 people had died from coronavirus.
politicians and scientists began asking if we’ locked down too late.
50, had we introduced lockdown measures a week earlier, we would have reduced ourfinal death toll by at least a half.
so, whilst i think the measures, given what we knew about this virus then, in terms of its transmission and its lethality, were warranted, i wouldn’ second—guess them at this point, certainly had we introduced them earlier, we would have seen many fewer deaths.
that was the science committee.
mp5 on the health and social care committee were asking similar questions.
so, when it comes to the timing of the lockdown, are you content that the government followed your advice in terms of the staging of different elements of the lockdown?
i am content, and so, what you’re trying to do is run a very complicated period as a kind ofjumped on question about this.
there’ no straight answer to that, and i’ not trying to give you a yes or no answer to that.
it’ not an unreasonable question.
sorry, i’ just going to interrupt you, it’ not an unreasonable question to ask, because the government constantly said they were following the science.
and so i’ just asking you, on that crucial question of the timing of the lockdown, were they following your advice?
so, i am confident that the ministers at the time, who were put in an incredibly difficult position, in my view, followed the advice given by , which are clearly signposted through the minutes of , with a delay that was no more than you would reasonably expect for what are really difficult things to operationalise and decide.
byjuly, sir patrick vallance admitted that things could have gone better.
the ’ response to the pandemic is not the most admired in the world, if i can put it that way.
so, in your role, have you begun to think about what might be the reasons for that?
yes, we think about that a lot, and clearly there are things that we do as we go along to keep learning from what’ going on, and we’re in regular contact with many international partners.
i think, as chris whitty has said before, it’ very difficult to know exactly where we stand at the moment.
it’ clear that the outcome has not been good in the .
i think we can be absolutely clear about that.
sir patrick vallance.
england, wales, scotland and northern ireland all entered lockdown together in march.
there was much talk of a four nations approach.
but, with different parties in charge of the lockdown rules in the four different nations, the began to look like a federal state.
some of the issues were familiar, wherever you live.
in scotland, more people died from the virus in care homes than in hospitals.
mistakes were made at the start, and they have led to the excess deaths we see today.
first minister, in light of the tragedy in uddingston and others, do you agree that when it comes to testing in care homes that by any standards, this is a failure?
first minister.
no, i don’.
let me say, i’ not even speaking as first minister here, i’ speaking as a human being.
i deeply regret every single death from this virus, and i think all of us are in that position.
but i also know, and i said, i think the very first time i stood in this chamber and talked about what we were dealing with, i said that mistakes would be made.
i said i would make mistakes, the government would make mistakes.
we are dealing with an unprecedented situation, and i am sure that is the case.
there is not a day, probably not an hour that goes by right now, where i don’ question myself, i don’ agonise over the decisions we are taking to make sure that we are learning as right as possible.
and i suspect everybody — i hope everybody in a leadership position, the world over right now, is going through that same process.
and nicola sturgeon turned that questioning approach to her counterpart in downing street.
and when so much is at stake, as it is right now, we can’ allow ourselves to be dragged down in the wake of another government’, to be quite frank about it, shambolic decision-making process.
as the pressure grew to lift the lockdown, in northern ireland, the democratic unionist first minister and the sinn fein deputy first minister gave a rarejoint statement at stormont.
as of today, we remain subject to restrictions which no—one wants to last a day longer than is absolutely necessary.
these are measures we would not contemplate in normal times.
we know that they’re having a significant effect on people’ ability to live their lives the way they and we want.
we are appealing to the public to please be patient.
we understand that you want your family life back.
to be able to visit and socialise with your friends and yourfamilies, to give your grandchildren a hug.
the differences between the four countries were most apparent as the lockdown was lifted, with scotland and wales more cautious than the government in england.
your careful approach in terms of easing of restrictions has served well in many ways but you know, i think, risk treading the line between being too cautious and too slow on this issue.
is wales lagging behind and so many countries have acted so decisively?
ijust reject the language of lagging behind.
we are doing the things that are right for wales.
that does not mean following anybody else just because they’ve done something that we have decided not to do.
mark drakeford.
westminster and the ’ other parliaments continue to adjust to their new normal.
select committees carried on largely virtually with some unusual cameos.
the are also now embracing this, why, and i apologise for my cat’ tail.
are you not doing this by default?
rocco, put your tail down.
the hybrid parliament still allowed and peers to contribute from their home, their office or wherever they happened to be.
i wonder if i might ask my noble friend what engagement she’ had with the devolved administrations regarding any participation and any future scheme?
my lords, i’ dying to know what the other passengers on the noble lord’ train ourthinking.
i’ going to go to lord robathan in a moment
and you’re going to be a little bit surprised because he is wearing a seatbelt and that’ because he is coming back from an important family engagement, he’ hoped to get home
but he can’.
do you think first that a change of president would make life more difficult for you or do you think it is having repercussions, and joe biden is currently looking more likely to win than trump, but who knows.
we’re working with both republicans and democrats in the united states to make sure there is bipartisan support for a trade deal.
i was just going to say i thought that was a very good answer.
thank you very much and have a safe journey home is all i can say.
by the way, i can recommend the restaurant.
right.
lord robathan, in a taxi, returning from a restaurant, a good one, apparently.
byjuly, almost six months after the first confirmed case in the , the prime minister spoke briefly about a return to normality by christmas.
the scientists were sceptical.
things will not be done by christmas.
this infection is not going away.
it’ now a human endemic infection and even actually if we have a vaccine or very good treatments, humanity will still be living with this virus for very many years to come.
the key objective remains to develop a vaccine.
initial trials were encouraging, up to a point.
are we going to have a vaccine for christmas?
well, i’ an optimist in life, katherine, and on the best case scenario, the answer is yes and myjob is not to second—guess whether we will not and vaccines are an uncertain science and we need to be cautious and we need to be careful.
we are working very hard on this but i can’, romise to play centre.
matt hancock’ natural optimism struggling to overcome the reality of the calendar.
this was a crisis that began with ministers and their advisers confident the risks to the was low but, six months later, saw borisjohnson admit his government hadn’ really understood the virus in its early days.
the prime minister now says there are very open questions about whether lives could have been saved by entering lockdown sooner.
with the death toll approaching 50,000, the families of those who’ve died from coronavirus will be looking for answers in the independent inquiry that will follow.
hello there.
the heat and humidity ebbed away during the course of saturday and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
but again, as we know, on friday, with just of 38 celsius, we had our third hottest day on record.
just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten degrees down on that on saturday.
so, it felt a little cooler, but it most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable for sleeping, and we’ll keep that fresher feel around for the day ahead.
but there will be scattered showers around.
we’re under the atlantic influence again.
low pressure to the north, throwing in this weather front, which has given some fairly heavy rain across the northern half of the country through the night.
still around, i think, first thing, but look at those temperatures.
a much cooler start to the day for many.
and what we have in the north, that cloud and rain, will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that moisture, that will be the spark, if you like, for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
now, we’re not expecting that many showers across the southern half of england, across wales and the midlands and east anglia, but they can’ be ruled out.
and temperatures will be a few degrees down on saturdayjust because it will be a cooler start to the day.
still a fairly fresh breeze through the channel.
after fairly few showers in the morning across northern ireland, they will tend to become more frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones further north as well — but equally, some spells of sunshine in between.
and, of course, it’ the british grand prix race day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
there’ just that small chance of a shower — just a small chance.
and through the evening and overnight, those showers will tend to ease away.
as you can see, just the risk still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
but another fairly fresh night for most parts.
as we go, then, into monday, we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in, but it is only slight.
i still think there will be the odd shower around.
and already looming large in the atlantic, the next low—pressure system.
so, if we do see some of that rain, it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
then we may well have some slow—moving, sharp showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
however, as we go into tuesday, we’ve got the atlantic low potentially coming in, bringing us some more significant and persistent, quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
it will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
that’ certainly one to watch.
as ever, you can find out more information from our website.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast, with nina warhurst and chris mason.
our headlines today: a former conservative minister and current is arrested on suspicion of rape, sexual assault and coercive control.
classified documents released by the british military raise new questions about whether special forces killed unarmed civilians while deployed in afghanistan.
two american astronauts on—board the first manned commercialﬂight into space head home from the international space station.
aubameyang works his wembley magic, scoring twice, and lifting the cup for arsenal, as they beat chelsea in an empty stadium, to win it for the 14th time.
it is another day of sunshine and showers.
when the show was come ugh, some avy and thundery in through, some heavy and thundery in the north—west, it will feel cooler esterday.
it’ sunday 2nd august.
our top story: a conservative and former minister has been arrested on suspicion of rape.
he has now been released on bail.
according to the sunday times, the allegations were made by a former parliamentary employee, who has accused him of rape, sexual assault and coercive control.
our political correspondent tony bonsignore is in westminsterfor us.
morning, tony, what can you tell us?
good morning.
the allegations made against a current and former ster according to the sunday imes were made by a former rliamentary employee.
the paper 575 ays she eges the assaulted her, forced her to have sex and left traumatised she had to go to hospital and she has accused him of sexual assault and coercive rape, sexual assault and coercive behaviour.
on friday 31st of july lice eceived allegations relating our separate incidents involving egations of sexual offences and sault, allegedly occurring in westminster, hackney and lambert.
a man in his 50 was arrested on rday the first of august on spicion of rape and has been eased on bail to return in mid gust.
the tory party chief web portedly had been aware of egations and had spoken to the ctim.
sources say spencer had known if the magnitude of the lagations.
took allegations of harassment and abuse extremely ously and advise anyone who pproached him to contact propriate authorities.
the servative party say they take all llegations of this nature extremely usly.
classified documents from within the british military raise fresh concerns about whether british special forces may have killed unarmed civilians when they were fighting in helmand in afghanistan in 2011.
the material was disclosed as part of a court case, following a panorama investigation which highlighted allegations that the deliberately targeted fighting—aged men, even when they didn’ pose a threat.
the ministry of defence has denied such a policy existed.
our defence correspondent jonathan beale reports.
this is how elite troops target the taliban.
controversial night rate he aim to kill or capture with the aim to kill or rapture enemy fighters.
this shows afghan nders on a mission with commanders on a mission with american support.
but it was the tactics used by british special rces during eir time in helmand.
last year, panorama heard gations of the had killed armed civilians.
with testimony urvivors in a raid in 2011, hey said the british shot family bers when they posed no threat.
: they tied his hands in of me.
if you tight someone’ hands can they fight?
lawyers presenting of the afghan representing one of the afghan families are now challenging the istry of ence here at the high court, trying to find out whether was a proper investigation or they might’ve been a whether they might’ve been a cover-up.
forcing the enemy is to ase highly nsitive documents release highly sensitive documents which show they were serious erns about the raid within ritish military.