this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
we’ll start with the most elderly, and with people in care homes, and of course their carers, to make sure that others don’t catch it.
the expects to have millions of doses of the pfizer vaccine against covid—19 available by the end of the year, and the first 800,000 coming next week.
england’s tier system has made a comeback but with toughened measures.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
"our planet is broken".
that’s the warning coming from the secretary general of the united nations.
in a special broadcast, antonio guterres will talk about tackling global warming, which is now a central objective of the .
m: we are going straight to an event at downing street for more details on developments we have heard his morning.
can i introduce the olleagues with me this morning.
on my left is the professor of medicine erpool university and chair of the ’s, the government’s advisory on my right, a professor of espiratory university at the ersity of nottinghamshire.
chair a group that has been preparing ice on covid—19 vaccines.
this iefing has called briefing has been called to announce that the medicines and health care ducts ulatory agency products regulatory agency recommended to the government on sis of the advice on the the basis of the advice on the commission of human medicine is that uld have agreed to the pproval for use of the covid—19 cine eveloped by pfizer vaccine developed by pfizer biontech, together with the itions for its supply and use.
the ’s recommendation has been following an extremely thorough and scientifically rigorous of all the evidence, of review of all the evidence, of safety, of effectiveness and of the of the pfizer quality of the pfizer biontech vaccine.
the government has now ted this advice and has made the decision to approve the vaccine for use with some conditions.
in adults age 16 and over.
the safety public will always come rst.
i emphasise again that this commendation has only been given the following the most gorous scientific assessment of ery piece of data so that it meets required strict standards of ety, of effectiveness and of lity.
we have two or three slides is morning to help our discussion moving.
in the first one, you see hat unlike the usual pattern of inical trials, which done one after the other, the velopment of this vaccine has been ted so that the trials are adapted so that the trials are overlapping and the next one can art ore a particular phase has start before a particular phase has finished.
and in this way we have able to progress development in shortest time possible.
on the next side you ran see how the has worked, and i would like to tell ittle more about this just ow.
it has been done using a process known as a rolling review, a rolling ran can be used to complete the review can be used to complete the assessment of a promising medicine cine in a situation where time is of the essence.
in the shortest possible.
but, and this is a important point indeed, that esn’t mean that any corners have cut, none at all.
so, looking the top downwards, the expert rking group started in the middle the year to look at how safety rveillance would be in place to us the highest possible level assurance of the safety of the vid—19 vaccine.
that preparation lanning as been done with eticulous care.
similarly, our ational itute for biological national institute for biological standards and control had been ing independently on testing batch by batch the quality of the ine.
then in october the vaccine.
then in october the preclinical analysis data became able, the third bar down, available, the third bar down, followed by the interim analysis on of november.
the quality the 10th of november.
the quality analysis came very shortly after , and most recently the batch sting has begun with the final lysis at the very end of the cess.
so it’s very clear that parate teams have been working in rallel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine.
no corners have been cut.
our expert ntists and clinicians have orked around the clock, carefully thodically poring over tables and analyses and graphs on every piece of data.
hundreds, over 1000 pages of data, and absolutely cally analysing the preclinical vidence, the clinical trials, the facturing and quality controls, and then down to the final sampling.
also reviewed and agreed to we have also reviewed and agreed to the prescribing information so : and health care professionals public and health rare professionals are very dear and can be very confident the vaccine is being sed in the correct way, derstanding what’s involved.
and forward from today, our national institute for biological ards and control will be standards and control will be independently laboratory testing so single vaccine that goes out every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high standards of and quality.
and we have nefited from a further safety too, following our thorough iew of the data at the we sought the advice of the rnment’s independent body, the commission on human medicines.
i would now like to turn to the essor to explain the pivotal art its independent members have yed in critically assessing every of evidence.
thank you very much.
i chaired the ’s expert working group.
first of ould like to thank the all i would like to thank the members of that expert working group rked with me tirelessly, with who worked with me tirelassly, with over 40 hours of face to face on at at least, committee work and tra reading time.
we made ccommodations to the commission of dicines which undertook an independent review, and the ission on human medicines is chaired by stuart wollaston.
we had variety of experts in both - a wide variety of experts in both groups, in colluding experts in diseases, epidemiologists, linical pharmacologists and various in medicines.
we looked at all sorts of data available to us, uding the raw data, including the raw data, unprecedented access to raw data, is allowed us to look at the overall risk benefit analysis.
we look at risk benefit analysis for compound that comes through in erms of licensing and reuse the stringent standards to look at risk benefit of this particular ine.
we looked at laboratory ata, we looked at the manufacturing esses and quality data, as well the clinical trial data.
from we came to the conclusion that here was overwhelming benefit for articular vaccine and that its use should be authorised.
i just want to say a few things about ffectiveness of this vaccine.
he data show the vaccine is 95% ective.
it is effective in all roups that were given the vaccine hin the trial, irrespective of e, sex, race or country they lived .
we have also looked at the ety of this, the safety of the ccine is similar to other accines, and most of the side ects are very mild and usually for a day or so.
we have been careful to look at the quality he vaccine, particularly given he for storing the vaccine at tralow temperatures, and we had sits from colleagues to tell what the deployment strategies re and we were able to advise them ell on the stability issues that may be important for deployment.
it is important to note that what we got is data relating to the cine up to this point.
it is important we undertake surveillance wing the use of vaccines in the opulation and we were very keen to ommend that the undertakes tive surveillance of the vaccine it is used.
and this includes use of yellow cards, as well as pecial active monitoring ramme which we will be inviting opla to join.
he ommittee also people to join.
the committee also considered that no specific autions were required on inistration of this vaccine in opla who have already had covid—19 testing is required before eceiving the vaccine.
now i will to our other professor to tell us about the work of the joint ittee on vaccination and immunisation.
thank you.
the committee on vaccination and nisation is an independent scientific advisory body.
we advise cretary of state on the provision of vaccination and nisation services.
as a immunisation services.
as a committee we have been meeting larty over the last few months.
have done that to appraise new emerging scientific evidence to our role.
on this slide you will see the types of ormation we have been assessing.
include data on vaccine safety efficacy, but also how covid—19 pacted he .
this includes has impacted the .
this includes the impacts of covid—19 in care es, on ople from different homes, on people from different ethnic groups, as well as people in rent occupations.
the data come from primary care, from public gland, and from hospitals.
health england, and from hospitals.
we have also looked at mathematical that have helped us to models that have helped us to understand how different vaccine egies might be used.
the is strategies might be used.
the is fortunate in that we have one of the mmunisation programmes in the orld.
every year, through the ant, childhood and adult vaccination programmes, millions of protected from serious us are protected from serious disease.
all of that expert rmation also informs the i’s information also informs the jcbi’s expert decision—making.
through the phase of he pandemic and the first phase of the pandemic and the vaccination programme, we are esting that vaccines are offered in order to protect people who are at of dying from covid—19, as well as protect health and cial care services, because by oing so we protect lives.
the advice has been divided into two parts.
the first to offer main parts.
the first to offer vaccination according to the mated risk of dying from covid—19.
the risk of dying from d-19 very strongly associated with age.
age by far the single important factor in terms of from covid—19.
the second and to he advice is regarding implementation of the vaccination amme.
we advise that due programme.
we advise that due attention is paid locally to mitigating health inequalities.
i will say more about that in a nt.
on the next slide we will see the prioritisation order in of the offer of vaccination.
sidents in care homes for older dults care home workers are the highest orities.
following that re those aged 80 or above, ngside front line health care and ial are workers.
then come those 75 years of age bove, followed by those 70 years of age and above, gside people who are clinically remely vulnerable because specific health conditions.
they are wed by people who are aged 65 followed by people who are aged 65 years and above, and then ividuals who are aged 16—64 with rtying health conditions that also put them at risk from covid—19 ere those conditions are but where those conditions are not already represented in those itions putting someone at xtreme risk.
the prioritisation then continues down the age groups until all those aged 50 and are included.
this is the hase one of the programme.
in phase hope that 90 — 99% of one we hope that 90 - 9996 of people at risk of dying rom covid—19 will ncluded or covered.
the next of the advice relates to implementation of the programme.
we advise that local providers, ral public teams and oral public health teams and oral leaders work together to address community needs and oral needs.
we suggest that community teams work her to mitigate against health inequalities that might occur in tion to ethnicity, deprivation access to health care.
we also gnise there may be operational asons the prioritisation needs more flexible and this may to be more ﬂaxible and this may relate to vaccine characteristics or upply, or exceptional vaccine supply, or exceptional personal circumstances.
overall we ood news today.
we have a vaccine that is acceptably safe and tive and good vaccine uptake.
ave lives.
thank you.
m: we can now turn to questions from the media.
our first question comes ergus alsh of the .
thank you very much.
can you reassure he public that they can solute confidence in this ccine given how quickly you have proved it, and can you sum up for the reasoning ind your list of me the reasoning behind your list of priorities about who gets the ine first?
a really important point relates to the thorough work, tifically rigorous and scientifically rigorous and methodologically sound work the ency has .
the way of working agency has done.
the way of working on a rolling review ensures our of clinicians and scientists re working in parallel to complete work according to strict uidelines on safety, effectiveness uality is complete.
this and quality is complate.
this vaccine has only been approved use those strict tests have been one and complied with.
and everyone absolutely confident that no rners whatsoever have been cut.
haps if i could think of an analogy, if you are climbing a tain, you prepare and prepare.
started out in e.
by the time the interim results became available ember ten, we were at base on november ten, we were at base ramp.
when we got the final analysis ready for the last sprint we were ready for the last sprint that takes us to today and that is xemplary nature of the work that has been done, and the public rve nothing less.
i will hand over to the professor now.
in relation to the offer of cination, prioritisation was ased on the risk of dying from id—19 and in order to protect the ulnerable we have prioritise he most vulnerable individuals t.
the other element is protection of the , the health ocial care system, because by protecting the we also protect ives.
we now turn to victoria onald from channel 4.
good morning.
thank you.
can you explain me the a has been able to for me the has been able to authorise this vaccine so much than the european medic faster than the european medic -- european medicines agency and the drugs administration?
and food and administration?
and secondly, how long is the lag, or is a lag, secondly, how long is the leg, or is there a lag, between being given a ine and for it to become ffective?
i will take the first question.
the way in which the has worked is equivalent to all rnational standards.
we are well re of our national situation and efore we have mounted teams, built capability and worked in llel.
i want to thank colleagues who have worked day and night, ends, to enable us to come to this position.
the public can be olutely fident that the absolutely confident that the standards we have worked to our valent to those around the orld.
the vaccine requires two 21 days apart.
from the data at has been presented to us, ple will be immune seven days ter the second dose.
partial unity occurs after the first dose we can see some protection and we ran see some protection occurring after day 12 after the dose but full immunity is even days after the second dose.
will of course be longer term ollow-up to ovide further reassurance from the robust data we have.
our next question omes from emily morgan of .
good ing.
hello.
my first question is you, doctor raine.
this is historic ent and you have an historic moment and you have approved the vaccine in record time.
ered how much of a momentous moment this is for you and indeed cience.
and a question for for science.
and a question for professor lim on the priority list, confirm care home residents ran you confirm rare home residents will indeed be the first to receive ccine, given how unstable it and tricky to move to care homes rare and rare home residents, or will staff he he first to receive it?
i will take the first question.
the on we are here today is the brilliance of science and also the ism of all those people who altruism of all those peopla who have enlisted in clinical trials to the tremendously robust data give us the tremendously robust data we have today.
thirdly it is due to gility, commitment and extremely high scientific standards the staff at the who of all the staff at the who have worked on this, and the ilage of having an expert privilage of having an expert advisory outreach, our commission on residents do expect medicines.
it is a combination of all of these that the is able to bring gether and always look to the b“: lic for whom this is or.
professor lim.
thank you.
the advice is imed at maximising efit from vaccines.
and therefore aimed at the most vulnerable eople, which are people in care homes.
her or not the vaccine itself ran be delivered to care is obviously an important int and there will be some exibility erms of operational flexibility in terms of operational constraints.
thejcvi advice is that effort hould be made to every effort should be made to sunplv vaccines and offer accinations to care home residents ther not that is actually whether or not that is actually doable is dependent on deployment plementation.
iwonder and implementation.
i wonder if sir munir would like to add, because the clearly the responsibility of relates to the standards of science, also look at it in the
but we also look at it in the context of the real world, which is what professor lim has described.
we looked at the stability of the ine.
as you said, it is stored at -70 degrees we were able to ok at tability data, and at data is showing it is stable for a period of time, at 2—8, allows it to transported to the relevant vaccination sites.
we ran now turn to next from gordon rayner daily telegraph.
thank you.
of the daily telagraph.
thank you.
“an i ask, ave you identified when, know know when the first vaccine ill be delivered, which day we can pect that?
you identified the first person who will get it, and if will you decide who that person will be.
will the highest levels might be given priority, he tier 3 areas with highest idence, and can i ask whether you also know onomic decisions have been factored in, that is to say, you get down the list of when you get down the list of priorities, will people who can’t home get the vaccine work from home get the vaccine before people who can work from e?
hese are helpful points that eryone wants to know, and i know colleagues in the department of alth and social care are working irelassly to sure that the first tirelessly to make sure that the first vaccine will be delivered as all the checks are soon as all the checks are completed.
i can speak for the onal institute for biological tandards and control who are ready mplete their checks on the to complete their checks on the first batch.
everything is being at when for seven to enable this important public health step to in place as soon as possible, a minute wasted.
—— looked at /7.
w.
if professor lim can talk more about your erspective.
as far as i understand, the is working hard iver the vaccines as soon as possible, but that is not within the of the to pose any time remit of the jcvi to impose any time limits on vaccine delivery.
bear in that many thousands have lready had a vaccine as part of ical trials, so there is a clinical trials, so there is a continuum here, and our knowledge of benefits increases over time.
so perhaps it will seem to be a toric moment when the first erson after the approval of supply heir vaccine, but, munir, has their vaccine, but, sir munir, we see this very much as an ongoing ess.
absolutely.
it is very much ongoing process with regard this ine and future vaccines coming through in order to make sure vant people in the list are given the ccine in the priority der that was shown.
this is a good for me to stress that we will be inviting members of the public to in an active monitoring join us in an active monitoring programme and many will get a
er, it will be by random location, inviting them to join s.
so please help us to continue uild that body of knowledge to build that body of knowladge about about this important vaccine.
“an i just ask on the oint about whether hest risk tiers will be the ones get it first.
professor lim?
that intention of the is the intention of the prioritisation order, that the most rable people are offered vulnerable people are offered vaccination first.
in tier 3?
do you egional tiers?
o.
our mean regional tiers?
ido.
our prioritisation order is not ndent on which tier somebody is in.
it is a national prioritisation .
thank you, that is very order.
thank you, that is very dear.
turning to the next question, woodcock from the independent.
uple of things.
we appear to be etting authorisation for this cine ahead of our friends in urope.
i was wondering, does the that the is no longer part the , did that make any fference to the speed at which you re able to complete your authorisation?
secondly, as i understand it, the vaccine that you uthorised, we have not ordered ufficient quantities to cover the a population.
i was wondering, we ave enough of this vaccine to through all the priority groups earlier on, or would we listed eartier on, or would we dependent on waiting for further ines to be authorised in order to get to the position where the country can be safe from this whola country ran be safe from this disease?
we have been able to orise the supply of this vaccine provisions under european law exist until the ist of january.
speed and progress has totally ependent on the been totally dependent on the availability of data in our rolling and the rigorous assessment and advice we have received.
so i hope that clarifies the point about ropean relationship.
we can the european relationship.
we ran turn to professor lim around lability, is there anything you would like to add on this?
very good ion vaccine supply and question vaccine supply and availability.
the whole reason a rity listing equired is priority listing is required is because we expect during a pandemic accine supply will be limited that vaccine supply will be limited in the first instance and so ines should be offered in the irst instance to the most lnerable and then moving down the iority list.
we will need as many ccines as we can get, not in just in the but ly.
this includes the but locally.
this includes more than one vaccine type in order all the people who are at isk from vid—19.
this is the art of a rogramme and not the end he programme.
and we are absolutely in liaison with eagues in the department of health and social care in terms of the idence we have two enable all the evidence we have two enable them to do their job to make sure lability is assured.
we can turn availability is assured.
we ran turn to the next question which comes the scottish sun.
what would simple ssage the to those who re suspicious of the vaccine, given we have seen on what we have seen on anti—vaccination feeling on social .
and can you summarise which vaccines, and are the expected imescales for approval on those ines?
the public can be vaccines?
the public can be absolutely confident that every rous cheque has been done to each the udgment that reached, that the benefits far outweigh any that the safety of the vaccine risk, that the safety of the vaccine has been scrutinised independently commission on human medicines and no stone has been left unturned, olute confidence on the so absolute confidence on the safety, effectiveness and quality of the pfizer biontech vaccine.
in terms of further products, vaccines vid—19 that are coming for covid-19 that are coming through, there are two, you will be , for which we have further olling review is ongoing, and those conducted to the absolute will be conducted to the absolute scientific standards that the public expect.
sir munir,
do you anything to add?
no thank you.
do you have any indication on the scales therefore the other ccine approvals?
it wouldn’t be ssibla to redict today, simply hat hat this rigorous process has ted in the way i have described, every package or parcel of data is available being scrutinised my guess is, sir munir, your ert group will be working probably over christmas to make sure plete our work in the shortest possible time.
thank you.
let’s turn olson from business insider.
the health secretary has said rolling out the vaccine will be lenging because it needs to be stored at certain temperatures.
do you foresee potential challenges in ing the pfizer vaccine to offering the pfizer vaccine to vulnerable groups who might not be travel to a vaccination entre, or whose surgery might have the cold storage facilities essary to store the vaccine?
yes, eed.
i think every vaccine that omes through will probably have its haracteristics in terms of own characteristis in terms of storage, , transport and iverability.
so the pfizer ccine in particular has a strong quirement for very cold storage.
here are stability issues otentially that constrain how a cine can be supplied to different eople.
let’s orget that a mass people.
let’s not forget that a mass vaccination programme, as will be cted very soon, is an conducted very soon, is an unprecedented thing, it will be the vaccination programme in the for decades.
so there will be all nner of operational flexibility is ill be required during the eployment of the vaccine.
it has tainly been very close scrutiny onducted by the expert working up in terms of the question you asked, tom.
munir, would you to highlight the aspects you been poring over?
sure.
as part the assessment of the vaccine, we at the quality, which includes the stability.
it does need to be at low temperature, —70 grees, at east.
but we know that it is taken out, it can be stable, een 2—8 c, to allow for deployment in vaccination site.
that information is being shared the relevant agencies, the , ub“: health bodies.
50 they can public health bodies.
so they ran actually sort out deployment models sure the stability of the vaccine is maintained.
it is ically important, thank you for sing this key issue.
our next estion comes from jasmine ralston, the ealth service urnal, from the health service journal, good morning.
good morning, thank he vaccine has been approved by the with conditions, what hey?
how should trusts decide ich front line staff have priority the vaccination, and how do you ssure staff concerned the accine might not be safe?
finally, staff he allowed to update of having the vaccination out penalty?
thank you, the irst question relates to the ditions, which has you can ran imagine, are strict and imagine, are very strict and rigorous.
mainly around the quality we can —— we have been areas we ran -- we have been exploring which need to be to the highest standards.
the second rea will be around the vigilance, monitoring of all the safety pects, particularly as vanessa acro 3 said because so many macro 3 has said because so many peopla will want to have this cine.
—— professor plim.
and we ill have control over the nformation provided to health care fessions to the public so that in having that very clear and precise information, everyone be confident the vaccine is ing to reach them in the best ssible way.
so those are the three in areas.
but the extent of the ntrols of the are very broad, with international guidance around good laboratory practice, linical practice and good manufacturing practice.
we will be ing very carefully that all watching very carefully that all those requirements and conditions mplied with.
public can be confident of that.
perhaps i can to ofessor lim for some of turn to professor lim for some of the aspects you have raised, and icularty staff will need to particularly as staff will need to have that confidence, too.
thank he jail has advised that there you.
the jail has advised that there are certain front line health care cial care workers who should and social rare workers who should be offered higher priority.
and are based around their own personal risk of having harm or re illness from covid—19.
severe illness from covid-19.
secondly, the amount of exposure have two people who have covid—19 infection themselves.
and ly, the mount of interaction thirdly, the amount of interaction they have with different people who lnerable and might acquire covid—19.
so we have set out some ciplas on to prioritise principles on how to prioritise different health care workers and ose when deployment of the vaccine is indicated.
in terms of her it should be voluntary or compulsory, at the moment, there is gestion that the vaccination should be compulsory, it is also an of vaccination and whether somebody wants to have a vaccine or hether they are in the or is at the moment luntary hing.
but the is not a olicy—making body, policy is made nisters.
he clear and helpful information that will be provided nable the conversations to go on on an dividual level so that yone who has any questions can hem clearly and thoroughly answered.
munir, please do.
maybel ran add something about safety.
the has has had about 40,000 trial has had about 40,000 individuals and half of those ived the vaccine and half received the placebo.
from the data as been provided, most of the erse effects were mild and short asting, usually lasting for a day wo, imilar the kind of or two, similar to the kind of effects you get after any other ine.
so that is really vaccine.
so that is really important, we have not identified rious adverse reactions any serious adverse reactions throughout the trial programme.
but mportant to continually it is important to continually monitor the safety of this and the has a very proactive vigilance trategy to be able to monitor the ety and permit monks that is a ellow card system which anybody can ort on, cluding members of the report on, including members of the pub“: -- and prominent amongst at.
but lso the active recall ystem the is going to launch, hich will ask members to be able to and look at what is happening the vaccine and whether they are developing any side effects.
it is all well prepared and we are ready to roll into action now.
i think that completes all our stions, ank you to all the questions, thank you to all the journalists who have joined this ing.
i will ask my colleagues if you have any final remarks.
essor lim?
yes, i would like to hank everybody who has been lved in helping the i come to involved in helping the jail come to its advice.
i would like to stress so far advised how the vaccine might be used in the first of the programme.
we haven’t decided how the vaccine may be in subsequent phases of the ogramme and we will be monitoring the new emerging data, including a coming out from phase one of programme, in order to make our rther decisions.
thank you, that ally helpful.
munir, any concluding remarks?
thank you.
i think that we are in the midst of a once in a century pandemic
and i think this is a historic moment, the one step closer to is now one step closer to providing a safe and effective ine to help in the fight against ovid—19.
a virus that has affected and every of us in some way.
and this will help to save s.
thank you.
i would simply to conclude by reiterating that vaccine, produced and developed fizer/biontech, meets rigorous standards of safety, effectiveness and of quality.
the c’s safety has always been at public’s safety has always been at the forefront of our minds.
safety watchword.
it will always is our watchword.
it will always continue to be so.
thank you, we can nclude this briefing.
that was une raine, hief executive of the medicines regulator, the body has given approval for this which has given approval for this pfizer/biontech vaccine, pretty much that science briefing as she ending that science briefing as she started it come up with a focus on afety, saying public safety has bsolutely always been a top rity.
she said that no corners ad been cut.
a lot of information hat briefing.
our health correspondent naomi grimley is here.
on that point about safety, three experts very much pains to point out checks have been done, or the processes that they needed to go to bring this vaccine to arket have been gone through.
t’s right, i think that is it such a sober press conference ause they are trying to stress that they did not cut corners.
in fact, they went to great pains to that they had been doing a of this regulatory approval in rtapping tages and that explains it was done so quickly, head of other international regulator.
heard that this vaccine will give immunity from coronavirus, days the second dose, seven days after the second dose, there are 21 days between the two s, partial immunity after the irst dose and full immunity seven after the second dose.
and we aw, which i think is worth looking a list of the priority for peopla getting that vaccine in its phase.
that’s right, this is ally important because at number of the priority list is care ome esidents and care home workers.
we have been hearing in he last few days about some of the blems of getting the pfizer ccine out to them because it has be held at these very low mperatures, freezing temperatures 0 degrees data.
they still of -70 degrees 70 data.
they still suggest they are the priority.
—— 70 -- -70 elsius centigrade.
degrees -- -70 celsius centigrade.
once it has been taken out of the zer, it ran put in a fridge, and-held at the temperatures of c, that an only happen for 2-8 c, that ran only happen for about five days, but that does give of opportunity to give it to rare homes.
the big caveat if you as they did mentioned there would be operational constraints and the most likely people we will first of all are in ospitals.
very interesting detail.
this is the follow—up to see how eople are coping with it.
at’s right, that is absolutely because this is a novel pandemic need to keep monitoring those peopla who have the vaccine.
of course, a big part of what they were to do today was stressing that people need to buy into this, need to be able to trust it.
omising us they will keep looking those who have had it, checking any after effects is key.
also, ery important to think that they ted to stress i think today was hat they want to prioritise your of dying when they are looking how to roll it out.
so i think rhaps most interesting of all was talked about paying you ttention to health inequalities.
are things like your access to rare, whether you are in a eprived community, and so they have gascony they want to stick to and they were folded in other of society to make sure those most at risk get it first.
do we think based on that, some people don’t ictly fall into that who don’t strictly fall into that category, an obvious one would be dren under 16 for example who ave very serious health conditions, they get the vaccine early?
children is a bit more problematic the structure was looking at because the was looking at those over the age of 16.
but when mes to ethnic minorities, we now they are at higher risk of ease.
morbidity.
severe illness.
clear they will factor that n.
i have also been leading the uments they produced alongside his.
they are going to pay tention, once they have done the 50 group, they will pay ttention to occupations.
this is like, remember in london, we terrible deaths amongst london drivers, it is things like that.
so
teachers, because teachers are into schools, they are exposed to several people every day.
so as as healthcare workers, they are well as healthrare workers, they are going to be looking at professions, ery interesting, thank you very much for that.
england has returned to a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions, after the national lockdown ended at midnight.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers — where mixing with other households indoors is banned.
the measures were voted in yesterday, despite since coming into office.
from today, more than 23 million people are now in the highest tier, tier 3.
there’s no socialising indoors or in private gardens.
pubs and restaurants can only do takeaways.
more than 32 million find themselves in tier 2.
again, no mixing indoors, but up to six people can meet outdoors.
and you can go to restaurants or pubs that serve substantial meals with people you live with.
tier1 has the lightest restrictions, but fewer than three quarters of a million people are in this tier, where up to six people from different households can socialise indoors and outdoors.
our first report from our political correspondent, jonathan blake.
with the end of a national lockdown in england comes a new three—tier system of restrictions to get used to.
from this morning, 99% of the population is under the higher two levels of controls for at least the next two weeks.
here’s how the new system of restrictions will work.
shops, and hairdressers will be allowed to reopen across the country.
in tier 1, the lowest level of restrictions, groups of up to six people will be able to meet indoors or outdoors.
pubs and restaurants can reopen, with last orders at ten o’clock and closing at 11pm.
in tier 2, groups of up to six people will still be able to meet outdoors, but not indoors, unless in a support bubble.
pubs can only reopen if they are operating as a restaurant, and alcohol can only be served with a substantial meal.
and in the highest level of restrictions, pubs and restaurants will be forced to provide takeaway only, and there will be no mixing of households, except up to six people in public outdoor spaces like parks.
so, the eyes have it, the eyes have it.
last night, approved the plans, but not without a struggle.
55 conservatives voted against the government — the biggest backbench rebellion of borisjohnson’s time as prime minister.
it’s passed with a majority of well over 200, it’s a very important set of regulations to help the bridge into the spring, where we hope a vaccine will move us into a whole different place.
and the reason that these regulations mattered is it allows us to move to a tiered approach which, backed up by mass community testing, will help us keep control of the virus and avoid another lockdown.
while the new tiers are stricter in some ways, there’s plenty you can now do wherever you live in england that might make it feel like a return to something like life as normal.
in another major change, people will be able to visit relatives in care homes.
new guidance states that contact will be allowed in all three tiers if those visiting have tested negative for the virus.
questions continue about the impact of restrictions, though.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has challenged the government to publish more details of the economic impact of control measures as many businesses face uncertain weeks and months ahead.
jonathan blake, news.
three well—known hong kong activists have been jailed for their involvement in mass pro—democracy protests last year.
the trio had been found guilty of unlawful assembly.
joshua wong will serve more than 13 months in prison, agnes chow ten, months and ivan lam seven months.
the charges were lodged before china imposed its tough national security law in the territory — under which, they could have been jailed for life.
since then, the pro—democracy movement has been stifled.
a message onjoshua wong’s twitter, posted shortly after the verdict, reads: "the tenacity of hong kongers continues to give us strength in our sufferings.
please, take your positions, give support to each other".
‘0ur planet is broken’ and ‘humanity is waging a ‘suicidal war’ on the natural world’ — those are words from the secretary general of the united nations, antonio guterres, who is expected to deliver a speech later at a special event on the environment.
the speech, entitled the ‘state of the planet’, will send a stark warning to world leaders, as guterres says he wants to put climate change back at the heart of the ’s global mission.
let’s discuss this now with sophie gill, an oceanographer, who studies the physical, chemical and biological features of the ocean.
thank you very much for joining us, sophie.
guterres paints a pretty apocalyptic picture, doesn’t he?
is this the sort of call that is ed?
because the big 26 event that we were expecting to take place end of this year in glasgow, ringing together people from eady -- over the world to about to deal with the imate crisis, that has had to be stponed, so do we need this call someone like guterres right ow?
yes, definitely.
we are facing threats from climate change the warming of our planet uding rising sea levels.
we have een climate refugees over the last ’s in low—lying island nations ave lost their homes, we are eeing an increase in extreme ther events like wildfires and oding.
yes, it is incredibly portant diskettes global coverage think one of the main things hat will hopefully come out of the of this speech and cop26 next impact of this speech and 20st next year will be hopefully we can work ards nified global agreement on how to reach a net zero and ease the concentrations of eenhouse gases in our atmosphere, will then help us to reduce levels of warming we are seeing.
of the most eye—catching things talking bout is putting the cus on tax, taking it away from come and putting it on the roduction of carbon.
something like really going to make a that really going to make a difference, is that what it is going e?
my expertise isn’t really in economics, but i can definitely that creasing subsidies on fossil fuels will help to entivise companies to rely less on ose fuels which will reduce our liance on greenhouse gases as a rce of fuel.
and there are other 5 we ran remove carbon dioxide the atmosphere to help us reach ternational climate targets.
the degrees or 2 degrees rise in mperature set out by the paris eement in 2015, we need to both uce our current and future emissions and also start to actively carbon dioxide that we have already put in the atmosphere stop ere are several ways we can do that today.
we can use responsible estation efforts to start to help more trees, to take more c02 the atmosphere, we can help out of the atmosphere, we ran help to increase the quite large sinks of turally in the ocean for c02 naturally in the ocean for example.
mangrove habitats are ons on coasts.
there is also the ope of negative emissions nologies, so numerous different strategies have been proposed which increase the amount of c02 storage artificially in the ocean or d.
but the research into many these negative emissions hnologies is actually in its nfancy and one of the pages we have ecently is they rely quite avily on these negative emissions nologies becoming a reality is —— a reality.
i suppose i’m getting really rovoking a response and challenging people to change eir dset.
clearly, that is what their mindset.
clearty, that is what it will take a change in approach change in the way think about he world and how systems operate.
efinitely.
there is going to need to be a drastic overhaul if we to keep within the paris limate agreement and other goals.
yes, absolutely.
we need to ressure on governments to really stick to these pages they are g.
at the moment, their pledge is not action.
i think one of the of the speech from guterres is to emphasise that it is really that these countries have come said, for example, china aid they will reach net zero by 0 very recently.
with the election of biden, he is pro-global mate and he said the would rejoin the climate reement and reach net zero by 0.
it is really important we tick to those pages and take action than just saying that we will it.
sophie, thank you very much, phie jill, and eanographer.
the attorney general says his department has not found any proof to back up president trump’s claims of widespread voter fraud in the presidential election.
trump and his campaign filed lawsuits in states that he lost, as they begin certifying joe biden as the winner.
here’s our north america correspondent peter bowes.
a political friendship that could be wearing thin.
we do not allow judgments to be reached.
william barr has been a staunch ally of donald trump, which is his views as the country’s top law enforcement officer carry special weight.
now he says, working with agents, they’ve uncovered no evidence that would change the outcome of the election.
and he added as news emerged of the attorney general’s comments, it appears president trump was engrossed in his twitter account, live—tweeting a hearing in michigan in which his personal lawyer, rudy giuliani, was submitting further unsubstantiated claims about the election.
with the president still apparently obsessing over and denying the election result, joe biden is getting on with building his team for government.
good afternoon, everyone.
the president—elect says his top priority will be dealing with the coronavirus, and jump—starting the economy.
we’re going to create jobs, raise incomes, reduce drug prices, advance racial equity across the economy, and restore the backbone of this country — the middle class.
our message to everybody struggling right now is this — help is on the way.
right now, the has soaring numbers of new cases.
new yorkers returned home from the thanksgiving holiday, only to queue for hours, as they waited to be tested for the virus.
everyone’s hoping the vaccine will be available soon.
it could be in the next two weeks.
peter bowes, news, los angeles.
china has successfully landed a probe on the moon, in an ambitious attempt to bring back the first lunar samples in four decades.
the mission’s goal is to collect lunar rocks and soil to reveal more about the moon’s origins, formation and volcanic activity.
you’re watching news.
looking ahead to our coverage throughout the day — the prime minister will lead a coronavirus briefing from downing street later, it will cover today’s vaccine announcement and the three tiers of restrictions in england.
we will bring you that live in a special programme from 4:30 here on the news channel and 1.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with carol.
hello again.
today’s weather will be fairly quiet, but turning colder from the north and the west.
over the next few days and nights, the cold air moves across the .
it will be accompanied by rain for some of us and also snow for others.
the snow mostly on the hills, but in some heavier bursts, we could see that even at lower levels.
this morning’s early brightness eradicated by this band of cloud and rain sinking southwards and eastwards.
sunshine and showers behind it, blustery showers driven in in a brisk wind, the strongest winds across the far west of scotland.
with the colder air, increasingly through the day, the snow level on the hills of scotland comes down to about 300 metres.
look at the temperature in stornoway, only three degrees.
this evening and overnight, we say goodbye to this band of cloud and rain, there will be some clear skies.
but further snow showers.
and by the end of the night, to the higher ground in scotland, we could have about ten centimetres of lying snow and, at lower levels, potentially two centimetres.
we have this cloud and rain piling in across england and wales.
the brecon beacons and the shropshire hills could also see snow.
watch out for ice first thing across the north.
and we have all this rain moving eastwards and across wales, brisk winds through the english channel.
fewer showers across western scotland and northern ireland today.
it could still be wintry and you could see a little of that at lower levels.
by the end of the afternoon, snow across the hills of north west walas and north west england.
overnight, we still do have this band of rain.
and on its western flank, it could deposit snow across the chilterns and the downs.
and you might see a dusting first thing.
at the same time, we have the rain and the snow across northern england, moving across parts of scotland.
some of this could also be at lower levels by the time you wake up first thing on friday morning.
during friday, we have this snow and rain to say goodbye to, as it drifts westwards.
a new band of rain coming in across the east.
on its leading edge, likely to see snow predominantly on the hills.
and in the north of the country, looking at brisk winds, so it will feel cold.
driest conditions in the south—west.
even so, here, it will also feel cold.
that cold theme continues during the weekend.
the driest day looks like being sunday.
this is news.
i’m joanna gosling.
the headlines at 11: and could be rolled out across the country next week.
the ’s recommendation has been reached following a thorough and ntific review of all the scientific review of all the evidence.
the expects to have millions of doses of the pfizer vaccine available by the end of the year — and the first 800,000 coming next week.
i’m just so pleased that 2020 has been just awful and 2021 is going to ter and help is on its way.
england’s tier system is back but with toughened measures.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
as the second lockdown comes to an end in england, all nonessential shops can reopen.
businesses are hoping for a flood of customers to provide a much needed boost in the run up to christmas.
"our planet is broken" — that’s the warning coming from the secretary general of the united nations.
in a special broadcast, antonio guterres will talk about tackling global warming, which is now a central objective of the .
good morning and welcome to news.
the has become the first country in the world to approve the pfizer/biontech coronavirus vaccine, with around 800,000 doses of the jab being made available as early as next week.
the medicines regulator says the vaccine — which offers up to 95% protection against coronavirus — is safe to be rolled out.
a0 million doses of the pfizer/biontech have been pre—ordered by the government.
the vaccine is currently not available in the the first supply of 800,000 vaccines will be sent from a pfizer laboratory in belgium.
this will be enough to immunise 20 million people with two shots of the vaccine, which will be given 21 days apart.
the health secretary says the first jabs will be prioritised to those most vulnerable to coronavirus, starting with care home residents and staff, followed by people aged over 80 and health care workers.
around 50 hospitals are on standby ready to receive the vaccine, with community vaccination centres being established in venues such as conference centres.
more details of when and where you might receive the vaccine will be given later this morning.
prime minister borisjohnson has taken to twitter and said protection from the vaccine would ultimately allow us to reclaim our lives and get the economy moving again.
speaking in the last hour, drjune raine, chief executive of the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency, said no corners had been cut in the development of the pfizer/biontech vaccine, and that it was now safe to be rolled out.
the recommendation has been reached following a scientific and thorough of all the evidence of review of all the evidence of safety, effectiveness and of quality pfizer/biontech vaccine.
the government has now accepted this and has made the decision to pprove the vaccine for use with conditions.
in adults aged 16 over.
the safety of the public always come first.
separate ams have been working in parallel iver the most rigorous review this vaccine.
no corners have cut.
our expert scientists and icians have worked round the ock, arefully, methodically ing over clock, carefully, methodically poring over tables and analyses and on every single piece of grafts on every single piece of data.
hundreds over 1,000 pages of absolutely critically data and absolutely critically analysing the preclinical evidence, inical trials, the manufacturing and quality controls down to the final sample.
and then down to the final sampla.
we have also reviewed and agreed the ribing information so that the pub“: and health care professionals very dear and can be very are very clear and ran be very confident that the vaccine is being the correct way, nderstanding what is involved.
and forward from today, our national institute for biological ards and control will be standards and control will be independently laboratory tested so very single vaccine that goes meets the same high standards of and quality.
the health secretary matt hancock said today’s landmark approval from the medicine’s regulator, the , would help save lives.
2020 has been such a terrible year, hasn’t it, and help is on its way.
and this news, for so long we’ve been saying that if a vaccine is developed then things will get better in 2021, and now we can say when this vaccine is rolled out, things will get better, and we will start that process next week.
i’m obviously absolutely thrilled with the news and very proud that the is the first place in the world to have a clinically authorised vaccine ready to go.
huge thanks to the scientists, to pfizer, the company.
obviously to my team and kate bingham, and alok sharma, the business secretary, who has done a huge amount of work on this.
what it means for people is that from next week we’ll be able to start rolling this out.
we’ll start with those who are most vulnerable to coronavirus, and you need two jabs, 21 days apart.
and after that we will start protecting people as the protection comes with these two jabs, and it will help save lives, and then, once we’ve started protecting the most vulnerable, it will help us all get back to normal and back to all the things that we love.
our health correspondent naomi grimley is here.
it has felt this morning like he was a cheerleader
and then we had the sober scientist with what was ctually a pretty gripping briefing.
hey were unapologetically yes, they were unapologetic-ally indulging in heir expert status and hat’s use so much now will rely that’s because so much now will rely on trust and as being prepared to this vaccine and that means at they really want to stress too that corners have not been cut in process.
in fact, it’s been pening simultaneously, happening multiple overlapping sections hat’s they have been able
do it so quickly.
they were ing the briefing about obviously are the first regulatory thority to approve it for use in i’m going to be talking to a erman who says he’s concerned has happened here quickly.
that it has happened here quickly.
what assurances did they cifically give about the ocess has been quicker in this untry versus the regulatory thorities in other countries?
because they are able to see real time the data that has been ming in from these pharmaceutical panies so they were able to st—track it, if you like.
also ere is a ight quirk of brexit here because the had this fleet oot way of carrying it of foot way of all carrying it without needing to go via the pean union —— confirming it.
here have een remarks from terdam saying they do think it have been a little too emature in the .
more on that ter.
the really big and teresting thing to come out of press conference was the fact hat they still think care home dents and carers should be the mber one to get it, whilst at the me time saying there might be some tional constraints that make hat difficult.
so just then, tells as said about how the process is going to work.
journalists are ously ascinated about who’s obviously fascinated about who’s going to be the first person to get hey tried to dampen down the terest in that but how will these be decided?
they want to ess they have come up with an visory pecking order
and i think ould probably see that now.
umber one is care home residents carers, you have those over and carers, then you have those over 80 and front line health care kers, you get down to number four, clinically extremely erable people.
those are the nes that had to shield during kdown.
and at number six, the 16 64-year-olds underlying to 64-year-olds with undertying health conditions, may be things diabetes that put you at serious risk of disease.
the thing that was really interesting to of this is that they are come out of this is that they are also saying they are going to pay ttention to things like deprivation, ethnicity and access to hcare.
also in their supporting document, talk about professions like if you are a her, you might be more at risk cause in your every day work you meeting more people.
so there is retion but will only learn about later.
here is discretion, es, and they want to make it clear is an advisory pecking order they also acknowledge that icymakers, health care groups are going to have those going to have to make those decisions for themselves depending happening in their areas.
thank you very much.
let’s talk priority groups.
we have been hearing, it’s expected that vaccine supply will be limited at first, so vaccines will be prioritised for the most vulnerable.
people in care homes and health care workers.
we can talk now to ruthe isden from age .
what are your thoughts as we entered a period where the expectation ally ran be put to one side cause actually can be put to one side because the reality delivers?
well, verybody, this is a tremendous announcement this morning.
it’s astic news.
we recognise that or all of the recent you’ve been cussing this morning, we are dismissing this morning, we are still going to have to be patient.
will take time to get to the ople it needs to get to so this ’t going to be an immediate ver bullet but the fact that we have a vaccine after such a rrible year for so many people and eir families to be really theirfamilies is going to be really welcome news and gives us much hope and optimism for 2021.
what has been done about oritising how it will actually ork?
covid tests will be sent to homes in the immediate period a way of reeing up people to actually visit loved ones in the rare homes.
also there will be a ited number of the vaccines and depends on how they get rolled .
what would you expect the ocess to be deciding where verything is targeted and how it out?
i think that’s going to the tricky issue with this cine.
it’s absolutely right that are ome residents and staff caring or them been given top for them have been given top priority.
we also understand this cular vaccine has some particular challenges about how you it, the yards, if you take it, the last yards, if you like, from delivery to the people eed to take it.
it’s going to a very difficult process to work ough some of those challenges so may not quickly and it may it may not happen quickly and it may of course be that this isn’t the ine that is going to be right for those audiences and it may be the other vaccines that we ope is hard on the heel, so time atience is going to be required
but i think as we start to work ugh some of those challenges and know the is working very ard in order to do its utmost to get it to the people who need it.
we do hope we have more testing coming into care homes so the through into rare homes so the guidance today on visiting means hopefully with all things being qual, more people will be able to having really important start having that really important contact with their loved ones and as through those technical we work through those technical challanges through the coming weeks etting the right vaccines out to quit home residents —— out to home esidents, we can open up care home residents, we can open up more widely, but i stress this isn’t to be a quick return to normal or anybody including residents and relatives, is going to be ncremental steps, or the first time i think we can all see some positive at the end of really positive light at the end of the tunnel and a way out of this.
important not to forget how it has been for people with ones in care homes.
it’s been absolutely tbreaking.
it’s been a very difficult year for older and their families, they have een isolated in their own homes, have lost mobility and function heir cognitive function also—mac, and many haven’t seen relatives in care homes in onths.
haven’t had face—to—face tact and or some people with ementia sorry, i need to ermpt rupt because we need to say oodbye to viewers on two.
we will see you soon.
sorry to ermpt, upt, ruth.
do pick up.
not at ll!
wishing well.
that ontact, many people have not seen heir loved ones face—to—face months and with people first sensory pairment who can’t use chnical means of communication, they have been able to wave perhaps they have been able to wave to the loved ones through a window or some not even that.
it’s
but for some not even that.
it’s devastating
and it means for some living ith dementia, their people living with dementia, their families worry, rightly, that they even recognise them anymore.
it’s hard to overstate just how icult and heartbreaking this has been for people.
husbands and wives been together for 50 years now separated so the sooner we can through challenges and work through these challenges and get people back together with their ies, the better.
as you are describing, these elderly people in omes are very often very care homes are very often very vulnerable.
what would you cipate bout actually giving anticipate about actually giving them the vaccine and how active they kely to be in the process of whether they would actually welcome ese are some of the it?
these are some of the discussions we need to have.
we know have questions about the accine already and have been asking tions today and it’s important take the time to answer these stions and age will be doing best to bring people the best ormation we can so they can make information we ran so they ran make an informed decision so we all rstand just how devastating utbreaks of this virus are in care mes so suring that people can be homes so ensuring that people ran be protected and loved ones can be tected their staff is going protected and their staff is going to be really important.
it’s going mportant.
if families have uestions, need to take the time to talk it through that with .
so they have confidence in the ccine or if they need to talk to or nurse is about it, we uld be enabling them to do hope hat i would encourage everybody to at the vaccine and to see the nefits of it and hopefully take it due course.
ruth of age , hank you very much.
i love how you wished our viewers leaving us on two well!
social media is awash with conspiracy theories and false claims about a coronavirus vaccine — worlds apart from legitimate concerns and questions.
with the news breaking today about vaccine approval, the same conspiracies are resurfacing online.
how can we spot them?
and who’s spreading them?
our specialist disinformation reporter marianna spring joins me now.
what is out there?
all kinds of conspiracy theories about a navirus vaccine have been out here for months and every time is breaking news, like today the pfizer/biontech vaccine, we the same conspiracy theories urfacing again and again and it’s tant to point out these are worlds away from legitimate tions and concerns people have about efficacy and safety of a ccine.
for instance, we’ve seen pop up today about bill gates, is one in particular makes the egation that bill gates isn’t oing to be —— is going to be tting icrochips and people are surveilling through the vaccine people make false claims about it is of deliberately how it is a means of deliberately hurting people or part of a opulation plan.
all of these laims are false and there is no dence to substantiate them but all it takes is a scary picture bill gates to spread kinds of disinformation.
today, people be careful about what they re sharing on social media and what re seeing.
think about how a ost makes you feel.
if it is a ive, a lot of these memes and are frightening, a lot of opla might be excited about the about the vaccines so just before you share, examine the source, where is it coming from?
is it someone who gets viruses and cines your friend’s friend from years ago who don’t really ?
they are less trustworthy than know?
they are lass than the experts.
and finally think about mething was shared.
a lot of anti—vaxxer communities and doscience groups are trying to xploit fear and anxiety about the demic in order to spread disinformation about coronavirus cines, yourself, did vaccines, so ask yourself, did this person share this?
is there any re of how much the sort of stuff cuts through?
it’s difficult a number on that to put a number on that specifically.
one thing we do know these kinds of memes and is that these kinds of memes and false claims are not limited to the hardcore conspiracy circles where hey begin.
they then spread parent chats, local facebook into parent chats, oral facebook groups and instagram feeds and a of people have got in touch with the about the kinds of mes and posts they are seeing in eir community groups.
the issue is not when news breaks new claims viral that are false, rather it’s same ones that come up peatedly and it’s that that has an because if you keep seeing laims about bill gates or crochips, you might think, is ere something to this?
that esn’t mean there is, it eans doesn’t mean there is, it just means there’s lots of disinformation.
england has returned to a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions, after the national lockdown ended at midnight.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers — where mixing with other households indoors is banned.
the measures were voted in yesterday, despite since coming into office.
from today more than 23 million people are now in the highest tier — tier 3.
there’s no socialising indoors or in private gardens.
pubs and restaurants can only do takeaways.
more than 32 million — find themselves in tier 2.
again no mixing indoors — but up to six people can meet outdoors.
and you can go to restaurants or pubs that serve substantial meals with people you live with.
tier1 has the lightest restrictions — but fewer than three quarters of one million people are in this tier, where up to six people from different households can socialise indoors our first report from our political correspondentjonathan blake with the end of a national lockdown in england comes a new three tier system of restrictions to get used to.
from this morning, 99% of the population is under the higher two levels of controls for at least the next two weeks.
here’s how the new system of restrictions will work.
shops, and hairdressers will be allowed to reopen across the country.
in tier 1, the lowest level of restrictions, groups of up to six people will be able to meet indoors or outdoors.
pubs and restaurants can reopen, with last orders at ten o’clock and closing at 11pm.
in tier 2, groups of up to six people will still be able to meet outdoors but not indoors unless in a support bubble.
pubs can only reopen if they are operating as a restaurant, and alcohol can only be served with a substantial meal.
and in the highest level of restrictions, pubs and restaurants will be forced to provide takeaway only, and there will be no mixing of households except up to six people in public outdoor spaces like parks.
so the eyes have it, the eyes have it.
last night, approved the plans, but not without a struggle.
55 conservatives voted against the government, the biggest backbench rebellion of borisjohnson’s time as prime minister.
it’s passed with a majority of well over 200.
it’s a very important set of regulations to help the bridge into the spring when we hope a vaccine will move us into a whole different place.
and the reason that these regulations mattered is it allows us to move to a tiered approach which, backed up by mass community testing, will help us keep control of the virus and avoid another lockdown.
while the new tiers are stricter in some ways, there’s plenty you can now do wherever you live in england that might make it feel like a return to something like life as normal.
in another major change, people will be able to visit relatives in care homes.
new guidance states that contact will be allowed in all three tiers if those visiting have tested negative for the virus.
questions continue about the impact of restrictions, though.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has challenged the government to publish more details of the economic impact of control measures as many businesses face uncertain weeks and months ahead.
jonathan blake, news.
all nonessential shops in england can reopen today as the national lockdown has ended.
but with the news of arcadia and debenhams falling, what does this mean for the high street and retail shopping?
according to the british retail consortium, prices in shops are tumbling in the run—up to christmas as the crisis on britain’s high street worsens.
our business presenter sima kotecha is on oxford street in central london now.
how busy is it?
not as busy as you might think.
we haven’t seen any outside stores.
there is a rimark down the road and we heard re were queues in birmingham, not in london.
this is the busiest shopping street in europe but we that arcadia, which owns urbons, dorothy perkins, top shop, into nto administration, putting 3,000 jobs at risk so not good s.
we’ve got a topshop here, here are 50% off some of the things nside.
many pers have told us they are looking for bargains.
we know that some shops have reduced prices hoping to make up that ost ground which they incurred ing the lockdown is.
to speak to about this is katie barron, ector of brand engagement.
tell what you think the mood is like consumers at the moment.
urprisingly the mood is quite yant because i think statistics hat actually 70% of people are are looking to at least as much as they did last year and christmas ping because there is a sense of hristmas being a beacon in a rather winter so far
so i think there a certain amount of excitement obviously trepidation about ing back into stores
and i think re seeing that critically in entral london at the moment because have travelled to get here
but if we look at some of the opping centres on the peripheries and cities, we probably will see quite a different picture.
that online sales have done particularty ell throughout this emic, particularly well throughout this pandemic, however, sales within are traditionally a lot higher.
we know that arcadia was its competitors in terms of nune online operation and investing in at do you think the messages here from companies that have gone because they haven’t done what eople like boohoo have been doing?
’ve a huge flip to digital, we’ve seen a huge ﬂip to digital, people going online and spending uring the pandemic.
it isn’t omething that’s going to go away eopla do want to spend on but peopla do want to spend on stores as well
so i think what that us as it needs to be far better omni— channel experiences and tter ervices.
retailers have far better services.
retailers have to create a connection between ical stores and what they are doing online and creating a much exciting online experience as ell.
you’ve got the kind of big yers like boohoo and zara doing ell online and also technological t-ups, eople creating virtual start-ups, peopla creating virtual ﬂagships.
charlotte tilbury or alone where you can get on a ebsite explore the physical tore from your desktop, we are these innovations which some he heavyweights of the high reet.
this used to be called the thership, that’s how it was ferred to by industry people.
they losing out because they haven’t ite been quick enough because they like the legacy of these big ore spaces would be enough to them through and unfortunately hasn’t
so we’re definitely going a shift these big legacy players taking some cues from uptive brands and much younger une players.
where do we go now or companies topshop because know arcadia which owns it is in inistration but what does it mean or places like this?
we really ’t know what’s going to happen ith it.
people want to drop on it brand because it has huge affection for british consumers, it’s for the design or whether it’s for the design or collaborations it did
but i think we ing to see this big omni— are going to see this big omni- channel, digital re—routing.
the you, katie.
apologies to the iewers if you heard some of that language we just encountered.
ank you very much.
peter liese is a german and medical doctor who sits on the european parliament’s public health committee.
if: he is not happy about the approval of the pfizer/biontech vaccine y.
are you not happy about that?
i’m that we have a accine
and i think it is a serious w-
any, we supported them with uropean union funds but only a few ago biontech sent the data for hours ago biontech sent the data for a conditional market licence and ’s it is a bit problematic to say that everything is fine you ran start the vaccination.
many would also have the option.
t’s not a brexit issue.
european llows emergency authorisation, germany is not doing it like other european countries cause we think and approval with european medical agency is more and also gives more liability the company
so i think it is blamatic because the risk is higher than after approval of the pean medical agency and the iability for the company is not re when emergency authorisation iven.
to be clear, all countries their regulatory authority and ere we have been hearing from ours re was a news conference nswering journalists’ questions concerns including the question about it is that the has been able to authorise the use re other countries and we heard rom the head of that organisation, rners have been cut, safety is watchword, ’s a our watchword, it’s been a scientifically rigorous check ugh work in a rolling review ith scientists going through that ss, basically working 20 47 —— process, basically working 20 47 -- 24, seven.
you are saying that’s the in every country but then the european medical agency is the arbiter.
o, not really.
finalarbiter.
no, not really.
the european medical agency also has a review but other member states of the european union, or other states that are bound to law, the is bound to law until of the year, but other member states decided not to go for onal emergency authorisation a national emergency authorisation except hungary, which did it with ussian vaccine.
that’s the only mple except the , because the her member states think it is essary to look more carefully and onditional market licensing can only be given he company delivers more data and accepts more lity than the emergency liability than the emergency authorisation.
that’s the reason it’s a better way.
emergency authorisation is normally for an vidual patient that suffers from isease, which you cannot cure and at’s we need to because we n’t have anything else.
here, opla are vaccinated where it is at at all sure they will get the sease in the next three or four eks.
we have other means to rotect people and i think that’s the re strict regime like the onditional market licence is the way now.
can you spell out best way now.
“an you spell out dearty the additional checks that ome with going through the european cines agency?
to your knowledge, there ever been a situation ere something, a vaccine has been proved for use by an individual gulatory body and then it has been ocked by the european medicines ncy?
never before has any member state of the european union or any other and europe has approved a accine with emergency horisation.
the only other case hungary.
i understand that point, at ever been a situation where the european medicines agency has locked something happening, and other once has seen something an individual country body has t.
that happens currently.
when have ergency authorisation at as a real instrument but after more normally this time it will be eeks you find some additional stions, the main question for me f.
c.
ant to protect the risk - oups, the elderly, is the really nough idence that the vaccine as for these groups should be ter look more carefully in this ue, the vaccine may work rfectly for people like me but not or peopla my mother who is 80 she should get at first but the stion is is it as safe for her as for me.
thank you.
no doubt at ome you will have questions about vaccine, everybody is interested hat we have been hearing this orning, the vaccine has been roved for use in the and if have questions get in touch ause we are going to be answering many as we can in the next few minutes.
usual ways of getting touch on social media.
fairly quiet for most today although pretty cold across the north and west.
a bright early start and the south—east, cloud moving h, unshine and showers behind blown and on a brisk wind, strongest the north—west of scotland, on he how is and more during is evening and overnight, at end of the night because have ten imetres on the tops of the lls.
the potential two centimetres at low levels but ker cloud and rain coming our ay for the rest of the .
ice in north and also frost and omorrow fewer showers through the still the potential for some day but still the potential for some to be wintry.
cloud and rain moves and north across england and las, brisk winds and the english nnel and whatever you are at ld.
hello this is news, the headlines.
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
england’s tier system is back but with toughened measures.
more than 55—million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
as the second lockdown comes to an end in england, all nonessential shops can reopen .
businesses are hoping for a flood of customers to provide a much needed boost in the run up to christmas.
‘0ur planet is broken’.
that’s the warning coming from the secretary general of the united nations.
in a special broadcast, antonio guterres will talk about tackling global warming, which is now a central objective of the .
we’re expecting a news conference from biontech in germany — following the news that their vaccine has been approved by regulators.
the pfizer vaccine was developed by the german pharma company biontech, it says this is the first emergency authorisation for a covid—19 vaccine worldwide.
my colleagues, your questions.
we have two important announcements to oday about the vaccine make today about the vaccine developer programme.
we have ounce that today the first global emergency use authorisation granted for phase three clinical data backed covid—19 ine the regulatory agency.
vaccine by the regulatory agency.
we have started immediately the ess of delivering our vaccine and we expect the roll—out of the ine the will happen vaccine and the will happen within the next couple of days.
we would like to report hat on monday building on our ing review which was initiated october this year we have ally filed an application for conditional market authorisation he european medicines agency.
biontech will be the marketing orisation holder for the he , the
and he and various other ntries.
our esteemed partner izer will do the marketing and stribution in these and various countries.
let me briefly show a high-level view about our journey and the couple of nths.
we called our development gramme for covid—19 cause annot go faster than ight and this what we aimed for.
his journey started in january this and was evoted to the year and was devoted to the development of a well tolerated and tive covid—19 vaccine following he highest cientific and ethical andards.
this was a journey of -11 which started with engineering ltiple vaccine ndidates of which several entered ical testing phase one and april this year.
injuly we cted together our partner pfizer one hose candidates the most romising one for a large phase trial and in november this we reported that in this trial ccine has made all primary icacy points.
on the next slide ran see that project in fact global concerted arge—scale effort.
our phase three has conducted in multiple ountries in the , argentina, zil, germany, south africa and rkey.
the phase three trial has ached the final end point in d—november.
in addition to that we regulatory bmissions on a olling basis, ongoing not only in but also additional countries such as canada and australia.
we have in addition an application at for emergency use the for emergency use organisation like mike authorisation vaccine and the
and we are awaiting decisions by the mid mber and this is also the time orizon in which we expect decisions conditional marketing authorisation application.
we have trials in pan and together ongoing trials in japan and together with our partner we have an ongoing two trial with our vaccine in phase two trial with our vaccine in china.
on top of these programmes are rolling submissions to urther countries planned.
in our trolled randomised minded phase trial the vaccine was tested two injections 21 days apart at latively low as compared to a cebo.
healthy participants were gible, and total more than 43,000 ubjects immunised, mostly 18-85 years age.
an independent onitoring committee assessed efficacy of a relaxing, the ficacy was assessed based on the ber of confirmed covid—19 cases tarting seven after the second injection.
in the placebo arm, 162 of covid—19 were reported cases of covid-19 were reported while in the arm with vaccinated ects we counted eight cases.
this is a vaccine efficacy of 95%.
ran on this slide that high vaccine efficacy was observed across bpopulations including all age - groups, also including older adults ears and higher.
across of 65 years and higher.
across ethnicities and also across gender.
dependent data monitoring ommittee did not note any serious ety concerns, and fight our vaccine was well tolerated.
we observed the common reactions you have with vaccination, including pain at injection side, ue, headache, muscle pain, mostly and generally these reactions ild—to—moderate and short were mild—to—moderate and short lived.
at worst events of grade were very real.
we observed fatigue and a small percentage headache into percent of ticipants and about 98% of participants who received the first ame back for the second shot.
we will continue to follow—up with cipants our trials for efficacy and safety for two years and report on our observations.
as they come up.
with this i would hand my over to my colleague.
thank you.
i am the co—founder and of tech and i would like to give a background about the science ind our vaccines and introduce to useful background information the molecule.
it is a new drug entity so not yet ved and if entity so not yet approved and if this vaccine is going to be approved be the first messenger drug at well be the first messenger which would be available as a maceutical product.
however it a very known molecule, actually first ecule of life and every the first molecule of life and every human being and animal has mrna and so it is a intermediate molecula so many peopla know which has the stable genetic rmation and mrna is produced and ales and after being produced edge as a template to make proteins but what is important is stable molecule, it is active for a ays and as degraded only for a few days and as degraded by the cellular machinery.
our which we use for making the vaccine the natural mrna molecule and mimic the natural mrna molecula and has no other components than the naturally well-known moleculas.
it is transiently active like any other mrna, it includes the spike otein and then rapidly degraded hin a few days.
is mrna such powerful olution for this demic?
it is a molecule which was studied by earch more than 50 ears including basic research lications as well as clinical search mrna molecules are tested clinical studies for more than years.
the role for this pandemic sed on the simple use of this chnology to make a vaccine.
what is ake a piece of the genetic nformation of a virus and encode this information using our mrna platform.
then this is formulated ipids to make a nano particle with lipids to make a ham partida
which with lipids to make a nano particle which protects the messenger so to graded and it allows it to deliver it to specialise sales he body which helps us mode a trong immune response.
after ivery it is done by intramuscular injection, after a feud is the mrna is dictated.
—— after a few days as egraded.
it is one of the eight as degraded.
it is one of the most precise vaccine technologies, mportant it is free of virus, is a precise immune response of mmunised person is directed against coronavirus and not ainst ything else.
it does not integrate into the and of course transiently active and non—infectious.
another advantage as scale the production to produce many llions of doses.
our is to produce more than 1.
3 lion doses and 2021 and my colleague will provide you more ground.
this slide explains what is important to understand mrna vaccines work so the lipid oparticles is taken up by specialised cells and then the mrna is translated into the spike protein is the protein which makes the virus enter into you and sales.
we get an immune response by so—called hich are able to see the ilest inside of cells and eliminate and beget antibody responses ich bind to the spike protein and event the virus from infection of man cells.
it is important this of vaccine induces a memory une response so it means the une response that is generated ould stay for months, maybe years rotect the vaccinated individual ainst infection.
in the last 11 to be not only did the clinical trial and evaluated the of the molecule
but we analysed this mode of action and rmined that our vaccine is ndeed able to induce strong body responses and strong cell esponses.
we have evaluated the ety of the vaccine using a range different essays and different cies and evaluated the vaccine the earty hase and younger and adults to identify a safe and active dose.
based on this search we were able to start the that he conical trial which has explained before.
these —— hase three linical trial.
we are ntinuing though with the istribution of the vaccine.
thank lam responsible or you, i am responsible for distribution at biontech.
just to about how we are going to fectively distribute globally the cine.
we have two highly effective partnerships who have a ficant and ﬂat structure to significant and ﬂat to help, the he first is pfizer which is a ership we set out in the partnership we set out in the spring, one of the largest rmaceutical companies and the orld, present and more than 100 ntries and it has a through mendis the successful track record cine franchises and numerous approvals.
this expertise also to global logistics extends to global logistics infrastructure to ensure we can get he ine it to everyone very the vaccine it to everyone very quickly and together with our ner, this is our accine partner, this is our first vaccine we are testing second—generation candidates and the clinic formulations as well.
our tnership and china is with one of largest chinese pharmaceutical nies with over 28,000 employees, providing end—to—end ilities china with capabilities in china with significant coverage of the country 3 of the 3a provinces.
again chosen to help this vaccine everyone as quickly as we can in ina.
just ing on.
just looking at our global mmitments to date.
important numbers to focus on we have together with pfizer ned commitments to more than 570 llion doses committed in 2020—21 an dditional 600 million doses eserved as an option.
these numbers everyday.
that the moment we are in additional discussions with a of countries which we are number of countries which we are adding to our list and you can see showing what we committed boxes showing just what we committed by which region but the most rtant thing is what we are ying to do here is really served yone worldwide and the best way ran.
moving to cause chain he ran.
moving on to cause chain sunplv -- cold chain supply, this been eveloped specifically for because we are talking a particular about the today.
the we have for the and doses we have for the and currently being packed by our eagues at pfizer at the facility belgium ready for shipping kly.
these go into what we call hermal oxes that aloe up to 1500 ses which we will ship by a lorry lane whatever is most propriate.
these boxes are mperature controlled and we have a ker to provide a minute by minute information on the perature before me deliver it to the site of distribution and the or injection.
some facts about the , i mentioned the trays can vials, i mentioned the trays ran take up to 1000 doses, one vial is ree of accine is sufficient one tree of vaccine is sufficient for at least 100 people.
each vial tains doses, they littered contains five doses, they littered with normalcy ein solution —— they red with normal saline solution it is re than enough to -- it is more than enough to vaccinate five people from one vial.
bout administration.
this is different than any other ccination, you go to your centre, roll up your sleeve and you ceive in the arm and injection at room temperature of this vaccine.
it is they littered and saline.
—— it is diluted in saline.
you can store it at -74 for up to 15 days, an open he box twice a day and this gives under flexibility cause you can put it on a table take vials out and if you so hoose you ran ake them out of the and put them in a fridge and them stable in the fridge for days.
in addition we have ked at looking at transport and it might affect the stability of accine if we defrost it and ransported it and we have done this sider some of the satellite centres which everyone wants to h, particularly care home must reach, particularty rare home must resume not want to transport people homes to a centre but the and the homes to a centre but the other way round and we have bility studies supporting the idence being able to transport up hours at two to 8 degrees so ran take vials from a accination centre, put them and a and take them to the care homes where they ran dministered irectly to patients.
the is the approval today, we are absolutely delighted about that.
we are not stopping there, we have the states review on the 10th of ecember, european union here is ected to come to a decision and cember
and we expect from that ulatory discussions with a number regulatory parties and bodies ross the world and the coming eks and months.
it is worth saying at we are deeply involved with the gulatory authorities, biontech marketing authorisation olders means we have a sponsibility with our partners but arily biontech as responsible or this product and owns it and the ted states, europe and the united gdom as well as canada and other untries.
with that i think we can ove into any tions and you may move into any questions and you may have an answer is we may give.
and gentlemen we are happy to ake your stions and to ask a uestion please usually chat ction and type your question.
the irst question is from .
is this first mrna vaccine are you on one else have had approved?
yes, is.
how important is it any eminder that other vaccines are roved in order to support this ogramme?
we believe that news nference from biontech and those set up the company, you have profiles of this couple who ave ecome rock stars of the ical world to have developed this cine to be approved for distribution by the regular tory orities here and they were lking -- the gulatory talking —— the regulatory authorities.
they are hoping to uce 1.
3 billion doses next year they but explaining how that cine works.
we will have more alysis of that later but coming up prime minister’s questions so ’s go to westminster.
what you pected it?
org—mac, this should be a much less difficult prime minister’s questions ris ohnson than it looked for boris johnson than it looked last night.
he is coming to the atch box under the biggest rebel into his leadership so far, 55 were against his tiered with a big boost from that.
we see labour pushing at the government hings like ing too slow from things like being too slow duﬂng the pandemic and this will low boris hnson to say, we are he first have approved this and offers a light at the end of the nel, a way out of these tiered strictions so expect to hear a lot that
and i would expect him to at labour a about their ecision abstain on those tiered strictions yesterday.
labour are to oint out that even with likely to point out that even with that big hope of the vaccine and the out starting from next week, roll-out starting from next week, there is still going to be many more that we will be living under estrictions and i will expect to be pushing on the economic impact of that how the government plans to deal with that fix it, and in particular here is a document that the vernment has which apparently ows some analysis of the worst hit ctors.
they have not released t.
we’ll expect keir starmer to for the release of that articular document.
downing street, rime minister’s official okesman yesterday said this cument was made up of publicly ilable information
but i would xpect that to be something we hear in this pmqs.
unusually late arting today.
i think the speaker troducing pmqs.
let’s listen in.
today i’m proudly wearing purple ebrate the international day for disabled people tomorrow.
make re we publish a national sure we will publish a national strategy for disabled people which he most ambitious intervention in this area for a ration including fairness at the art of the government’s work and ling up so that everybody has levelling up so that everybody has the opportunity to fully participate life of this country.
i know at the whole house will want to oin me in lcoming the fantastic ews that the has formally horised the pfizer vaccine for vid—19.
it will be made available the from next week.
i pay tribute to those who have made this ble.
it is the protection of vaccines that will ultimately allow eclaim our lives and get our economy moving again.
this morning, eetings with ministerial colleagues and others in addition to ies in this house i shall have other such meetings later today.
i’d share the congratulations with the prime minister on the tion of this new vaccine at the eed with which it has gone out and give that congratulations ecially to the engineers, chnicians and scientists who ivered it.
i believe we should upport the widest distribution of effective medicines, but does my honourable friend i agree it be taken on a wholly should be taken on a wholly voluntary basis by individuals and ies?
absolutely, istrongly rge that people take up the vaccine is no part of our culture or ambition this country to make ccines mandatory.
that’s not how things.
the leader of the opposition, the right honourable tarmer.
ijoined the prime minister and his comments on bled people and like the prime inister, i start with the fantastic bout the licensing of a news about the licensing of a vaccine.
this pandemic has caused so rief and so much loss but we much grief and so much loss but we are now a big step closer to the end tunnel and, like the prime ister, ran expect my thanks to veryone across the house, all the entists who have worked on this everybody who has taken part in trials.
delivering a vaccine irty quickly and safely will now the next major challenge facing country and whatever our ifferences across this house, we have a duty to play our part in his national effort and to reassure blic about the safety of the vaccine.
this morning, a priority as been published for the first phase of the rollout.
we understand that around 800,000 doses oon be available and that’s good news.
because of the two doses red, 400,000 people can be vaccinated in the first batch so can rime nister tell the house, the prime minister tell the house, who does he expect to receive the ine next week?
i’m grateful to he right honourable gentleman for int about the roll—out and let me update the use on what the has concluded so far.
the priority ill be residence in care list will be residence in rare homes, older adults and their carers transmission of all those 80 years of age and older, front line care and social care workers health rare and social rare workers and all those of 75 years of age and and all those of 70 years of and over, the clinically emely vulnerable individuals and hen a list that i am sure the house will want to study closely but i believe does represent common sense.
it’s very important at this stage for us all to recognise that is unquestionably good news.
’s very, very good news
but it is by no means the end of the story.
it is not the end of our national ggle against coronavirus and that’s it’s very important that ckage of moderate but tough asures that the house voted for night, the tiered system, is llowed across the country because t’s how we will continue to beat vims.
rus.
the prime minister erenced the priority for the phase in the top two groups residents in care homes and lder and carers, those 80 years old and over and front line care workers.
i’m not criticising that list in the htest but it’s obvious that that ore than 400,000 people in the prime nister will understand how xious people in those particular are ter having sacrificed groups are after having sacrificed so much so can the prime minister us the swer to the question hat they are going to be asking morning, which is when does he xpect that people in those two top ran can expect to be vaccinated?
think at is stage it is very, ery important that people do not hopes up too soon about he speed with which we will be able out this vaccine.
it is to roll out this vaccine.
it is beginning from next week.
we are cting several million doses of pfizer/biontech vaccine before end of the year and we will then rolling it out as fast as we sibly can but that is i have so much hasis on the put so much emphasis on the continuing importance of the tiering and mass community testing at the same time as we go forward ugh these tough winter months ecause we will need at the same as we roll out the vaccine, and ’s right to ask about timetables, roll out the vaccine over the few weeks, we will need to keep tough tiering and testing egime in place.
can i press the rime ister 3 bit further about prime minister a bit further about the plan for care homes?
i do so ause all want this to work because we all want this to work because that top category is dents in care homes and that all us to be concern for many peopla.
this morning, the welsh ernment has already raised ractical problems about the ivery of vaccines into care omes.
at is hearing in mind the emperatures at which the vaccines be stored.
the prime have to be stored.
the prime minister must know this is going to nation problem.
obviously we all want to overcome this problem ’s in that spirit that i ask and it’s in that spirit that i ask the prime minister what plans has he place to address these put in place to address these particular problems of getting the safely and quickly into care vaccine safely and quickly into care homes, given the practical iculties of doing so and the nxiety that those care homes will getting it quickly?
he is have about getting it quickly?
he is entirely right to raise the issue of omes and the ability to care homes and the ability to distribute this particular type of rapidly into care homes vaccine rapidly into rare homes because it does need to be kept at elsius as i think the house understands -- -70 degrees.
sol think there are challenges to get access to the vaccine.
we are orking on it with all of the lved administrations in order to sure the across the country is and it’s the that will be in the lead, the is able to ribute it as fast and as sensibly as possible to the most erable groups but he is right to raise that particular logistical culty, that’s it’s also important that we get the razeneca vaccine which we hope ill also on stream and while a he is paying bute to those who ave been involved in the vaccines, he could also pay tribute to the work of the vaccine task force secured the deal with pfizer which i think you criticise only weeks ago.
i pay tribute to verybody who has got us this far ill work with all of them to us where we need to go.
this has something on which we all pull ogether to deliver this as quickly afely as possible over the next few months and i’ve made that offer premise to before and i’ll do it again.
it’s in that vein that i turn to the next question, which is confidence in the vaccine which is a real cause for concern use that’s going to be crucial the success of getting this led out across the country, etting our economy back up and ning.
as the prime minister ws, we the highest regulatory and medical safety standards in the , but it’s really important we world, but it’s really important we do everything possible to counter rous, frankly life—threatening disinformation about vaccines.
we rail for legislation to be ntroduced to clamp down on this financial penalties for mpanies that fail to act so will premise work with us on this and ring forward emergency legislation coming days which i think the ola house would support?
we are king to tackle all kinds of information across the internet e’s right that the and he’s right that the anti—vaxxers, who i think are tally wrong eir approach, and totally wrong in their approach, and he’s right to encourage the take—up cines across the country and of vaccines across the country and we will be publishing paper very on online harms designed to ackla the very disinformation that eaks of.
can i also urge the he speaks of.
“an i also urge the prime inister, once the government communications plan for the vaccine, ran share it with the so we can all say the same thing in the way to the country encourage as many people to take vaccine as possible?
the up the vaccine as possibla?
the arrival of a vaccines office a erful news
but it will come too late to many who have lost their already
and i want to turn to the collapse of arcadia and nhams in the last 48 hours which as put 25,000 jobs at risk and huge anxiety to many families the worst possible time and eatens to rip the heart out of any high streets in our towns and ies.
“an the prime minister tell he house, hat is he going to do to protect the jobs and pensions those affected by these closures?
are looking at what we do to rotect all of the jobs at have been lost across the untry and my friend max the ecretary of state for skills has tten to the insolvency department the arcadia directors and will be ing everything we can to restore he high ets of this country with our £1 billion high streets fund and a levelling up fund, but i must say i think it is a bit much the honourable gentleman should ack the economic consequences of he fight against coronavirus when night, neither he nor his last night, neither he nor his troops could be bothered to vote for res, sensible, balanced measures, sensible, balanced measures that would open up the omy and allow businesses to rade.
how can he attack the omic consequences of our battle gainst coronavirus when he won’t upport measures to open up the conomy?
when stain, i come to he house explain.
when the me minister abstains, he runs way to afghanistan and gives the payer a £20,000 bill.
0n the estion of obs, there are serious uestions that need to be answered the collapse of these businesses and i don’t want the minister to deflect that and prime minister to deﬂact that and what it means for many families use this isn’t an isolated ncident.
over 00,000 tail jobs have been lost this year.
that’s 000 individuals and their 200,000 individuals and their families, 20,000 stores have been on our high streets and closed on our high streets and that’s before the latest trictions.
i suspect if we had that scale of losses and seen that stale ofjob losses and any other sector, there would have uch greater action already so i urge the prime minister to take this seriously.
don’t deﬂact.
as well as providing emergency support, he prime minister work with ours, with the trade unions and the r, to finally bring forward a comprehensive plan to save retail provide the sector with a much greater support it needs during risis?
these are real people a with real jobs families facing sack.
they really need to hear you.
we are of course pporting every we possibly can as well very life and livelihood with a £200 million programme but i would take it more seriously if he abstain on a vote to open up he economy and keep the virus down.
getting on with our programme rolling out the vaccine with sible tiering measures, in dition to which we are delivering re hospitals and 20,000 more lice officers and he talks about tention.
when it came to otecting veterans from unfair prosecution, he chose to abstain.
came to protecting the when it came to protecting the peopla of this country from ronavirus at this critical moment, his troops to abstain.
ptain hindsight is rising rapidly ranks and has become general ndecision.
that’s what’s happening, fraid.
he dithers, we get on ith the job.
week marks one ear since the prime minister one a majority and turn the redwall blue, ensuring unities would no longer be neglected.
a new rastructure bank has been bank has been promised.
speaker, wakefield is ossroads of the kingdom.
our cathedral spire of the tallest in ’s country and historically god’s on country and historically the principal city of west yorkshire red wall, which make it the perfect city for the new bank’s .
will he commit to put the new infrastructure bank in wakefield and tore city’s glory?
he is a restore the city’s glory?
he is a magnificent campaigner for wakefield now the chancellor will
and i know the chancellor will listen closely to his call for the onal infrastructure bank to be stablished in wakefield
and he wait on events.
let’s go up scotland with the leader of the , ian blackford.
this morning for he first time in months, people oken up with a genuine sense hope.
the news of a vaccine roval is the news we have all een waiting for but, speaker, hope on the horizon remains far distant.
there are millions who ill have not had a single penny of pport from support from the government.
as others received help, they ved none.
prime minister, yesterday i met with a group who esent many of these 3 million itizens.
for past nine months we have been living without any help and it is now tragically osting lives.
prime minister, they something genuinely told me something genuinely shocking, they are aware of eight who have taken their lives in he last ten days.
eight people in days.
ime minister, we are now little over three weeks from istmas.
these people need help.
the rime minister committed to ooking again the support package or the excluded to ensure no one is behind?
i obviously sympathise much with those who have taken eir lives and their families and has been a very tough time for he country.
we are investing sively in mental health support ross the country, as he notes, ich ﬂows to scotland through the rnett consequence and we put in a package of support.
there are to reach people but they are so ported with the increases in universal credit and the many other of support that are currently on offer
and i think when you look overall level of support, this government has given to people the country, it compares favourably with any other government the world.
i have to say with egret, that simply isn’t good ugh.
these people need help and asking the prime minister to ink very carefully about this.
has been an abject failure by government and the prime inister has been missing in action.
vernment has you turned on verything else so can’t the minister and the chancellor change their minds on their support ese 3 million people?
these people working in events, nstruction, education, ospitality, retail and health care aven’t ust been left behind but been ignored for nine months.
hancellor has repeatedly dogged issue.
excluded haven’t been ffered one formal meeting with the rnment minister.
will the prime inister mit today to a meeting working with excluded on a ningful package of support or is rime minister simply going to bandon these people three weeks christmas?
we have abandoned obody and are continuing to support e.
we have announced nearly, in peopla.
we have announced nearty, in addition to the support i’ve ioned, nearly 400 million amilies through the winter.
we have eased universal credit, increase oral housing allowance, provided llions more to local authorities to help who are hard to reach, to help those who are hard to reach, but i may say to the honourable leman that the best way to help he self—employed, to help the nomy of is whole country, is to economy of this whola country, is to get us moving again with the package sures that the house voted for last night, to allow retail to start in, to allow business to start up again.
it’s shameful.
we on this the house do not think side of the house do not think retailers shameful.
we want nesses to open up again and that is the nature of the package that was voted for last night which i think was quite right.
it’s a great that the honourable gentleman osite could not bring himself to upport it.
at this time of enormous pressure on our health rare, ran i welcome the government and the ’s nued ommitment to the new continued commitment to the new combined medical facility in bridge.
an he confirm to me edenbridge.
“an he confirm to me that the ale of the existing orial hospital which was built by ub“: donation about a century ago now help fund the new building?
is investing £20 million in the dicines manufacturing fund to efit wales, scotland, england and thern ireland so will he join in welcoming skill of all those the and indeed the health cretary in making historic ations work for our communities day?
i ran, i congratulate him his campaign.
decision to llow for the sale of the hospital a atter for the local —— as a matter for the oral -- is a matter, but know he is porting the £12 million we put in the development of a new health well-being ntre for edenbridge.
to wales with liz savo erts.
like to welcome the roberts.
i’d like to welcome the vaccine, this is a ray of light in times, but last week his dark times, but last week his government published a statement of showing a reduction in the amount wales receives through sport to in england from 80.
9% 96 to 3611.
this reveals in black and ite iniquity of the rail white the iniquity of the rail betrayal being inflicted on wales.
xpayers are paying for nglish transport and h52 but don’t fair return.
could he inform he house how much investment he is nelling away from wales due to his ernment’s decision to label his white elephant in england and las cheme despite not a single of the railway being in wales?
failed to recognise the characterisation that the honourable akes of investment across the whole of the .
the welsh ernment will receive an additional £1.
3 billion next year we providing 200 million more to support industries, to ort fisheries in wales, and the ast time i looked at transport in os, the welsh labour government spent £144 million on a plan for a pass ypass which they then junked.
he peopla of abercrombie would like ank hank the prime minister for his arty christmas present in this cine.
like many presents, we ight not have made it, but this ernment, this union could afford buy it for this country.
this urday i was talking with small sinesses who have had to deal with oding in ebruary and the pandemic nce march.
all they want do is trade so will my honourable end join me in thanking the opla who battled through a really fficult 2020, and does he agree at this news of a vaccine and its censing gives real hope to these women, these three trepreneurs and thousands like across the , hope for a etter 2021?
yes indeed, speaker.
gratulate the three female entrepreneurs that he mentions and ill be helped by the vaccine they will be helped by the vaccine and they will be allowed to do ness again and what a shame it is that our programme to sensibly afely open up the economy was not supported by the gent-mac.
to preston with sir mark hendry.
the minister has put at risk the good friday agreement and peace in ern ireland after promising the peopla of his country he would not.
promised the country a world ating track and trace system and nveniently forgot to provide the ack and trace part of the promise.
omised to deal with the to in the 2019 general election and we like having no deal.
when will the prime minister follow through on omises instead of behaving like a second-hand rar salesman?
if the honourable gentleman is saying wants to keep this country in the , which i think was the of that, then he’s going to be rely disappointed and so will the opposite.
they said that ritain was a nation of shopkeepers stockton, we are proud to and in stockton, we are proud to have some of the best retailers in ountry.
they’ve had a tough the country.
therve had a tough year.
they are grateful for the ort they have received from the government but remain concerned the future of business rates.
“an my honourable friend confirm the rnment remains committed to a undamental review of business rates ill he join in encouraging and will he join me in encouraging peopla to get down to their local street hop local this christmas?
yes, indeed.
my honourable friend reminds me it is a business saturday this saturday and everybody should be ping local, but i can also tell shopping local, but i ran also tell him that the treasury are calling usiness rates in ahead of the review and spring.
we all know it take a long time for many ndustries to recover from the act of coronavirus.
the aviation tor and its supply chain which upports almost a quarter of 1 lion jobs as been impacted.
many workers their families at aviation in have been ncially ruined and i know it is a familiar nario for families up down the country.
the prime ister needs to wake up to this tuation urgently so will he commit ector specific support deal to ave our aviation industry before it late?
we are doing a huge ount to support our aviation ustry but i appreciate the stress ifficulty is that many families are in at the moment because of the ats to that sector, which are bal because people just are not ﬂying the way that they were before pandemic, but i have every hope at it will bounce back very ongly, particularly in this ountry ich is a world leader in viation.
once we get the economy moving again as i hope we ran.
in north somerset, small businesses are feblood of the economy, like in the rest of the , providing 60% other jobs.
covid we will of other jobs.
after covid we will require a private sector small ness led recovery.
can i ask the business led recovery.
“an i ask the prime inister if he will require a discipline in the form of a all business test so that every and bit of legislation is measured against whether or not it rovide support for this sector which will be vital for recovery?
he is a great champion of small nesses.
every measure the overnment produces is judged he effect it but we are also roviding for these particularly ficult circumstances about £100 illion of business support.
the nce back loans and many other orms of support.
the best thing for nesses large and small as to shop loral and allow the economy, tiously prudently, to reopen.
cautiously and pmdenﬂy, to reopen.
i want to to congratulate the prime ster is next week marks his irst year in post.
however, in that , over 1,000 covid deaths, the highest rate in europe, over 2 lion in debt, the worst performing economy in the g7.
ing brexit negotiations and at least 1.
5 billion of taxpayers’ ent on contracts to tory money spent on contracts to tory friends and donors.
whilst at the time whipping his to vote inst meals for hungry children.
hich of these achievements as most proud ?
f?
i take her point ore seriously if she and her party be bothered to vote for measures sorry, she defied the whip, orgive me, speaker, labour whip, forgive me, speaker, she defied the injunction to dither he ditherer in chief, but it would be a good thing, she didn’t the instructions to dither, but obey the to dither, but i would take a more seriously if her leader would vote for measures that would open up the economy protecting lives across the .
let’s head to lincoln.
afternoon, speaker.
i would to thank my right honourable end and his cabinet colleagues last week for grant to my uestion for the relief road around nstituency in looking.
i look orward to seeing the combustion ine vehicles for many decades to me.
my constituents have been on the decisions on lockdown they normally and refreshingly.
ncolnshire is a very big space, my right honourable friend eriously consider allowing local sion—makers the chance to set ier ecisions locally?
local ision makers know their patch is better than any whitehall cision.
local businesses include three members who are yet receive any support and are erate to get back to work in of the economy.
i repeat i said to the head several mes yesterday afternoon and i’m ateful to my honourable friend, of rse we want to reflect ocal conditions as closely and tely conditions as closely and accurately as we can in taking our decisions tiering, we must look at about tiering, but we must look at the entire national picture and on int about internal combustion engines, ijust remind him that a ogen engine can also be an hydrogen engine ran also be an internal ombustion engine.
my constituent was diagnosed with in nd, earlier this year, her 2019 and, eartier this year, her employer agreed she was no longer to work and do the job she loved.
she applied for but the as ruled she is fit to work and not engaged her previous not engaged with her previous employer who can give a wealth of ence to the contrary.
her life has been devastated by the state nosis and said as a disabled person, she not stand up for erself
so will the prime minister with me to ensure that there benefits for the sufferers of onic fatigue and does not link to ngla points evidence?
i am single points of evidence?
i am grateful for her question, she is ing an mportant issue, i know hat many suffer from the describes, i will ensure she proper read sensation and ting with the relevant minister discuss her objectives.
anti—vex is some in the media only discussed levelling up through the of the north—south divide.
prism of the north—south divide.
cornwall has pockets of deprivation communities in my constituency is of north cornwall lso need in support and nvestments i welcome the levelling and the decision to review the green book so projects outside don and the south—east are of london and the south-east are more likely to benefit from rnment investment.
however, in ight of the new spending mmitments, can my right honourable iend nfirm the shared prosperity are separate to the evelling up fund and there will be an ouncement on that soon and it be simpler and less time consuming small businesses to ccess than the owner of schemes they are replacing.
yes, indeed, speaker, ithank my honourable but is completely right about importance of the new shared osperity fund.
it will be fferent from the levelling up fund are going to work closely him and with people in cornwall make re that we use the additional funding to fund the eeds of communities in cornwall.
you, speaker the scottish government announced a £500 bonus me or health and social care is scheme for health and social rare is heroes who have cared to west for pandemic.
pposed to the the pandemic.
as opposed to the scottish conservatives have tried to credit over the last few claim credit over the last few hours.
the prime minister is not onsible for health in scotland, is responsible for it in england
well he put as governments money re his scottish colleague’s uths are and much that bonus itiative for health workers in land and will he instruct the ncellor that whenever a bonus eme magnet is introduced, the not to take back the tax it and let it be paid tax free?
ll, on the last point of course, t’s a matter for the scottish overnment which has the fiscal edom to do that, but i found health and social care workers, in tland across the whole scotland and across the whola country, and i’m proud of the eases we’ve been able to put in, 12.
8% 6 over last three years, and pay rise for llion eople in the as part of the biggest ever stment in the , even before vid began, and it will continue this government.
in ten days’ ime, the ernment is osting the time, the government is hosting the climate summit ahead of next .
iurge he prime minister not to curb your enthusiasm for the ronment and will he show international leadership by setting mbitious but achievable up an ambitious but achievable target for emissions in 2030 as the national contribution on the path to net zero britain?
i am proud he led the way in that the led the way in instituting a target of net zero by in all the nations developing, 2050, in all the nations developing, we were the first and we are looking national determined at our national determined contribution which is extremely tious and will be published round the time of the climate mit on the 12th of december this ar.
final question.
thank you, speaker.
the prime minister ioned the universal credit rtier.
if the chancellors decision ncrease it by £20 a week during pandemic, an admission of what constituents have known for 575- ars, the universal credit simply n’t enough to live on.
injanuary, overnment will cap the benefits his government will rap the benefits of thousands on universal credit, erage losses will be £250 a month, mainly to families of dren.
we already know it’s not nough to live on.
will he now mitted to scrapping it and to ntinue the £20 per week uplift or going to throw these families the boards just like 3 million excluded?
ijust repeat the point i made earlier on about the huge sums vernment has invested in the government has invested in looking after families and lihoods across the whole of the ell north of £200 billion now, an uplift of universal credit of 0, and we will continue to £1000, and we will continue to support families across this country ghout the pandemic, but the bjective must be, as i hoped he agree, to get the economy oving again and get people back ork in the way that i think into work in the way that i think everybody would want and it’s a , speaker, under this government, spite of all the fficulties we have faced, the unemployment rate is lower in the than it is in france, spain, italy, a and the .
and we will canada and the .
and we will continue to work to look after every can.
in order to allow the job we ran.
in order to allow the state exit of members m: we will leave prime minister’s questions and a want to bring you nicola sturgeon speaking during and she said that the first eopla in scotland will get the ccine next tuesday.
we have not that specific for england but in and she sang the first vaccine will be administered next tuesday ded they get the supplies as provided they get the supplies as expected.
scotland is ting 320,000 doses and nicole sturgeon first vaccinated will be said the first vaccinated will be those carrying out the vaccines.
as you’ve been hearing there the become the first country in the world to approve the pfizer—biontech coronavirus vaccine — with around 800,000 doses of the jab being made available as early as next week.
the vaccine offers up to 95% protection against coronavirus.
a0 million doses have been pre—ordered by the government.
drjune raine, chief executive of the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency said no corners had been cut in the development of the pfizer—biontech vaccine, and that it was now safe to be rolled out.
the recommendation has been reached following a scientific and thorough review of all the evidence of safety, effectiveness and of quality of the pfizer/biontech vaccine.
the government has now accepted this advice and has made the decision to approve the vaccine for use with some conditions.
in adults aged 16 and over.
the safety of the public will always come first.
separate teams have been working in parallel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine.
no corners have been cut.
our expert scientists and clinicians have worked round the clock, carefully, methodically poring over tables and analyses and grafts on every single piece of data.
hundreds over 1,000 pages of data and absolutely critically analysing the preclinical evidence, the clinical trials, the manufacturing and quality controls and then down to the final sample.
we have also reviewed and agreed the prescribing information so that the public and health care professionals are very clear and can be very confident that the vaccine is being used in the correct way, understanding what is involved.
and going forward from today, our national institute for biological standards and control will be independently laboratory tested so that every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high standards of safety and quality.
our health correspondent nick triggle is here.
how is it that the has become the first to authorise the use?
we have alking about how it has been a accine has been developed very and know the regulatory rocess has been done very fast.
you the drugs egulator was at ran see the drugs regulator was at pains to stress that no corners have and steps taken.
the final trial results were only made lable three weeks ago.
pfizer ubmitted all their data only two ago but he regulator was able
do this and a very rapid imescale because they had been for the last sprint.
they had looking at the data in eal—time so started working with drugs ompany and trial rganisers in the summer and had monitoring what had been happening so it when the final data esented to them the but end a very strong position to do the final and balances and approve it checks and balances and approve it so the can start vaccinating any eks.
we have held next weeks.
we have held specifically from nicola sturgeon ay, nothing specific from stminster.
what is clear at this int about omeini doses of the vaccine are going to be tributed -- how many and who will be in he first ranche.
we have 800,000 ses arriving within days so talk the vaccination programme rting next week makes sense.
the have been busy working behind scenes to get ready, tortuga ady for december fast and it is a work of more than 1000 centres gnated.
we have vaccination bs, conference centres and adiums to do mass vaccinations but use we only have a limited sunplv initially next week.
hospital , about 50 starting to do some of that initial vaccinating and ring that there is enough supply the vaccine into the country is to be a big hurdle in the coming eks and months.
50 million opla in the over 65 working and alth alth care sectors, each need doses so ere is a big autistic or allenge getting all those cinated and that is we are lso waiting for the results of two accines, one by the firm and by oxford, both before the lator and if we hear of that on it will help fast remote next ar.
even at everything goes othly when we are talking about numbers at is going to be a cess that will take some time.
at is ministers are often king about life to start eturning to some normality around r, restrictions are starting to easter, restrictions are starting to ease.
the pfizer vaccination is an oses of three weeks apart and then true doses of three weeks apart and then another week for full immunity in.
the pfizer vaccine has been brought in from belgium, we have several million doses by he end of the year and a0 million the spring.
oxford university by the spring.
the oxford university vaccine, several million and already country manufactured to your so that gets the green light that help, the third vaccine, the moderna we are not due to get any until the spring
so it is doses until the spring so it is going to take some months for this an impact in terms of the stractions we are seeing.
—— and restrictions we are seeing.
ben osborn is the country manager for pfizer, earlier he spoke to our medical editor fergus walsh and gave his reaction to the news.
it’s an incredible moment for society, and i really think this is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic, both here in the and across the globe.
i couldn’t be prouder right now.
and in terms of doses, give us an idea of how many doses you can get to the , where they’re coming from and how soon we’ll get them.
and we’re scaling up from from there.
our intention is across the globe that this year we will provide up to 50 million doses and through 2021 will provide 1.
3 billion doses around the world.
now, just give us an idea, because it has to be stored minus 70 to 80.
so what sort of logistical problems does that present in getting it to the ?
yes, this is something actually we’re very familiar with.
cold chain transport is something that we’ve got a deep history of with with many vaccines.
yes, it needs to be transported at minus 70.
i think the point we need to really all be clear on is once it reaches the and is ready for deployment, this vaccine can actually be stored in a normal refrigerator between two to eight degrees for five days.
does it come in a special box when it’s being delivered with ice.
just paint a picture for me.
if once it leaves the factory, what sort of what sort of container is it in and and what does that involve?
so the best way to think about this is the individual vials are packed into a tray, which essentially looks like a very flash pizza box.
a number of these pizza boxes are then put into a thermal shipper, which is packed with ice, which maintains very carefully the temperature of the individual vaccines at minus 70 for ten days.
and then comes to the , it obviously then has to be unpacked off those shippers and then packed in something the has — does each time it’s transferred from one cold chain to another.
is there a limit for the number of times that can happen?
so we’re working under sort of very clear processes and regulations to to do that.
ourjob as pfizer is to provide it in line with the with the authorisation for the into the deployment system for the .
they then pick it up from there.
now, in terms of then because people have said we won’t be able to immunise people in care homes because it needs to be stored in in ice at minus 70.
but can you just explain to us that, in fact, that it’s not quite as complex as that?
yeah,
i think this is a really critical point, once the vaccine actually reaches the site of deployment, the vaccine can be stored under refrigerated conditions.
so that’s between two to eight degrees for up to five days.
so that’s a really important point.
and that will allow many populations across the to benefit from this vaccine.
we see the vials coming off your production line.
how many doses are in each vial?
yeah, in each vial there are five individual doses to be drawn up.
i see, so you can have five people, one after another, on each of those bottles, each obviously with their own fresh syringe, gets gets a bit of that.
and how big is the dose?
it’s 30 micrograms?
and essentially what you do is a very simple draw up of the of the dosage and then that’s diluted and then essentiallyjabbed into the individual patients.
how soon after they’ve had the first dose to people then have to have the second one?
after the first dose it’s 21 days later that they have the second dose of this vaccine.
and when does the the full protection, when are you saying the full protection that it gives kicks in?
so our study essentially was measured after seven days after the second dose.
so from that point onwards, we were assessing the efficacy of this vaccine.
some people will be asking, you don’t know anything about this.
they’ll be turning on their and thinking, gosh, that was quick, that the managed to come up with this.
this approval is there.
how would you answer the question that it might have all been done a bit quickly?
so i’m going to make two points.
the first is after the provision of clean water, vaccines are actually the single most effective public health intervention we can make.
the second point very specific to this vaccine is the independence of the process over the last ten months.
so the study was independently assessed.
it wasn’t assessed by pfizer and biotech.
by it was assessed by an independent panel.
of course, we then looked at the data subsequently, but the efficacy and safety test was done by an independent panel.
that data is then taken to an independent regulator with very clear standards and expectations for safety, efficacy and our manufacturing control.
and i think, thirdly, the really important point is we’ve also had our data assessed by thejbi who will be making recommendations to the government for which populations should be treated with our vaccine.
we’ve preordered a0 million doses of this, enough for 20 million people.
give us a sense of how soon you’ll get most or all of those a0 million doses to the .
yes, a0 million doses that the government have bought essentially will be phased in line with their deployment plan through 2020 and building up in 20 21.
this is a complex logistical process across the wider vaccination programme.
so we are supplying in line with the government’s expectations.
we’ve had this pandemic.
the only way we knew we were going to ever going to get out of this with was through science.
how does it feel to now be in a position with your company to be able to offer a vaccine that should see the beginning of the end of this pandemic.
right from the very start we said science will win.
we sit here today now, science is winning.
and it’s just an incredibly proud moment forfor us, not just here in the , but for scientists around the world.
more on the vaccine coming up on the one o’clock news.
"our planet is broken" — that’s the warning the secretary general of the united nations will give later when he outlines that tackling global warming is now the central objective of the .
in a special broadcast, antonio guterres also says "there is no vaccine for the planet".
here’s our chief environment correspondent, justin rowlatt.
2020 has been a year of dramatic weather extremes.
greenhouse gas concentrations are still rising in the atmosphere, despite the covid—19lockdowns, says the head of the united nations.
secretary—general antonio guterres, will say there is no vaccine for the planet.
biodiversity is collapsing, deserts are spreading, oceans are choking with plastic waste, and apocalyptic fires and floods, cyclones and hurricanes are the new normal.
terrible wildfires raged across australia, burning vast areas.
and there were huge wildfires in california, and even arctic siberia.
the secretary—general says the world now faces a moment of truth.
every country, city, financial institution and company should adopt plans for transition to net zero emissions by 2050.
and take decisive action now to put themselves on the right path.
it is five years since the world came together in paris to agree, for the first time, that every nation needs to play a part in tackling climate change.
some progress has been made, but not enough, according to the secretary—general.
guterres will say economic pressure should be used to help curb emissions.
it is time that those who pollute the atmosphere with greenhouse gases pay a price for that pollution, he will say.
he will urge countries to end all subsidies forfossilfuels, and will say that taxes should move from income to carbon.
it is a bold agenda, putting tackling climate change at the very heart of the united nations’ role.
but the science is clear.
the secretary general will say unless the world reduces emissions, we face disaster.
justin rowlatt, news.
secretary general on our special programme ‘state of the planet’ at eight thirty this evening here on the news channel.
antonio guterres will also be joined by climate activists from around the world, including sir david attenborough.
simon mccoy is coming up with the news at one.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with darren bett the weather below can feel very different over the next couple of , getting colder already but feeling cold through the week, ing more unsettled which means wet weather, rain for many, sleet now more likely over the in the orth.
because pushes end to the h—west of the now sweeping oss he whole country tonight and across the whola country tonight and into tomorrow.
that is the straight bit, the complication is we up with an area of more pressure ing bands of wet weather, bringing bands of wet weather, threatening snow and it is going to ficult to get the detail be difficult to get the detail exactly right.
the cold here brings showers, continuing through his evening, the damp and drizzly ather red from the south—east weather cleared from the south-east and the showers in the north—west orthern ireland and scotland across northern ireland and scotland turning increasingly wintry.
that icy conditions in scotland for in icy conditions in scotland and northern ireland with a frost likely here, not quite so cold cross england and wales because the increases later, wet weather into wales and the south—west and will push much of england and wales through the day.
ntually some snow over the welsh lls.
brighten another angle, still wintry showers but in scotland northern ireland they tend to away suffered many a cold and crisp quite sunny day but peratures are barely above eezing.
highest across the south ast of england when wetter weather lops.
that could arrive and to south—east on thursday but at same ime later and the innate weather into scotland which is snow to many levels, could be avy on the hose, gradually turning in across most places
but we re stuck with wetter weather across hern england, the midlands and ast anglia, some snow and sleet and levels, drier weather to wants arts of south wales and the uth—west but another cold day and the owed coastal areas as when the arrowed coastal areas as well.
enter the weekend it gradually , still in the cold air but comes, still in the cold air but turning drier, winds dropping ugh the weekend, still patchy wet weather around and mostly rain urday, looks a lot drier on sunday, still only cold air and a frost risk at night.
the becomes the first country in the world to approve the pfizer coronavirus vaccine.
immunisation will start next week — the prime minister tells the house of commons the development is fantastic news.
it is the protection of vaccines that will ultimately allow us to reclaim our lives.
and get our economy moving again.
the medicines regulator says checks have been thorough, no corners have been cut, as pfizer says shipping will happen very, very quickly.
it’s an incredible moment for society, and i really think this is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic, both here in the and across the globe.
i couldn’t be prouder right now.
we’ll be asking, "who will get the vaccine first and how?
" with our medical editor and our health editor.
also this lunchtime: 55 million go into the strictest tiers in england, as new restrictions replace the second national lockdown.
hello, darling!
when did we last cuddle?
february.
at last, a hug for loved ones, as care homes prepare to give covid tests to visitors.
after 266 long days, the return of fans to english league football is finally here, but the number of supporters is limited.
and coming up on news:
british driver george russell says he’s unbelievably grateful to williams and mercedes, after being confirmed as lewis hamilton’s replacement for this weekend’s sakhir grand prix.
good afternoon, and welcome to the news at one.
‘help is on its way’ — the words used by the health secretary, matt hancock, on the news that the has become the first country in the world to approve a coronavirus vaccine for widespread use.
the firstjabs could be given within days — for those who need it most, like staff, care home workers and residents.
the has already ordered a0 million doses, enough to vaccinate 20 million people, with the first 800,000 arriving in the coming days.
95% effective, the pfizer/biontech vaccine is the fastest ever to go from concept to reality, taking only ten months to follow the same steps that normally span a decade.
the medicine regulator says no corners have been cut.
now the country prepares for one of the biggest civilian projects in history.
our health correspondent, jim reed, reports.
another crucial hurdle cleared, as the world tries to get back to al.
this time next week, these accines made by the drugs companies tech and pfizer will be available to people in this country.
me the medicines regulator gave the green light for the jab to lled out nationwide.
the ccine will be made available across the from next week.
i would like to pay tribute to and to all those who have made it sible.
it is the protection of accines that will ultimately allow reclaim our lives and get our economy moving again.
the regulator the says the pfizer hich offers up to 95% jab, which offers up to 9596 protection gainst the covid—19 ness, is safe to begin a full roll-out fter giving emergency roval.
it is an incredible moment or society and i really think this a turning point in the fight inst this pandemic, both here in the and across the globe.
i couldn’t be prouder right now.
it is stest ever vaccine to go from concept to reality, taking only ten to follow the same scientific that normally take a decade.
parate teams have been working in llel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine.
no corners have been cut.
our expert ntists and clinicians have orked round the clock, carefully, thodically ing over tables and methodically poring over tables and analyses and graphs.
on every single of data.
ministers say 800,000 oses of this vaccine will be ilable from next week and met ith millions more before the end of ear.
it will need two injections, three weeks apart.
a panel of government advisers has set gets it first based on out who gets it first based on clinical need.
this morning, they shed their inal published their final recommendations.
they said around a on older care home residents million older rare home residents and staff should be first in line, owed by the over 80 group, other ealth and social workers.
this is one of the programme