welcome to news.
i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: the first coronavirus death in europe.
a chinese tourist in his 80 dies after being diagnosed in france.
canada leads renewed calls for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner brought down over tehran in january.
hello and welcome to news.
health officials in china have reported that the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 — with 139 new deaths and more than 1,800 new cases confirmed in the last couple of hours.
in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died from the virus after visiting hubei province, the epicentre of the outbreak.
it’ the first fatality from the disease in europe.
it comes as the head of the world health organization has said that it’ too early to know if the outbreak will become a global pandemic.
nick beake reports from hong kong.
china has declared war on an invisible killer.
sending more ors as well as soldiers into the worst affected area.
but now the new coronavirus has claimed its first victim outside asia — an elderly chinese man who had travelled to france.
: last night, i was informed of the death of an 80—year—old patient who had been hospitalised at the bichat hospital since the 25th of january and who was suffering from a coronavirus lung infection.
back in china, all those returning to the capital beijing after what’ been an extended holiday have been told they must quarantine themselves for two weeks.
passengers of many nationalities are still stuck aboard the diamond princess off the coast of japan.
285 people have now tested positive for the virus on the ship and america says it will remove all of its citizens tomorrow and them home.
there is no such escape from wuhan, the chinese city where the outbreak began.
officials have reported more than 2&00 new cases there and 139 new deaths.
in the rest of the world we only have 505 cases and two deaths while in china we have more than 66,000 cases.
let me be clear.
it is impossible to predict which direction this epidemic will take.
beijing claims it’ acted quickly and decisively to to stop the spread, but few are willing to predict what the global impact of this crisis will be.
nick beake, news, hong kong.
and for more details on the outbreak, go to our website.
you can find information on the spread of the disease, as well as in depth articles like this one, about how effective it is to wear a mask.
just go to bbc.
com/news to find all of that.
canada hosted has meeting at the munich security conference along with the four other countries, which lost citizens when iran’ military shot down a ukrainian passenger plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
canada is pushing iran to release the black boxes from the crash so their data can be properly analysed by facilities in france.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet sat down with the canadian foreign minister after the meeting in munich and asked him whether any progress had been made.
after 30 days of trying, we have to come to the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative, and we know at that point that the french have offered that they have the latest technology, they have the expertise, to read the content of the black box, to download the content, and to do that in a transparent fashion.
but would you consider iran’ request from the foreign minister, saying, give us the technical support to examine the black boxes in iran?
couldn’ you do that?
well, the experts have spoken.
the experts have said it’ not the type of equipment you can transport.
it looks more like a lab.
for those who are watching at home.
it is not like a piece of equipment you can put in your luggage.
it is the software and the hardware you need to have to do that, especially when the black boxes have been damaged.
so what we are saying is we saw that you requested that, the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side there is no way that we can do that in iran.
so the only remaining alternative is to send it to a third country which would be in this case france, which has offered to assist, because i think france understands the international community has a lot of questions.
and i always say that the best antidote to conspiracy is transparency.
have you made any other progress here on the other big issue, which is compensation?
you say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out of 176 were canadian.
iran says they were iranians.
they of course have the two passports.
so the compensation you are asking for, iran says, they cannot accept.
is this something where compromise can be found?
are you finding it?
well, what we have hopefully established by now is that the compensation to be paid to the heirs of the victims will be the same to everyone.
and we also said that this process of negotiation, on a global settlement, should start quickly.
i remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents, i mean, this is a tragedy.
you know, let me bring it back to, for canada, this has been a national tragedy.
families have lost their loved ones.
i was there with prime minister trudeau, we went to meet families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
stand up to the regime.
make sure that they are accountable.
we closure, we we accountability, we want justice, we want transparency.
that is what animates me every time i meet them.
and that is prime minister trudeau said he went to attend the meeting you had with the foreign minister of iran, some of the families are expressing concern about the look of that, the photos of a smiling encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
well, the prime minister came with one purpose.
it was to make sure that the iranians counterpart understood how serious the issue was.
not only for the grieving families in canada, not only for the government of canada, but i think for the world.
i think having 3 prime minister come into the room and states that, itjust reinforced the message.
that was the canadian foreign minister speaking a little ier.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the british television presenter, caroline flack, has been found dead at her home in london.
a lawyer for her family said she had taken her own life.
the —year—old had hosted one of the ’ top shows, love island.
but in december she stood down as the host of the show ahead of a trial next month for allegedly assaulting her partner.
she denied the charge.
at least eight ecuadorean football fans have died when their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were supporters of barcelona guayaquil and were celebrating their team’ win in lima.
police in paris have arrested a russian performance artist who posted a sex tape online which ended the election campaign of president macron’ candidate for mayor of paris.
petr pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door at russia’ state security headquarters, said he had wanted to expose what he said was benjamin griveaux’ "hypocrisy".
prosecutors said pavlensky was being questioned about an alleged fight.
the secretary of state mike pompeo is in senegalfor talks with president macky sail about security ties and economic cooperation.
his visit is taking place as the united states seeks to reduce its military presence in africa.
as we’ve been hearing, the television presenter shows has been found dead at her home in east london.
herfamily says she took her own life.
flack who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation she denied.
she fronted programmes that garnered many millions of viewers, including ’ the factor and love island.
she won strictly come dancing in 2014.
here’ our media correspondent, david sillito.
it’ the return of the flack!
love island, factor, i’ a celebrity, caroline flack was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes on british television.
she was, until a few weeks ago, the face of love island — the glamorous, escapist fun.
let’ talk love.
who’ looking for the real thing?
but everything unravelled after she was arrested and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
in court in december it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
today, she was found dead at her flat.
her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock and heartbreak at the news.
love island is a show that thrives on its impact on social media and tonight thousands were expressing their grief and sympathy.
but her court appearance was proof enough that she was also facing intense scrutiny.
both in the press and online.
on its best days, social media is a very powerful tool for these presenters because they can effortlessly and immediately communicate with so many different fans and really bring their own personality to the fore.
the problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny and attention does not go away.
it stays with them.
the macdonut brothers!
her career went back nearly 20 years.
this, on children’ , and in 2014 she won strictly come dancing.
the night she won, elation.
but she spoke afterwards of her struggles with depression and then came the assault charge.
she was accused of hitting her boyfriend while she slept.
he stood by her, but they were not allowed to communicate before her forthcoming trial.
she was also advised to stay off social media — but she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added, "this kind of scrutiny and speculation is a lot to take for one person.
" another post read simply: "in a world where you can be anything, be kind.
" caroline flack — who has died at the age of a0.
homes have been evacuated in the scottish borders, where rivers swollen by the weekend’ storms are expected to cause extensive flooding.
two people were rescued from a car which was swept off a road in newcastleton, when a river burst its banks.
in west yorkshire, the army has been drafted in to shore up flood defences, with river levels expected to peak overnight.
helena wilkinson reports.
amongst the first evidence of damage by storm dennis was here in south wales.
this village is where people’ homes are under serious threat.
a similar picture tonight in harberton in devon.
dozens of flood warnings are still in place across the country as the rain continues to fall.
in ilkley and calderdale in west yorkshire — areas still recovering from last week’ storm — the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
there are a number of places where the local resilience authorities thought they had a problem with the flood defences that are currently in place so we have been asked to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences in in both places.
some of the worst affected parts could see up to 140 millimetres of rainfall and gusts of up to 80 miles an hour.
certainly with the amount of rain that is forecast, 100mm or a month’ worth of rainfall on top of what is incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk and that’ we are warning people to take action and that’ we are doing the kind of things we’re doing here.
not far away, in hebden bridge, there’ no respite from the persistent rain.
the scottish environment protection agency has issued flood warnings and advice for residents here in dumfries and galloway plus elsewhere in the borders, south lanarkshire and south ayrshire.
for many, the half term getaway has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
almost 100 from here at gatwick.
at heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them british airways.
and on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most of the country, meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
helena wilkinson, news.
our correspondent phil bodmer is in mytholmroyd in west yorkshire which took a heavy hit during storm ciara last week.
tonight, the rain is falling under the rivers are still rising.
this is the calder and you can see how quickly it is now moving.
you can maybe see these big bags of ballast which have been brought into bolster the flood defences.
earlier today we saw the arrival of about 100 soldiers from the north scots, they have been helping to install temporary flood barriers.
they are being supported by around another 100 part—time soldiers from the yorkshire regiment who have been dispersed between here, the calder valley, and up in ilkley, where there is great concern about the falling rain tonight.
the environment agency say they are expecting peak river levels here on the calder in the early hours of this morning sometime between 23 and ham, but that rain is still coming down tonight stop in the meantime, people living all along this valley, all they can do is watch, wait and hope that we do not see a repeat of what we saw here last weekend.
and for the latest information on storm dennis in your area, you can find out more, on your local online pages, or tune in to your local radio station.
more from the munich security conference.
senior american and afghan sources say the first phase of a deal with the afghan taliban is set to begin shortly with the start of what is known as a seven—day reduction in violence by taliban forces.
and the taliban are also expected to make an announcement.
we’re joined by jarrett blanc who is a senior fellow at the carnegie endowment for international peace.
it’ good to speak to you again.
what is the risk olved in this?
we spoke esterday, obviously, but what think both sides have to lose from this?
obviously there hings to win in terms of eace, there always is, but at are the risks involved?
et’ look at the short term onger term.
the short and longer term.
in the short term, the risk associated with uction of violence and a reduction of violence and conditioning the beginning of ban— afghan swords on a taliban- afghan swords on a recess full does make a cessful reduction of violence is that spoilers her of the most important part of this agreement, which beginning of inter— fghan words.
over the longer rm, the risk is the peace don’ work and either the iban want to much in the overnment and legitimate position don’ get their act gether to make a reasonable of proposals and demands to taliban
and you end up in a uation where you are and a eclining number of american and ongoing civil war.
troops and ongoing civil war.
what is the timeline for this?
is this joint statement pected soon.
a reduction in lence, when is that expected tart?
well, the americans been a little bit cagey bout about that so far.
my understanding is it is very , maybe in the couple of soon, maybe in the couple of days.
one speculation is they rying to get that in time for president trump to somehow volved in the formal conclusion of the deal on his to india.
and one of the headlines involved here as be expected is, troops would be expected is, troops potentially leaving hanistan.
what with the fects of that be?
the mediate effect of going from ,000 troops now to 8000 roops in a few months is ally minimal.
there will till be more troops in ghanistan at the end of that itial drawdown down there here in the obama dministration, so it really is hat important.
as you go not that important.
as you go from that number, 8000, down to ntially zero, either you going to have a peace deal all parties adhere to, or are going to end up in a tuation where there is still ngoing civil war.
and if that is the case then the wdown will have to be measured very carefully to the government forces to tain themselves and not uffered the blow would be devastating in the ongoing conflict.
quite a arties involved.
it is going to be interesting to see hey align this agreement, it does end up happening.
arrett anc, that is all we have ime for, but jarrett anc, hank you.
live for us in washington.
this is news.
the headlines: a chinese tourist in his 80 has died in france after contracting coronavirus — it’ the first fatality from the disease outside asia.
the love island presenter caroline flack has been found dead at her london flat.
the —year—old had been due to stand trial next month for assault, a charge she denied.
herfamily say she took her own life.
let’ stay with that story now, and earlier my colleague martine croxall spoke to the critic scott bryan and to the entertainment journalist, caroline frost who said caroline flack was integral to the successful reboot of love island.
she personified the charm, on that programme’ best days, it’ about glamour and fun and romance and the promise of a glittering future.
and she seemed to personify all of that, she seemed to be on the side of the contestants, she seemed to effortlessly handle the show and within the format of it, really make the contestants feel as though she was rooting for them.
and as all presenters talk about it, it’ much, much harder than it looks.
it takes huge professionalism and a massive does of authenticity.
i think it would have been very apparent if she was to have that kind of appeal.
as scott has said, it wasn’ a one—off.
she’ in other shows, she won strictly come dancing in 2014, she was on the extra factor and then on the —factor and her career was on the rise and culminating .
" she can almost single—handedly take a lot of the credit for that incredible reboot.
love island, it can’ be overestimated, the surprise hit factor of it.
every other show in the demographic is falling by the wayside, people going to youtube and other platforms.
love island has kept that young, crucialaudience in its millions tuning in year after year
and i think if nothing else, her legacy will show that she really was up there with the very, very best of prime—time presenters.
it’ easy to dismiss programmes like that but if you’ve got the right programme with the right host, it can make all the difference.
and you will soon be shown up if you’re not really, if you don’ have the skills or talent to cope.
is a powerful medium with that authenticity, you are able to have a relationship as if that person is a friend or somebody close to them, even if it’ through a different lens.
and it’ also the fact that they are able to really guide through people when being on is a difficult thing.
i think we’re going to have a discussion, as we have had many times before, that even though someone taking their own life, there are many complex issues, what we will be having a discussion about is the care of people in the public eye who get scrutiny because of our personal lives, who have tabloid stories written about them, who have social media with instant reaction from the public on what they’re saying and what they’re doing.
about what they are saying and what they are doing
and i think people are going to be thinking very carefully about their own conduct and we are going to have a discussion in terms of reality shows and their role in their lives
and i think this is an important discussion to have as well.
and if you’ve been affected by any of the issues raised, action line, and there’ the number for you there on your screen.
the venezuelan government says huge numbers of soldiers and civilians have begun a two—day military drill to prepare for what it describes as the "threat of invasion" by —led forces.
the opposition leader, juan guaido, dismissed the manoeuvres as a "propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
" with me is our americas editor, leonardo rocha.
the another, thank you for joining us.
is nicolas uro doing this?
is in a way aking a statement and sending a message to the united states that the venezuelan la, , or at least more than 2 peopla, or at least more than 2 million people who are part of elissa will support him, prepared for anything.
his sers, his military advisors, cuban, many of them rained in cuba and they learned from the cuban example.
arm the population, if if you arm the population, if you have a well—organised ghbourhood committees, one who tries to get into venezuelan knows that there be a bloodbath.
so he is would be a bloodbath.
so he is pitching himself and the people inst erica?
against merica?
against america and now there are two eighbours of venezuela, big neighbours of venezuela, colombia and brazil, having ile governments.
so this hostila governments.
so this right-wing government, one of eason of these exercises is nicolas maduro said those ountries are harbouring rrorist groups, training in eir territory to prepare a ossible invasion if the portunity is right.
his trategy at the moment is to a nationalistic hope and that up against what he uld say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
yes.
we have to bear in mind that ezuela has behaved inflation in the ld.
violence more in the world.
violance more than 5 million venezuelans have the country in the last few years.
the economy is in a .
the police are in a stalemate, you have a very ficult situation.
what the pposition says is he is eating a diversion.
you reate the threat of an enemy, olas maduro says the american empire is trying to venezuela, it has the iggest known oil reserves in world.
so there is all that his side was that he is oping the economy will over, it has recovered somewhat in the meantime, so he gain the confidence of the majority of venezuelans.
is one guaido’ plan here?
- juan guaido?
seems to have lost omentum.
his rategy is to keep pushing and here if the opportunity comes.
if the government eriorates he is there but he has been one year since the recognised him as the itimate leader of venezuela nothing has happened in terms since then.
it will nteresting to see how this bilisation of millions of eopla is and whether they ever use them.
leonardo ocha, thank you for the ate.
the venezuelan government says huge numbers of soldiers the duchess of cambridge has been speaking about one of the most personal moments of her life, dealing with the birth of her first child.
appearing on the ‘happy mum, happy baby’ podcast, she talks about the pregnancy, and the crippling morning sickness that forced her into hospital.
here’ our royal correspondent, daniela relph.
the podcast was recorded during a visit to this south london nursery.
improving the lives of families with young children is now the priority for the duchess of cambridge and dominates her royal work.
with podcast host giovanna fletcher, the duchess spoke personally about everything from the value of her own stable upbringing to the guilt that can come with motherhood.
here leaving hospital after being admitted with severe morning sickness while pregnant with prince george, she also described the terrible strain of the condition.
lots of people have it far, far worse, but it was definitely a challenge, notjust for me but also for your loved ones around you and william did not feel he could do much to help.
and it is hard for everyone to see suffering without actually being able to do anything about it.
catherine revealed she used hypno—birthing — a breathing and relaxation technique — when pregnant.
and she was asked about that very public hospital departure.
what is it like?
it was terrifying, i’ not going to lie!
and for us to be able to share that joy and appreciation with the public, ifelt, that was really important.
but equally, it was coupled with a newborn baby and sort of inexperienced parents and the uncertainty about what that held.
these insights tie in with the duchess’ campaign to get more help earlierfor vulnerable families.
she said billions of pounds were spent fixing the problems in later life — a cost she described as crazy.
daniela relph, news.
now the weather with chris fawkes.
hello.
storm dennis continues to but have written.
this was bott aaron.
we have all seen lots of rain as well.
the has been causing problems, rain has been causing problams, particularty across parts of thern england, wales, the midlands and south—west land.
here are lots of ﬂood england.
there are lots of flood warnings in force and a mber flawed warnings continue does make flood rnings ntinue to rise hour warnings continue to rise hour by hour.
with more heavy rain forecast, that is earty in the forecast, that is clearly not a good thing.
ooking he satellite looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis use of the centre is near because of the centre is near iceland but this trailing ther front stretching for a ouple of,000 miles into the antic is causing problems cause the winds are blowing llel to the front, rather parallal to the front, rather than across it.
that means the get stuck.
what that front get stuck.
what that means is we have more heavy to come as we head into he first part of sunday.
some heaviest bowls of rain will be across wales, the west ands and south—west midlands and south-west england.
if anything, the rain heavier than we saw on saturday, for example.
and will be some heavy falls there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at .
given that we are ready have a number flood warnings at oice, ings could get invoice, things could get really quite nasty for a time as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
colder cross the north with blustery showers.
looking ugh the picture for the through the picture for the rest of sunday, our ather front tracks its way to the th—east.
there is a risk his front uld be slower to clear in southern and is in as of england.
in other words, there could be quite a rain left over even into afternoon here.
it’ going a windy day everywhere, usts in than 50—60 miles an our, 70 on ghosts and hour, 70 on some ghosts and those winds strong enough to down and old tree or two bring down and old tree or two -- gusts was not whether from ooding rain or from those the ﬂooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
ers continue to feed inland cross the north and west as we go on into sunday night.
if anything, the winds are going stronger a time to get stronger for a time across the far north of england cotland as storm dennis ses the far north of cotland.
the wind is picking ould cause problems here up could cause problams here for transport as we head into ay morning for scotland.
for the rest of monday, the broadly and showery.
the taking a while before winds taking a while before they eased down gradually to fternoon.
the winds will continue to make it feel quite across the eastern and northern areas.
beyond that it unsettled for the rest of feels unsettled for the rest of the week ahead.
the rain cells forecast for most days in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite 20.
for of us it will also stay on the mild side.
in london, peratures up to next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is news.
the headlines: health officials in china say the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 — with 139 new deaths and more than 1,800 new cases confirmed.
in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died, the first —19 death in europe.
the british presenter, caroline flack, has been found dead at her london flat.
the —year—old had been due to stand trial next month for assault, an allegation she denied.
herfamily say she took her own life.
flack stood down from the dating show love island after being charged.
much of western europe is being battered by a storm front that’ causing severe travel disruption.
in britain, winds have been gusting at up to 120 kilometres an hour.
in the north of england, troops have been deployed in villages under threat of flooding.
a british asian singer arjun, who’ had millions of views on youtube, is warning young people about heart attacks.
arjun’ wife died suddenly and unexpectedly six months he’ now organising a concert this weekend to raise awareness of the risk of heart disease to young people.
asian network’ shabnam mahmood.
singer arjun has not notched up millions of views on youtube, including his latest video dedicated to his wife ofjust six months.
my baby, gone.
can you see me down here?
it was the first time i’ve actually able to been put my feelings onto paper after about a year and a half of trying to work out how to deal with things.
part of my therapy was to write things down in song.
the first time i had seen our footage from the wedding was actually in the video, really, so after that it was quite painful.
natasha passed away due to a sudden cardiac arrest in september 2018.
for a long time, that was bad, a harrowing process and that was it, she was declared dead on the spot.
nice to meet you.
for the first time since his wife’ death, arjun has agreed to have a heart check—up.
every week, over 12 young people under 35 in the die from heart—related conditions.
in 80% of cases, there are no prior symptoms.
and on what should have been his second wedding anniversary, he’ organising a concert with a host of stars in memory of his late wife.
he is hoping the show will raise money for the charity , cardiac arrest in the young, which offers screening tests to identify those at risk.
shabnam mahmood, news.
now on news it’ time for the travel show.
coming up on this week’ programme: electric tuk—tu ks.
it is almost silent, the suspension is still the same though.
fatphobia and the woman that beat it.
and, look away now if you don’ like snakes.
we are starting ourjourney in sri lanka’ capital city colombo, where the two kings of the road are the tuk—tuks, also known as auto rickshaws or three—wheelers.
ahh!
and where honking seems to be a national sport.
nothing like the great honking horn of a giant bus to put fear in you.
there is actually over a million tuk—tuks here in sri lanka and it definitely shows, because these things are everywhere.
that’ a pretty high number for a country ofjust over 20 million people.
the prospect of good money has prompted many young people to become a driver here.
the number of tuk—tuks hasjumped eightfold in the last 15 years, causing a little bit of congestion on colombo’ roads.
and it is notjust the pros.
driving a rented tuk—tuk is increasingly popular with tourists too.
are you renting a tuk—tuk today?
what is it about a tuk—tuk that made you go, i will get in one of these today?
well it’ because of the convenience — i can stop it wherever i want and i ran go wherever i want.
having that freedom is really important to you then?
how excited are you honour scale of one to ten?
0,100.
tourists need a local driving license to drive a tuk—tuk here, but also some practice.
i think i need some assistance!
0.
thushari has been a tuk—tuk driver for four years.
female drivers remain a rare sight in sri lanka, but times are slowly changing.
say in neutral, otherwise i’ll jump forward, gotcha.
so the horn is my friend.
yes.
right, so they are your top tips?
i think i am ready for the road, thank you.
you really feel that lack of suspension.
and there are so many potholes here, oh!
once you reach that level of comfort with driving, the best thing about driving a tuk—tuk is that you can just take in all the gorgeous scenery.
and on my left is the beautiful ocean.
but the gentle ocean breeze isn’ enough to disperse the emissions produced by the millions of vehicles on sri lanka’ roads.
air pollution in its capital city regularly exceeds the levels recommended by the world health organization.
ten years ago the government banned the import of the most polluting rickshaws, the 2—stroke engines, but several hundreds of thousands remain on the roads.
the pollution definitely isn’ as bad as i thought it would be, but it is definitely palpable — in fact i think ijust ate some.
as part of the global fight against climate change, sri lanka has pledged to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2030.
this man hopes his invention will help achieve his country’ goals.
50 his is what you have been working on?
yes, this is our electric tuk—tuk, this didn’ really look like this earlier, it was a very old chassis that i used.
we basically took the engine off here and fixed the motor to the old gearbox
and then we have the battery pack that is placed under the seat.
sasiranga silva won a award for creating a simple kit which converts petrol tuk—tuk engines to electric.
what inspired you to develop this electric technology, what was the inspiration behind it?
as you can see sri lanka is a beautiful country, but since recently we noticed that the emission levels are higher, so the respiratory diseases, levels of disease are going high there, so i thought, you know, as an engineer, if i do my best, to contribute to bring the emissions down in sri lenka.
what do you think it is going to take to get your conversion get up and running, produced on a mass scale?
because it is quite high, and a tuk—tuk is quite a low cost product, so the conversion cost has to be as low as possible for drivers to afford it.
so i have been doing so many research so i can downside the battery so i can reduce the cost.
sasiranga hopes he can bring the cost of his conversion kit down by a quarter, to the equivalent of about $1700 or £1300.
and here’ another eye—catching innovation — an emission—free electric model.
of course the litmus test will be whether electric tuk—tuks are accepted by local drivers.
this is where the magic happens.
so i have asked this thushari to join me on a taster session.
so this is it, yeah, 3 bit different to what we’re used to.
i am going in the back though.
makes a change, to be driven around.
it’ so quiet, isn’ it?
compared to the four stroke engine, it’ almost silent.
the suspension’ still the same though, still getting rattled around in the back.
we’re pretty lucky though, we’re among the first people to this electric tuk—tuk.
excellent driving, excellent driving.
so how was it, how did it feel?
ifeel your pain.
and would you one day like to own one of these?
the issue of affordability will decide whether electric tuk—tuks are ever developed on a mass scale.
but here, the project’ manager is bullish about the future.
whether we like it or not, the future is electrification of the transportation system.
so i think in the next five years or so, it is going to come into the streets, and even bikes and even scooters, so it is going to happen in the nearfuture, yeah.
five years is ambitious, but who knows — the spirit of innovation and a smattering of political will might be just enough to clear the air in colombo.
stay with us, because still to come: the traveller who took on the fatphobes and won.
and snakes in the rainforest — how thisjungle paradise is about to quadruple in size.
so don’ go away.
right in the heartland of sri lanka lies kandy, a bustling historical and religious town, set around a tranquil artificial lake and surrounded by scenic hills.
there are hundreds of hotels here to choose from in kandy, but there is one that beats all others for one thing — eccentricity.
this hotel was built in the 19305, and its current owner helga has filled it with a mishmash of art pieces adorned with antique furniture and wall—to—wall ceiling paintings and photographs.
this quirky art was originally a form of therapy.
i was going through a rather dark period myself, going through a bitter divorce.
and my father said to just get out of your system, paint it out.
at first it was all black and then came the gold monkeys, see no evil, speak and hear, you know.
itjust progressed from there, and i thought this was fun.
this place is just completely covered in beautiful old photos.
what you get is a real sense of pride in the family’ history and heritage.
they have had some really famous visitors here too — like gandhi.
you have got quite an eccentric style.
how would you define your style though?
well, i don’ think i am particularly eccentric.
i mean, this is a minimalist’ nightmare.
as somebody said, this place doesn’ have a theme — i said life doesn’ have a theme.
with the dark lighting and the cobwebs and the kind of dark artwork along this corridor, there is a real eerie, ghostly feel to this place.
i kinda feel i am going to meet someone, orsomething at the end of it.
there definitely was someone around a couple freshly settled in their room for the night.
i kind of like this because the room is really nice, you can see it’ all pink, thank god it’ not black.
for sure i’ not coming out of the room in the night, that’ for sure.
i don’ want to get killed.
art must be fun.
i like art to make people smile, i like people to smile.
next this week, the latest part in our series about travelling differently.
this time we met the woman who decided that bodyshamers would not stop doing what she loves most.
i am such an explorer, a naturally nomadic person.
i want to see the world and so travel for me as my happy place.
it’ joy.
but when i am in one place for too long, i feeljust not myself.
like, i always want to be on the go.
i’ kellie brown, i’ a youtuber, influencer and traveller.
good morning.
it is our first full day in lisbon.
we got here yesterday.
delirium, jetlag, checking in to the airbnb, all we did was take a walk around the neighbourhood.
but today we are out and about and we will explore.
so as much as travel excites me, there are things that can be intimidating.
being a plus size person, you never know what levels of fat phobia you may be exposed to.
different cultures are a little more outwardly fat phobic but it’ not something that would stop me from going where i want to be.
just a couple of girls on their way to barcelona.
we have a long flight and we’re about to have a lot of fun, so come with us.
come!
when it comes to flights, i think it is something that i didn’ realise how many larger people were really afraid of, until i would talk about travelling on my youtube channel.
i want to talk to you about travelling while fat.
and, you know, i would get comments like i am terrified of flying, not because i am afraid of the plane, but i am afraid of how people perceive me or my seatmate or if i have to ask for a seatbelt extender.
i had someone roll their eyes one time, i was walking past their seat and they rolled their eyes like "you sitting with me?
" and i wasn’.
i ended up being lucky in having a whole row to myself, to which i was laid out and they were all crushed.
i’ like "that’ what you get".
will pass it to you so discreetly, ‘here honey, here you go.
‘ and i’ like, ‘thank you!
‘ click.
just wandering down random alleys in a strange land.
whether you’re travelling in europe or asia, africa, throughout the , in australia, you know, i think there are going to be people with an opinion about your weight no matter where you go.
and so how that informs the places — the choices i make when it comes to travel is to not make that a thing.
you know?
the first thing i care about is safety and what’ happening globally — like are they in crisis or war?
these are the things you think about when you travelling because if you worry about how every single person in any given country or city is going to receive your largeness, you would not go anywhere.
i could go down the street to the grocery store and someone can have an opinion about me.
but it’ not prevent me from walking around the city in which i live.
i can’ let that stop me from exploring the world.
and there you have it, ladies and gentlemen.
your dance break.
now sri lanka is like heaven for nature lovers.
almost half the people who come here do some sort of wildlife activity.
beyond the big beasts like leopards and elephants, there’ a trove of smaller critters — many that you will find nowhere else on the planet.
and that’ we have come to the wet zone on the south—west of the island.
now, i know you can’ see much apart from really tall trees but mother nature’ soundtrack is truly spectacular.
this is the edge of sri lanka’ last primary rainforest, sinharaja.
it’ a hotspot for biodiversity — rare plants, unique bird species, amphibians and snakes all thrive here.
it’ so important ecologically, that there are plans to quadruple it in size.
the only way to explore it is by foot.
and for that you’ll need some serious legwear.
so the forest is also home to bloodthirsty leeches, so i picked up these attractive anti—leech socks in the hopes that i make it out without any of them attached to my skin.
ridma used to hike and swim in the forest as a child.
it’ so dense.
yeah.
just a tiny amount of sunlight coming through.
he now runs tours of the jungle around the island.
it’ slippery.
the sinharaja forest covers more than 8,000 hectares but you do not need to walk very far to spot some wildlife.
here, look.
it is a kangaroo lizard.
it’ tiny!
it almost doesn’ look real.
some of it is after your blood.
he’ just moving until he can settle down and then he will suck blood from me.
the way it moves is creeping me out at the moment and it’ so small.
i shouldn’ be scared.
when he sucks the blood he will grow three times the size.
and now he is getting
and i can feel it.
really?
what does he feel like?
just a tiny little pinch.
oh, you can see it getting bigger!
now he is sucking blood.
in truth, every inch of this rainforest is buzzing with life.
there are plenty of spiders of course, but we’re here for something a bit more slippery.
see there.
it’ a green pit viper.
under the leaf.
oh, my gosh!
almost the same colour as the leaf.
it’ tiny.
it’ a big one.
if this snake bites me what happens?
it’ quite painful.
it gives you cramp.
and like, it depends on your condition.
stay away.
ridma’ expert eyes soon spotted another baby snake on our path.
what’ the name of this snake?
it is an ahaetulla, eye catcher, eye catch snake.
because they are used to — here on the trees at your eye level and with this see?
he tried to go for you!
he is a little one.
he has no venom but he does have teeth.
he will bite you until blood comes out.
oh, my god.
wow!
you weren’tjoking, weren’ you, when you said it was worth it?
every time i come into here it is notjust going into thejungle.
i come into a big living creature.
the rainforest is alive.
is it true that there are plans to quadruple the size of the rainforest?
it’ on the papers now
but it is a big project and it takes time.
and it’ good because sinharaja gives us a lot of things, you know, like the rain to the whole other part of the country.
this will be amazing for sri lanka.
across the country.
not only for sri lanka but for the world.
yeah.
we made it!
there are 104 different types of snakes in sri lanka.
only six are deadly to humans.
but with about 80,000 bites a year, this country has one of the world’ highest bite rates per capita.
most victims are local farmers working in paddy fields.
once they are treated in hospital they often turn to people like pieris for the after—care.
pieris has been an ayuverdic doctorfor over a0 years.
he says he has treated more snake bites than he can remember.
so this is how you make the treatment for your patients?
oh, that looks painful!
what happened 7 this villager is lucky.
a bite from a hump—nosed viper can be fatal.
this mixture of herbs will make the swelling disappear.
so is this exactly what ayuverdic treatment is?
using herbs to treat snake bites?
0.
i’ not going to touch this hand
but i want to wish you all the luck with your healing process.
it sounds like you are in good hands.
it has been an honour to meet you.
thank you so much and good luck with everything.
i’ so glad i survived the crawling beasts.
well, that’ all we have time for you this week, but coming up next week, mike is in rio ahead of the biggest party of the year and we find outjust how much work goes into preparing the carnival each year.
all the welding, the sewing, the machines, everybody is working on one show, your parade.
yes.
everything.
for now from me, lucy hedges and the rest of the travel team here in sri lanka, it’ goodbye.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdare in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here, and we’ve seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for thousands of miles out into the atlantic that’ causing the problems.
because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather than across is and what that means is the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england, if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture thorugh the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, still could be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts inland, 50, 60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
and as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds will get stronger for a time as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
and the winds will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled for gthe rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most of us and it will stay quite windy but the most of us it will say on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
hello and welcome to news.
i’ simon pusey.
health officials in china have reported the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 — with 142 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
in france — an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died from the virus after visiting hubei province.
it’ the first fatality from the disease in europe.
it comes as the head of the world health organization said that it’ too early to know if the outbreak will become a global pandemic.
nick beake reports from hong kong.
china has declared war on an invisible killer, sending more ors and soldiers into the worst affected areas.
now, the oronavirus has claimed its irst victim outside of asia.
lderty chinese man who travelled to france.
: last night, i was ormed of the death of an ight—year—old patient who had hospitalised since the 25th of january and who was fering rom a coronavirus long infection.
back in china, those returning to the capital beijing after what has an extended holiday have been an extended holiday have been told that they must rantine themselves for two eks.
passengers of many tionalities are still stuck ard the diamond princess of he coast of japan.
285 people have tested positive for the virus on the ship.
america it will remove all of its citizens and them home.
ere is such escape from there is no such escape from wuhan, the chinese city from the outbreak began.
for the rest of the world, we only 500 cases and two deaths have 500 cases and two deaths in china, there are more than 00 cases.
let me be clear, 66,000 cases.
let me be clear, it is impossible to read it direction this epidemic take.
beijing claims its quickly and decisively to and stop the spread but few willing to predict what the obal impact of this crisis ill be.
and for more details on the outbreak go to our website.
you can find information on the spread of the disease, as well as in depth articles like this one, about how effective it is to wear a mask.
just go to bbc.
com/news to find all of that.
at least eight football fans from ecuador have died after their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were on their way home from celebrating their club’ qualifaction for the next stage of the copa libertadores — south america’ biggest club tournament.
aaron safir reports.
a fall of 15 metres and a crash so violent it pulled the roof this bus.
at least a0 peopla ere injured, the driver ems to have lost control in earty hours of the morning.
: i was asleep at he the time of the accident.
i couldn’
tell you what pened.
ijust felt impact, the blow.
it happened this town notoriously angerous stretch of the —american highway in orthern peru.
supporters of cuadorian team were the ecuadorian team were salivating their teams lification of the next date the cope libertadores.
dangerous curves, poor ntenance and scant maintenance and sca enforcements make driving on ’ road is dangerous.
they claim at ine lives a day cording to the government.
ador’ president has xpressed his condolences and dged help for the families the victims whose loved ones celebrations turns to ragedy.
let’ get some of the day’ other news: the british television presenter, caroline flack, has been found dead at her home in london.
a lawyer for her family said she had taken her own life.
the —year—old had hosted one of the ’ top shows — love island.
but in december, she stood down as the host of the show ahead of a trial for allegedly assaulting her partner.
she denied the charge.
police in paris have arrested a russian performance artist who posted a sex tape online which ended the election campaign of president macron’ candidate for mayor of paris.
petr pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door at russia’ state security headquarters, said he had wanted to expose what he said was benjamin griveaux’ hypocrisy.
the secretary of state mike pompeo is in senegalfor talks with president macky sail about security ties and economic cooperation.
his visit is taking place as the united states seeks to reduce its military presence in africa.
as we’ve been hearing the television presenter, shows has been found dead at her home in east london.
herfamily says she took her own life.
flack who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation she denied.
she fronted programmes that garnered many millions of viewers, including ’ the factor and love island.
she won strictly come dancing in 2014.
here’ our media correspondent, david sillito.
it’ the return of the flack!
love island, factor, i’ a celebrity, caroline flack was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes on british television.
she was, until a few weeks ago, the face of love island — the glamorous, escapist fun.
let’ talk love.
who’ looking for the real thing?
but everything unravelled after she was arrested and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
in court in december it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
today, she was found dead at her flat.
her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock and heartbreak at the news.
love island is a show that thrives on its impact on social media and tonight thousands were expressing their grief and sympathy.
but her court appearance was proof enough that she was also facing intense scrutiny.
both in the press and online.
on its best days, social media is a very powerful tool for these presenters because they can effortlessly and immediately communicate with so many different fans and really bring their own personality to the fore.
the problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny and attention does not go away.
it stays with them.
the macdonut brothers!
her career went back nearly 20 years.
this, on children’ , and in 2014 she won strictly come dancing.
the night she won, elation.
but she spoke afterwards of her struggles with depression and then came the assault charge.
she was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
he stood by her, but they weren’ allowed to communicate before her forthcoming trial.
she was also advised to stay off social media — but she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added: another post read simply: caroline flack — who has died at the age of a0.
critic scott bryan and to the entertainmentjournalist, caroline frost who said caroline flack was integral to the successful reboot of love island.
she personified the charm, on that programme’ best days, it’ about glamour and fun and romance and the promise of a glittering future.
and she seemed to personify all of that, she seemed to be on the side of the contestants, she seemed to effortlessly handle the show and within the format of it, really make the contestants feel as though she was rooting for them.
and as all presenters talk about it, it’ much, much harder than it looks.
it takes huge professionalism and a massive does of authenticity.
i think it would have been very apparent if she was to have faked that kind of appeal.
as scott has said, it wasn’ a one—off.
she’ in other shows, she won strictly come dancing in 2014, she was on the extra factor and then on the factor and her career was on the rise and culminating now.
she can almost single—handedly take a lot of the credit for that incredible reboot.
love island, it can’ be overestimated, the surprise hit factor of it.
every other show in the demographic is falling by the wayside, people going to youtube and other platforms.
love island has kept that young, crucialaudience in its millions tuning in year after year
and i think if nothing else, her legacy will show that she really was up there with the very, very best of prime—time presenters.
it’ easy to dismiss programmes like that but if you’ve got the right programme with the right host, it can make all the difference.
and you will soon be shown up if you’re not really, if you don’ have the skills or talent to cope.
is a powerful medium with that authenticity, you are able to have a relationship as if that person is a friend or somebody close to them, even if it’ through a different lens.
and it’ also the fact that they are able to really guide through people when being on is a difficult thing.
i think we’re going to have a discussion, as we have had many times before, that even though someone taking their own life, there are many complex issues, what we will be having a discussion about is the care of people in the public eye who get scrutiny because of our personal lives, who have tabloid stories written about them, who have social media with instant reaction from the public on what they’re saying and what they’re doing.
about what they are saying and what they are doing
and i think people are going to be thinking very carefully about their own conduct and we are going to have a discussion in terms of reality shows and their role in their lives
and i think this is an important discussion to have as well.
that was scott brian and karen frost speaking a little lier.
and if you’ve been affected by any of the issues raised, action line, and there’ the numberfor you.
homes have been evacuated in the scottish borders, where rivers swollen by the weekend’ storms are expected to cause extensive flooding.
two people were rescued from a car which was swept off a road in newcastleton, when a river burst its banks.
in west yorkshire, the army has been drafted in to shore up flood defences, with river levels expected to peak overnight.
helena wilkinson reports.
amongst the first evidence of damage by storm dennis was here in south wales.
this village is where people’ homes are under serious threat.
a similar picture tonight in harberton in devon.
dozens of flood warnings are still in place across the country as the rain continues to fall.
in ilkley and calderdale in west yorkshire — areas still recovering from last week’ storm — the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
there are a number of places where the local resilience authorities thought they had a problem with the flood defences that are currently in place so we have been asked to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences in in both places.
some of the worst affected parts could see up to 140 millimetres of rainfall and gusts of up to 80 miles an hour.
certainly with the amount of rain that is forecast, 100mm or a month’ worth of rainfall on top of what is incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk and that’ we are warning people to take action and that’ we are doing the kind of things we’re doing here.
not far away, in hebden bridge, there’ no respite from the persistent rain.
the scottish environment protection agency has issued flood warnings and advice for residents here in dumfries and galloway plus elsewhere in the borders, south lanarkshire and south ayrshire.
for many, the half term getaway has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
almost 100 from here at gatwick.
at heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them british airways.
and on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most of the country, meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
helena wilkinson, news.
our correspondent phil bodmer is in mytholmroyd in west yorkshire which took a heavy hit during storm ciara last week.
tonight, the rain is falling and the rivers are still rising.
this is the calder and you can see how quickly it’ now moving.
you maybe can see these big bags of ballast which have been brought into bolster the flood defences.
earlier today we saw the arrival of about 100 soldiers from the north scots, they have been helping to install temporary flood barriers.
they are being supported by around another 100 part—time soldiers from the yorkshire regiment who have been dispersed between here, the calder valley, and up in ilkley, where there is great concern about the falling rain tonight.
the environment agency say they are expecting peak river levels here on the calder in the early hours of this morning sometime between 23 and ham, but that rain is still coming down tonight stop in the meantime, people living all along this valley, all they can do is watch, wait and hope that we do not see a repeat of what we saw here last weekend.
and for the latest information on storm dennis in your area, you can find out more, on your local online pages, or, tune in, to your local radio station.
this is news, the headlines: china says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600.
and in france an 80—year—old chinese tourist has become the first european covid—19 fatality.
at least eight people have been killed, after a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
now, canada has hosted a meeting at the munich security conference along with the four other countries, which lost citizens when iran’ military shot down a ukrainian passenger plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
canada is pushing iran to release the black boxes from the crash so their data can be properly analysed by facilities in france.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet sat down with the canadian foreign minister after the meeting in munich and asked him whether any progress had been made.
after 30 days of trying, you have to come to the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
and we know at that point that the french have offered that they have the latest technology, they have the expertise, to read the content of the black box, to download the content, and to do that in a transparent fashion.
but would you consider iran’ request from the foreign minister, saying, give us the technical support to examine the black boxes in iran?
couldn’ you do that?
well, the experts have spoken.
the experts have said it’ not the type of equipment you can transport.
it looks more like a lab.
for those who are watching at home.
it is not like a piece of equipment you can put in your luggage.
it’ the software and the hardware you need to have to do that, especially when the black boxes have been damaged.
so what we are saying is we saw that you requested that, the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side there’ no way that we can send that in iran.
so the only remaining alternative is to send it to a third country which would be in this case france, which has offered to assist, because i think france understands the international community has a lot of questions.
and i always say that the best antidote to conspiracy is transparency.
have you made any other progress here on the other big issue, which is compensation?
you say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out of 176 were canadian.
iran says they were iranians.
they of course have the two passports.
so the compensation you are asking for, iran says, they cannot accept.
is this something where a compromise can be found?
are you finding it?
well, what we have hopefully established by now is that the compensation to be paid to the heirs of the victims will be the same to everyone.
and we also said that this process of negotiation, of a global settlement, should start quickly.
i remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents, i mean, this is a tragedy.
you know, let me bring it back to, for canada, this has been a national tragedy.
families have lost their loved ones.
i was there with prime minister trudeau, we went to meet families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
stand up to the regime.
make sure that they’re accountable.
we closure, we we accountability, we want justice, we want transparency.
that’ what animates me every time i meet them.
and that is prime minister trudeau said he went to attend the meeting you had with the foreign minister of iran, even though it was at a foreign minister level.
but some of the families are expressing concern about the look of that, the photos of a smiling encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
well, the prime minister came with one purpose.
it was to make sure that the iranian counterpart understood how serious the issue was.
not only for the grieving families in canada, not only for the government of canada, but i think for the world.
i think having 3 prime minister come into the room and state that, itjust reinforced the message.
that was the canadian foreign minister speaking to lyse cet earlier.
the venezuelan government says huge numbers of soldiers and civilians have begun a two—day military drill to prepare for what it describes as the threat of invasion by —led forces.
the opposition leader, juan guaido, dismissed the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
earlier the ’ americas editor, leonardo rocha, explained president maduro had decided to hold the military exercises now.
he is, in a way, making a statement and giving — sending out a message to the united states that the venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million people who are part of this militia who support him, are prepared for anything.
his advisers — his military advisors are cuban, many of them trained in cuba and they learned from the cuban example.
if you arm the population, if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees, anyone that tries to get into venezuelan knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
so he’ pitching himself and the people against america?
now — i mean, there are — the two big neighbours of venezuela.
colombia and brazil have hostile governments.
jair bolsonaro in brazil and ivan duque, right—
wing governments, which is one of the reasons of these exercises — nicolas maduro said those two countries are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training on their territory to prepare a possible invasion if things — if the opportunity’ ripe.
they might launch attacks and invade venezuela.
50 his strategy at the moment is to align a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
yes.
we have to bear in mind the fact that venezuela has the highest inflation in the world.
violence, more than almost 5 million venezuelans have left the country in the last few years.
so, the economy is in a mess.
the political situation is in a stalemate, you have a very difficult situation.
and what the opposition says is he’ creating a diversion.
you create the threat of an enemy, while nicolas maduro says the empire — american empire is trying to invade venezuela, it has the biggest known oil reserves in the world.
so there is all that playing on his side.
in the meantime he is hoping the economy will recover.
it has recovered somehow, so he could gain the confidence of the majority of venezuelans.
what isjuan guaido’ strategy here?
this time last year he was big news every day in terms of would he be taking the presidency, but he seems to have pushed back.
he seems to have lost the momentum.
his strategy is to keep pushing and be there if the opportunity comes.
if the government deteriorates he’ there, but he’ lost the momentum somehow.
it’ been one year since the recognised him as the legitimate leader of venezuela but nothing has happened in real terms since then.
a british asian singer on youtube is warning her audience risk of heart disease to of the risk of heart disease to young people.
this singer has not stuck millions of years on youtube uding his latest video including his latest video dedicated to his wife of just onths.
that’ the first time i had been able to put my ings onto paper about after a year and a half.
especially dealing with things.
writing it down in a song.
the time i had seen him was first time i had seen him was in the video, and really after it was quite painful.
atasha passed away after a cardiac arrest in sudden cardiac arrest in september, 2018.
hejust lapsed, rankly she just collapsed, frankly she just collapsed and i called mark 999 for a long time.
and did for a long time.
that was a harrowing process hat was it.
she was but that was it.
she was declared dead on the spot.
for irst time since his wife’ pth, arjun has agreed to have check—up.
every week, 12 young eople under 35 over 12 young peopla under 35 in the die from heart lated conditions.
in 80% of uses, there are no prior ymptoms.
on what should ave been his second wedding versary, is organising a concert with a host of stars in of his late wife.
he is memory of his late wife.
he is hoping the show will raise for the charity — cardiac rrest in the young.
the duchess of cambridge has been speaking about one of the most personal moments of her life — dealing with the birth of herfirst child.
appearing on the ‘happy mum, happy baby’ podcast, she talks about the pregnancy and the crippling morning sickness that forced her into hospital.
here’ our royal correspondent, daniela relph.
the podcast was recorded during a visit to this south london nursery.
improving the lives of families with young children is now the priority for the duchess of cambridge and dominates her royal work.
with podcast host giovanna fletcher, the duchess spoke personally about everything from the value of her own stable upbringing to the guilt that can come with motherhood.
here leaving hospital after being admitted with severe morning sickness while pregnant with prince george, she also described the terrible strain of the condition.
lots of people have it far worse but it was definitely a challenge, notjust for me but also for your loved ones around you and william did not feel he could do much to help and it is hard for everyone to see suffering without actually being able to do anything about it.
catherine revealed she used hypno—birthing — a breathing and relaxation technique — when pregnant.
and she was asked about that very public hospital departure.
it was terrifying, i’ not going to lie!
and actually, for us to be able to share thatjoy and appreciation with the public, ifelt, was really important.
but equally, it was coupled with a newborn baby and sort of inexperienced parents and the uncertainty about what that held.
these insights tie in with the duchess’ campaign to get more help earlierfor vulnerable families.
she said billions of pounds were spent fixing the problems in later life — a cost she described as crazy.
daniela relph, news.
time now the weather with chris fawkes.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it?
but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdare in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here, and we’ve seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for thousands of miles out into the atlantic that’ causing the problems.
because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather than across is and what that means is the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, still could be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts inland, 50, 60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
and as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds will get stronger for a time as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
and the winds will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled for the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most of us and it will stay quite windy but the most of us it will say on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is news, the headlines: health officials in china say the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 — with 139 new deaths and more than 1,800 new cases confirmed.
in france — an 80 year old chinese tourist has died — the first covid—19 fatality in europe.
the british presenter, caroline flack, has been found dead at her london flat.
the —year—old had been due to stand trial next month for assault — an allegation she denied.
herfamily say she took her own life.
flack stood down from the dating show love island after being charged.
much of western europe is being battered by a storm front that’ causing severe travel disruption.
in britain, winds have been gusting at up to 120 kmph.
in the north of england, troops have been deployed in villages under the threat of flooding.
now on news: dateline london hello and welcome to dateline london.
i’ carrie gracie.
this week: children die in the snows of northwest syria.
will anyone do anything to stop a new grim chapter in this tragedy?
a brutal and messy government reshuffle demonstrates the maxim that a week is a long time in british politics.
and all sides agree that ireland has a new electoral landscape.
but who will actually govern?
that remains shrouded in fog.
my guests today: agnes poirier of french news weekly ’express.
irish writer brian ’connell.
veteran new york times reporterjohn fischer burns.
political commentator steve richards.
welcome to you all.
the syrian war will soon go into a 10th year with so much suffering for civilians that it’ hard to imagine there could be a new low.
but the current assault against idlib, syria’ last rebel held enclave, is a humanitarian catastrophe.
the united nations says that many of the 800,000 people fleeing the town are children and some are now dying in sub—zero temperatures.
john, can you start us off on this, damascus says that it is attempting to eradicate the terrorist threat in north—west syria right now.
what is its strategic objectives as it also bombs schools, hospitals, shops?
i’ like to answer you something of a personal apology, like so many people who see this devastation on the news, it makes me want to weep.
and with a particularly personal edge to it because i was among those who felt in 2003 that toppling saddam hussein at an acceptable cost would be a good idea.
we now see 17 years later what a complete catastrophe was triggered by the american invasion of iraq.
trace assyrian events to that?
absolutely, the times that the americans invaded syria was always a brutal dictatorship, but nobody could have imagined then the catastrophe that has ensured.
invaded iraq?
as a matter of fact, when i was running the new york times operation in baghdad with my wife, it was, there was an underground railroad by which we help staff members who wanted to get out of the devastation of iraq, the safe place to go was syria.
fortunately some of them, not all of them, got out of syria and went west to the united states or the united kingdom, but many didn’ and got caught up in all this.
when you think of the vast expenditure of money, trillions of dollars thousands of american soldiers who have died, that it should come to this with the united states essentially standing on the sidelines by its own choice, i think it is an absolute tragedy.
we in the have the financial means and we still have enough muscle, diplomatic muscle to do something about this, and it’ past time that we did it.
we will come back to that there a moment, the western role.
sticking with the now, in terms of those people suffering in north—west syria, some of them, the children weren’ even born when the 2003 invasion happen.
—— happened.
they need a solution and desperately need a solution now.
what is the syrian strategic move there?
is it simply to regain all that territory as fast as possible whatever the cost?
of course, whatever the cost.
we have seen before with his use of chemical weapons, the barrel bombing from helicopters and so forth which continued even this week, we saw a helicopter being shot down average bean barrel borrowing summer over idlib —— barrel bombing.
i think there is no limit to the brutality of assad, with his curious north london shyness, is prepared to espouse, assad.
the key new is moscow.
and brian, let me ask you about turkey.
many of these refugees are heading north and coming to a close ——to a closed turkish border.
is there any hope that turkey will budge?
obviously it already has nearly four million refugees, playing host to them.
but here are more in desperate need.
i don’ think the turks will be prepared to open that border.
as you say, they have got around four million syrians in their country already.
since december, i think it is something like 800,000, over three quarters of a million anyway, have moved north and are all being funnelled into that little north—western bit of syria.
this is, as far as assad is concerned, the endgame, and he is not going to stop, asjohn suggested there.
the only thing that can stop him as vladimir putin.
let’ talk about that putin and a erdogan, between them they have the power to do it.
the west is standing on the sidelines, the germans have talked about a safe zone which is a possibility on the border i don’ think, as david miliband suggested this morning, i don’ think anything will work without a ceasefire first.
the former british foreign secretary and currently running a big .
these people are there because they are fleeing shelling and air strikes.
until that stops, they are not going to stop.
more and more people are going to a ceasefire has to come first.
the cruel irony is that we almost did something in 2013, and we could have, you could have been more efficient at the time, but the parliament voted against it.
as a result, obama stood back and said well, we’re not going to go.
the french president at the time said yes, because he didn’ have to ask the permission of the national assembly.
we miss that moment and now we look completely, utterly powerless.
interestingly, the current french president is trying to knock heads together in europe over strategic planning he said you can’ be both weak and defined at the munich international security conference, it is time for dialogue with russia.
that is macron’ foreign policy, new strategy.
look at the , it has been successful in the past.
at the security council, they will have russia.
think about bosnia, of course it is a different case because america was actually bombing one side of the story, but in cyprus, the is very good at peacekeeping.
not at peacemaking.
in that civil war there is no peace to keep.
the role it was ceded to the astana process a few years ago.
there is a current one, forgotten about him, trying to secure a new constitution, but nobody cares because he is not going to achieve anything.
stephen, on the question of where does this leave these so—called international rules—based order?
because as agnes has explained, the is ineffective on this at the moment.
the , asjohn has explained, is nowhere to be seen.
and as brian has been saying, really, it is russia and turkey who are making the run—in with syria and iran, in terms of diplomacy.
where is the rules—based order?
the first time you said the so—called rules—based order.
it has always been partly mythological.
resolution to legally give it the go ahead, the rules—based order, so when did the rules —based olitic dominate global politics?
in this case it is much more complicated.
what form should intervention to?
i disagree with agnes about the 2013 moment.
obama has always insisted retrospectively he was pleased it didn’ happen, because it wouldn’ have worked.
that the targeting would not have been decisive.
it reflects also that british vote which went against in 2013, a reflection of what had happened in iraq and the ineffectiveness and counter productivity of intervention, so how do you intervene?
we are at the moment where even if there was an answer to that, the under trump are keeping their distance to the point of indifference.
the can play a mediating role, but doesn’ have its own foreign policy.
britain has opted to become a sort of isolated island on its own.
that is vladimir putin is absolutely the key, because he has got the military might and the pull over assad, so he is the figure who can do something.
trump too to be critical in this.
we have heard a great dealfrom him in resetting relationships with russia, it hasn’ advanced very far.
the still has enormous influence if it chooses to use it.
it doesn’ choose to use it because because they won’ commit troops.
the american public wants out.
they are tired of seeing american boys killed, they are tired of the $2 trillion plus costs : if there is anybody who caused vladimir putin to think again, it would be trump, and if i may say so it gives a bit of space perhaps the british prime minister.
in my estimation, most useful endeavours in international affairs of the second world war have involved one principal condition, which is the president of the united states and the prime minister of the united kingdom should act in concert in pursuit of a common end.
if they chose to use their positions as a bully pulpit to engender public opinion, a wave of public opinion and use their influence with vladimir putin, which would still be considerable, maybe that would be the way to turn this thing around.
in the absence of that, the negotiations between turkey and putin will be in moscow this coming week, so we will watch this space there.
we need to move on.
last week a british prime minister told his government it was time to deliver.
that’ easier said than done.
this government has to deliver not just brexit but also the levelling up that borisjohnson promised disadvantaged areas of the country in exchange for their votes.
and whether by accident or design, he’ just lost a key player in his delivery team.
steve, was it an accident or design?
i think it was an accident, i think he hoped the chancellor, as was sajid javid, would stay in post, but accept the humiliation of sacking all his special advisers.
this is a very interesting development.
on one level, it is soap opera.
and a familiar one in british politics.
it is downing street senior advisors not liking the chancellor’ special advisers and just wanting to prevail over them and get rid of them.
on another level, it is much deeper.
here is at number 10, theoretically anyway, pursuing spend, spend, spend, boris, infrastructure, ilways, bridges, huge money into the .
and the treasury will be instinctively cautious.
and the treasury on one level is more numerically powerful than number 10.
johnson has policy advisers, he hasn’ got a big economics department working with them.
the chancellor has the whole of the might of the treasury.
this has been an attempt to redress that balance.
other prime ministers have tried it — it has never worked.
but there is a theoretical merit in addressing that imbalance, because number 10 went to spend, spend, spend.
and they have got to have the treasury on board.
we are in a very interesting position, a lot of the conservative party remains committed to a kind of thatcherite approach to economics, but they are pledging to do something very different.
they haven’
explained how, where the money is going to come from.
it is a very interesting junction in british politics, and hovering over it all still, brexit.
and whether that so diminishes is the economy.
brian, where’ you stand?
i agree with everything that steve said.
what i doubt is that your average voter this is really for political scientists and political nerds and political correspondents i think your average voter doesn’ really care, as long as the railway gets built or the universal credit get specs or what tiers or housing or the health service and so on.
having said that, i think that borisjohnson does love infrastructure, he loves the idea of 52 and, if it works for him, if he can do it without squeezing the lemon till the what was it gordon brown used to say?
until the pips come out.
by increasing taxes, it will be fine.
as it comes to the trade talks on the get deep into those and realise how tough it will be, borisjohnson will need a bridge or a railway to say look at this nice new shiny thing over here, don’ worry about that, that will be fine, we have our sovereignty back, that is we are building a railway even if it is the chinese or whoever.
how do you like the bridge?
i don’ think it will work.
this is the mayor of london who decided to spend agnes, how credible is this going to be with the market?
i don’ know, but what i know is that it is watch very keenly by the french right, because how red a tory can you be?
if borisjohnson manages to be that sort of right—wing figure, he will have really achieved something, and it really gives ideas not only to probably the french right, but actually to all those centre—right parties that have sort of collapsed and disappeared in the last few years.
what is the idea that it gives them, exactly?
well, the fact that you are socially conservative, but the politics, are at least on the economy, is going left.
the end of austerity and all those public services that people are really relying on and one more of.
you could talk about the yellow vest movement in france, they want more public services, is it possible in the country that actually gives so much public service, more than any other country in europe?
but this sort of red tourism is very interesting, because you need to finance it.
and they might achieve something that labour actually wanted to do.
so, are they going to go french and have a mansion tax?
because they will have to either borrow, but perhaps borrow or tax the rich?
fury will come from traditional conservatives who just want low taxes and smaller government.
it’ fascinating to watch.
john, you can only borrow to spend rather than tax to spend if rates are low, it becomes a lot harder and if you’re doing long—term spending on bridges or railways or whatever it is.
i have a narrow perspective on this.
in borisjohnson we have 3 prime minister who has famously and single—handedly won this sweeping election victory with a fairly clearly stated programme about levelling up in the northern powerhouse.
he needs to be in control of his government.
what he did in the case of sajid javid the other day was dramatic, but it does at least put him squarely in control of fiscal and economic policy, and i think that he is watching the clock.
five years, and some people suggest ten, unless the labour party can put its house in order, five years is going to go by very quickly.
he may find himself at the end of this year with an impasse of his negotiations with europe.
he needs to show progress of his negotiations.
it seems churlish to deny him the right that any prime minister has to have a firm control of his own government.
now, ireland — healthcare and housing — two of the great public grievances that triggered an electoral earthquake in ireland last weekend.
many voters turned away from the familiar two—horse politics of fine gael and fianna fail to support the nationalist party sinn fein.
but neither sinn fein nor any other party has enough seats to govern alone.
so, what next?
it will be difficult for anyone to form a government.
sinn fein don’ have the numbers.
they didn’ run enough candidates.
if they had run twice as many of candidates they probably would have got twice as many seats.
they did exceptionally well.
the got the larger share of the popular vote, although they got one seat less than fianna fail did.
so even if you put all the other independents together and the smaller left—wing parties together, you still don’ get to an overall majority.
you have to go into power with fianna fail.
they are still saying they want it.
fine gael have also said they won’ do it, and they do mean it.
the big question in irish politics now is, can martin be persuaded to go into some sort of agreement with sinn fein, although he promised voters that he wouldn’?
tell us briefly wouldn’ he?
there is this kind of bogeyman about history and lengths, this is a relatable woman who takes camera shopping with her.
she really and threat?
no.
most of the support that this surge came from people under 35, who were very young when the good friday agreement was signed.
people who are 60—65, you know, do still feel that that link that you talk about to the and the past would stop them voting.
but for me, hall martin, the leader of fianna fail, the big problem is that their policy agenda is not compatible.
sinn fein are a left—wing party, fianna fail art centre, right party.
to tackle the problem is that mid—on has been accusing the other parties of ignoring, she will have to put up taxes, housing, talking about crumbling public health service, the high cost of childcare.
apparently ireland has amongst the highest childcare costs in europe.
so, all of those will require more money.
that has to come from taxation because fianna fail stephen, shirley the point that all of those tweedledee and tweedledumer, as sinn fein called them, old—style parties, they have to respond to what they both aside, even if they don’ like sinn fein, don’ they?
the result is a challenge for all the parties, because i know brian thinks could well be another general election if they cannot form a government in the coming weeks.
so the result remind me, or certainly the performance of sinn fein, reminded me a bit of the british election in 2017, when no—one expected jeremy corbyn and labour then to do as well as they did in that election.
and it was over, younger people voting about housing, tuition fees at universities and so on.
and a promise of sort of radical change on that agenda.
so the thing that they have to address is, can they retain this momentum?
because corbyn, they lost it afterwards.
and for the other parties, i bet there will be, if there is another election, a much greaterfocus on pledging various things to address the concerns of under 35, because that is clearly where sinn fein sought.
but i was speaking to a very senior figure in the the other day, and they made an interesting observation or posed the question, ‘why is that the parties of the left who also advocate a national agenda, independence of various forms, do well, whereas other parties on the left don’?
‘ i know you don’ think that played a big part in the sinn fein success, but both the , which is an effective party of the left, and sinn fein are nationalist parties doing well, and other left parties are doing badly.
i think that is interesting.
let’ go back to brian briefly on that question of the unification agenda.
yes.
that’ been the chief pledge of sinn fein, are they going to insist on a referendum if they move into some sort of coalition?
well, it wasn’ a huge issue on the doorsteps.
all the other stuff like housing was the big issue.
but if you asked mary lou mcdonald, she would say we have a five year plan, going to do it properly not next year or thereafter, it will take five years.
according to the rules, mary lou mcdonald, even if she was taoiseach, couldn’ decide if the people of northern ireland should or shouldn’ hold a referendum, that is the british government.
and under the good friday agreement the british government will only do that, according to the wording of the agreement, if there is a possibility that more people may want reunification than not.
let’ leave that issue and go back in a way to what stephen was just saying, which i think resonates with what you’re saying about the red right—wing, that in a way the establishment parties have got to think about how to appeal to what is a left—wing nationalist vote.
completely.
but it is interesting that you don’ think unity had anything to do i’ not suggesting that, i’ saying the main reason was it looks as if, i remember very well just after the referendum on brexit in 2016, almost four years ago, we thought on the continent that the logic, the inherent and historical logic to brexit was, the independence of scotland.
which sounded completely fantastical at the time.
the unification of ireland, and now it is not a fantasy anymore, it’ a growing possibility.
what the northern irish voters would be voting on, is not only the unity of ireland, but facto a second referendum on brexit.
there also has to be a referendum south of the border as well.
of course, but is very different from the scottish, who will have to go throughjoining the .
that is interesting.
everyone is nodding here, we have 30 seconds left, john?
if i can take license, given my scottish and irish heritage, to say there could be worse outcomes for ireland for the next year or so, than the belgian solution, like when you don’ have a government and muddle through.
it does strike me as somewhat odd that the tweedledum—tweedledee parties in ireland are reluctant to sit down with sinn fein north of the border.
and they have just established that power—sharing agreement.
sorry to short.
that’ it for dateline london for this week.
we’re back next week at the same time.
goodbye.
hello again.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it?
it’ worse before they get better.
over the next two hours the heaviest its parts of south—west rain hits parts of south-west england, definitely wales, the west are times in northern midlands are times in northern england, too.
these are areas that have a number flood warnings already have a number ﬂood warnings out in force so it could get quite here as we had to sunday morning.
eventually our brand of pushes upwards and is good but ould be even slower, so there is potential for some ain lingering southern and lingering across southern and eastern areas well into the rnoon.
it is going to be a windy again, in than gusts of 50, 60 an hour, 70 on the coast.
that could bring some ees down.
it gets windier through sunday night in land.
that is your latest weather.
welcome to news — i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: china says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600 — and in france, an 80 year old chinese tourist becomes the first european, covid—19 fatality.
at least eight people are killed as a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
canada leads renewed calls for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner brought down over tehran in january.
the popular british presenter caroline flack, has been found dead at her london home.
herfamily say she took her own life.
troops are deployed in the north of england, as storm dennis hits the and northern europe.
health officials in china have reported the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 — with 142 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
in france — an 80 year old chinese tourist has died from the virus after visiting hubei province.
it’ the first fatality from the disease in europe.
it comes as the head of the world health organisation said that it’ too early to know if the outbreak will become a global pandemic.
nick beake reports from hong kong.
china has declared war on an invisible killer, sending more doctors and soldiers into the worst affected areas.
now, the new coronavirus has claimed its first victim outside of asia.
an elderly chinese man who travelled to france.
: last night, i was informed of the death of an 80—year—old patient who had been hospitalised at the bichat hospital since the 25th of january and who was suffering from a coronavirus lung infection.
back in china, all those returning to the capital beijing after what’ been an extended holiday have been told that they must quarantine themselves for two weeks.
passengers of many nationalities are still stuck aboard the diamond princess off the coast of japan.
285 people have now tested positive for the virus on the ship.
and america says it will remove all of its citizens and them home.
there’ no such escape from wuhan — the chinese city where the outbreak began.
for the rest of the world, we only have 500 cases and two deaths.
while in china, there are more than 66,000 cases.
let me be clear, it is impossible to predict which direction this epidemic will take.
beijing claims it’ acted quickly and decisively to to stop the spread but few are willing to predict what the global impact of this crisis will be.
nick beake, news, hong kong.
as china announces a drop in new cases from the coronavirus for a hird onsecutive a break for a third consecutive days.
and for more details on the outbreak go to our website.
you can find information on the spread of the disease, as well as in depth articles like this one, about how effective it is to wear a mask.
just go to .
/news to find all of that.
at least eight football fans from ecuador have died after their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were on their way home from celebrating their club’ qualifaction for the next stage of the copa libertadores — south america’ biggest club tournament.
aaron safir reports.
a fall of 15 metres and a crash so violent it pulled the roof from this bus.
at least a0 people were injured, the driver seems to have lost control in the early hours of the morning.
: i was asleep at the time of the accident.
i couldn’
tell you what happened.
i just felt the impact, the blow.
it happened near mancora on a notoriously dangerous stretch of the pan—american highway in northern peru.
supporters of the ecuadorian team barcelona were celebrating their team’ qualification for the next stage of the copa libertadores.
dangerous curves, poor maintenance and scant enforcements make driving on peru’ roads dangerous.
they claim nine lives a day according to the government.
ecuador’ president has expressed his condolences and pledged help for the families of the victims whose loved ones celebrations turned to tragedy.
aaron safir, news.
let’ get some of the day’ other news: mark zuckerberg has expressed concern over excessive or authoritarian internet regulations, as they could compromise the internet’ ability to spread information freely.
facebook’ chief executive urged governments to come up with something stricter than phone companies’ regulation — which are not held responsible for customers’ conversations — but less strict than newspapers’ regulation.
police in paris have arrested a russian performance artist who posted a sex tape online which ended the election campaign of president macron’ candidate for mayor of paris.
petr pavlensky — who has previously set fire to a door at russia’ state security headquarters — said he had wanted to expose what he said was benjamin griveaux’ hypocrisy.
the secretary of state mike pompeo is in senegal for talks with president macky sail about security ties and economic cooperation.
his visit is taking place as the united states seeks to reduce its military presence in africa.
canada has hosted a meeting at the munich security conference along with the four other countries, which lost citizens when iran’ military shot down a ukrainian passenger plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
canada is pushing iran to release the black boxes from the crash so their data can be properly analysed by facilities in france.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet sat down with the canadian foreign minister after the meeting in munich and asked him whether any progress had been made.
after 30 days of trying, you have to come to the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
and we know at that point that the french have offered that they have the latest technology, they have the expertise, to read the content of the black box, to download the content, and to do that in a transparent fashion.
but would you consider iran’ request from the foreign minister, saying, give us the technical support to examine the black boxes in iran?
couldn’ you do that?
well, the experts have spoken.
the experts have said it’ not the type of equipment you can transport.
it looks more like a lab.
for those who are watching at home.
it is not like a piece of equipment you can put in your luggage.
it’ the software and the hardware you need to have to do that, especially when the black boxes have been damaged.
so what we are saying is we saw that you requested that, the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side there’ no way that we can send that in iran.
so the only remaining alternative is to send it to a third country which would be in this case france, which has offered to assist, because i think france understands the international community has a lot of questions.
and i always say that the best antidote to conspiracy is transparency.
have you made any other progress here on the other big issue, which is compensation?
you say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out of 176 were canadian.
iran says they were iranians.
they of course have the two passports.
so the compensation you are asking for, iran says, they cannot accept.
is this something where a compromise can be found?
are you finding it?
well, what we have hopefully established by now is that the compensation to be paid to the heirs of the victims will be the same to everyone.
and we also said that this process of negotiation, of a global settlement, should start quickly.
i remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents, i mean, this is a tragedy.
you know, let me bring it back to, for canada, this has been a national tragedy.
families have lost their loved ones.
i was there with prime minister trudeau, we went to meet families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
stand up to the regime.
make sure that they’re accountable.
we closure, we we accountability, we want justice, we want transparency.
that’ what animates me every time i meet them.
and that is prime minister trudeau said he went to attend the meeting you had with the foreign minister of iran, even though it was at a foreign minister level.
but some of the families are expressing concern about the look of that, the photos of a smiling encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
well, the prime minister came with one purpose.
it was to make sure that the iranian counterpart understood how serious the issue was.
not only for the grieving families in canada, not only for the government of canada, but i think for the world.
i think having 3 prime minister come into the room and state that, itjust reinforced the message.
that was the canadian foreign minister they’re speaking to more from the munich security conference: senior american and afghan sources say the first phase of a deal with the afghan taliban is set to begin shortly with the start of what is known as a 7—day reduction in violence by taliban forces.
jarrett blanc, senior fellow at the carnegie endowment for international peace, told us what the risk of such a deal might be.
let’ look at the and the longer term.
in the short term, isk associated with the uction in violence and onditioning the beginning of ban afghan talks on a taliban afghan talks on a successful reduction of lence is that they will be problams.
will be spoilers to commit acts of violence that hrow off the first part will throw off the first part of the agreement which are ra- fghan talks.
the longer term, the is that the eace talks don’ work and that taliban demand too much or he government and the gitimate opposition don’ get act together to make a asonable set of proposals and ands to the taliban.
and nit with a situation where you fewer and a declining number of american troops and going civil war.
was a imeline for this?
there is a statement expected soon a reduction of violence at is pected to start?
the what is expected to start?
the americans have been a little agey bit cagey about that so far.
my understanding is that it is soon, maybe the next very soon, maybe the next couple of days.
once culation is that they are ing to get it done in time or president trump to somehow nvolved in the formal onclusion of the deal.
on his to india.
what are the eadlines involved here, as properly be expected, is could property be expected, is troops potentially leaving anistan.
what would be ffect of that because yellow diate effect of going from, et’ say 13,000 troops now, to 0 troops in a few months is really minimal.
there will be more troops in fghanistan at the end of that tial drawdown than they were the end of the obama ministration.
it is really that important.
as you go from that number, 8000, down to ntially zero.
either you’re ing to have a peace deal that parties adhere to what you to end up in a situation here there is still an ongoing war.
that is the case, civil war.
if that is the use, then the drawdown will have to naged very carefully to allow the government forces to ain themselves and not to ffer a blow hat would be devastating in ongoing conflict.
stay with us on world news.
still to come: the 3—day long race across a frozen lake: we’ll hear from participants in one of sport’ more extreme events.
nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into afghanistan, the last soviet troops were finally coming home.
the withdrawal completed in good order, but the army defeated in the task it had been sent to perform.
malcolm has been murdered.
that has a terrible effect on the morale of the people.
i am terrified of the repercussions on the streets.
one wonders who is next.
as the airlift got under way, there was no let—up in the eruption itself.
lava streams from an event low in the crater flow into the sea on the east of the island, away from the town for the time being, but could start flowing again at any time.
the russians heralded a new—generation space station with a spectacular night launch.
they called it mir, the russian for peace.
this is news.
the latest headlines: chinese authorities say deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600, and in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist becomes the first european, covid—19 fatality.
at least eight people are killed as a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
as we’ve been hearing, the television presenter, shows, has been found dead at her home in east london.
herfamily says she took her own life.
flack, who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation she denied.
she fronted programmes that garnered many millions of viewers, including ’ the factor and love island.
she won strictly come dancing in 2014.
here’ our media correspondent david sillito.
it’ the return of the flack!
love island, factor, i’ a celebrity — caroline flack was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes on british television.
she was, until a few weeks ago, the face of love island — the glamorous, escapist fun.
let’ talk love.
who’ looking for the real thing?
but everything unravelled after she was arrested and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
in court in december, it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
today, she was found dead at her flat.
her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock and heartbreak at the news.
love island is a show that thrives on its impact on social media, and tonight, thousands were expressing their grief and sympathy.
but her court appearance was proof enough that she was also facing intense scrutiny, both in the press and online.
on its best days, social media is a very powerful tool for these presenters because they can effortlessly and immediately communicate with so many different fans and really bring their own personality to the fore.
the problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny and attention does not go away.
it stays with them.
the macdonut brothers!
her career went back nearly 20 years.
this, on children’ , and then in 2014, she won strictly come dancing.
the night she won, elation.
but she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
then came the assault charge.
she was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
he stood by her, but they weren’ allowed to communicate before her forthcoming trial.
she was also advised to stay off social media, but she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added: "this kind of scrutiny and speculation is a lot to take for one person.
" another post read simply: caroline flack, who has died at the age of a0.
a second major storm in less than a week has hit britain and other parts of northern europe.
homes have been evacuated in the scottish borders where rivers, swollen by the weekend’ storms, are expected to cause extensive flooding.
in west yorkshire, the army has been drafted in to shore up flood defences with river levels expected to peak overnight.
helena wilkinson reports.
amongst the first evidence of damage by storm dennis was here in south wales.
this village is where people’ homes are under serious threat.
a similar picture tonight in harberton in devon.
dozens of flood warnings are still in place across the country as the rain continues to fall.
in ilkley and calderdale in west yorkshire, areas still recovering from last week’ storm, the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
there are a number of places where the local resilience authorities thought they had a problem with the flood defences that are currently in place, so we have been asked to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences in in both places.
some of the worst affected parts could see up to momm of rainfall and gusts of up to 80mph.
certainly, with the amount of rain that is forecast, 100mm or a month’ worth of rainfall on top of what is incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk and that’ we’re warning people to take action and that’ we’re doing the kind of things we’re doing here.
not far away, in hebden bridge, there’ no respite from the persistent rain.
the scottish environment protection agency has issued flood warnings and advice for residents here in dumfries and galloway, plus elsewhere in the borders, south lanarkshire and south ayrshire.
for many, the half—term getaway has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
almost 100 from here at gatwick.
at heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them british airways.
and on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most of the country, meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
helena wilkinson, news.
the venezuelan government says a huge numbers of soldiers and civilians have begun a 2—day military drill to prepare for what it describes as the threat of invasion by —led forces.
the opposition leader, juan guaido, dismissed the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
earlier, the ’ americas editor, leonardo rocha, explained president maduro had decided to hold the military exercises now.
he is, in a way, making a statement and giving — sending out a message to the united states that the venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million people who are part of this militia who support him, are prepared for anything.
his advisers — his military advisors are cuban, many of them trained in cuba and they learned from the cuban example.
if you arm the population, if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees, anyone that tries to get into venezuelan knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
so, he’ pitching himself and the people against america?
now — i mean, there are — the two biggest neighbours of venezuela — colombia and brazil — have hostile governments.
jair bolsonaro in brazil and ivan duque, right—
wing governments, which is one of the reasons of these exercises — nicolas maduro said that those two countries are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training in their territory to prepare possible invasion if things — if the opportunity’ ripe, they might launch attacks and invade venezuela.
50, his strategy here at the moment is to align a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
yes.
we have to bear in mind the fact that venezuela has the highest inflation in the world.
violence, more than — almost 5 million venezuelans have left the country in the last few years.
so, the economy is in a mess.
the political situation is in a stalemate, you have a very difficult situation.
and what the opposition says is he’ creating a diversion.
you create the threat of an enemy, while nicolas maduro says the empire — the american empire is trying to invade venezuela, it has the biggest known oil reserves in the world.
so there is all that playing on his side.
in the meantime, he hopes the economy will recover.
it has recovered somehow, so he will regain the support of the majority of venezuelans.
what isjuan guaido’ strategy here?
this time last year he was big news every day in terms of would he be taking the presidency, but he seems to have pushed back.
he seems to have lost the momentum.
juan guaido’ strategy is to keep pushing and be there if the opportunity comes.
if the government deteriorates, he’ there.
but he’ lost the momentum somehow.
it’ been one year since the recognised him as the legitimate leader of venezuela, but nothing has happened in real terms since then.
the democrats continue their campaign to choose a candidate and gainst donald trump to stand against donald in november.
the week—long ess finishes next saturday.
is seen as an important test joe biden lost heavily for joe biden who lost heavily in iowa and new hampshire.
his argues nevada could help team argues nevada could help to improve the fortunes.
bernie ers is a current sanders is a current frontrunner in the democratic .
now to a race with a difference — the track is the surface of a frozen lake.
it’ the ice storm contest, held annually in the far east of russia, and it could just be the toughest race in the world.
take a look at this.
: it’ like meditation.
at the start, there are lots of people but after two minutes, you are alone.
: anything can happen.
we’ve already stepped in a lot of cracks.
-15!
rather them than me.
the swedish pole vaulter armand duplantis has set a new world record for the second week in a row.
the 20—year—old easily cleared 6.
18 metres in glasgow on saturday.
duplantis is coached by his father greg, also a successful pole vaulter.
a quick reminder of our top story: china has insisted the outbreak of the new coronavirus is gradually coming under control after the latest figures showed a drop in the number of new cases for the third consecutive day.
however, the world health organization says it may yet become a global epidemic.
they’ve also asked china to elaborate on how it’ diagnosing the disease.
in a new measure to control its spread, the country has announced that it will disinfect banknotes and keep them out of circulation for days.
and for more details on the outbreak, go to our website.
you can find information on the spread of the disease.
just go to .
com/news to find all of that.
you can get in touch with me or any of the team on twitter.
you for watching.
stay uned right here for much more and you can also go to our news and you ran also go to our website.
there is also news on oral cal radio stations if you the oral radio stations if you are worried about the weather itions out there.
thank you for watching.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdare in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here, we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for a couple of thousand miles out into the atlantic that’ causing the problems.
because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather than across is and what that means is the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england, if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, there could still be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here, but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts inland, 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
and as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause some problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
the winds will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most of us and it will stay quite windy, but for the most of us, it will say on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is news.
the headlines: health officials in china say the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600, with almost 150 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died, the first covid—19 fatality in europe.
at least eight football fans from ecuador have died after their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were on their way home from celebrating their club’ qualifaction for the next stage of south america’ biggest club tournament, the copa libertadores.
a0 other supporters were injured.
canada is leading a renewed call for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner, brought down over tehran injanuary.
all 176 people on board were killed.
canadian authorities say they need the contents so the data can be analysed properly by facilities in france.
a british asian singer arjun, who’ had millions of views on youtube, is warning young people about heart attacks.
arjun’ wife died suddenly and unexpectedly six months into their marriage.
he’ now organising a concert this weekend to raise awareness of the risk of heart disease to young people.
singer arjun has not notched up millions of views on youtube, including his latest video dedicated to his wife ofjust six months.
my baby, gone.
can you see me down here?
it was the first time i’ve actually able to been put my feelings onto paper after about a year and a half of trying to work out how to deal with things.
part of my therapy was to write things down in song.
the first time i had seen our footage from the wedding was actually in the video, really, so after that it was quite painful.
natasha passed away due to a sudden cardiac arrest in september 2018.
she just collapsed, and we called 999
and they were doing for a long time, that was bad, a harrowing process and that was it, she was declared dead on the spot.
nice to meet you.
for the first time since his wife’ death, arjun has agreed to have a heart check—up.
every week, over 12 young people under 35 in the die from heart—related conditions.
in 80% of cases, there are no prior symptoms.
and on what should have been his second wedding anniversary, he’ organising a concert with a host of stars in memory of his late wife.
he is hoping the show will raise money for the charity , cardiac arrest in the young, which offers screening tests to identify those at risk.
shabnam mahmood, news.
now on news, our world.
panzuto was a mafia boss, for years he played a key role in naples’ camorra, but now he has turned state witness and is helping put his former associates behind bars.
this film contains descriptions of violence which some viewers may find upsetting.
naples, where police waged a constant battle against organised crime.
we are now in the torretta district, one of the poorest areas of naples, as the officers look for sentinels, lookouts.
the camorra is the city’ mafia, one of the world’ most deadly and secretive criminal networks.
but now, one of its bosses and killers is breaking the code of silence.
gennaro panzuto was a dangerous criminal in naples.
a criminal who has now turned on the camorra, gennaro panzuto was a dangerous criminal in naples.
a criminal who has now turned on the camorra, putting his brothers behind bars, leaving him a marked man.
this is the story of gennaro panzuto, the man who murdered for the mafia, and then confessed all.
in a prison in the italian alps, the secrets are being unlocked — the secrets of the camorra clans, the secrets of a life spent committing terrible crimes.
gennaro panzuto, a former leader of the naples camorra, is what italians call a ‘pentito,’ a state witness who has helped prosecute his associates.
he is in a special prison unit for his own safety.
the italian authorities have allowed us exclusive access to hear his story, but not to show his face.
now 45 years old, he has spent a decade injail, reflecting on what he has done.
camorra didn’ become a killer overnight.
as a teenager, he learnt how to be a street thief, working italy’ tourist hotspots, snatching watches.
he was talent—spotted by his uncle, rosario, who headed the camorra cigarette smuggling operation.
panzuto grew up in this dark, dead—end alley.
now, he had found an escape route from poverty.
he was soon involved in extortion and drugs for the camorra.
based on two big clans, the camorra operates like no other mafia in the world, according to expert felia allum.
so those two clans or those two alliances, in order to be powerful and in order to be strong, what they have tended to do is to recruit smaller clans.
so in every district, you will find a criminal family that controls the territory.
so it’ kind of alliance building.
that’ the flexibility and the fluidity of the camorra.
by the time he was just 21, panzuto had already spent time injail.
now, the camorra wanted him to carry out their dirtiest work.
he shows me where.
this.
this one here?
yes.
this is where it began?
yeah.
mergelina marina, the beautiful place where what panzuto calls his descent into hell began.
in 1996, camorra families were turning on each other in deadly rows over drugs territory.
panzuto was called to a meeting on the pier.
he was given an instruction to defend his uncle from a rival they are asking you to kill somebody.
did you not think that is the wrong thing to do?
not?
with a handshake, panzuto’ life changed.
he became a killer.
by his early 305, he was clan leader, after his uncle was jailed.
his nickname was ‘terramoto’ — earthquake.
using the gun to defend territory, it was a time of blood.
so we’re talking about targeted killings.
yes, and to be efficient, they have to decide on specific individuals, to give a message.
they follow them around, they pinpoint where they are, and they kill them in order to win territory, but also to give a symbol and a message to that clan.
one of the victims was rival graziano borelli, shot dead in the street.
pietro ioia was a drug trafficker, but for years he has worked to steer people away from the camorra.
he tried with the young panzuto, but failed.
pietro ioia was a drug trafficker, but for years he has worked to steer people away from the camorra.
he tried with the young panzuto, but failed.
panzuto’ violence made him a target for one of italy’ elite anti—mafia judges.
i think at the time, gennaro panzuto was the most dangerous criminal in naples, in italy.
michele del prete was determined to bring down the young leader before he grew any stronger.
the net was closing in on gennaro panzuto.
injune 2006, an arrest warrant was issued.
he was now wanted for mafia association and murder, and that’ when he took a fateful decision.
he went on the run.
panzuto came here, north—west england.
not exactly a gangster’ paradise, you might think.
at first he lay low at a caravan park in a quiet corner of rural lancashire.
so this is where he used to live.
yes, number one, up the stairs.
resident mick bury met panzuto when the italian gangster accidentally pranged his car.
he reversed into my car over there.
he reversed into your car?
and after that, we’ve become friends.
was was he like then?
a very friendly, sociable bloke, yeah.
a bit of charm about him.
he liked to enjoy himself, yeah.
he liked to barbecue.
he used to have them outside on the patio.
away from the bloodshed of naples, gennaro panzuto was coming to enjoy his new life in the north—west.
but it was a curious choice for a mobsterfrom southern italy.
so did he choose to come here?
i’ a daughter of an ex—mafia boss in italy.
this was many years ago.
we’re talking about nearly 30 years ago.
marisa merico and herfather served time in prison before renouncing the mafia.
she settled here in lancashire.
although she doesn’ know panzuto, she understands he came here.
i was shocked, but in a way i wasn’, because britain is a sort of a safe haven, in a way.
what would make the so attractive to a member of the mafia?
you know, you don’ have to walk around with an , carta identita elettronica, like they call it in italy.
also, to set up a business is very easy.
companies housed here, within a few days you have documentation, whereas in italy you have to go through a course, a procedure.
there’ a lot more to it, a lot more background checks, where in the there isn’.
and none of that is lost on foreign crime gangs.
they became more aware of it, and how lax the laws are in certain areas, and still are.
the mafia became more aware of it?
yeah,
oh definitely.
panzuto came to north—west england because he had local criminal contacts he had made back in naples.
contacts who are now willing to help him.
panzuto’ white—collar helpers set up dozens of companies to trade goods between northern england and naples.
panzuto’ white—collar helpers set up dozens of companies to trade goods between northern england and naples.
it was a big tax—dodging scam, which started with shoes.
his court carousel fraud, goods moved between companies that are closed down before any is paid.
it costs governments across europe billions in lost taxes.
carousel fraud is really, really profitable.
carousel fraud is a good tool even to money launder, or to move money from a country to another.
so, it’ really important to organised crime groups?
yeah, it’ a paradise!
because you can earn really a huge amount of money with very simple skill.
what about the role played by panzuto’ british associates?
did those people know that you were using that money to help your camorra associates in naples?
back at the caravan park, mick bury was completely in the dark.
hejust remembers his italian friend’ generosity.
i’ve got something to show you here.
these are the shoes he gave me.
he gave you those shoes?
he gave me these shoes, yeah.
because i said i like dancing
and he said these are proper italian shoes.
made in italy, as well!
made in italy, yeah.
panzuto had struck a bargain with his british associate.
they taught him about fraud.
he showed them how to call in debts, the camorra way.
he set up a late—night meeting designed to send a message to all those who owed money.
according to panzuto, his british associates were there.
but his time on the run was coming to an end.
by 2007, panzuto was directing events in naples from this village.
but little did he know, the italian authorities found him thanks to phone tapping and in may 2007, he was arrested and extradited.
when you discovered this mafia connection, what was your reaction?
first of all, you question yourself, you say, what an earth is going on?
it was in the papers and stuff, i thought, oh, my god!
and they were saying, have you seen?
he nearly moved in my house in blackpool as well.
with panzuto facing a life sentence, he did the unthinkable for a mafia man — he talked, and he told prosecutors about his british helpers.
when you heard the names of gennaro panzuto’ associates in the , what did you tell the british police?
so, what happened to those people that panzuto named?
we know that lancashire police investigated, but it appears that nobody was arrested, and nobody was ever charged.
for legal reasons, we can’ name them.
on the streets of panzuto’ hometown, naples, police here are still fighting powerful mafia clans.
a sign of that power, a shrine in memory of the son of a clan leader who was killed in a shooting.
we are out with the squadron moberly, italy’ flying squad, patrolling some of the toughest estates in the city.
yes, it’ a place where drugs are sold?
this is the home of another clan and we are driving terribly slowly through some lowrise blocks as the officers look for sentinels, the lookouts.
this is a constant daily battle for these police officers from the naples flying squad, trying to stop these steps of crime, drug dealing, and the fear is that the money made here is funnelled into some of the most dangerous crime groups in the world.
many camorra bosses are now in prison, put there by witnesses like panzuto.
the result — some clans are now run by teenagers, nicknamed baby gangs.
they are less organised, but very violent.
we are sitting in on the start of a trial of men accused of murder, drug trafficking and extortion.
the defendant greets a carabinieri officer like an old friend.
a coming together of opponents in a never—ending battle to control the streets.
but we are warned by the city’ chief anti—mafia prosecutor not to focus on the violence.
we should follow the money.
and yet, there are signs of hope in panzuto’ old neighbourhood.
it’ an after—school club where basically the nuns to get the kids off the street in order to give them things to do and make them do homework.
gennaro panzuto came here as a child.
the nuns are still trying to stop the gangs from grooming the next generation.
how do the camorra recruit young people here in this area?
ida is a volunteer and 20 years ago, some in herfamily were panzuto’ deadly rivals.
she said this centre saved her life as a child.
do you have hope for the future?
from his prison in the mountains at the other end of italy, ex—camorrista gennaro panzuto is scathing about his old gang.
they are finished.
did he turn against them?
his decision to choose family over the clan has cost him dear.
what is the personal price for you in doing that?
too much.
too much.
gennaro panzuto was the street thief who became a mafia killer.
after more than a decade behind bars, he will soon be released, but he will always be looking over his shoulder.
for a man brought up in violence, this could be the hardest fight of all.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdaron in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here, we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for a couple of thousand miles out into the atlantic that’ causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather than across it, and what that means is the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, there could still be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here, but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts of wind inland again 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time across the far north as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause some problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
the winds staying strong, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite windy, but for the most of us, it will also stay on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is news.
welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: china says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600, and in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist becomes the first european covid—19 fatality.
at least eight people are killed as a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
canada leads renewed calls for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner brought down over tehran in january.
the popular british presenter caroline flack, has been found dead at her london home.
herfamily say she took her own life.
troops are deployed in the north of england, as storm dennis hits the and northern europe.
health officials in china have reported the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600, with 142 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died from the virus after visiting hubei province.
it’ the first fatality from the disease in europe.
it comes as the head of the world health organisation said that it’ too early to know if the outbreak will become a global pandemic.
nick beake reports from hong kong.
china has declared war on an invisible killer, sending more doctors and soldiers into the worst affected areas.
now, the new coronavirus has claimed its first victim outside of asia.
an elderly chinese man who travelled to france.
: last night, i was informed of the death of an 80—year—old patient who had been hospitalised at the bichat hospital since the 25th of january and who was suffering from a coronavirus lung infection.
back in china, all those returning to the capital beijing after what’ been an extended holiday have been told that they must quarantine themselves for two weeks.
passengers of many nationalities are still stuck aboard the diamond princess off the coast of japan.
285 people have now tested positive for the virus on the ship.
and america says it will remove all of its citizens and them home.
there’ no such escape from wuhan — the chinese city where the outbreak began.
for the rest of the world, we only have 500 cases and two deaths.
while in china, there are more than 66,000 cases.
let me be clear, it is impossible to predict which direction this epidemic will take.
beijing claims it’ acted quickly and decisively to to stop the spread but few are willing to predict what the global impact of this crisis will be.
nick beake, news, hong kong.
and as china announces a drop in new cases how the quarantine is enforced depends on where you live and you work.
in my compound, are not allowed to have any itors.
and the guards live the compound so they can nforce at.
they say this is order from the local overnment authority for area.
but i know that in other , where my friends are in beijing, their operty managers or their guards may enforcing the same not be enforcing the same mles, or rtheir rules, or their local government authority might even different rules regarding sts.
50 this goes to guests.
so this just goes to show that there is a lot of enforcement in beijing also that in order to nforce these laws, what we seen happen is the ckstarting of this network, the system of surveillance, has always existed in beijing and across major cities ina, where the district is ivided up into these mpounds, which have lots ﬂats, compounds, which have lots of flats, where lots of people ive in nese cities, and the les are enforced on the level he the block of flats.
if you have been to hubei province, where the break started, i think the trictions are generally much and you can go out on your own wearing a ask to get groceries and so on.
but i think the general rule is not low lots of visitors or even one visitor.
if you have to hubei province, i hear that things can get a lot more ere.
or example, a severe.
for example, a journalist i know was visited ral times a day by guards would check up on her and if she was having people over.
how often she was leaving the ﬂat and whether as wearing a leaving the flat and whether she was wearing a mask when she the flat.
in beijing it is left the ﬂat.
in beijing it is still possible to survive hout venturing too far from ﬂat thanks to the iquity of online delivery and ocery delivery and so on.
but somebody in that situation is still obviously not a at situation.
and as china announces a drop in new cases from the coronavirus outbreak for a third consecutive day, you can can find information on the spread of the disease, as well as in—depth articles like this one, about how effective it is to wear a mask.
just go to bb.
com/news to find all of that.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
mark zuckerberg has expressed concern over excessive or authoritarian internet regulations, as they could compromise the internet’ ability to spread information freely.
facebook’ chief executive urged governments to come up with something stricter than phone companies’ regulation, which are not held responsible for customers’ conversations, but less strict than newspapers’ regulation.
police in paris have arrested a russian performance artist who posted a sex tape online which ended the election campaign of president macron’ candidate for mayor of paris.
petr pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door at russia’ state security headquarters, said he had wanted to expose what he said was benjamin griveaux’ "hypocrisy.
" the secretary of state mike pompeo is in senegalfor talks with president macky sail about security ties and economic cooperation.
his visit is taking place as the united states seeks to reduce its military presence in africa.
canada has hosted a meeting at the munich security conference along with the four other countries, which lost citizens when iran’ military shot down a ukrainian passenger plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
canada is pushing iran to release the black boxes from the crash so their data can be properly analysed by facilities in france.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet sat down with the canadian foreign minister after the meeting in munich and asked him whether any progess had been made.
after 30 days of trying, you have to come to the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
and we know at that point that the french have offered that they have the latest technology, they have the expertise, to read the content of the black box, to download the content, and to do that in a transparent fashion.
but would you consider iran’ request from the foreign minister, saying, give us the technical support to examine the black boxes in iran?
couldn’ you do that?
well, the experts have spoken.
the experts have said it’ not the type of equipment you can transport.
it looks more like a lab.
for those who are watching at home.
it is not like a piece of equipment you can put in your luggage.
it’ the software and the hardware you need to have to do that, especially when the black boxes have been damaged.
so what we are saying is we saw that you requested that, the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side there’ no way that we can send that in iran.
so the only remaining alternative is to send it to a third country which would be in this case france, which has offered to assist, because i think france understands the international community has a lot of questions.
and i always say that the best antidote to conspiracy is transparency.
have you made any other progress here on the other big issue, which is compensation?
you say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out of 176 were canadian.
iran says they were iranians.
they of course have the two passports.
so the compensation you are asking for, iran says, they cannot accept.
is this something where a compromise can be found?
are you finding it?
well, what we have hopefully established by now is that the compensation to be paid to the heirs of the victims will be the same to everyone.
and we also said that this process of negotiation, of a global settlement, should start quickly.
i remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents, i mean, this is a tragedy.
you know, let me bring it back to, for canada, this has been a national tragedy.
families have lost their loved ones.
i was there with prime minister trudeau, we went to meet families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
stand up to the regime.
make sure that they’re accountable.
we closure, we we accountability, we want justice, we want transparency.
that’ what animates me every time i meet them.
and that is prime minister trudeau said he went to attend the meeting you had with the foreign minister of iran, even though it was at a foreign minister level.
but some of the families are expressing concern about the look of that, the photos of a smiling encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
well, the prime minister came with one purpose.
it was to make sure that the iranian counterpart understood how serious the issue was.
not only for the grieving families in canada, not only for the government of canada, but i think for the world.
i think having 3 prime minister come into the room and state that, itjust reinforced the message.
that was the canadian foreign minister speaking to a ternational correspondent, doucet.
more from the munich security conference.
senior american and afghan sources say the first phase of a deal with the afghan taliban is set to begin shortly with the start of what is known as a 7—day reduction in violence by taliban forces.
jarrett blanc, senior fellow at the carnegie endowment for international peace, told us what the risk of such a deal might be.
well, let’ look at the short term and longer term.
in the short term, the risk associated with the reduction of violence and conditioning the beginning of taliban—afghan talks on a successful reduction of violence is that there will be problems.
spoilers will commit acts of violence that will throw off the most important part of this agreement, which is the beginning of intra—afghan talks.
over the longer term, you know, the risk is the peace talks don’ work and either the taliban demand too much in the government and legitimate opposition don’ get their act together to make a reasonable set of proposals and demands to the taliban, and you end up in a situation where you have fewer and a declining number of american troops and an ongoing civil war.
what is the timeline for this?
there’ this joint statement expected soon.
and a reduction in violence, when is that expected to start?
well, the americans have been a little bit cagey about that so far.
my understanding is it that it’ very soon, maybe in the couple of days.
one speculation is that they are trying to get that in time for president trump to somehow be involved in the formal conclusion of the deal on his trip to india.
and one of the headlines involved here, as would be expected is, troops potentially leaving afghanistan.
what with the effects of that be?
well, the immediate effect of going from let’ say 13,000 troops now to 8,000 troops in a few months is really minimal.
there will still be more troops in afghanistan at the end of that initial drawdown down than there where at the end of the obama administration.
so it’ really not that important.
as you go from that number, 8,000, down potentially ero, either you’re going to have a peace deal which all parties adhere to, or you’re going to end up in a situation where there’ still an ongoing civil war.
and if that’ the case then the drawdown will have to be measured very carefully to allow the government forces to sustain themselves and not suffer a blow that would be devastating in the ongoing conflict.
stay with us on world news.
still to come: the 3—day—long race across a frozen lake.
we’ll hear from participants in one of sport’ more extreme events.
nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into afghanistan, the last soviet troops were finally coming home.
the withdrawal completed in good order, but the army defeated in the task it had been sent to perform.
malcolm has been murdered.
that has a terrible effect on the morale of the people.
i am terrified of the repercussions on the streets.
one wonders who is next.
as the airlift got under way, there was no let—up in the eruption itself.
lava streams from an event low in the crater flow into the sea of the island, away from the town for the time being, but could start flowing again at any time.
the russians heralded a new—generation space station with a spectacular night launch.
they called it mir, the russian for peace.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: chinese authorities say deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600, and in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist becomes the first european covid—19 fatality.
at least eight people are killed as a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
as we’ve been hearing, the television presenter, shows, has been found dead at her home in east london.
herfamily says she took her own life.
flack, who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation she denied.
she fronted programmes that garnered many millions of viewers, including ’ the factor and love island.
she won strictly come dancing in 2014.
here’ our media correspondent david sillito.
it’ the return of the flack!
love island, factor, i’ a celebrity — caroline flack was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes on british television.
she was, until a few weeks ago, the face of love island’ the glamorous, escapist fun.
let’ talk love.
who’ looking for the real thing?
but everything unravelled after she was arrested and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
step back!
in court in december, it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
today, she was found dead at her flat.
her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock and heartbreak at the news.
love island is a show that thrives on its impact on social media, and tonight, thousands were expressing their grief and sympathy.
but her court appearance was proof enough that she was also facing intense scrutiny, both in the press and online.
on its best days, social media is a very powerful tool for these presenters because they can effortlessly and immediately communicate with so many different fans and really bring their own personality to the fore.
the problem is that on the bad days, that scmtiny and attention does not go away.
it stays with them.
the macdonut brothers!
her career went back nearly 20 years.
this, on children’ , and then in 2014, she won strictly come dancing.
the night she won, elation.
but she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
then came the assault charge.
she was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
he stood by her, but they weren’ allowed to communicate before her forthcoming trial.
she was also advised to stay off social media, but she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added: another post read simply: caroline flack, who has died at the age of a0.
storm dennis is continuing to bring heavy rain and strong winds to many parts of the .
rivers in yorkshire are expected to peak around now.
the army was brought in to shore up flood defences.
in scotland, there are three severe flood warnings in place.
and across england, scotland and wales, there are a total of 205 flood warnings.
helena wilkinson reports.
amongst the first evidence of damage by storm dennis was here in south wales.
this village is where people’ homes are under serious threat.
a similar picture tonight in harberton in devon.
dozens of flood warnings are still in place across the country as the rain continues to fall.
in ilkley and calderdale in west yorkshire, areas still recovering from last week’ storm, the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
there are a number of places where the local resilience authorities thought they had a problem with the flood defences that are currently in place, so we have been asked to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences in in both places.
some of the worst affected parts could see up to momm of rainfall and gusts of up to 80mph.
certainly, with the amount of rain that is forecast, 100mm or a month’ worth of rainfall on top of what is incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk and that’ we’re warning people to take action and that’ we’re doing the kind of things we’re doing here.
not far away, in hebden bridge, there’ no respite from the persistent rain.
the scottish environment protection agency has issued flood warnings and advice for residents here in dumfries and galloway, plus elsewhere in the borders, south lanarkshire and south ayrshire.
for many, the half—term getaway has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
almost 100 from here at gatwick.
at heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them british airways.
and on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most of the country, meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
helena wilkinson, news.
the venezuelan government says a huge numbers of soldiers and civilians have begun a 2—day military drill to prepare for what it describes as the threat of invasion by —led forces.
the opposition leader, juan guaido, dismissed the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
earlier, the ’ americas editor, leonardo rocha, explained president maduro had decided to hold the military exercises now.
he is, in a way, making a statement and giving — sending out a message to the united states that the venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million people who are part of this militia who support him, are prepared for anything.
his advisers — his military advisors are cuban, many of them trained in cuba and they learned from the cuban example.
if you arm the population, if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees, anyone that tries to get into venezuela knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
so, he’ pitching himself and the people against america?
now — i mean, there are — the two biggest neighbours of venezuela — colombia and brazil — have hostile governments.
jair bolsonaro in brazil and ivan duque, right—
wing governments, which one of the reasons of these exercises — nicolas maduro said those two countries are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training in their territory to prepare possible invasion if things — if the opportunity’ ripe, they might launch attacks and invade venezuela.
50, his strategy here at the moment is to align a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
yes.
we have to bear in mind the fact that venezuela has the highest inflation in the world.
violence, more than — almost 5 million venezuelans have left the country in the last few years.
so, the economy is in a mess.
the political situation is in a stalemate, you have a very difficult situation.
and what the opposition says is he’ creating a diversion.
you create the threat of an enemy, while nicolas maduro says the empire — the american empire is trying to invade venezuela, it has the biggest known oil reserves in the world.
so there is all that playing on his side.
in the meantime, he hopes that the economy recovers.
it has recovered somehow, so he will regain the support of the majority of venezuelan people.
what isjuan guaido’ strategy here?
this time last year, he was big news every day in terms of would he be taking the presidency, but he seems to have pushed back.
he seems to have lost the momentum.
i thinkjuan guaido’ strategy is to keep pushing and be there if the opportunity comes.
if the government deteriorates, he’ there.
but he lost the momentum somehow.
it’ been one year since the united states recognised him as the legitimate leader of venezuela, but nothing has happened in real terms since then.
early voting has begun in the state of nevada as the democrats continue their campaign to chose a candidate to stand against donald trump in november.
the week—long process in the state finishes next saturday.
it’ seen as an important test forjoe biden, who lost heavily in iowa and in new hampshire.
his team argues nevada, with its more diverse population, could help to improve biden’ fortunes.
senator bernie sanders, though, is the current front—runner in the democratic party race.
now to a race with a difference — the track is the surface of a frozen lake.
it’ the ice storm contest, held annually in the far east of russia, and it could just be the toughest race in the world.
take a look at this.
: it’ like meditation.
at the start, there are lots of people but after two minutes, you are alone.
: anything can happen.
we’ve already stepped in a lot of cracks.
amazing scenes.
the swedish pole vaulter armand duplantis has set a new world record for the second week in a row.
the 20—year—old easily cleared 6.
18 metres in glasgow on saturday.
duplantis is coached by his father greg, also a successful pole vaulter.
a reminder of our top story: china has insisted the outbreak of the new coronavirus is gradually coming under control after the latest figures showed a drop in the number of new cases for the third consecutive day.
however, the world health organization says it may yet become a global epidemic.
they’ve also asked china to elaborate on how it’ diagnosing the disease.
don’ forget, you can get in touch with me and some of my team on twitter.
i’ @sipusey.
for now, that is it from us.
do stay tuned.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdaron in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for a couple of thousand miles out into the atlantic that’ causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel to the front rather than across it, and that means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, there could still be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here, but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts of wind inland again 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time across the far north of england and scotland as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause some problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
the winds staying strong, takin while to ease gradually, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite windy.
but for most of us, it will also stay on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is news.
the headlines: health officials in china say the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600, with almost 150 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died, the first covid—19 fatality in europe.
at least eight football fans from ecuador have died after their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were on their way home from celebrating their club’ qualifaction for the next stage of south america’ biggest club tournament, the copa libertadores.
a0 other supporters were injured.
canada is leading a renewed call for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner, brought down over tehran injanuary.
all 176 people on board were killed.
canadian authorities say they need the contents so the data can be analysed properly by facilities in france.
now on news, it’ time for click.
this week: kitchen hacks go to pot.
football scores, and the ﬂippable foldable phone.
flat or bended?
last week, youtube revealed for the first time just how much cash it’ making parent company google.
that was $15,000,000,000 last year.
announcing its results for the first time seems like a right of passage — last week, youtube revealed for the first time just how much cash it’ making parent company google.
that was $15,000,000,000 last year.
announcing its results for the first time seems like a right of passage — it has grown up and is standing on its own to feed.
—— two feet.
i visited their london office to find out how it has come of age.
kevin, youtube used to be the place where video went viral, but now it seems a lot of that happens on facebook or tiktok.
how do you think things have changed?
the internet is bigger.
it is much easier to make a beautiful video now than it was ten years ago.
when you look at now what the most popular videos on youtube are, they are not viral hit videos, but coming from channels producing lots of content regularly and that have large audiences.
i think youtube has moved from this unintentional kind of quick video thing which we all associate with the early years of youtube to this sort of new world in which you have creators who have businesses and build audiences.
few could have predicted some of the most successful genres.
tell me about .
it is short for autonomous sensory meridian response.
these are whispered videos where people whisper or do things quietly to make audiences react.
what sort of things might they do?
they might whisper, or cook, or rub things on the microphone.
it is a very unusual form of entertainment.
but it is not designed necessarily to make you laugh or do the things that we think about for traditional entertainment.
it is designed to help you relax or calm down.
another big trend is recipes.
making something the old—fashioned way can be time—consuming and fiddly.
so some of the videos online, particularly many have gone viral, make it look very simple.
but is it always possible to do what you are watching?
well, chris fox has been finding out.
you’ve probably been seeing food hacks like these online before — top tricks for tasty treats — but are they too good to be true?
millions of videos like this have turned up on youtube and facebook, but do the all the tips and recipes work, orwilltheyjust waste your time and ingredients?
here is a milk carton flan from the lifestyle channel blossom.
this video’ had 17 million views.
you put the ingredients in the carton, microwave it, cool it, and out pops a perfect carton flan.
now, ifollowed this video step—by—step.
i’ve used the exact same quantities.
now, the first problem came when i tried to put this in the microwave, because the milk carton was too tall, it wouldn’ fit.
and that got me thinking, well, how did they fit their milk carton full of ingredients in the microwave?
and it looks like they didn’, because if you rewatch the video, you’ll see that they actually just cut the bottom of the milk carton off.
not to be deterred, i put the mixture into a shaker and followed the rest of the video, putting it in the microwave to boil for ten minutes.
and did i get a flan at the end of it?
no, i did not.
next up, gummy bear hacks: easy dessert recipes for the weekend, recipes from so yummy.
3.
2 million views.
in this video, melting gummy bears turns them intojelly.
here’ me copying what i saw in the video.
it turns out gummy bears are actually very thick and gloopy when they are melted, not runny like liquid jelly.
will my spoon go into the jelly just as effortlessly as in the so yummy video?
well, no it will not.
because, as you might expect, this gummy mixture at the bottom of the glass is rock solid.
let’ have one more.
this is from —minute crafts.
if you’ve run out of popcorn, notjust shove an ear of corn in the microwave to make some popcorn?
now, i don’ need to tell you that if you put an ear of fresh corn into the microwave it will not come out as popcorn but willjust be hot corn.
but i was willing to be proved wrong, so i tried it out in the name of science.
when it comes out, it is warmer than before!
i’ not the only one who has been intrigued by this — ann reardon is a food scientist and runs a cookery channel on youtube, and she’ been investigating, too.
it’ the fake news of the cooking work — it’ faked baking.
the reason it works is that it’ more clickable, and clickbait content is currently working on the youtube algorithm.
and apparently working on facebook, too.
ann’ been trying a lot of these recipes on her youtube channel, too.
there’ one on so yummy where they make cake icing out of strawberry ice cream.
now, ann tried it, and it didn’ work.
i’ve also tried it, and it doesn’ work.
having a food science degree, i know what properties different things have and whether that will work or not.
it’ not possible to whip up ice cream, because the fat content is not high enough.
even if you get the most luxurious ice cream you will get, it will not whip and make frosting.
that’ an example of the faked ones, but there are now some which are going to dangerous territory as well.
one on —minute crafts they have one when they put a strawberry in bleach to make it white.
if a child was to watch that and do it, they could consume a lot of bleach, which is obviously not good for them.
there is another video where molten caramel is put over a spinning whisk to make a sort of bird’ nest decoration to put on top of a dessert.
molten caramel is hot — like, it’ hotter than boiling water.
so we made a box and put plastic wrap in front of it.
the hot caramel melted right through it.
while we’re here, those melted caramel cake decorations they show, that’ not the best way to make those, either.
it takes a long time to melt one sweet, and usually theyjust burn and stick to the pan.
the professional — and just as easy — way, according to ann, is to put your sweets in a blender, put a thin layer of that on greaseproof paper and put it in the oven forjust a few minutes.
that’ an easy way to make caramel cake decorations that you can at home.
that was chris, and chris is here now.
you didn’ manage to bring me lunch, though, did you?
i should have saved you some of my sweaty egg flan!
i’ not sure it looked that appetising!
what did the companies have to say?
—minute crafts, which made the popcorn video that didn’ pop, they didn’ reply to my email.
and first media, which runs the so yummy and blossom channel, well, they invited me to their studios in to prove that the recipes work, but they said i couldn’ film them doing it.
they told me they only put recipes in the videos that do work, although i suspect not as shown in the video because we tried it and they didn’ work, and the food scientist, ann, she said some of the recipes, there’ no way they would work, even if you followed the instructions and used the most luxurious ingredients.
so are people so busy sharing these videos?
i think they are obviously very visual, they are nicely produced.
companies would say that the purpose of this is entertainment, they give you cooking ideas and inspiration.
and, crucially, most of the people who watch these videos aren’ actually going to actually these recipes, theyjust like the visuals.
clearly.
and this is what happened when i asked kevin at youtube about this.
you seem to love these videos and share them a lot, but they’re clearly not actually trying to make the food.
i think for a lot of life hack videos, or kitchen hack videos, it’ not about trying to take that fact or hack and use it in your life, it’ just oddly satisfying to see it play out in front of you.
it’ just another form of entertainment.
does it not matter?
is truth that thing of past?
truth is not a thing of the past, but i think that there is some contexts in which pure accuracy, perhaps, is not always paramount.
keeping up with the pace of technological change can be difficult at the best of times — particularly for parents, who want to be able to keep track of what their children are doing, how much screen time they’re having, whether all the content is appropriate.
and never has this been more true than when it comes to videogames.
so mark cieslak has been looking at this very problem with a spot of help from one of the best—known faces in football.
father—of—three and ex—manchester united and england footballer rio ferdinand is fronting a campaign to encourage parents to learn about the parental controls they can use in their children’ videogames.
i was someone who’ been fairly involved in gaming throughout my adult life, and my children play, and we thought we’ve had a good balance in our house.
you get in, you do your school work, you do your chores about the house, you have a balance between the gaming and being outside.
but having an understanding of what your children are actually doing, that’ always so invaluable to me to understand what i can actually do in terms of actually controlling what type of games that they’re on.
do you think parents have to take more responsibility as far as videogames and their children are concerned?
you have to take a key interest, like you take a key interest in your child’ school life, take an interest in their game life because it’ an integral part of their life nowadays like it or not.
the get smart about play campaign is the work of the games industry trade body.
it provides online guides about parental controls on consoles and computers, controls which can limit play time and prevent children spending real—world money on virtual items.
well, we know that more than half of parents in the in particular have concerns about the amount of time their children and people in their care are spending playing games and on screens in general.
this is part of an overall society digital literacy agenda.
you know, so, really understanding boundaries, understanding how to protect yourself, understanding how to protect your privacy, it’ part of a wider thing in society that i think we need to really pay attention to.
research suggests that up to 99% of children in the aged between eight and 15 play video games regularly.
compare this to research carried out by the which found only 19% of parents with children between aged of five and 15 actually use parental controls on devices which connect to the internet.
but some parents think that the games industry should bear a greater response ability.
are they trying to empower parents, or are they passing the buck?
they have a purpose and a responsibility to actually protect the mental well—being of our children.
that is part of their role as i see it.
every company that is producing content for our children has to take on that responsibility.
features in games like loot boxes, randomised in—game virtual items which can be bought with real—world cash, have been compared to gambling, and have led to increased scrutiny of the industry.
so does it need to clean up its act?
we are businesses at the end of the day, and these parental controls and family are important, because you can turn of in—game spending.
that’ the conversation is really important, so it is a shared responsibility.
while learning about parental controls improves digital literacy, perhaps some parents who play video games with their children might enjoy the experience as well.
hello and welcome to the week in tech.
it was a week that google started its appeal against a £2 billion fine by the european commission.
it’ alleged the company abused its power by of favouring its own shopping comparison service over others.
the world’ largest mobile show, mobile world congress, has been cancelled over coronavirus concerns.
the decision comes after high—profile companies, including nokia, , and vodafone pulled out of the event.
and speaking of the coronavirus, in times square in new york, a robot has been providing information to curious passers—by about the virus.
and german intelligence services were outed for spying on governments through the control of a swiss firm.
from the cold war era up to the 20005, supplied encoding devices which harvested secrets from countries including iran, india and pakistan.
the first human clinical controls of a blood—drawing robot have started this week.
researchers at rutgers university found that it performed as well or better than human clinicians.
and, finally, some people are heavy—handed, i know i am, but now there’ a robotic hand they can do the heavy lifting as well as have a delicate touch.
it is capable of handling various objects and tools, like an egg, and playing the piano.
it is expected these hands will be used in industrial sites, as well as everyday life.
this week saw samsung’ unpacked event.
yes, it’ a phone launch time again.
here i have the samsung galaxy flip.
now, whether you find this appealing or not, i have to say that on click, we’ve been to a fair few phone launches and it’ quite refreshing to find one that doesn’tjust look like a rectangle.
this is samsung’ second foldable phone and is a more compact offering than the first, even though its ultra—thin foldable glass opens up to a 6.
7—inch screen.
and on the front here you have a display where it can give you all your notifications, when you get phone calls or text messages, they’ll pop up there and there’ a camera so you can take selfies without even opening the device.
but once you do open it, well, some apps are optimised to be able to provide you with a viewing zone and an interaction zone.
it wasn’ long ago that the motorola razr was announced and one of the criticisms that that’ received is that the line in the middle where the phone actually folds is a bit too prominent.
now, how much that crease would bother me if this was my regular phone, i don’ know.
i can see a line there but it is a folding phone, so i don’ really know what you’ expect.
oh, and it would set you back £1,300, by the way.
here i have the samsung galaxy 520 ultra.
now, samsung say the main reason people upgrade their phones is to get a better camera and that’ definitely the focus here.
in fact, it has up to 100 times zoom.
if you take a look behind me, there are two small figurines up there.
i’ going to taking a photograph of them using this device, zooming in and see how clear it’ going to be.
the camera has 10—times optical zoom and beyond that moves into digital zoom.
now, once you’re in the realms of using the 100 times, the camera engages to clean up the image as well.
the question is — how much use is that photo?
you certainly wouldn’ want something that looked like that put on your mantelpiece, would you?
this shot has been taken using the a8mp camera and the has helped create a clear shot.
let’ compare that to this image, which was taken using the 108mp camera, and then after the photo was taken, the picture was zoomed in on.
so, that one is sort of clearer in a way.
this one looks more like a work of art.
over the past few years, rwanda’ become a hub for technology in sub—saharan africa.
jane copestake has been to look at a unique project hoping to bring electricity to the whole country and possibly avert disaster.
lake kivu in rwanda is one of east africa’ great lakes.
the beautiful landscape is attracting tourists for kayaking and fishing with hopes of generating a lot of revenue for the country, but something even more valuable is hidden deep within this lake.
we’re going 14km offshore to see the kiquatt project.
it’ where they’re extracting methane gas from below the surface of the lake.
it’ the only project like it in the world.
this barge took seven years to construct and lies on the lake’ border with the democratic republic of the congo.
the engineers here work 2a hours a day in 12—hour shifts, monitoring the conditions of the lake.
kivu is highly saturated with gases, including methane and carbon dioxide from millions of years of decomposition and volcanic activity.
these gases are kept under pressure at significant depths.
the lake is 480 deep.
however, any disturbance to the lake from seismic activity or a lava flow could result in the gases leaking out.
kivu is one of only three known lakes in the world where the specific conditions for this catastrophic event could occur.
they are known as the killer lakes.
in 1986, a similar lake, lake nyos in cameroon, suffered a carbon dioxide leak.
the resulting gas cloud killed over 1,700 people in nearby villages and all other living creatures in its path.
if the gases in lake kivu escaped, it could have even more deadly consequences — it’ over 1,700 times bigger than lake nyos and over 2 million people live around it.
in lake kivu, there’ a lot of concentration here, which, of course, is far much more than what we have in lake nyos,
so this is it’ very, very important to embark on such projects to reduce the content of the gas on the lakebed.
there are 300 billion cubic metres of carbon dioxide and 60 billion cubic metres of methane in the lake.
safely extracting the methane will help generate electricity for rwanda, something it desperately needs.
this project is contributing about 30% to the need of the country.
30% — that’ impressive.
so, that 30% wasn’ there before you started?
which was not there before, exactly.
large pipes below the barge bring in the gas—saturated water.
this water is forced into a separator.
at a certain depth, the gas starts to separate from the water.
the phenomena there is one we would liken to opening a bottle of champagne.
when you’re allowing the water to be siphoned upwards, then it’ also boosted by the lake pressure itself and it’ pushing the water upwards.
water with a mixture of carbon dioxide, methane and hydrogen sulphide is sent to the barge’ wash towers and cleaned.
the carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulphide are removed.
the de—gassed water is returned to the lake, and methane is delivered by a suspended pipeline to the shore—based power plant for electrical generation.
this is the definition of innovation, building the project right from the design stage up until construction and now into operation.
currently, 51% of rwandans have access to electricity.
by 2024, the government hopes that will rise to 100%.
the kiquatt project plans to deploy three additional barges here to help the country reach this ambitious target.
now, over the past few weeks, we’ve been showing you some of the films nominated in the oscars best visual effects category, but we have saved the best for last, and this week, we have sam mendes’ epic first world war drama 1917 in store for you.
this was the one that took the oscar, and if you haven’ seen it yet, what is pretty remarkable is the way that the film is supposed to look like one continuous shot.
: your orders are to deliver a message falling off tomorrow morning’ attack.
if you fail, it will be a massacre.
what sam’ always wanted to do is to have the idea of the audience being sort of, a part of the story.
instead of being in a window to the world of something, it gives the idea that the audience is travelling, going along with the story as an extra character, should we say.
that, in itself, brings some really difficult challenges.
91% of that film has a visual effect in it, from digital doubles or environment extensions, atmospherics.
we put in houses or trees or bushes or canals, and it works at this angle, but then the camera carries on and two minutes later, we’re looking at the reverse angle, something like that, and aesthetically it doesn’ work, so we had a lot of logistical sort of issues to work out.
what we talked about really was feeling.
it’ a strange word to use because obviously with visual effects to help quantify it is we break it down into shots and this gets digitally stitched together, but actually it’ more about a feeling of a sequence or a beat.
go, go, go!
no men’ and is a really interesting sequence, because obviously that sort of sets the tone for the journey.
this was all shot in england.
one of our primary ideas or principles was to make sure that it looked like the north of france.
created horses, we did environment extensions, fake barbed wire, added a huge amount of craters.
sam had this vision for the end scene.
3, 2, 1, go, go!
our work is really to tidy up and emphasise what had already gone on, because a lot of it was all in camera once again, we were only adding a little bit to the story but we weren’ dramatically changing anything from battle apart from adding a few more dangerous, sort of, explosions that were closer to our heroes, and obviously the 500 extras who were on the set at that point.
we were really adding a little bit more danger and making sure that from a cinematic point of view, it was visually a beautiful scene for them.
: there is only one way this ends.
well, that’ it for this week’ show.
you can keep track of the team throughout the week on instagram, facebook, youtube and twitter — @bbcclick.
thanks for watching.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdaron in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for a couple of thousand miles out into the atlantic that’ causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel to the front rather than across it, and that means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, there could still be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here, but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts of wind again inland 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time across the far north of england and scotland as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause some problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
the winds staying strong, taking a while before they ease gradually in the afternoon, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite windy.
but for most of us, it will also stay on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is world news.
i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: china says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600 — and in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist becomes the first european, —19 fatality.
at least eight people are killed as a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
canada leads renewed calls for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner brought down over tehran in january.
the popular british presenter caroline flack, has been found dead at her london home.
herfamily say she took her own life.
troops are deployed in the north of england, as storm dennis hits the and northern europe.
hello and welcome to news.
the government says it sending two aircraft to japan on sunday to evacuate american citizens quarantined on board a giant cruise ship in the japanese port of yokohama.
there are now 355 cases of coronavirus infection from the ship.
meanwhile, china has insisted the outbreak of the new coronavirus is gradually coming under control after the latest figures showed a drop in the number of new cases for the third consecutive day.
aaron safir reports.
hubei province, where the coronavirus first emerged in mber, remains the epicentre what is a national epidemic a global outbreak.
another in the number of new cases
, china says, proof that is, china says, more proof that the virus is being managed ectively.
at that management ans ever more stringent sures.
china now says anknotes will be disinfected stored for days before and stored for 14 days before being put ack into irculation.
and beijing has ered everyone returning to he city to go into quarantine 4 days.
he quarantine for 14 days.
the quarantine depends on here you live and re you work.
for example, he guard at the gate has told are not allowed to have any visitors and, of course, he everybody who lives in knows everybody who lives in the compound, so he can enforce very much self stop by that very much himself stop by the virus has claimed its first outside of asia, with the death of a chinese tourist in ce, and africa has seen its rase to, in egypt.
but the gest first case to, in egypt.
but the largest coronavirus break outside china remains a cruise liner docter of kohama in pan.
there are hearty 4000 people on board the amond princess, and despite ict quarantine conditions, number of cases continues the number of rases continues to rise.
more than 350 people the illness and more than two—thirds of those on board have not even been tested.
on sunday, canada and hong kong ined the ted states in joined the united states in making arrangements to pick up citizens from the liner their citizens from the liner and bring them home.
meanwhile, senger who been on board a passenger who been on board another cruise ship, now docked mbodia, has tested positive for the virus.
the erdam had been barred from veral asian ports before assengers were allowed off.
an 83—year—old american oman as tested positive after riving by air in malaysia.
in china, the world health rganization is conducting an estigation into the tbreak.
and while another drop in ases will be drop in new cases will be welcomed, is insisting it’ too early to predict whether the coronavirus break will become a global idemic.
aaron safir, news.
and as china announces a drop in new cases from the coronavirus outbreak for a third consecutive day, you can can find information on the spread of the disease, as well as in depth articles like this one, about how effective it is to wear a mask.
just go to bbc.
com/news to find all of that.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
mark zuckerberg has warned the internet risks losing its ability to spread information freely if it’ subjected to excessive regulation.
the chief executive of facebook acknowledged that the company should accept some form of state regulation, but that currently it sits somewhere between a phone company and a newspaper.
police in paris have arrested a russian performance artist who posted a sex tape online which ended the election campaign of president macron’ candidate for mayor of paris.
petr pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door at russia’ state security headquarters, said he had wanted to expose what he said was benjamin griveaux’ "hypocrisy".
the secretary of state mike pompeo is in senegalfor talks with president macky sail about security ties and economic cooperation.
his visit is taking place as the united states seeks to reduce its military presence in africa.
at least eight football fans from ecuador have died after their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were on their way home from celebrating their club’ qualifaction for the next stage of the copa libertadores — south america’ biggest club tournament.
richard forrest reports.
a fall of 15 metres and a crash so violent it pulled the roof from this bus.
at least a0 people were injured, the driver seems to have lost control in the early hours of the morning.
: i was asleep at the time of the accident.
i couldn’
tell you what happened.
i just felt the impact, the blow.
it happened near mancora on a notoriously dangerous stretch of the pan—american highway in northern peru.
supporters of the ecuadorian team barcelona were celebrating their team’ qualification for the next stage of the copa libertadores.
dangerous curves, poor maintenance, and scant enforcements make driving on peru’ roads dangerous.
they claim nine lives a day according to the government.
ecuador’ president has expressed his condolences and pledged help for the families of the victims whose loved ones celebrations turned to tragedy.
richard forrest, news.
canada has hosted a meeting at the munich security conference along with the four other countries, which lost citizens when iran’ military shot down a ukrainian passenger plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
canada is pushing iran to release the black boxes from the crash so their data can be properly analysed by facilities in france.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet sat down with the canadian foreign minister after the meeting in munich and asked him whether any progress had been made.
after 30 days of trying, you have to come to the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
and we know at that point that the french have offered that they have the latest technology, they have the expertise, to read the content of the black box, to download the content, and to do that in a transparent fashion.
but would you consider iran’ request from the foreign minister, saying, give us the technical support to examine the black boxes in iran?
couldn’ you do that?
well, the experts have spoken.
the experts have said it’ not the type of equipment you can transport.
it looks more like a lab.
for those who are watching at home.
it is not like a piece of equipment you can put in your luggage.
it’ the software and the hardware you need to have to do that, especially when the black boxes have been damaged.
so what we are saying is we saw that you requested that, the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side there’ no way that we can send that in iran.
so the only remaining alternative is to send it to a third country which would be in this case france, which has offered to assist, because i think france understands the international community has a lot of questions.
and i always say that the best antidote to conspiracy is transparency.
have you made any other progress here on the other big issue, which is compensation?
you say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out of 176 were canadian.
iran says they were iranians.
they of course have the two passports.
so the compensation you are asking for, iran says, they cannot accept.
is this something where a compromise can be found?
are you finding it?
well, what we have hopefully established by now is that the compensation to be paid to the heirs of the victims will be the same to everyone.
and we also said that this process of negotiation, of a global settlement, should start quickly.
i remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents, i mean, this is a tragedy.
you know, let me bring it back to, for canada, this has been a national tragedy.
families have lost their loved ones.
i was there with prime minister trudeau, we went to meet families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
stand up to the regime.
make sure that they’re accountable.
we closure, we we accountability, we want justice, we want transparency.
that’ what animates me every time i meet them.
and that is prime minister trudeau said he went to attend the meeting you had with the foreign minister of iran, even though it was at a foreign minister level.
but some of the families are expressing concern about the look of that, the photos of a smiling encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
well, the prime minister came with one purpose.
it was to make sure that the iranian counterpart understood how serious the issue was.
not only for the grieving families in canada, not only for the government of canada, but i think for the world.
i think having 3 prime minister come into the room and state that, itjust reinforced the message.
that was canada’ foreign minister speaking a little .
also at the munich security conference, senioramerican and afghan sources say the first phase of a deal with the afghan taliban is set to begin shortly with the start of what is known as a seven day reduction in violence by taliban forces.
jarrett blanc, senior fellow at the carnegie endowment for international peace, told us what the risk of such a deal might be.
let’ look at the and the longer term.
in the short term, the risk associated with the reduction in violence and conditioning the beginning of taliban—afghan talks on a successful reduction of violence is that there will be problems.
there will be spoilers who commit acts of violence that will throw off the first part of the agreement which are the beginning intra—afghan talks.
the longer term, the risk is that the peace talks don’ work.
that the taliban demand too much or the government and the legitimate opposition don’ get their act together to make a reasonable set of proposals and demands to the taliban.
and you end up in a situation where you have fewer and a declining number of american troops and an ongoing civil war.
what’ the timeline for this?
there is a joint statement expected soon and a reduction of violence when is that expected to start?
the americans have been a little bit cagey about that so far.
my understanding is that it is very soon, maybe in the next couple of days.
one speculation is that they are trying to get it done in time for president trump to somehow be involved in the formal conclusion of the deal on his trip to india.
what are the headlines involved here, as would probably be expected, is troops potentially leaving afghanistan.
what would the effect of that be?
the immediate effect of going from, let’ say 13,000 troops now, to 8,000 troops in a few months is really minimal.
there will still be more troops in afghanistan at the end of that initial drawdown than there were at the end of the obama administration.
it’ really not that important.
as you go from that number, 8,000, down to potentially min-1- either you’re going to have a peace deal which all parties adhere to or you’re going to end up in a situation where there’ still an ongoing civil war.
if that is the case, then the drawdown will have to be managed very carefully to allow the government forces to sustain themselves and not to suffer a blow that would be devastating in the ongoing conflict.
stay with us on news.
still to come: the three day long race across a frozen lake.
we’ll hear from participants in one of sport’ more extreme events.
nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into afghanistan, the last soviet troops were finally coming home.
the withdrawal completed in good order, but the army defeated in the task it had been sent to perform.
malcolm has been murdered.
that has a terrible effect on the morale of the people.
i am terrified of the repercussions on the streets.
one wonders who is next.
as the airlift got under way, there was no let—up in the eruption itself.
lava streams from an event low in the crater flow into the sea on the east of the island, away from the town for the time being, but could start flowing again at any time.
the russians heralded a new—generation space station with a spectacular night launch.
they called it mir, the russian for peace.
this is news, the latest headlines: chinese authorities say deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have now passed 1,600 — and in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist becomes the first european, -19 fatality.
at least eight people are killed as a bus carrying football fans from ecuador plunges into a ravine in peru.
the television presenter caroline flack, host of some of the ’ biggest reality shows, has been found dead at her home in east london.
herfamily says she took her own life.
flack who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation she denied.
she fronted programmes that garnered many millions of viewers, including ’ the factor and love island.
she won strictly come dancing in 2014.
here’ our media correspondent, david sillito.
it’ the return of the flack!
love island, factor, i’ a celebrity — caroline flack was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes on british television.
she was, until a few weeks ago, the face of love island — glamorous, escapist fun.
let’ talk love.
who’ looking for the real thing?
but everything unravelled after she was arrested and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
in court in december, it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
today, she was found dead at her flat.
her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock and heartbreak at the news.
love island is a show that thrives on its impact on social media, and tonight, thousands were expressing their grief and sympathy.
but her court appearance was proof enough that she was also facing intense scrutiny, both in the press and online.
on its best days, social media is a very powerful tool for these presenters because they can effortlessly and immediately communicate with so many different fans and really bring their own personality to the fore.
the problem is that on the bad days, that scmtiny and attention does not go away.
it stays with them.
the macdonut brothers!
her career went back nearly 20 years.
this, on children’ , and then in 2014, she won strictly come dancing.
the night she won, elation.
but she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
then came the assault charge.
she was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
he stood by her, but they weren’ allowed to communicate before her forthcoming trial.
and she was also advised to stay off social media, but she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added: caroline flack — who has died at the age of a0.
storm dennis is continuing to bring heavy rain and strong winds to many parts of the .
rivers in yorkshire are expected to peak.
the army has been brought in to shore up flood defences.
in scotland there are three severe flood warnings in place.
and across england, scotland and wales there are a total of 205 flood warnings.
helena wilkinson reports.
amongst the first evidence of damage by storm dennis was here in south wales.
this village is where people’ homes are under serious threat.
a similar picture tonight in harberton in devon.
dozens of flood warnings are still in place across the country as the rain continues to fall.
in ilkley and calderdale in west yorkshire, areas still recovering from last week’ storm, the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
there are a number of places where the local resilience authorities thought they had a problem with the flood defences that are currently in place, so we have been asked to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences in in both places.
some of the worst affected parts could see up to momm of rainfall and gusts of up to 80mph.
certainly, with the amount of rain that is forecast, 100mm or a month’ worth of rainfall on top of what is incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk and that’ we’re warning people to take action and that’ we’re doing the kind of things we’re doing here.
not far away, in hebden bridge, there’ no respite from the persistent rain.
the scottish environment protection agency has issued flood warnings and advice for residents here in dumfries and galloway, plus elsewhere in the borders, south lanarkshire and south ayrshire.
for many, the half—term getaway has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
almost 100 from here at gatwick.
at heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them british airways.
and on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most of the country, meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
helena wilkinson, news.
the venezuelan government says a huge numbers of soldiers and civilians have begun a two—day military drill to prepare for what it describes as the threat of invasion by —led forces.
the opposition leader, juan guaido, dismissed the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
earlier the ’ americas editor , leonardo rocha explained president maduro had decided to hold the military exercises now he is, in a way, making a statement and giving — sending out a message to the united states that the venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million people who are part of this militia who support him, are prepared for anything.
his advisers — his military advisors are cuban, many of them trained in cuba and they learned from the cuban example.
if you arm the population, if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees, anyone that tries to get into venezuelan knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
so, he’ pitching himself and the people against america?
now — i mean, there are — the two biggest neighbours of venezuela — colombia and brazil — have hostile governments.
jair bolsonaro in brazil and ivan duque, right—
wing governments, which is one of the reasons of these exercises — nicolas maduro said that those two countries are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training in their territory to prepare possible invasion if things — if the opportunity’ ripe, they might launch attacks and invade venezuela.
50, his strategy here at the moment is to align a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
yes.
we have to bear in mind the fact that venezuela has the highest inflation in the world.
violence, more than — almost 5 million venezuelans have left the country in the last few years.
so, the economy is in a mess.
the political situation is in a stalemate, you have a very difficult situation.
and what the opposition says is he’ creating a diversion.
you create the threat of an enemy, while nicolas maduro says the empire — the american empire is trying to invade venezuela, it has the biggest known oil reserves in the world.
so there is all that playing on his side.
in the meantime, he hopes the economy will recover.
it has recovered somehow, so he will regain the support of the majority of venezuelans.
what isjuan guaido’ strategy here?
this time last year he was big news every day in terms of would he be taking the presidency, but he seems to have pushed back.
he seems to have lost the momentum.
juan guaido’ strategy is to keep pushing and be there if the opportunity comes.
if the government deteriorates, he’ there.
but he’ lost the momentum somehow.
it’ been one year since the recognised him as the legitimate leader of venezuela, but nothing has happened in real terms since then.
early voting has begun in the state of nevada, as the democrats continue their campaign to chose a candidate to stand against donald trump in november.
the week—long process in the state finishes next saturday.
it’ seen as an important test forjoe biden, who lost heavily in iowa and new hampshire.
his team argues nevada, with its more diverse population, could help to improve biden’ fortunes.
senator bernie sanders is the current front—runner in the democratic party race.
now to a race with a difference — the track is the surface of a frozen lake.
it’ the ice storm contest, held annually in the far east of russia, and it could just be the toughest race in the world.
take a look at this: : it’ like meditation.
at the start, there are lots of people but after two minutes, you are alone.
: anything can happen.
we’ve already stepped in a lot of cracks.
the swedish pole vaulter armand duplantis has set a new world record for the second week in a row.
the 20—year—old easily cleared 6.
18 metres in glasgow on saturday.
duplantis is coached by his father greg, also a succesful pole vaulter.
a reminder of our top story: china has insisted the outbreak of the new coronavirus is gradually coming under control after the latest figures showed a drop in the number of new cases for the third consecutive day.
however the world health organization says it may yet become a global epidemic.
they’ve also asked china to elaborate on how it’ diagnosing the disease.
don’ forget you can get in touch with me and some of my team on twitter — i’ @sipusey.
you can get in touch with some of the team there.
and also our ite has all the stories we have covered and much more.
by now, thanks for watching and tuned here on world news.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdaron in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for a couple of thousand miles out into the atlantic that’ causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel to the front rather than across it, and that means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, there could still be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here, but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts of wind inland again 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time across the far north of england and scotland as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause some problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
the winds staying strong, takin while to ease gradually, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite windy.
but for most of us, it will also stay on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
this is news.
the headlines: health officials in china say the total number of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600, with almost 150 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
in france, an 80—year—old chinese tourist has died — the first covid—19 fatality in europe.
at least eight football fans from ecuador have died after their bus plunged into a ravine in peru.
they were on their way home from celebrating their club’ qualification for the next stage of south america’ biggest club tournament, the copa libertadores.
forty other supporters were injured.
canada is leading a renewed call for iran to hand over the black boxes from the ukrainian airliner, brought down over tehran injanuary.
all 176 people on board were killed.
canadian authorities say they need the contents so the data can be analysed properly by facilities in france.
coming up at six ’clock, breakfast with louise minchin and rogerjohnson — but now it’ time for a look back at the week in parliament.
hello and welcome to the week in parliament.
as the reshuffle derails some cabinet careers, it’ full steam ahead for the 52 express.
and a sign to the world that in the 21st century, this united kingdom still has the vision to dream big dreams and the courage to bring those dreams about.
will new rules on bullying stop treating commons staff like this?
that member then found me in a remote corridor in the house of commons later that day, shouted at me, sort of basically pinned me against the well, did the whole, you know, don’ you know who i am, how long have i been here, what do you think you’re doing?
and a new play explores the political deals behind britain’ abolition of slavery.
and i think it is about time that the public really knew what went into the abolition act and what wasn’ really delivered.
but first, let’ be honest, some people thought westminster life would be a bit dull after borisjohnson’ crushing election victory and mp5 voting to get brexit done.
how wrong they — we — were.
it’ true we no longer have the knife—edge votes of the may years or the serial government defeats and ministerial resignations, but there’ no shortage of political drama at the moment.
the new cabinet met on friday.
many of those faces around the table were familiar, some less so.
more striking were the absentees, chief among them the former chancellor.
on thursday, sajid javid quit afterjust seven months in the job.
he refused to accept borisjohnson’ terms for staying on — to fire his advisers.
several other cabinet ministers also lost theirjobs, including julian smith — only weeks after the northern ireland secretary played a key role in restoring devolution to stormont.
questions for the minister from the department for digital media, culture and sport, robert courts.
as the drama unfolded, parliamentary life continued as usual.
there was culture questions — minus the outgoing culture secretary, lady morgan, who’ now a peer.
oral questions, attorney general, alex norris.
and attorney general questions — without the attorney general.
geoffrey cox was among the reshuffle casualties.
others were not taking their survival chances for granted.
i look forward to working with him and his committee, i hope, in this in this important i’ll put my phone on speaker on the dispatch box!
— well, some of them — finally caught up with the news during questions to the leader of the commons.
given the events of the day, i suppose we should congratulate the leader of the house for surviving the current cabinet cull that is under way, at least thus far.
we should be grateful that our business is led by someone who has proven his indispensability to the prime minister.
speaker, i am most grateful to the honourable gentleman for his gracious welcome on my continuing presence here.
if i am suddenly called away, i am sure my honourable friend will be more than able to take over throughout the rest of the session.
can we have a statement on the surprising news that the chancellor of the exchequer has been sacked?
speaker, madam deputy speaker, the honourable gentleman is ahead of me on the news cycle.
later, a government whip — in a rare speaking role — tried to lower the tension among his ambitious colleagues.
we’ve had this debate today with a little bit of news going on in the background in the reshuffle.
i am sure that many of my honourable and right honourable friends have been waiting eagerly by their phones for that call.
ilike to i want to make sure that people don’ have that impression of me so i’lljust leave that there.
the only thing i can see at the moment is a missed call from my mother.
i suspect the call from your mother was asking has boris rung yet?
sorry, andrew, no, he hasn’.
not yet.
but fret not, andrew, the call finally came and stuart andrew was promoted to become the new government deputy chief whip.
one of the reshuffle changes will see a new full—time minister for the controversial high—speed hs2 rail link.
it’ already years late, billions over budget and rather unpopular with more than a few conservative mps.
but borisjohnson says it will now go ahead.
the prime minister said it had been a difficult decision but he would draw a line under poor management of the scheme so far.
the first phase of the route will travel between london and birmingham, with a second phase going to manchester and leeds.
before donning the obligatory hi—vis jacket, he presented the package to mp5 as part of a "public transport revolution", with £5 billion promised over five years to improve bus and cycling services in england.
on high—speed rail, he said his generation faced a choice.
we can to get by with the existing routes from north to south, we can consign the next generation to overcrowding, standing up in the carriageways, or we can have the guts to take a decision.
no matter how difficult.
unlike the party opposite, by the way, speaker.
no matter how difficult and how controversial, that will deliver prosperity to every part of the country.
so, today, speaker, the cabinet has given high—speed rail the green signal.
we are going to get this done.
and to ensure that we do so without further blow outs on cost or schedule, we are today taking the decisive action to restore discipline to the programme.
besides , he said railways in the north of england would be improved, part of a wider transport revolution featuring electric buses, driverless cars and new networks of cycle paths.
this government will deliver a new anatomy of british transport, a revolution in this nation’ public transport provision, and a sign to the world that in the 21st century, this united kingdom still has the vision to dream big dreams and the courage to bring those dreams about, and i commend this statement to the house.
the labour leader supported rail and bus improvements but questioned whether boris johnson’ government could deliver.
it is a government that has proved itself unable to manage infrastructure projects properly and incapable of keeping a lid on the costs.
today’ piecemeal announcements don’ add up to a serious plan to rebalance the economy or to tackle the serious climate emergency that we all face.
and he looked at boris johnson’ own record.
speaker, the prime minister is clearly fond of announcing big shiny projects.
like the scheme to build a bridge over the irish sea.
not go the whole hog and make it a garden bridge?
connect it to an airport in the sea.
it stands as much chance of actually being built as any of those failed projects by the former mayor of london put forward.
the saddest thing, speaker, about today’ announcement is the high likelihood that so much of it won’ be delivered.
hs2 is a dire reflection on this government’ environmental credentials, with the destruction of 100 ancient woodlands and a miserably small modal shift ofjust 5% of passengers who would otherwise or drive.
many conservative are unhappy with the plan but the opposition in the commons was muted.
would my right honourable friend agree with me that it is very, very important that as hs2 is now going ahead that we also compensate well those people in my constituency and his, and his who will be affected by .
speaker, the short answer to that is of course.
hs2 is unloved, unwanted, and has been grossly mismanaged.
it very adversely affects my constituents.
does the prime minister appreciate my and my constituents’ concerns that this could well be an albatross around this government’ and the country’ neck moving forward, and doesn’ it set the her very low for the future delivery of infrastructure projects on—time and on budget by future governments?
speaker, every great infrastructure project is opposed by the people at this stage.
the 25 had 39 separate planning the treasury, i seem to remember delivering the olympics and the problems with crossrail.
every single infrastructure project is opposed at this critical moment.
we’ve got to have the guts and the foresight to drive it through.
the prime minister, who says the first hs2 trains could be running within 10 years.
complaints about bullying and sexual harassment by are to be handled differently in what’ been described as a "seismic shift" for staff.
the new system will be completely independent of mps, with an expert panel replacing the committee of that currently has the final say on action taken.
the plan follows the recommendations of the retired high courtjudge, dame laura cox
whose report on bullying in parliament was published in 2018.
i asked hannah white of the institute for government, who’ a former commons clerk, how the system works at the moment.
there is a new system which has been in place for a couple of years now and fundamentally what happens is there is an independent officer called the parliamentary commissioner for standards.
she oversees an investigation of a complaint that is made if it is something that is not deemed to be very serious but if there is a more serious complaint, that will go to the committee on standards, which is a committee made up half of and half lay members, and they get to decide what the sanction should be against an .
so, what is the big difference the new system will make?
the new system, which is out for consultation, would find that you have an independent panel of experts and the most serious complaints, the most serious allegations where the commissioner does an investigation and says, i think there would be as a serious sanction for this, so either suspension of an from the house, or possibly their expulsion from the house, then, that would go to that expert committee and that committee would be completely independent, it wouldn’ involve any mp5, and there is a question about whether it might involve a former , but it would be distinct so people could have confidence that weren’ involved.
everybody says this is long overdue, hasn’ it been done before?
i think it has been very slow, since the sort of me too scandal, the bullying scandal first hit westminster.
a number of different enquiries took place, there have been three big enquiries that have all found problems.
the first one to report more than 15 months ago recommended something like this, recommended we needed an independent process for investigating complaints and sanctioning mps.
it has been slow.
the house of commons is slow about some of these things sometimes but also there have been vested interests involved, who it hasn’ been in their interests to move much faster.
does the fact that the speaker has changed make a difference?
it has certainly made a difference to the atmosphere around this question in westminster.
it was fundamentally really difficult while john bercow was speaker of the house of commons and there are these outstanding allegations of bullying against him which haven’ been investigated because the committee for standards which i mentioned had decided the complains were too old so they shouldn’ be investigated and i think that was really problematic because it meant he couldn’ defend himself against these allegations which he denies and the people making these allegations couldn’ see them investigated and that really undermined everybody’ confidence that this system was being the change that needed to happen.
you were a commons clerk for a long time, did you experience this bullying culture?
i certainly experienced inappropriate workplace behaviour.
i once had a situation when i was a new clerk, clerking a committee, i gave advice to the chair that a member should bring his remarks to a close because they were irrelevant, that member then found me in a remote corridor in the house of commons later that day, shouted at me, basically pinned me against the wall, did the whole, don’ you know who i am?
how long have i been here?
what do you think you are doing?
and i was really shaken by that.
i was lucky i was never sort of subject to any campaign of bullying like some of my colleagues were
but i certainly saw inappropriate behaviour.
and if something like that happened in the future, are you more confident that somebody in your position would be able to deal with it, to get it sorted?
i think there are two things.
i think people will feel more confident that they can take a complaint like that and have it taken seriously but also there are definite efforts being made now to track these complaints being made.
if something looks like a pattern of behaviour, then the parliamentary commissioner can take account of that when she is looking into and investigating bullying complaints.
hannah white.
emergency legislation designed to end the release of people convicted of terrorism offences halfway through their sentence has been backed by mps.
the new law was drawn up after the knife attack at streatham in south london earlier this month.
the perpetrator, sudesh amman, had been freed from prison 10 days earlier.
the measures will apply in england, scotland and wales.
thejustice secretary explained how terrorist prisoners would be affected.
there are two main elements to this.
first, to standardise the earliest point of which they may be considered for released at two thirds of the sentence imposed and secondly, to require that the parole board assess whether they are safe to release between that point and the end of their sentence.
this will apply to all terrorists and terrorist related offences with a maximum penalty above two years, including those offences for which sudesh amman was sentenced.
the issue of rehabilitation, the work that is done both in prison and out of prison is so important.
there has been many efforts of this over the years, but as recent incidents have seen, that has not always been with success.
does my right honourable friend agree that actually, we will never deal with this issue of terrorism until we deal with the ideology that drives it, and will he reassure me that the government is taking extra efforts to find new paths to ensure that we can turn people away from the extremism and the terrorism that takes other people’ lives?
there is a constant, if you like, a self questioning amongst those responsible for these particular programmes, to make sure they are properly calibrated, that they understand the particular drivers that mean people are compelled to commit these acts.
labour supported the measure in principle.
i do think the host today is entitled to ask the question as to we have ended up requiring this law to be made via emergency legislation.
automatic early release is hardly new.
it’ been part of our system for many years and could have already been dealt with by a government that took a more strategic approach.
the had a warning.
because i’ always conscious of the analogy of wasps in a jar.
if you shake them all about and then you let them out, then you’re going to get stung.
and the bill now goes to the lords when parliament returns from its half term break the week after next.
ministers hope it will become law by the end of the month.
time now for a look at what else has been happening around westminster.
and the health secretary, matt hancock, has issued new powers in england to keep people in quarantine to stop the coronavirus spreading.
the department of health has described the virus as a "serious and imminent threat" to public health.
i’ve laid an instrument before the house to confirm the power we’ve taken to isolate those at risk of spreading the virus and if necessary, to keep them isolated as part of our belts and braces approach to protecting the public.
the powers are proportionate and will help us slow down transmission of the virus and make it easier for and public health staff to do theirjobs.
a practice in brighton was temporarily closed after a staff member tested positive for coronavirus.
people want and need more timely and accurate information, not just about washing hands and tissue use, vital though that is, but about things like what does self isolation actually look like?
i think we need a much higher profile public health campaign.
helen mccourt’ killing thirty two years ago is to lead to a new law making it harderfor murderers to be released from prison if they refuse to reveal the whereabouts of their victim’ body.
helen’ killer, ian simms, has been released despite never revealing where he hid the remains of the 22—year—old.
the legislation, the prisoners disclosure of information about victims bill, is known as helen’ law.
it follows a long campaign from her mother, marie.
her paid tribute.
i want to acknowledge her because it might seem a strange thing to say, madam deputy speaker, when we are discussing what i feel is a technical bill, but the genesis of us being here today and to hear the second reading is in love.
it is in love of marie mccourt for her daughter helen.
i am so proud and pleased to see her and her husband john and their close family friend fiona was on so much to see this come to fruition today.
the home secretary priti patel apologised to yvette cooper after a conservative activist was jailed for sending threatening messages to the senior labour who shared details of them in the commons.
i’ organising, amazing what crackheads will do for £100.
i’ going to get her beat up.
the chair of the local association has today written to me expressing regrets and apologies for what he describes as the grave and unacceptable actions of the member who has since been expelled.
i welcome that letter and that support.
but it is a concern to me that there has been thus far, no similar combination or sense of regret for expressed by the national party.
let me say this right now before the house, that is categorically unacceptable and wrong.
there is no place for intimidation at all.
she can take it from me right now, i am hugely apologetic for what she has had to endure.
the former commons speaker john bercow has said there is a "conspiracy" to keep him out of the house of lords.
he named no names, but said it was "blindingly obvious" that there was a "concerted campaign" to prevent him from being given a peerage.
it means he’ll miss out on a rise in their lordships’ daily allowance.
the new deliverance for unaccountable peers being stuffed into the house of lords by the prime minister are set to rise to £323.
the allowance for a single person over 25 on universal credit is £317.
is that the levelling up the prime minister keeps talking about?
i hate agreeing with these people.
i do find that it is odd that house of lords has chosen to do that.
borisjohnson and the finding something to agree on.
let’ look back now at some stories from the wider world of politics.
gary connor has our countdown.
he’ out.
sajid javid resigns, the’ excuse was that he died.
how does the prime minister’ top adviser cummings answer a difficult question?
at three, good news in northern ireland with the first same—sex marriage taking place this week.
more than five years after it became legal in england and wales.
at two, going up, the price forfixing big ben.
coming in at almost £80 million.
repairs turned out to be more tricky than they thought.
at one, plans to get rid of furry little visitors.
it might be helpful that squirrels are extremely good to eat!
—— at three, good news in northern ireland with the first same—sex marriage taking place this week.
more than five years after it became legal in england and wales.
at two, going up, the price forfixing big ben.
coming in at almost £80 million.
repairs turned out to be more tricky than they thought.
at one, plans to get rid of furry little visitors.
it might be helpful that squirrels are extremely good to eat!
gary connor.
now in 1833, parliament passed an act to abolish slavery in britain’ colonies.
a new play for the royal shakespeare company, based on research in the parliamentary archives, depicts the political deals behind a measure which proved to have a long—term cost.
gabrielle ’neill reports.
the factory bill is the culmination of my parliamentary career to date.
isn’
that what we were fighting for?
he expects the general public to give us money to overfed west indian planters.
in order to end slavery.
that’ far from the point!
i’ve always wanted to write about slavery
and i like to find stories that fall between the cracks of history, those stories that need to be uncovered.
the white this play is partly inspired by a tweet.
it was 20 million at the time, which about now is about 20 billion.
it’ a lot of money and they could have bankrupted the country, but mortgage, the future of generations to come in order to pay this off.
no serve, no.
when i was five i was sold.
he put me to work, he was a man who worships profit and enjoyed the use of his.
the character of mercy price is based on a runaway slave, mary prince.
when i was five, i was sold.
he put me to work, sugarcane day and night.
oyed the use of his whip.
she used the fact that she was a slave to tell her story and that’ she wrote her autobiography and also, i’ sure carried the board —— burdens and scars and i’ sure she uses of while.
—— used those as well.
often overlooked, the role of women in the anti—slavery campaigns that was like slavery through another name.
and again, i didn’ learn about this at school.
it’ not in any school textbook i’ve ever seen and i think it’ about time that the public really knew about the abolition act and what wasn’ really delivered.
may god be with you!
i have the lord to think for my life!
left to my master, i would be quite dead.
debbie korley.
and "the whip" is at the swan theatre in stratford—upon—avon until the 21st of march.
well worth the trip for mp5 and peers during their half—term break.
that’ it for the week in parliament.
thank you for watching.
from me, david cornock, bye for now.
hello.
storm dennis continues to better britain.
looking back at saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’ it, but the strongest gust of wind was at aberdaron in the peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of northern england, wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number of flood warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
and with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’ clearly not a good thing.
now, looking at the satellite picture, this is storm dennis.
the centre actually near iceland.
but it’ this trailing weather front stretching for a couple of thousand miles out into the atlantic that’ causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel to the front rather than across it, and that means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head into the first part of sunday.
now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across wales, the west midlands and south—west england.
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern england at times.
given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first part of sunday morning.
cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
now, looking at the weather picture through the rest of sunday, our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern and eastern areas of england.
in other words, there could still be quite a bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here, but it’ going to be a windy day everywhere.
gusts of wind again inland 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
so there is the risk of transport disruption whether from the flooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
as we go on into sunday night, if anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time across the far north of england and scotland as the centre of dennis passes close to the north of scotland.
so the winds picking up could cause some problems here for transport as we head into monday morning for scotland.
as we head through the rest of monday, it’ a day broadly speaking of sunny spells and showers.
the winds staying strong, taking a while before they ease down gradually in the afternoon, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly across these northern areas.
beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest of the week ahead.
rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite windy.
but for most of us, it will also stay on the mild side.
temperatures up to degrees for london next weekend.
that’ your weather.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast with louise minchin and rogerjohnson.
our headlines today: tributes are paid to television presenter caroline flack, who was found dead at her home at the age of a0.
storm dennis lashes large parts of the , bringing heavy rain and strong winds.
more than 250 flood warnings are in place.
there are hundreds of flood warnings nforce thanks to storm dennis.
some re flood warnings there is more ain on he way.
met office mber wanting to parts of england wales.
northern ireland and land will see something brighter with some showers but it will still dy.
details coming up.
the and canada prepare to airlift their citizens quarantined onboard the diamond princess cruise ship, as it emerges 355 passengers have caught the coronavirus.
liverpool’ form is "incredible," says jurgen klopp — but the real celebrations won’ start until the premier league trophy is in their hands.
it’ sunday, the 16th of february.
our top story: tributes have been paid to the presenter caroline flack, who was found dead at her home yesterday.
her lawyer confirmed she had taken her own life.
the former love island presenter’ management company criticised the crown prosecution service over an impending trial for the alleged assault of her boyfriend, calling it a "show trial.
" here’ our media correspondent david sillito.
he return of the flack island, factor, i am make celabrity.
caroline flack was a senter on some of the biggest rogrammes of the ’ reality .
’ talk love.
who’ looking for real ing?
everything, though, unravelled after she was arrested charged the assault of her and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
and colleagues have spoken of their shock and heartbreak at the news.
love island is a show that thrives on its impact on social media, and tonight, thousands were expressing their grief and sympathy.
but her court appearance was proof enough that she was also facing intense scrutiny, both in the press and online.
on its best days, social media is a very powerful tool for these presenters because they can effortlessly and immediately communicate with so many different fans and really bring their own personality to the fore.
the problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny and attention doesn’ go away.
it stays with them.
the macdonut brothers!
her career went back nearly 20 years.
this, on children’ , and then in 2014, she won strictly come dancing.
the night she won, elation.
but she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
then came the assault charge.
she was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
he stood by her, but they weren’ allowed to communicate before her forthcoming trial.
and she was also advised to stay off social media, but she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added: last night, her management team criticised the decision to press with the trial, given her ental state.
the crown prosecution ice said its deepest sympathies go to the family and friends of line flack, but added that given he tragic circumstances, it would mment further on the specifics of the at this stage.
caroline ack ad in recent weeks been vised to stay off social media, she did post this on instagram.
she thanked those who had been kind to her and added: another post read simply: lots more reaction to the news about caroline flack during the programme orning.
if you or someone you know has been affected by the issues raised this morning, you can find help and support on the ’ actionline website, at bbc.
co.
uk/actionline.
storm dennis has been lashing large parts of the , bringing rain and strong winds.
three severe flood warnings have been issued in scotland, meaning there’ a danger to life, while more than 250 flood warnings are in place across england and wales.
simonjones reports.
the force of storm dennis is clear to see.
this is a coastguard team in hire on their way to rescue a tranded motorist.
the strong winds een