very windy across the far north of scotland, otherwise the winds are lighter once again to end the week.
and those temperatures six degrees or so for the northern half of the , still potentially double figures in the sunshine in the south—east of england.
now, once those weather fronts and those showers build away, we’ve got this area of high pressure arriving from the atlantic.
that’ the high pressure that i was talking about.
that’ going to stick around for a while.
we’ve still got some cooler winds, some stronger winds blowing in across scotland, perhaps northern ireland, northern england.
there’ll be some sunshine, there’ll be a few showers, again wintry over the high ground in scotland.
but elsewhere, it should be dry.
closer to the high pressure, those temperatures typically six to eight degrees.
we may well start with a frost, actually, on saturday morning, and there could be a frost on sunday morning, as well.
that’ because that high pressure is becoming more dominant, always hanging on to some stronger winds across scotland, i suspect, even on sunday.
but it looks like it will be for many parts of the country.
after a chilly start, it should be quite a sunny day, i think, for the second half of the weekend once again.
but those temperatures again typically at six or seven.
notice it’ milder in the far north—west of scotland.
now, this is thejet—stream pattern as we head into the early part of next week, and with that sort of pattern and that undulation, so we see an area of high pressure.
that’ going to be dominant for the first half of the week, but there’ a strengthening jet moving across the atlantic.
but for the early part of next week, monday, tuesday, perhaps into wednesday, for much of the country it’ll be dry, a little bit chilly, maybe not quite so frosty at night.
some uncertainty as to how strong the wind will get.
but from wednesday onwards, with that stronger jet stream propagating across the atlantic, our weather goes more zonal, and by that i mean it gets more changeable.
the winds start to pick up, there’ll be sunshine and showers interspersed with bands of rain.
50 it changes, and the high pressure doesn’ look like it will last.
if the high pressure is further north, it may last a little bit longer.
we’re expecting from wednesday things to change once again.
you can’ stop the future.
it’ already here.
2020 is the start of a new era.
yesterday’ heroes, today’ benchmark.
the rising stars have been set ablaze role models with a new role.
they’re taking over.
this new generation aren’ just here to play the game, they’re here to raise it.
i’ the midwife in charge.
you’re unwell and we can help.
: turn!
turn!
turn!
by the the lift has got stuck.
could you please get help?
it’ the incubator fund for the maternity home.
you should be doing a fashion show.
ow!
blair, your baby is coming.
we’re from the saint marie police.
the victim is donna harman.
she’ an artist.
there was something wrong about those two.
they brought out something in each other.
something really dark.
sir, we’ve got another body.
i wasn’ expecting to meet anyone.
i really would like to get to know you some more.
brand—new.
something cooler and something that’ gradually going to become settled as we head onto he weekend.
50 will start to see ome sunshine otland and northern sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, cooling here.
england and , thanks to those wales, thanks to those weather fronts, but also was scattering of rs, some of which will be showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the template he single figure values will even oss the south in the be across the south in the south—east as well.
so 5—9.
that air nvades across the whole cool air invades across the whola country then late on friday and the weekend.
but, with high pressure ing in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so that we ran really will feel colder, but it will be largely at least it will be largely thanks to high pressure with winds.
some sunshine around, but a return to some overnight also a return to some overnight frosts.
i’ kasia madera with world news.
our top story: taiwan’ president tsai ing—wen has told the , in an exclusive interview, that china needs to face reality and show the island respect.
she was re—elected for a second term on saturday, winning by a landslide after a campaign in which she focused heavily on the rising threat from beijing.
the impeachment of donald trump finally moves forward.
the house of representatives will vote on wednesday to send the charges against the president to the senate, as both sides prepare for a trial that could start in days.
and highly unusual wedding pictures are doing well on our website.
of a couple getting married in the philippines, just as the taal volcano came to life in the background.
they were only 10 kilometres away, but felt safe as the venue was on higher ground.
that’ all.
stay with world news.
now on news — hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk, i’ stephen sackur.
though the fear of imminent war has receded, the middle east has been profoundly destabilised by the american assassination of iranian general qasem soleimani.
the unfolding —iran conflict will impact the whole not least iraq, where the iranians are intent on hastening the end of america military presence.
much now depends on the strategic vision of the trump administration.
my guest, douglas silliman, was ambassador in iraq until one year ago.
does trump have a strategy?
if so, what is it?
ambassador doug silliman in washington, , welcome to hardtalk.
steven, i’ very happy to be here.
well, you have a very special perspective of what’ happened over the past ten days or so as the last retiring ambassador in baghdad, you leftjust one year ago.
from your perspective, does the assassination of qasem soleimani in baghdad appear to you both lawful and wise?
i must say first of all, i’ not going to address the question of whether it is lawful or unlawful because i’ not an expert in international law or a particularly good diplomatic historian.
looking at this from the standpoint of president trump and the trump administration, he seems to prefer shaking up the situation to see how the chips fall and then to make things go his way on the back end.
i think certainly with the killing of qasem soleimani, and also the killing of the chief iranian lieutenant, abu mahdi al—muhandis, inside iraq, he has certainly shuffled the deck and made things a little bit more interesting on the back end.
shuffle the deck, you say — it’ a metaphor that implies gambling.
do you regard this move as a high—risk gamble?
i don’ know if this is a high—risk gamble, because there’ certainly a lot of reason an american administration would want to take out qasem soleimani.
especially since the invasion of iraq in 2003, soleimani has driven the iranian expansion into iraq, into syria, into yemen, afghanistan and pakistan to some extent and has consolidated the control of the revolutionary guards inside iran and planted sleeper cells and trained rebels in saudi arabia, bahrain and other places in the region.
he has been one of the most destabilising figures and has certainly been the mastermind behind the post—2003 hegemonic iranian expansion into the region and support for lebanese hezbollah.
so he was a very high level target to take out, and i think iranian strategy and probably some of their implementation will suffer without him at the helm.
interesting you rate it as that significant
and i want to get back to soleimani and indeed the wider iranian influence in iraq a little later in the interview, but one more point on the issue of lawfulness.
you very carefully say it’ really not for you to judge the lawfulness or not, i would put it to you that as a ambassador long—standing, it really does matter to you and now your successor in baghdad this question of whether it’ legal or not.
you are there not as donald trump’ representative but a representative of the government, a government that prides itself by its abiding by international rules, international law.
when you hear the special raconteur on extrajudicial executions, agnes callamard, concluding that in this case the test of legality or illegality is unlikely to be met, i.
it looks illegal to her, you must be worried, musn’ you?
i’ worried about the reputation of the united states but frankly the reputation of the united states is still going to be shaky given the policies of the trump administration in many other places in the world.
the reality is there’ also a strong argument to made for self—defence, and that’ the argument the american administration is making.
i am personally aware from my time serving as a diplomat of what qasem soleimani and some of the groups he supported and trained in iraq and elsewhere have done to to target american diplomats, american servicemembers and other coalition members serving in iraq and in other places in the region.
i’ quite certain he was behind the escalating attacks in 2019, the attacks on shipping outside the strait of hormuz, attacks on saudi civilian infrastructure, the downing of an american drone and the attacks on abqaiq, the saudi arabian oil processing centre.
so there are a number of reasons how you can define this as an act of self—defence.
ambassador, if i may say so, when you put it like that it makes me wonder the americans sat back so long and allowed qasem soleimani to build his expansionist network inside iraq.
you were sitting there as ambassador for more than two years.
were you constantly telling washington they should be addressing in really serious terms what soleimani was building inside iraq with all of those popular militias, the popular mobilisation units, the shia forces at his disposal.
should america have acted sooner?
i was telling washington absolutely the threat i saw both to american policy and america citizens serving in iraq from the iranian supported shia militias.
i will not paint the entire popular mobilization forces units with the same brush.
there are some that were very responsive to soleimani and tehran, and there were others who are more iraqi nationalist and even some of the units were trained by the coalition military and later absorbed into the popular mobilization forces.
a number of shia militias, most of them predated the rise of isis, and many of them cut their teeth in fighting american forces in iraq between 2008 and 2011, forming the backbone of soleimani’ iraqi proxy forces.
they have been dangerous for a long time, and i was absolutely telling washington that they were dangerous.
how difficult is it as an ambassador to represent a government that seems so chaotic in its thinking?
donald trump in the last 48 hours has said he had direct information, there were four attacks in train under soleimani’ guidance on four different embassies in the region.
the defence secretary, mark esper, said he didn’ see any such evidence.
you’ve been at the sharp end working for the trump administration as an ambassador, how difficult is it to make sense of what goes on in washington?
i would also say the trump administration is not the first administration that had contradictions, and as an ambassador or a morejunior diplomat, i generally triangulated different statements and to walk down the middle to to make sure i captured the message washington was trying to convey.
what about when the message isn’ clear at all?
what about when the president is speaking off—the—cuff, random quotes that don’ seem totally with the intelligence and information coming from other parts of the security establishment.
what do you do then?
well, in that case you go to the basic point that underlies what everyone is saying, qasem soleimani and iranian supported forces and iranian forces in some cases pose a danger to american and coalition forces in iraq and in the region, and likely to american diplomats in embassies in the region as well.
let us now consider what next in iraq.
it’ a political situation you know very well.
you will have seen the acting prime minister, adil abdul—mahdi, has said this egregious violation of iraq’ sovereignty must be met troops from iraqi soil.
do you think that’ going to happen?
it’ a very good question
and i honestly do not know yet.
i will also note when the iraqi parliament took its vote, theoretically there were 170 votes to zero, but nearly that many members of the parliament, mostly kurdish and sunni members, but also some shia members, boycotted the session because they did not agree with the vote that was being taken.
who did not come and vote for the resolution to ask the prime minister to ask coalition forces to leave.
what you have seen since that vote is statements by prominent politicians in the kurdistan, a number of sunnis and a couple of fears in support of a continued coalition military presence, focused on fighting isis and focused on training and professionalising the mainline iraqi security forces, i.
the air force and the counterterrorism forces.
you talk about the focus on the islamic state group but the truth is the 5,000 or so military personnel in iraq are completely hamstrung.
they have bunkered down and they are focused on their own forced rejection, such is their own insecurity in iraq today, and they certainly aren’ doing any counter operations in conjunction with the iraqi military, who they don’ seem to trust.
that entire strategy lies in ruins today.
i would actually take issue with your statement that the iraqi army or the army do not trust the iraqi army.
what you have in iraq unfortunately is security forces that are split in the middle.
you’ve got the mainline forces — the army, the air force and the navy, and the counterterrorism service, largely supplied and trained and mentored by coalition forces.
then you have the popular mobilization forces, which have been dominated by iran and qasem soleimani throughout this period.
the impression i get from people who are still in baghdad is the personal and cooperative relationships between coalition military and the iraqi military remain strong.
there is, however, more tension with the popular mobilization forces especially those more tied with qasem soleimani.
with respect no, no, to answeryour question, the violence of the past week and a half has constrained what the nato mission and what the coalition has been able to do, and it is incumbent upon the prime minister and the iraqi government to put in place methods to protect coalition forces from attacks from other parts of the iraqi security forces.
this is an issue with which i’ve been most frustrated throughout my period, both under the obama administration and trump administration — the unwillingness or inability of the iraqi government to challenge the expansion of these shia militias to conduct activities, use force separate from the command structure of iraq with the prime minister at the top.
surely another frustration is the apparent contradiction in a strategy which needs a strong relationship with the iraqi government, which of course right now is still headed up by acting prime minister adil abdul—mahdi.
and at the same time, donald trump has started issuing threats toward the acting prime minister and his government, saying that if they couldn’ make good on any attempt to remove forces from iraq, then the most punitive sanctions the iraqis had ever seen will be imposed.
and we’ve got one source today talking about the americans telling the acting prime minister’ office that the is countenancing blocking iraqi’ account at the federal reserve bank in new york, which would effectively completely destroyed iraq’ oil economy.
what on earth is going on here?
what does donald trump want from the iraqis?
does he want to be their friend, or does he now see them as an enemy?
on the economic front, the iraqi government has been cooperating with the treasury to prevent the flow of dollars into iran, as part of the sanctions, because we are afraid that especially the quds force and the revolution guards use the hard currency they earn to expand their activities into and outside of the region.
iraq has been very cooperative, and we think relatively few dollars have gone into iran from iraq.
now that i’ outside the administration, i don’ want to speak of it too much.
but i know that when i was doing myjob in baghdad, we were concerned that if the cooperation of the iraqi treasury or the iraqi central bank ended, it would be much easier for iran to get dollars to iraq.
and i think that is one of the main fears.
because the goal of iran, of soleimani, was not only a security goal.
i mean, you keep telling me about all the concerns you had as ambassador, and that continue, about iran’ various leverages inside iraq.
is it not your concern and the truth that the killing of qasem soleimani has actually strengthened iran’ hand in iraq?
it has made it much more difficult for your troop presence to continue.
it has made it more difficult for those allies of the united states inside iraq to have their voices heard.
and what we see is an iran which over the next few months and years has every prospect of projecting more power and control over iraq.
what i think the killing of qasem soleimani has done has a short—term impact that is sort of what you describe.
it is clear that those in iraq who would like to see a continuation, an increase, of iranian influence in the country now have more enthusiasm for that point.
it also has a short—term benefit to — or i should say provides an opportunity to an iraqi government that wants to be more independent of tehran, and for an international community that would prefer to see iraq plugged into the world community and the world economy more effectively.
let me tell you why.
qasem soleimani and his iraqi lieutenant, muhandis, both accelerated expansion of iranian influence, attacks on coalition and other forces, and support for shia militias in iraq.
they were also a brake on those activities when tehran and especially soleimani saw that to be to the benefit of iran.
what happened through tehran, to soleimani, to muhandis, i suspect what you will see inside iraq over the coming year or two will be something akin to a power struggle.
the shia militias in iraq are not unified.
they are made up of individual commanders, often brigade—sized units, who have now lost their recognised command structure, and i think they will now begin to struggle and jostle for predominance among this group.
one thing seems clear, that as a result, again, of the soleimani assassination, tehran is now intent on pushing ahead with its nuclear programme.
they haven’ formally left the international agreement, the so—called , but they are now enriching uranium to new levels.
they are to all intents and purposes back on the nuclear weapons track — agree?
i think this is in fact correct, and there are actually three points i want to make.
all of what has taken place in the past two weeks has shuffled the deck, as i said, but it has not resolved any of the underlying issues.
from the standpoint of washington, and largely from the west, there are still three big issues that iran continues.
one is a support for proxy forces in the region.
the second is the now lack of commitment to thejcpoa, the nuclear agreement.
and the third is iran’ development and deployment of ballistic missiles, and you saw the strategic use of iranian ballistic missiles in the attacks on coalition forces last week.
from the iranian side, you still have the united states, which is outside thejcpoa, and you have a united states which hass not only supporting sanctions, but last week secretary of state pompeo and secretary of the treasury mnuchin doubled down on sanctions and imposed a number of other sanctions.
so the underlying questions and the reasons for the tension will remain there.
but, if i may, i want to keep this as simple as possible.
itjust seems to me and to many observers around the world there is still a fundamental contradiction, a deep confusion, in trump’ strategic vision for iran and the wider mid east region.
and david singer of the new york times put it very well the other day.
he said trump has yet to resolve the two conflicting instincts that he has on national security.
that is, on the one hand, bellicosity, and on the other hand, desire for disengagement.
so for you, as a 35—year—long diplomat who is recently out of baghdad, which is driving a strategic vision here?
is it the gut bellicosity of trump, or is it the desire, as he has said so many times, to get forces out of this mid east sand, where so much blood has been shed for so little?
which is it?
i think it’ fundamentally the difficulty that the trump administration has in following and articulating a consistent set of goals that they want to see on iran.
the three that ijust mentioned, ballistic missiles, nuclear weapons, and support for proxies, are always in the mix.
but there are other members of the administration, and i am not certain whether president trump fits in that, who would like to see regime change.
although last week president trump said very clearly in public remarks that he did not seek regime change in iran, i think that there are still people in the administration hoping that pressure on the iranian economy, and perhaps now pressure on the quds force and the military, will result in a revolution from within, inside iran.
if i may say so, ambassador, that’ a very interesting answer, ‘cause you have just revealed to me your very deep confusion.
because you have just left government, let’ not say the administration, but you’ve been in baghdad for a long time representing the government.
it sounds to me like you are deeply, deeply confused about who is really driving policy in the white house, and what that strategy is.
well, the day after, i believe, last week president trump said i do not seek regime change, former national security adviser john bolton tweeted that he supported regime change.
and if i were in tehran, and i was not getting a consistent message from washington that we do not seek to pull down the regime, i would be very reluctant to go into any sort of negotiations.
i would also say that it appears to me that the trump administration seeks iranian capitulation under pressure.
as i’ve said a couple of times in the media, economic sanctions are a tactic.
they are not a strategy or a goal.
and i’ struggling to find out, what does the trump administration hope to achieve at the end of this road?
if it wishes negotiations, does it want to do negotiations in conjunction with our traditional allies, as we did in thejcpoa, plus the security council members?
do we seek a smaller group?
and what is in it for iran if they engage in negotiations?
because the trump administration has been unable to articulate what the end result, the benefit for iran would be, were they to engage in serious negotiations on the three issues i mentioned.
you say you are struggling to really comprehend what the trump endgame is.
many other diplomats have quit, saying that they can no longer serve a president that they don’ really respect, in terms of the way he conducts foreign policy.
i’ mindful that bill burns served 35 years in the state department and in diplomacy, just the same way you did with your 35 years, and he left saying this.
he said, i’ve never seen an attack on diplomacy as damaging as what we have seen under the trump administration.
notjust on the state department as an institution, but our international influence.
did you leave feeling the same, and is that frankly you were pleased to leave government?
i think that the trump administration came in in 2017 not quite knowing what to do with the state department.
first of all, the way that we are structured, if you look at the top, with ambassadors, ambassadors are the personal representatives of the presidents that appoint them, as well as the representatives of the united states.
and i think that president trump felt that all of the ambassadors appointed by president obama really represented obama, and did not represent him.
so you have seen a replacement of a lot of ambassadors, and the departure of a lot of people, even though they were career diplomats, who had been in senior positions in the obama administration.
so i think some of that is trump not believing that a cadre of diplomats, of civil servants who are committed to the constitution, would be as committed to him as he would like, and i think he wanted to see more of his own people in senior positions at the state department.
and, to put it bluntly, were you glad to get out?
i should say i’ very happy now, being in the private sector, and i enjoy the opportunity for the first time in 35 years to say what i actually believe, as opposed to having to speak only on behalf of the united states.
so i’ve found a bit of freedom in leaving the government.
all right, well, ambassador douglas silliman, i thank you very much indeed for being on hardtalk.
stephen, thank you very much.
it was a pleasure.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland.
with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be happy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, eight or nine in the south, 3 little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure is hurtling into thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we will see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head into the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, cooling here, england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
i’ mariko oi in singapore, the headlines: after her resounding election victory, taiwan’ president tsai ing—wen tells the china needs to "face reality".
a very strong message for the people of taiwan.
that is, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
—— from the people of taiwan.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
i’ kasia madera in london.
also in the programme: the royal couple are welcome in canada, but the details of prince harry and meghan’ new lives are proving tricky.
and this 91—year—old teacher in india began her career at an age when most people have long retired.
good morning.
it’ iam in london, 9am in singapore and taipei where taiwan’ newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen, says china needs to face reality and respect the will of taiwanese people.
speaking exclusively to the , president tsai said the threat from china, which considers the self—governing island as part of its territory, was intensifying.
she was speaking to our china correspondent, john sudworth.
hello, president tsai.
how do you expect them to react?
this is a very strong message from eople of taiwan.
that is they the peopla of taiwan.
that is they don’ like the idea of being atened all the time.
we’re a successful democracy.
we have a pretty decent economy.
you know, we deserve respect from china.
you spoke after the result about your hope that they could be a to dialogue.
what could you ffer beijing at might, in your view, open that door a littla?
i think it is for the chinese to have preparedness to face reality.
at is the key.
if they are not pared to face reality, whatever fer, won’ be satisfying to them.
you think china was an issue for voters?
over the more than three years, we have een that china has been tensifying its threat.
they have actions, military exercises, they have military vessels, craft, cruising around the island also with the things happening kong.
people get a real sense that this threat is real and getting more and more serious.
without expression of good faith side this is what your on your side and this is what your critis say, that you are, in a way, ting china to eact in a way inviting china to react in a way that it is.
i have been rather onable in terms of managing our relationship hina and we have relationship with china and we have been friend —— refrain from doing that me be considered as provocative to china, despite that is so much pressure here that should go further but in the last than three years, we have been elling china that maintaining tus quo is remaining to be our olicy.
ithink is a very policy.
i think that is a very friendly gesture to china.
are you, nciple, at least, in favour of in principle, at least, in favour of the idea of a formal taiwanese pendence?
we don’ have the need clare ourselves an independent te.
we are an independent ountry.
already.
we call ourselves lic of hina, taiwan, and we do have government.
we have a military.
have elections.
you spoke about the rising threat from china.
rious in your view is the risk of war today?
you cannot exclude the bility of a war at any time, possibility of a war at any time, but, the thing is, you have to get self prepared and developed the bility to defend yourself.
but in ition to this military preparedness, what is more important you have to get is that you have to get international support for your .
you believe you would be able to stand up to a military on?
i do think we have a pretty ecent capability here.
invading wan is something that is going to costly for china.
taiwan’ newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen.
and we’ll get reaction to that interview in just a moment.
in other news, the impeachment trial of donald trump has moved a step closer.
the speaker of the house, nancy pelosi, says a vote on sending articles of impeachment to the senate, will take place on wednesday.
the house will also vote on their impeachment managers, that’ the democratic team which will act as prosecutors.
our correspondent peter bowes has more.
it looks like there have been some behind—the—scenes discussions between the democrats and republicans after this three week delay in sending the articles of impeachment from the house of representatives over to the senate.
there are no guarantees on this crucial issue as to whether they will be witnesses during the trial or whether there will be additional documents shown to senators during the trial.
these are issues that the democrats feel strongly about although there is the possibility of that happening.
it seems that the republicans want opening statements of the trial which is likely to happen early next week, probably next tuesday and at some point, maybe a couple of weeks into the trial, there is likely to be a vote on whether there will be some witnesses.
what about these impeachment managers peter?
impeachment managers chosen by the democrats imagine this is a criminal trial which it isn’, this is a political, political platform.
it isn’ a criminal trial in the sense that you would get in a court of law.
imagine it was, the managers will be the prosecutors.
they will be chosen by the democrats.
they will go in at the senate and the senators will hear the case against the president.
they will do so as set out by impeachment managers.
also making news today: the , france and germany have triggered an official dispute process over violations of the iran nuclear deal.
it’ the first step in a long process which could result in harsh international sanctions being reimposed.
but the europeans have stressed they want to preserve the agreement.
prime minister borisjohnson said the deal could be replaced by another one, negotiated by president donald trump.
at least 25 people have been injured after an airliner apparently dumped fuel near a school as it was approaching los angeles airport.
officials say 17 children and nine adults were treated.
it happened at about the same time as a delta air lines plane returned to the airport after declaring an emergency shortly after takeoff.
the federal aviation administration says it’ looking into reports that children are being treated for fuel exposure.
and would you ‘bung 3 bob for the big ben bongs’?
the british government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign could be launched to raise money for big ben to chime on brexit day.
the hell is currently being restored and it would cost half a million pounds to ‘bring the bongs back’ on january the 31st.
authorities are warning that the taal volcano in the philippines could spew lava and ash for weeks to come.
there’ also still the impending danger of an explosive eruption.
this latest warning from the authorities leaves more than 20,000 people who fled the area in limbo.
taal is situated on an island in the middle of a lake and the declaration of a state of calamity still stands.
earlier i spoke to renato solidum, head of the philippine institute of volcanology and seismology — who gave me a detailed analysis of the eruption.
that volcano is still erupting, although the eruption looms not as tall as the ten to 15 kilometre from the first day.
it is still as high as one kilometre or less.
in the meantime, while the eruption is ongoing, residents would feel earthquakes from time to time as hundreds of earthquakes erupt in the vicinity due to the fact that we think magma is still intruding from below and that produces the earthquake and also a fissuring of the ground as it is deformed due to the magma intrusion.
are there any clues from the past eruptions about what could happen next?
we have seen in the 1911 and 175a eruptions that prior to the eruption, there were signs of large earthquake events and also fissuring of the ground.
similar to this, the fact that we have been monitoring this large earthquake events on sunday prompted us to raise the alert level to four which warns residents of possible hazardous eruption.
this is the fact that we are seen as in past eruptions.
is it fair to say though that it is quite difficult to predict the volcano activity in the ring of fire?
the taal volcano itself, so many styles of eruption.
what we’re trying to do at our alert system scheme is to make sure that the people understand the level of activity that can actually produce more dangerous and hazardous eruptions.
sometimes, it is very difficult to say when this would exactly happen.
we’re trying to do is tell the public about the condition of the volcano that matches the most likely activity in the future and correspondingly, with the local government officials to have actions that would make sure the people are at a safe distance within the occurrence of the more hazardous explosions.
although there is some unpredictability, we are flexible enough to make sure that the alert level would ensure the highest, conservative warning.
for people to be safe.
canada’ prime minister says more talks are needed over who pays for prince harry and meghan’ security, given their planned move to the country.
justin trudeau revealed that discussions are going on over whether canadian taxpayers will foot the bill.
on monday the queen agreed to a ‘period of transition’ for the couple, after they said they wanted to step back from royal duties.
our royal correspondent, nicholas witchell reports.
a new direction has been agreed.
less than 20 months since their wedding, the duke and duchess of sussex, harry and meghan, have been given the go—ahead by the queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans to move out and to base themselves in part in canada.
harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
his invictus games was staged in toronto in 2017, and meghan lived there for seven years as an actress.
there will be questions about their tax and immigration status, but canada’ prime minister appeared to be offering a cautious welcome.
i think most canadians are very supportive of having, you know, royals be here.
but how that looks and what kind of costs are involved, there’ still lots of discussions to have.
here in britain, the prime minister declined to offer a public view on the sussexes’ move.
i’ absolutely confident that they are going to sort this out.
and do you know what?
i think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier without any particular commentary from me.
meghan believes she has been badly treated by the british media.
she is suing the mail on sunday over its publication of a letter she wrote to her estranged father.
in its court submission, published today, the paper says to which meghan might respond, from now on, i will not perform royal duties, and it is our intention not to receive public money.
but royal duties are what the royal family does.
prince william was at buckingham palace today, bestowing honours.
it mis a staple of royal life, the life to which the queen has devoted herself, but from which harry now wishes to break free.
it is a parting over which the royal family feels great regret, coupled with realism.
nicholas witchell, news.
you’re watching newsday on the .
still to come on the programme: we meet the 91—year—old who has no plans to retire from teaching.
also on the programme: one of the world’ rarest eagles arrives in singapore in an effort to save them from extinction.
day one of operation desert storm to force the iraqis out of kuwait has seen the most intense air attack since the second world war.
tobacco is america’ oldest industry and one of its biggest, but the industry is nervous of this report.
this may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
there is not a street that is unaffected.
huge parts of kobe were simply demolished, as buildings crashed into one another.
this woman said she had been given no help and no advice by the authorities.
she stood outside the ruins of her business.
tens of thousands of black children in south africa have taken advantage of laws passed by the country’ new multiracial government and enrolled at formerly white schools.
tonight sees the 9,610th performance of the long—running play, the mousetrap.
when they heard about her death today, the management considered whether to cancel tonight’ performance, but agatha christie would have been the last person to want such a thing.
this is newsday on the .
i’ mariko oi in singapore.
i’ kasia madera in london.
our top stories: in an exclusive interview, taiwan’ newly elected president tells the the island is already independent and there’ no need to declare it formally in comments likely to anger beijing.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
let’ take a look at some front pages from around the world.
the philippine star leads on the volcano eruption — there president duterte has declared taal volcano island no man’ land after the volcano exploded on sunday afternoon.
the new york times has a story about the ongoing metoo movement — ashleyjudd was one of the first women to accuse harvery weinstein of sexual misconduct — but her account was too old to bring to court.
and finally the strait times leads with the story that firms in singapore are to face stronger penalties for discrimination.
politicianjosephine teo said: in places where the workforce is multinational — perceptions of discrimination against locals are particularly toxic.
let’ get more on our top story now the exclusive interview with taiwan’ newly elected president.
our correspondent cindy sui is in taipei.
well, her critics would say that she is not only playing a risky game, but also an irresponsible and dishonest game.
because, while she asked beijing to face the reality about taiwan, she’ actually not letting the world know of another reality, which is that under her predecessor, relations were at the best they were since the end of the civil war.
but she actually changed the status quo, which brought about all the military, political and economic pressures from beijing.
and she changed the status quo by not accepting the one china concept, under which, actually, her predecessor defined it as the republic of china, which is taiwan’ official name.
so the two sides can actually define that one china the way they want, and that was the solution to this very difficult issue of taiwan’ sovereignty.
but president tsai has turned out that option.
she doesn’ accept that option, and many believe it’ because her party stands for formal independence.
they don’ really like the republic of china.
they see it as a colonial government that came overfrom mainland china at the end of the chinese civil war.
there is still a lot of historical resentment against the republic of china, and she is tapping into that.
even though actually less than 30% of the population, according to government polls, support formal independence, most people are happy with the status quo.
cindy, one thing briefly, if you would.
she stressed to john that taiwan is growing more distinct from china.
is that something that you are experiencing?
can you see that?
well, because of china’ actions, which have not been good, of course, we all see that, in their own country and around the world, and also the political — the politics in taiwan, that has actually fuelled a growing sense of taiwanese identity.
so many more people now define themselves as taiwanese instead of taiwanese and chinese.
but she is also fuelling these sentiments, and many of her critics say that there is a much better solution, which is to put aside the differences between the two sides and just use the agreement that i have just mentioned, where they each define china as the way they wish, and build good relations, and build peace and prosperity between the two sides.
they believe that is a much more responsible action, and they have urged her to take it.
but i don’ think that she is going to go down that path.
that was simply speaking a little bit earlier and you can read more out john’ usive interview about john’ exclusive interview with the newly re—elected president website.
have you heard of the philippines eagle?
it’ one of the world’ rarest raptors and there are just 400 pairs left in the wild.
to and save the species from extinction, two eagles have been loaned to singapore — the first breeding pair to ever leave the philippines.
luis carlos neves is director of zoology for wildlife reserves singapore.
he said these eagles have passports because they are birds of prey.
they are extremely rare birds, and they are the national bird of the philippines, as well.
so when these two birds came to us, they actually came as ambassadors for the species, and for the conservation programme, so that definitely warrants them having their own passports, which came with them when they came to us lastjune.
but, in all seriousness, are there only 400 pairs left?
well, the philippine eagle is what we call an apex predator.
it’ a very large bird, bird of prey, one of the biggest eagles in the world, and they need very large territories.
with all the fragmentation of habitat happening in the philippines, there is less and less space for each pair to actually establish themselves.
and there’ also quite a bit of pressure from hunting, so even the birds that actually manage to breed in the wild, not all of the actually survive.
so, in time, the numbers have gone down to 400.
so a very structured conservation and breeding programme started in the philippines first, and then we were lucky enough and honoured to actually be the first partner outside the philippines to receive sam, an injured eagle who came to us last year.
and how optimistic are you that you will be successful?
and, if they manage to succeed, what happens next?
so we are quite confident we can get them to breed.
philippine eagles do need to have some compatibility first.
so the females are bigger, and they can be quite dominant.
so right now sam is being a bit of a lady.
she is kind of trying to push her partner aside.
so we’re hoping that by the next breeding season, which is september, we can put them together, and whatever chicks we can get from them can go back to the philippines and be back into the wild.
let’ hope so.
nikki is a hugely popular make up artist
and she has llion use youtube subscribers that is used to being around social .
in a very emotional post, she come out as transgender and her have been reacting and they been extremely supportive and been champing her bravery.
—— mpioning.
while most people are retiring, would you start a new career as a teacher at the age of 67?
and how about continuing in the job until the age of 91?
well that’ exactly what lakshmi sen from india has done.
we caught up with her at her school in bangalore.
: good morning, ma’am.
i never worked, so i had all the energy, even to do it at the age of 67.
ijust wanted to get out and meet people.
19a8, this is first of all, i myself had all these aspirations.
i wanted to become a doctor and look after sick people, but in those days, the girls had very, very limited rights.
but half the dream is being fulfilled, isn’ it?
i am helping these children who have no other.
i have to be satisfied with that, as you would say.
i am very, very happy.
today, the women who want to come up, they have their independence.
because we don’ have any men in my house.
i have three daughters, five granddaughters, eight great—granddaughters.
——to make great granddaughters.
—— two.
let me see what god thinks, you know?
every night i pray, you know, that i will get up tomorrow morning.
every morning i get up, make my coffee.
so that’ it.
whatever god wills, that’ it, nothing else.
and i’ very happy with my family.
you have been watching newsday.
this is the moment that a french daredevil flew through a mountain in nnan ince noun as the heaven’ yunnan province noun as the heaven’ gate wearing just a jetpack.
crowds as two frenchmen jumped out a helicopter before flying ough is stone structure where through this stone where they landed safely.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, 3 little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure is hurtling into thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on into the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here, england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
in an effort to save them from extinction.
i’ kasia madera with world news.
our top story: taiwan’ president tsai ing—wen has told the , in an exclusive interview, that china needs to "face reality" and show the island "respect".
she was re—elected for a second term on saturday, winning by a landslide after a campaign in which she focused heavily on the rising threat from beijing.
the impeachment of donald trump finally moves forward.
the house of representatives will vote on wednesday to send the charges against the president to the senate, as both sides prepare for a trial that could start in days.
and highly unusual wedding pictures are doing well on our website of a couple getting married in the philippines, just as the taal volcano came to life in the background.
they were only 10 kilometers away, but felt safe as the venue was on higher ground.
that’ all.
stay with world news.
and the top story in the : a deal to save flybe, one of the biggest regional airlines in europe, has been agreed by government and private investors.
ministers say they’ll review air passenger duty — the news was welcomed by staff.
more on our web site .
co.
uk/news and the news app.
now on news live to singapore for asia business report officials says one debut stop and chinese officials are said to sign part of a ficant trade deal.
—— phase one significant trade deal.
-- phase one was not we will find out what impact have around the world.
it will have around the world.
amazon’ jeff bezos arrives in india hree-day isit but is he for a three-day visit but is he being greeted with open arms?
good morning welcome to asia business report.
live from singapore , mariko oi.
it does begin in with me, mariko oi.
it does begin in the united states were a big lopment with china is about to ake place.
it has been nearly 600 since the ising trade war has days since the bruising trade war has started but the two countries us eduled to call ruce later -- scheduled to all a tmce later today.
during stand-off, the has imposed on more than $360 billion worth of chinese goods, china has tariffs on about whila china has tariffs on about $110 billion worth of american ucts.
with the signing of a hase i trade deal, we are expecting a rollback on some of these ariffs but of course the big tion is, which ones and by how uch?
our correspondence in new york he shanghai and singapore tell us what businesses are looking for deal.
when the deal was first nnounced, financial markets and usinesses breathed a sigh of ief.
in their eyes, it put the rakes on trump’ trade war with na, stopping new duties from ing introduced, even as it left in place.
as for the suggestion at china will buy $200 billion of american goods over the two years, experts i speak to it is ambitious.
that would quire exports to china to double over the next 24 months.
a tall order.
and there is scepticism second deal in which china that a second deal in which china surely changes its domestic policy sible at all.
—— actually is possibla at all.
-- actually changes.
here in china, the rnment because my priority in hese negotiations has always been vent the imposition of a to prevent the imposition of a further tariffs from the .
50 in is deal, ing has this deal, beijing has been successful.
the big challenge now me of china’ biggest for some of china’ biggest manufacturers, particularly on the rical side, how do they deal elactriral side, is how do they deal with the tariffs that stay in place?
re shifting production out of china.
others, though, are starting to terms with a fall to come to terms with a fall in orders which shows no signs of being sed.
here in asia, what reversed.
here in asia, what companies want most from beijing and ngton and the uncertainty the trade war has created.
business idence has fallen and companies re holding back on investment and because they are not sure what is going happen in the uture.
so a truce is definitely sitive for but it won’ make positive for now
but it won’ make that much of a difference on the nd, unless tariffs on both sides ome down for good.
but ahead of the icipated signing just hours ago, easury secretary steven mnuchin the will keep in place ariffs on chinese goods until there hase two deal in place with is a phase two deal in place with beijing.
what could today be a nning the end of president mmp’ beginning of the end of president trump’ trade war?
we have been king to some companies which ave been effect.
relief cannot come nough for workers at this wmill in pennsylvania.
with china tariffs on ward, slapped tariffs on ward, retaliation against american tariffs nese goods, business he had dropped 4096.
a0%.
this plant alone let go eopla.
now only runs one of 15 peopla.
now only runs one shift today.
67 —— 66 employees , this is lives.
we come to ork every day to make a great duct to put out there and if we ’ sell our product, you won’ be to make our product.
northwest woods which operates the mill as had to close operations in everal es.
the says if the trade war doesn’ end soon, it could end of the timber industry.
be the end of the timber industry.
jobs that are being severely cted are those rural communities impacted are those mral communities have been built these sawmills for es.
that will continue to feel decades.
that will continue to feel the bmnt, , the impact, of a lack of with china.
it wasn’ meant to like this.
donald trump’ picture orking men and women of states was that if he posed tariffs on imports from na, their would be protect china, theirjobs would be protect it.
they and their employees —— oyers ould drive.
will ijust announced they would increase on china and we won’ back own until china stops cheating our ers instilling our and that is what is to happen.
—— i have announced.
don’ have to do siness with them, we don’ have to business was not we can make the oduct right if we have to, product right here if we have to, like we used to.
despite two years of tit-for-tat tariffs, the economy keeps growing and the —— ployment rate has been at record .
but the trade war has met maged many industries, articularly in manufacturing and riculture re so many of trump’ supporters work.
finally, president president have agreed to at trump and president have agreed to at least a truce which should be news for panies like good news for companies like north—west hardwood.
but executives rkers across america may be and workers across america may be left wondering if the end of the war was worth fighting it in he first place.
now to india where of amazonas jeff zos has the boss of amazonas jeff bezos has arrived in elhi as he tweeted.
he highly anticipated visit comes at a hen competition in the time when competition in the —commerce space is heating up and dian government has been the indian government has been scrutinised that make scrutinising ’ business.
jeff bezos is amazon’ business.
jeff bezos is coming to india at a difficult time company.
just this week, the competition ganisation of india id it will launch an investigation the steep discounts as well as lusive deals offered by amazon.
is is based on a complaint filed retailars ssociation here in delhi.
major ading ssociation has so threatened nationwide protests amazon during jeff bezos’ visit.
he all india traders ociation which represents about llion traders has in the past taken issue with —commerce anies ffering steep discounts they say affect and threatens heir businesses.
one retailer is eing investigated for the same sons, as the in delhi —— indian ulator says, it atens regulator says, it threatens competition laws.
it has been a week for walmart, the world’ largest retailer in india as well, ecided to sack over 50 senior as it decided to sack over 50 senior executives as part of a major ructuring plan.
will’ main usiness in india is wholesale ading and ile it wants to expand trading and whila it wants to expand its footprint through it —commerce re, it as been held back venture, it has been held back because of india’ strict rules protect its local meant to protect its local businesses.
while in india, amazon’ bezos is pected to meet prime jeff bezos is expected to meet prime minister at narendra modi and other government officials and he is expected to discuss those mmerce and rules which are making it ficult for foreign eat ailors to expand in what is a very ising indian market.
—— etraders.
us stay with amazon rause the company says it is bringing back fedex for delivered —— eries for some of its prime orders sold through third parties.
ned the freight service over the holiday period because of its ormance and that court and sinesses offguard during the siest shopping season of the year.
tracking those on he blacklist is a full—time job.
banks, heir system were to for banks, if their system were to let and transaction slip through, fines and reputational damage could follow.
50 how can they stay head revent such a mistake?
eartier i spoke ith the person who ith financial crime screening .
we provide the assurance to banks that they have the latest ts, are working on them, onitoring the changes on a daily and making sure that it is dicated there rapidly to various ncial institutions.
we also rovide the technology to digester lists, making sure they are mplemented within a very fast naround time.
when these anctions are imposed, how quick -- how uickly do they get kill —— how quickly do they get imposed?
is it efficiently or other rences depending on different governments and different rtments?
does vary based the ource of the list, whether it be ernment entity or multi government entity, but it is to go as possible.
as far as mplement in changes will stop the ulators are vague on purpose and think everybody does their best .
as a wrench mark, we think have between 2a and 48 hours make re they are up—to—date.
eaning ensually updating the stems -- essentially.
they could a hefty fine pay?
mistakes are efinitely high and the regulators ooking at not only do the banks up but do they keep it in a very high sophisticated manner.
it depends on the list but it also on the data.
that they depends on the data.
that they themselves ask the entities, let’ ransfer money across the say i transfer money across the border to you, have they asked me ight questions to start with?
it is really gathering the data the list but also from the transaction itself.
that is it for ogramme.
thank you for watching.
this is news, the top stories this hour: in an exclusive interview taiwan’ newly elected president tells the the island is already independent and there’ no need to declare it formally.
the impeachment charges against president trump — will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
flybe, one of the biggest regional airlines in europe, has managed to strike a rescue deal with its investors and the government.
shareholders, including virgin atlantic, have agreed to put more money into the loss—making airline and ministers have said they’ll review air passenger duty which had added to the firm’ losses.
our business editor simonjack has more.
flybe lives to another day.
news that the airline will continue operating was greeted with great relief by workers and travellers this evening in exeter.
absolutely ecstatic, yeah.
i’ really happy, for myself and my partner works for flybe
so,
yeah, it’ really, really good news for everybody.
that’ amazing, that is good.
yes, yes, definitely.
we all need these smaller airports and these smaller aeroplanes as well so it’ wonderful.
flybe’ shareholders, which include virgin atlantic, have agreed to put in extra money in return for the government reviewing — in other words cutting — taxes on domestic airlines.
hearing that things like air passenger duty will be reviewed was very interesting for them.
of course it will be reviewed for everyone.
and ensuring that the way our regional connectivity works, that we can level up communities, make sure our union is strengthened, those individual, regional airports are easy to get to and properly connected, those were the sorts of things which were concerning flybe.
so, what happened to flybe?
it has been struggling for years.
it over—ordered planes, had failures, and, most damaging of all, saw fuel costs rise in dollar terms while sterling fell amid brexit uncertainty.
but what pressure will the government face given its environmental targets?
flying may be faster than road or rail
but it emits a lot more carbon so news the government is considering cutting taxes on domestic airlines has angered climate activists.
aviation is the highest carbon form of transport and we know that we need to be cutting this because we are living in a climate emergency.
we need to be moving away from that and cutting air passenger duty is just going to make aviation relatively cheaper compared to other forms of transport.
it’ absolutely the opposite of what we need to be doing.
so what is air passenger duty anyway?
just check in your beg you don’ have any dangerous goods with you?
well, it is a tax that every passenger pays when leaving a airport.
it adds £13 to the price of every domestic flight.
airlines claim it damages the industry and flybe is tens of millions of pounds in arrears.
most controversially, in this deal the taxman has agreed hello, i’ marc edwards, and this is sport today, live from the sport centre.
coming up on this programme: baseball’ sign—stealing scandal continues, as the boston red sox fire manager alex cora.
the argentinianjob.
celso and lamela combine to give tottenham a hard—fought victory over middlesbrough in the cup.
and setien settling in nicely.
we hear from the new barca boss as he takes training for the first time.
hello and thanks forjoining us here on sport today on world news.
the last 2a hours or so have rocked major league baseball, and now there has been a further twist.
the boston red sox have fired manager alex cora, a day after baseball commissioner rob manfred implicated him in the sport’ sign—stealing scandal.
this comes after the houston astros were heavily sanctioned after being found guilty of cheating on their way to the 2017 world series.
the team’ manager and coach were banned and then sacked.
adam wild explains the run up to this latest sacking.
it is it
isa it is a moment the houston astros will never forget.
the houston are world champions!
but it is also a moment that baseball always remember, for the wrong asons.
more than two years that historic theory is being into the shadows.
astros found to broken the rules.
i was very have broken the mles.
i was very upset.
we want to be known as ing by the rules.
we broke the mles.
we accept the punishment.
they they did was steal signs.
put mply, they coded the hand simply, they decoded the hand signals made by the opposing catcher relaying that to the batter, crucially, they use technology .
the ruling from major to do it.
the mling from major league baseball explains.
one re players watched the live of the centrefield camera on the tor, and after decoding the gn, a player would hang a nearby ashran with a bat to communicate upcoming itch type to the tter.
i have made the decision at to smiss ajay hench and jeff lew now, need to move forward a clean slate, and the astros become stronger.
in response to sacking, astros manager ajay says while the evidence nsistently shows i didn’ endorse rticipate in the sign stealing actices, ifailed to them, practices, i failed to stop them, and i am deeply sorry —— hinch.
general ager, for his part, the general manager, for his part, apologised for the shame and rrassment this has caused, insisted i am not a cheater.
still, are many who will now look there are many who will now look back on those 2017 astros ebrations and feel celebrations and feel deeply aggrieved, none perhaps more so than dodgers, the team that lost 2017 world series.
the front page los angeles times today of the los angelas times today proclaimed dodgers officially robbed 7 title.
the dodgers, though, of 2017 tiﬂa.
the dodgers, though, have more than that to feel angry .
the astros bench coach in 017 was this man, alex cora.
following year, was nager of he boston red sox when they won the world series, beating the dodgers.
the red sox are now also investigated.
but for now, the focus is on the astros, and that he 17 victory, celebrated, ewarded in the highest office ice in the land.
but now that ory is painted.
baseball will to recover, but there may be punishments before it does.
—— ctory is tainted.
now to football, and the english cup, where tottenham hotspur survived a late scare to secure their place in the fourth round after seeing off middlesborough 2—1 in their replay at tottenham hotspur stadium.
patrick gearey was watching.
this was an evening spurs could have done without — a replay squeezed in after a relentless run of games.
still, as good hosts, they put on the mood lighting and sent out a strong team.
and middlesbrough came with a gift — a stray pass from tomas mejias, and the perfect chance for giovani celso to settle any early spurs nerves.
there has been criticism of tottenham this season for lacking energy, for not doing often enough what erik lamela did here.
his recent career has been punctuated by injury frustration, evident in the celebration.
there really ought to have been more.
what a moment this would have been for 20—year—old japhet tanganga.
his first tottenham goal flashed before his eyes.
maybe next time.
he is a centre—back by trade, but a right—back by command, and here he did everything he could to set up ryan sessegnon, who will never have been more thankful that he was offside.
middlesbrough were somehow still in this.
they hadn’ lost a game in a month, and you could see that belief personified in george seville.
2—1, seven minutes to go.
boro had given themselves too much to do.
tottenham added another to their remarkable collection of chances spurned, but by now the evening was over, thejob done.
they worked so hard against such a dominant team, in the end, so we did things well, conceding a lots of things well, conceding a goal is a bit frustrating, but i am ustrated that we didn’ score three, four, ve.
the deserved it, a full stadium.
in these cup matches, with emotion.
league one shrewsbury in the third tier of english football scored in the 89th minute to knock out bristol city, and earn themselves a glamour tie in the next round in the process.
defender aaron pierre came up with the winner, the goal that has secured a fourth—round tie, again at home, against the mighty liverpool.
never was the customary cup pitch invasion more deserved.
well, shrewsbury already knew they would be facing liverpool with a win.
but what happens when you are a team in the third tier of your country’ football league, and you find out on live that you’ve drawn 3 cup tie against one of the country’ big guns?
that’ exactly what happened to spanish third—tier football club unionistas salamanca.
they went wild on tuesday after being drawn against giant real madrid in the last 16 of the copa del rey.
the squad of the segunda division club was watching the draw on television, and the players clearly quite pleased when zinedine zidane’ team was shown.
imagine the celebrations if they end up winning that it was goals galore in italy for the coppa italia round of 16.
three matches on tuesday, 11 goals in all.
there were comfortable wins for lazio, who thrashed second—tier cremonese 4—0.
and inter milan who eased past fellow serie a side cagliari, 4—1, romelu lukaku with a brace.
lorenzo insigne also scored twice as napoli beat perugia.
it has been a whirlwind 2a hours at barcelona.
the spanish champions have a new manager in position.
quique setien says it is beyond his wildest dreams to have taken over at the nou camp.
the former real betis boss took training for the first time on tuesday after barca sacked ernesto valverde on monday, the man who had led them to back—to—back league titles, and also leaves them top of liga.
: things went by very fast.
yesterday, i was walking with in the outside my village.
and today, i was at barcelona’ sport centre, coaching the best players in the world.
an extraordinary team.
one team i will be able to better, because never be able to better, because this is as good as it gets.
the cleveland browns introduced minnesota vikings offensive co—ordinator kevin stefanski as their new head coach on tuesday.
stefanski agreed to accept the position on sunday, a day after minnesota were beaten by the san francisco 49ers in the playoffs.
the 37—year—old has never been a head coach before, at any level.
he is the sixth coach hired by browns ownerjimmy haslam since he bought the team in 2012.
first and foremost, success starts with peopla, and i know we will talk about culture, but it is olutely about the people.
and erybody knows that harry truman uote, it’ ing what you can quote, it’ amazing what you ran accomplish when no—one cares who the edit.
believe we have in our building.
we have great people, and we’re going to .
we will hire here to add to it.
we will hire jim here in the next week or two, and we are to add to this culture that we are building here, and we have ight people.
tens of millions of american football fans worldwide tuned into one of the biggest annual events in the sporting calendar, which saw tigers cap off a perfect season by winning the college football championship in new orleans.
widely tipped to be the top pick in the upcoming draft, joe burrows threw five touchdown passes and ran for another to score himself in the 42—25 victory over last season’ champions, the clemson tigers.
the win means finish the season with 15 wins out of 15, and end clemson’ 29—game winning streak in the process.
have you ever fancied flying?
well, that’ what frenchmen fred fugen and vince reffet did in theirjet suits as part of mission: human flight, a programme that aims to achieve 100% autonomous human flight, jumping out of a helicopter in china with carbon fibre wings and zooming through heaven’ gate, watched by excited crowds and some rather confused fishermen they flew through the break in the rocks on tianmen mountain.
according to the organisers, they reached speeds of 400 km/, and did admit it was a bit scary.
that’ all the time we’ve got now.
but, from me and the rest of the sport today team, goodbye.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, 3 little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure is hurtling into thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on into the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here, england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
i’ mike embley.
our top stories: britain, france and germany trigger a formal dispute process over iran’ violations of the international nuclear deal.
: we believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal for the future use it prevents iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
after her resounding election victory, taiwan’ president tsai ing—wen tells the china needs to face reality.
a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
the royal couple are welcome in canada, but the details of prince harry and meghan’ new lives are proving tricky.
hello to you.
european nations have put iran on notice over its breaches of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
that deal was supposed to discourage iran from building nuclear weapons.
from the deal.
france, germany and the have been trying to maintain it, but officials in tehran have been lifting limits on enriched uranium production, saying it’ a reasonable response to sanctions and rising tensions.
european nations disagree, and now an official dispute mechanism has been triggered.
gareth barlow reports.
preventing iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term europe the , but the goal of europe and the , but the landmark agreement that bound tehran limits is now in full to strip limits is now in full dispute.
rance, germany and the reject ’ argument it can withdraw production on uranium used in nuclear powerplant and also weapons america walked away from the deal.
the aim of the dispute lution mechanism is not to eimpose sanctions.
aim of this mechanism is to solve issues relating to the plementation of the agreement.
beleaguered 2015 nuclear eement was designed to iran’ ability to build nuclear ons.
in 2018, president donald pulled of the trump pulled out of the deal, calling it flawed and reimpose tions.
last year tehran said it ould comply with its commitments and recently has gone following increased further following increased attention with the .
the three pean governments say these eaches have left them with no oice but to trigger the dispute cess is a first step towards instating international sanctions.
: we call on iran to nstructively participate in these tiations, the goal of which will be to safeguard the nuclear deal.
we believe it makes sense to safeguard uclear deal the future this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents und from getting a nuclear bomb.
iranian foreign the iranian foreign minister, mohammad javad zarif, decried the as a trategic mistake but dispute as a strategic mistake but iran’ foreign ministry spokesman ran was ready to maintain nternational agreements.
all sides 5 days to resolve the issues raised.
if they fail, the countries can refer the matter to security council which can ote to impose any sanctions on ran.
gareth barlow, news.
the leader of the republican majority in the senate, mitch mcconnell, has said the impeachment trial of president trump is likely to begin there next tuesday.
democrats accuse the president of abusing his power and obstructing congress.
with regard to impeachment, our understanding is
and i think your rstanding is as well that the ouse is likely to send the articles us tomorrow, and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we through some preliminary steps here this week which could include the chief tice
well include the chief justice coming over and swearing in members senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
we hope to be achieve that by consent, hich would set us up to begin the ual trial next tuesday.
mitch mcconnell there.
one of the most contentious issues not yet resolved is whether to have witnesses in the senate trial.
democrats want to hear from current and former white house officials, such as former national security adviserjohn bolton.
wejoin the american people in wanting the truth, the whole truth, wanting the tmth, the whola tmth, nothing but the truth to come out of ial.
if you want the truth, the trial.
if you want the tmth, you have to have witnesses.
you have documents.
who has ever of trial without witnesses documents?
i’ pleased to some republican colleagues are now nning to come around to our osition.
our correspondent, peter bowes, joins us from los angeles.
: we have a likely start date but still uncertainty about the shape of ial, whether there will be itnesses and also it seems the sibility of new evidence?
at’ what the democrats want, at’ what they’ve wanted all along at’ really there was this ree—week delay over the christmas year period while seemingly there were some behind—the—scenes ssions between the democrats republicans, democrats still guarantee they can bring any have no guarantee they ran bring any new evidence, any new documents or hear rom any itnesses indeed hear from any witnesses duﬂng the trial.
however, he republicans, who will be in charge senate trial, say after the pening statements they will be a on whether to continue the rocess with witnesses, witnesses umably from both sides.
most gnificantly the democrats really to hear that new evidence or the documents they say contains vidence like just in the last 4 hours, documents that suggest an ciate rudy giuliani, the president’ personal lawyer, was ved in talks to set up a involved in talks to set up a meeting with resident zelensky of and rudy giuliani, documents that also perhaps shed new light on an attempt to ostracise the then ambassador to ukraine.
there is a detail there.
is lot of detail there.
is it important?
what the democrats want they can bring this to do if they can bring this evidence is essentially join the to president donald trump and show he was involved in an attempt to get a favour from the ident of ukraine to investigate likely political rival, joe den.
biden.
peter, just to remind people, this backdrop of against this backdrop of impeachment, the people who want to rumpfor white house fight for the white house in the election next year just nning a debate in iowa right now.
the democrat party’ top six idates, their seventh debate, the last until iowa holds its us earty in february.
what is expected is debate and for the campaign or democrat candidates if they senators called away to a enate trial?
we can expect from is ebate we’ve had several , there will be an even more tense debate between the leading enders.
elizabeth warren and ernie sanders, for example, have involved in a spat recently whether bernie sanders actually said once that he didn’ eve a woman could win the believe a woman could win the presidency.
that’ the kind of issue likely to come up.
is also that’ likely to come up.
is also very interesting with this senate pending now, likely to start on tuesday, that those senators like sanders, elizabeth warren, are vying for the job of taking resident donald trump for their arty at the election, party at the next election, they will have to be at the senate trial.
ill be there in the first they will be there in the first couple of weeks not even allowed to ything, just to watch the say anything, just to watch the proceedings.
they won’ be out in like iowa campaigning like the other contestants will be, like pear moody gauge, or may appear moody gauge, or joe biden, they will be free to campaign the senators must be in the senate for the trial.
it is tricky for them because they want to be on treets meeting people but they duties in the senate.
will keep an eye on that debate, hasn’ quite got under way et.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
17 children and nine adults have been treated for breathing problems and skin irritation after a commercial airliner apparently dumped fuel near aschooljust before an emergency landing at los angeles airport.
the delta airlines flight to shanghai had just taken off when an engine problem forced its return.
government forces in the sudanese capital, khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters where security personnel loyal to the former president, omar bashir, were based.
the mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now moved into the northern suburb of kafouri.
there are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets, and the international airport is closed.
fire services in catalonia in north—east spain are saying a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant, has now been contained.
the blast, near the port city of tarragona, killed one person and injured eight others.
some have severe burns.
one person is still missing.
authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
40,000 people have now been moved from their homes near the taal volcano in the philippines, which authorities say could erupt at any moment.
taal, one of the world’ smallest active volcanoes, is in the middle of a lake about 45 miles south of the capital, manila.
it’ been producing a cloud of ash and fountains of lava.
harsh weather including avalanches and floods has killed more than 130 people across pakistan and afghanistan in recent days.
schools have shut and many villages have been left isolated.
worst affected has been pakistani kashmir with 62 people killed and 10 others missing.
more than 50 bodies have been recovered.
olivia crellin has the latest.
buried in snow, villagers struggle to free a man completely submerged an avalanche hit a kashmiri illage just of slamabad, killing dozens and destroying more 0 homes.
than 50 homes.
extreme winter weather in recent has killed more than 130 people a across akistan, afghanistan and ian—administered kashmir.
many re injured or remain missing.
akistan’ prime minister, imran , tweeted: referring to the part of kashmir controlled by pakistan.
itary helicopters exchange rescue tims for supplies in the hope of oviding relief to those cut off by itions as more heavy snow is orecast.
but there has been criticism from about the government response weather.
truck drivers to the weather.
drivers travelling along key supply routes the country were stranded.
: i’ coming from ftan and i’ heading for punjab.
snowing here and the roads are closed because the vehicles skid.
i asked the government to bring heavy nes that will clear the snow in between half—an—hour to an hour.
have rought small tractors here that will not clear the snow hree days.
for three days.
pakistan’ national aster management agency also declared a of emergency balochistan robbins in the south.
it has struck schools and brought trade the ghan neighbours to a with the afghan neighbours to a halt.
while such harsh weather is mon seasonal common and seasonal for this region, the area’ embattled status and means the heavy snow poverty means the heavy snow comes with a heavy toll.
olivia crellin, ws.
stay with us on news, still to come: wildfires such as those in australia could become common in other parts of the world by the end of the century if global temperatures continue to rise.
day one of operation desert storm to force the iraqis out of kuwait has seen the most intense air attack since the second world war.
tobacco is america’ oldest industry and one of its biggest, but the industry is nervous of this report.
this may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
there is not a street that is unaffected.
huge parts of kobe were simply demolished, as buildings crashed into one another.
this woman said she had been given no help and no advice by the authorities.
she stood outside the ruins of her business.
tens of thousands of black children in south africa have taken advantage of laws passed by the country’ new multiracial government and enrolled at formerly white schools.
tonight sees the 9,610th performance of the long—running play, the mousetrap.
when they heard about her death today, the management considered whether to cancel tonight’ performance, but agatha christie would have been the last person to want such a thing.
this is news, the latest headlines: iran has condemned france, britain and germany for triggering a formal dispute process over tehran’ violations of its international nuclear deal.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
china needs to face reality and respect the will of the taiwanese people according to taiwan’ newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen.
speaking exclusively to the , president tsai said the threat from china, which claims the self—governing island as part of its territory, is intensifying, but she warned that any military action could prove costly to china.
our correspondentjohn sudworth spoke to the president in taiwan’ capital, taipei.
hello, president tsai.
hi.
it was her warnings about china that hit home with voters.
but now, she had something to say direct to beijing.
this is a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, you know, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
we’re a successful democracy.
we have a pretty decent economy.
you know, we deserve respect from china.
her critics say she is reckless, that she risks provoking china.
but her promise to stand up for taiwan saw her re—elected by a landslide in saturday’ vote.
china has been intensifying its threat.
and they have all sorts of actions, military exercises, and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising around the island.
and also, with the things happening in hong kong, people get a real sense that this threat is real.
your predecessor, ying—jeou, was able to preserve taiwanese democracy whilst building stronger ties with china.
what’ not to like about that approach?
the situation has changed, so we’re facing a very different situation now.
taiwan is also changing.
the first place in asia to legalise gay marriage, it is, she says, growing ever more distinct from china.
we are an independent country already, and we call ourselves republic of china, taiwan.
and we do have government, we have the military and we have elections.
few statements are likely to infuriate china more.
with pressure bound to increase, taiwan’ military is being beefed up.
you cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
i do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
invading taiwan is something that is going to be very costly for china.
she says she plans to further strengthen taiwan’ democracy.
the very thing that divides it from its authoritarian neighbour may in the end prove its most powerful defence.
john sudworth, news, taiwan.
newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen taking to the ’ john sudworth.
cindy sui, our taiwan correspondent, joins me now from taipei.
ing-wen, a big elaction majority, tsai ing-wen, a big elaction majority, she is bound to be pretty sh.
work, do you think, to bullish.
work, do you think, to antagonise a big powerful horitarian neighbour like this?
critics would definitely say no, is not se.
it is not wise.
potentially very dangerous.
they believe that she is manipulating public opinion not presenting the reality which that beijing actually has never her to accept a one country system formula.
it simply her to accept the 1992 consensus was nyone china concert.
the that anyone china concert.
the predators i was able to use that ept to define that when china is simply the republic of china which wan’ official name.
she efuses to do that because her party mately wants to create a new ountry cold simply taiwan with no to china.
her critics say this ery angerous
and she is ursuing her party’ own agenda the majority of people here want the quo and only less than 30% status quo and only lass than 3096 want ormal independence.
you would to see how she plays this have to see how she plays this out but right now, it is looking like a dangerous game because after ll, china spends more than ten as much as taiwan on military it has want thousand missiles rgeted taiwan targeted at taiwan to warn it against declaring formal independence.
it could be very ntially dangerous for taiwan, only economically but in terms bility and peace.
thank you very much for that cindy.
the wildfires in australia could become common in other parts of the world by the end of the century if global temperatures continue to rise.
that’ according to british scientists who say the average temperature on earth is on course to rise by three degrees celsius above pre—industrial levels by the end of the 21st century.
our science editor david shukman has more details.
day after day, fire crews brave the front lines in a crisis that’ still escalating.
many of the blazes are out of control and beyond anyone’ experience.
it’ the worst i’ve seen in 21 years.
this is honestly the worst i’ve seen, the most i’ve actually been out.
it makes it very hard, especially when you’ve got family and commitments and all the rest of it.
in victoria, a ghostly scene — cars burnt and grey with ash.
fires are a natural feature of australia, but record heat has made them more severe than usual.
something that was predicted as temperatures have been rising with climate change.
this graph shows how the average temperature in december in australia has risen over the past century.
2018 set one new record and then last year set another that was far higher.
and you’ expect this kind of heat in a world that’ nearly three degrees warmer than the pre—industrial level.
climate scientists knew this was going to happen at some point, whether it was now or ten years from now.
we were going to get this perfect storm, and it was going to be pretty horrible.
we dodged a bullet a couple of years ago when we had a hot summer then.
but it was eventually going to transpire.
and this seems to be part of a pattern.
a new study of wildfires around the world, from the amazon rainforest to california, says human activity is raising temperatures and adding to the threat, including in europe and many other regions.
this was spain last year.
the aim of the study was to assess what we know about the risk of wildfires.
the scientists found that the total area burnt has actually reduced over recent decades, mainly because dense natural vegetation has been cleared to make way for farmland.
but they also say that the length of the fire season, when conditions are right for fire to take hold, has increased by 20% globally.
and they warn that if the average temperature rises by three degrees celsius, which at the moment looks likely, the area burned will increase in size.
the scientists involved in the research say the key new is to cut emissions of the gases that are heating the planet.
in terms of the urgency, it’ getting worse all the time.
so the sooner we can rain in emissions, the sooner we can slow the increase in warming and increased climate change impacts.
back in australia, as human activity is linked to the fires, it’ wildlife that’ suffering most.
this emergency food is for animals that survived the onslaught.
millions of others are thought to have died.
the challenge now is to make sure there are systems in place to cope with fires on this scale in future.
david shukman, news.
is still causing destruction was strong when sitting part of the .
section of a roof was blown a large section of a roof was blown off a block of flats but nobody hurt.
canada’ prime minister is ready to welcome prince harry and his wife meghan to the commonwealth country, butjustin trudeau does want to know who will pay for the couple’ security.
on monday, the queen signed off on a period of transition for the royals, but questions remain over how that will work.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell reports.
a new direction has been agreed.
less than 20 months since their wedding, the duke and duchess of sussex, harry and meghan, have been given the go—ahead by the queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans to move out and to base themselves in part in canada.
harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
his invictus games was staged in toronto in 2017, and meghan lived there for seven years as an actress.
there will be questions about their tax and immigration status, but canada’ prime minister appeared to be offering a cautious welcome.
i think most canadians are very supportive of having, you know, royals be here.
but how that looks and what kind of costs are involved, there’ still lots of discussions to have.
here in britain, the prime minister declined to offer a public view on the sussexes’ move.
i’ absolutely confident that they are going to sort this out.
and do you know what?
i think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier without any particular commentary from me.
meghan believes she has been badly treated by the british media.
she is suing the mail on sunday over its publication of a letter she wrote to her estranged father.
in its court submission, published today, the paper says to which meghan might respond, from now on, i will not perform royal duties, and it is our intention not to receive public money.
but royal duties are what the royal family does.
prince william was at buckingham palace today, bestowing honours.
it’ a staple of royal life, the life to which the queen has devoted herself, but from which harry now wishes to break free.
it is a parting over which the royal family feels great nicholas witchell, news.
and would you ‘bung 3 bob for the big ben bongs’?
the british government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign could be launched to raise money for big ben to chime on brexit day.
the hell is currently being restored and it would cost half a million to bring the bongs back on january the 31st.
this is the moment a french daredevil flew through a mountain china as heaven’ gate wearing a jetpack.
the crowds watched as the hmen jumped of a helicopter frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter before ﬂying through the stone ructure wearing powered wings made rbon bre.
they can reach of carbon fibre.
they ran reach speeds of 400 converts per hour and ered by the pilot moving the is steered by the pilot moving the body.
and you can get in touch with me and most of the team on twitter —
i’ @ mike embley.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure comes hurtling into thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on to the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here.
england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
this is news, the headlines: iran has condemned a decision by britain, france and germany to trigger a formal dispute process over iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
the iranian foreign minister described the move as legally baseless and a strategic mistake.
the europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
the impeachment trial of donald trump has moved a step closer.
the house speaker, nancy pelosi, says a vote on sending articles of impeachment to the senate will take place on wednesday.
senate majority leader, mitch mcconnell, says the trial is likely to begin next tuesday.
taiwan’ president, tsai ing—wen, has told the that the island has no need to declare formal independence because it already is an independent country.
tsai said last week’ presidential election, in which she won a second term in office, showed taiwanese people did not like being threatened by china.
now on news, tuesday in parliament.
hello and welcome to tuesday in parliament, as the foreign secretary warns iran it faces a stark choice.
the regime can take the steps to de—escalate tensions and adhere to the basic rules of international law or sink deeper and deeper into political and economic isolation.
president does not like the current iranian deal.
we all suspect that it is trump the toddler’ main issue with it, but can he confirm the prime minister was correct?
also: no big ben bongs for brexit, a peer called a truce.
people who have won the brexit debate should not be triumphalist.
borisjohnson has that donald trump will produce a replacement for the iran nuclear deal.
the comments came as the , france and germany accused tehran of breaching the terms of the agreement.
the european allies which remain part of the troubled nuclear deal despite the president’ opposition said iran was meeting its commitments.
it eases sanctions in return for iran agreeing to restrictions on its activity in an effort to ensure tehran did not acquire a nuclear weapon.
in the commons, the foreign secretary told that the 3 referred the matter to the .
he said they had no alternative.
time and time again we’ve expressed our serious concerns to iran and urge them to come back to compliance.
time and time again in its statements, and more importantly through its actions, it has as refused, undermining the very integrity of the deal.
and ﬂouting its international commitments.
he said iran had a choice.
the resume can take steps to adhere to the basic rules of international law or sink deeper and deeper into political and economic isolation.
so iran’ response to the will be a crucial test to its intentions and its goodwill.
we urge iran to work with us, to save the deal.
we urge iran to see this as an opportunity to assure the world that it’ nuclear intentions are excessively peaceful.
and urge them to choose the alternative path and have the full range of activities that flout international law and destabilise the region.
they contrasted that statement with what the prime minister had said.
president trump is a great deal maker by his own account and others let’ work together to replace thejc and get the trumpet deal instead.
that’ what we need to see.
that would be a great way forward.
so in the space of two or three days the prime minister has gone from signing a joint statement with france and germany, for calling for it to be scrapped and replaced by some medical trump deal.
she had questions about the prime minister’ remarks.
confirm that in his discussions with his american terparts that they have said at one of the problems with the was hat, to quote the prime inister, "it was negotiated by ident obama".
we all suspect that is he toddler’ main ssue with but can he confirm the me nister was correct?
based on hat the prime minister said this ning, are we now to understand hat despite anything the foreign tary said in his statement ust now and rything contained in the oint statement at the weekend, it is now official policy of the government to replace thejcpoa and rump deal instead, and that get a deal instead, and that that would represent a great way ard.
and if that is not official overnment policy, did the prime ster say it?
and is he walking all over the foreign etary’ patch?
secretary’ patch?
dominic rather said the prime ster ully supported the minister fully supported the agreement stop that is the clear tion, he said it on many position, he said it on many occasions, and the honourable lady, reath, allow me to respond to her remarks, she then made a whole of attacks, as usual, on the administration, which seems to her cloud her dgement in this area.
area.
it’ not just president donald so also president macron that have rgued for a broader deal with iran.
go back to this morning’ let’ go back to this morning’ interview with the prime minister he said, and i think it bears epetition, on breakfast
this ing he said let’ replace it, jcpoa, with trump deal, that’ hat we to stop a president is a what we need to stop a president trump is a great deal maker by his ccount by others.
let’ work together to replace the jcpoa and get the trump deal instead.
eign cretary, i’ very happy to foreign secretary, i’ very happy to support you from these benches but to be getting more support from the than your own prime ster.
how seriously do you think ran takes us all now?
hink the prime minister wants to intain this deal, or he is now vocating for its replacement.
nnot credibly hold both positions.
one is the policy of the government?
the right honourable eman is ust wrong.
of course gentleman is just wrong.
of course you ran want to preserve this deal be ambitious if it is possible to bring in the ted states and ran into a broader approach meant, ing not just ith the nuclear ssue the wider disabling tivities and that’ the positive pursuing.
agreeing the dispute resolution is a good thing be frank, only doing so after six months of, to use the foreign etarrs ’ own words, serious and systematic —compliance is weak.
jcpoa is ime—limited.
it would ever prevent an having a nuclear eapon.
it would only delay the nces of that happening, but it ’ do that if, to use the foreign cretarrs own words, it’ just the of shell of an agreement stop me there aknesses to the , it is time—limited and there are other nesses, we have never said it is he perfect deal
but it’ the only in town which is restraining behaviour of iran and to the tent that we’ve now got to the uation where iran is not omplying with those restraints, we to trigger the as a matter the credibility of the deal and as the 3.
of us as the 3.
dominic raab.
regional airline ybe struck a rescue deal with its nvestors and the government.
the holders have agreed to put more oney into the loss—making airline he overnment has agreed to review air passenger duty.
flybe ies about 8 million passengers a year from rports including rmingham, cardiff and southampton rest of the and europe.
ris johnson the there was doubt about the importance of the ine.
there’ been talk of a cut air passenger uty on domestic to help flybe, but nvironmental groups said that would kless.
the transport minister be reckless.
the transport minister emphasised that flybe was still a wing ncern.
growing concern.
we are working very hard but there ommercial limits to what a vernment can do to rescue any articular firm, in no doubt.
particularfirm, but be in no doubt.
we understand the important role plays in connectivity across he hole of the .
this government committed to ensuring the country regional connectivity it needs.
everal with airports in their ituency stressed the importance ﬂybe to of ﬂybe to the oral economy.
i wanted to mention air passenger , idon’ to put the duty, i don’ want to put the minister in a corner
but i want to expand more on what can be see him expand more on what ran be achieved with , which has long a concern for airlines and been a concern for airtines and operators.
we leave the at the the month, which might give a hance to consider what freedoms re could be rain state aid rules going forward.
expect the going forward.
i don’ expect the minister to make any sweeping uncement from the dispatch box hope he is closely considering longside his officials.
this alongside his officials.
she tries to tempt me onto and it would help house if i start i make it clear that transport sters never talk about air ministers never talk about air passenger duty, it is a matter for reasury and i won’ change that , so no comment on—air passenger ty.
duty.
we have an uneven playing field, ster, around and other egulation around regional airlines irports ich has, without and airports which has, without doubt, contributed to flybe’ ent redicament so longer term current predicament so longer term ran i ask the minister whether ’ any appetite within rnment to address this and the crippling impact it’ having on the nal connectivity that he and he prime minister referred morning.
to this morning.
although i recognise what the urable gentleman has to say, our egional airfields are crucial to gional collectivity and i’ acutely conscious of that and we are at all policy options.
looking at all policy options.
does he realise that air passenger a damaging tax to the duty is a damaging tax to the economy, costs jobs and there have eports given to the department transport and the treasury that abolishing passenger duty would ually lead to an increase in ax income and have a beneficial ake on the economy and jobs and will he look at those reports?
i have heard the comments loud and .
clear.
there’ something of a pattern here, the collapse of monarch, we had the collapse of monarch, thomas cook and now potentially the pse of flybe.
when we took vidence on the select in the last iament on the collapse of thomas , the parliament on the collapse of thomas cook, the evidence we had from the ness and the trade unions was the same, the government was asleep wheel.
can i ask the minister at the wheel.
“an i ask the minister what essons they have learned from collapse and what they are that collapse and what they are doing to ensure passengers are ected, critical routes that onnect regional towns and cities supported and also that the xpayer doesn’ end up footing the or another corporate failure?
bill for another corporate failure?
minister.
i hear what the honourable as to say.
i am sure she will know it is a highly volatile market.
accept her comparison.
i don’ accept her comparison.
with the minister agree with me that it is wrong to politicise the ﬂybe flybe situation, as members pposite anaged to do so far opposite have managed to do so far this afternoon, and also work to ude this vital airline include this vital airline continuing to serve the south—west yond hould happen?
i would and beyond should happen?
iwould encourage the minister to do ran to support lybe, its workforce protect assengers, but can he and protect passengers, but ran he assure the house that his government imultaneously and fully will simultaneously and fully accepted its responsibilities to the planet?
over the coming onths it will become ever more rent that tackling the climate emergency means rapid changes to carbon sectors and aviation ust decrease and are not increased, stead of bailing out polluting ompanies every time there’ a sis and in this instance doing so a way that would increase sions, does he agree that the vernment should develop just ansition plans for high carbon ustries, retraining workers in sustainable jobs, involving ons and local communities and in this enhancing rail connectivity?
i think she is looking what we are seeking to do with iation playing its role in eaching the 0 target.
reaching the 2050 target.
as i said, we will consult with the ittee on climate change.
the honourable member future transport is rking hard on iversifying the aeroplane market inging forward the consolidation plan.
we are open ideas about how we can carbonise transport in this artment.
paul maynard.
you’re watching tuesday in iament with me, david cornock.
on’ forget, if miss our daily round-up from stminster you can atch up via the iplayer.
ministers have come under pressure to reverse cuts to legal 3, but stion me in the comments showed labour’ shadow tice secretary aid legal a uman
right
and they ferred to the report on poverty itain by the special rapporteur.
hat people need as a basic ight from government ‘ action, not ords.
the special raconteur said cuts overly affected the poor and bled people —— raconteur.
and disablad peopla -- raconteur.
labour is falling for a return to egal a funded advice and this would all legal 3 funded advice
and this would be a lifeline to the single her anding up to the lousy mother standing up to the lousy landlord, the workers standing up to ying boss or the migrants a bullying boss or the migrants fighting cruel home office policies.
’
it say everything about hose side the government is on that deliberately preventing these eople from defending their hard—won ts?
rights?
speaker, i do not accept that and to my earlier point, we i go back to my eartier point, we believe in access to justice and in cular to early legal support for ose people who absolutely need we have pilots, we have the innovation fund coming forward and overnment remains firmly this government remains firmly committed to helping those people early legal support and egal advice.
several raised the issue of domestic abuse where the government plans to toughen the law.
a conservative said a key related factor lay in organised crime.
cou lines drug gangs are involved the largest exploitation of our ldren this country has ever itnessed.
children from all walks of life are being groomed by these gangs.
given that women and girls are particularly at risk of being abused and exploited, what steps is the government taking to ensure that the criminaljustice system is doing more to protect our women and girls, in particular using the modern slavery act?
thank you, i’ very grateful to my honourable friend, a citizen of london and westminster raising this point, speaker.
and i know she brings a huge amount of expertise in this knowledge in this specific area.
which is to be welcomed.
this government recognises the risk to girls and young women who are exploited by these ruthless gangs, and that’ the home office provided £400,000 this financial year for young people’ advocates in london, manchester, and the west midlands to work directly with gang affected women and girls, especially if they have been victims or at risk of sexual abuse by gangs including county lines.
i can assure her that colleagues in the home office are also working with the police, crown prosecution service, to take full advantage of powers in the modern slavery act.
a labour highlighted arise in domestic abuse at the time of major sporting events.
with the six nations coming just in a few weeks’ time, what work is the minister doing to work with the rugby union across the to and explain at the front of stadiums, to television programming, to working with the rugby players themselves to explain that domestic abuse is clearly wrong and there is never an excuse for it and there needs to be more investment to tackle the causes of it which includes these sporting events?
i think the honourable gentleman makes a very, very good point highlighting the fact that domestic abuse is out there in so many different areas, not always where we expect to see it.
so, with regard specifically to rugby, i would need to go away and ask a few questions.
but i thank him for raising it in the chamber today and for highlighting the importance of we need to bring forward the domestic abuse bill, and to really see and end to these abhorrent crimes.
another labour raised the issue of convictions for rape.
in west yorkshire, the number of rapes reported increased by 25% last year, but just a.
4% of those cases resulted in someone being charged.
and the same is true across the country.
so, what is the government doing to ensure that the criminaljustice system is properly resourced and that it doesn’ let down victims and add to the trauma that they have already experienced?
as i said speaker in my first response, we are putting 20,000 extra officers into the system, we are putting £85 million into the crown prosecution service, and we are increasing expenditure on both rape centres and isvas, although i’ sure in those areas, there is more we can do.
there is also a review urgently under way to see what further steps we can take.
but i believe those actions i’ve outlined already which are taking place as we speak will move us back in a happier direction.
chris philip, and isvas are "independent sexual violence advisers".
now, the debate on last months queen’ speech setting out the government’ plans for new laws goes on.
the focus was on education and local government, and several took the opportunity to make their maiden speeches.
by convention, these are noncontroversial, and focus on the new member’ constituency.
a newly—elected conservative is a former chief executive of the social mobility foundation.
i’ like to bring social mobility back into the debate in this house as much as i can because last year, it was referred to fewer than half the times it was in 2016.
and yet, many of us in this house have stories of having been socially mobile ourselves, we all represent parents in our constituency who are concerned that their children may not have as good a life as they had.
and that should be at the core of what i think we should be doing here.
rachel hopkins took over from gavin shuker as for luton south.
they were both educated at the town schools.
my predecessor talked about the importance of access to good quality comprehensive education for our young people being integral to social mobility.
but i will go a little bit further to say that it’ actually vital to tackle social injustice.
another newly—elected conservative said he’ be campaigning on behalf of children with special educational needs.
when i was 12 years old, i was told i had a reading and writing age of an eight—year—old
but i risked leaving my school.
i was diagnosed with both dyslexia and dysrexia.
i was lucky
i had great support around me and was lucky to have a couple of key individuals who were with me at school who saw something in me and help me turn the situation around.
the sad reality is that for far too many young people with special educational needs, this is not the case through no fault of their own.
as well as fighting for ipswich, if there is one thing i can do in public life, it’ dedicating myself to helping these children to ensure that they have every opportunity to achieve their full potential.
another new tory recalled his time as a barrister representing the most vulnerable people.
i’ begun representing matthew in court when he was 12 years of age.
he was a young man from a terrible background, but had more talent in his finger than i have in my body.
he gave the best at 12 years of age mitigation in a courtroom that i have ever heard.
for seven years, i tried to keep him out of prison, and ultimately i didn’ succeed.
and it is one of the great indictments of my society, or our society, that if matthew had been born to a middle—class couple, he would he stood where i am now.
and we must do everything to make sure that matthews does not fall through the net.
and a scottish liberal democrat who took an seat reflected on her constituency.
my predecessor in his own maiden speech mentioned our whisky distilleries, but i would also like to mention north east fife’ increasing number of gin distilleries such as eden mills, pilgrims, darlings of kingsbarns, and lundon links.
having come to this house directly from the drinks industry, i hold a general certificate in distilling.
i would be more than happy to tutor members on distilling.
wendy chamberlain from north east fife, where you’re unlikely to go thirsty.
now, over in the lords, boris johnson’ withdrawal agreement is being studied in depth with opposition peers threatening to to amend it in the coming days.
at the beginning of the bill’ committee stage, one lib dem said this was happening in the context of triumphalism by brexiteers, including attempts to get big ben to bong at the moment of brexit.
people who have won the brexit debate now and we are going to be leave the european union have not got to be triumphalist because if people go on being euphoric, and what the prime minister again said in the sunday times referred to as having ofjoy", and in this case it was that it was going to be baby boom as a result of these ofjoy, which is i was wondering what we if big ben was going to bong nevertheless, if people behave like this, it will not do any good in this country for bringing the country together, and for healing the wounds, the very serious wounds that have on.
—— that have been caused by the whole brexits debate and
that which .
there are many, many people in this country, my lords, who are not full of ofjoy, sexual or otherwise.
but who are full of dismay, they are feeling a sense of loss which is akin to bereavement, and a grieving process has onlyjust begun.
opposition peers tabled changes which would replace the government’ settled status scheme for nationals with a new system which simply required them to declare rather than apply for their right to stay in britain.
they also want nationals to be issued with physical proof of their right to stay here rather than just be given a code from the government website.
we ask that we shift to a declatory system in which eligibility is the basis on which one has rights.
not the application system.
and as we have set out in the amendment, it is perfectly possible to continue to give incentives to registration whilst establishing that declatory system which will ensure that a whole load of vulnerable people are not criminalised on the registration when that registration date passes in 2021.
my lords, i beg to move.
one green peer said the measures but the measures that dow that they wanted to remain part of europe.
i’ like to talk about a report from the 10th of october when brendan lewis was quoted as saying that citizens who don’ apply for settled status face deportation.
now, i ask the noble lords to put themselves in the shoes of an affected citizen here in the .
they’ve come quite, recently been here for many decades and thing about which set of words you have heard more clearly.
which set of words will be affecting your sentiment, your understanding about your place in the united kingdom.
and i think everyone knows that but people will be hearing worrying about, fearing, are the words "threatened with deportation".
this does risk creating confusion among employers and service providers and will impede citizens’ rights to access services to which they are entitled notwithstanding the protections new clause seeks to provide.
such an approach also needs to citizens who have not applied for documentation suffering inadvertent discrimination compared to those who had.
this is, my lords, this must be giving you deja because this is exactly what happened to the windrush generation.
the government is adamant that we must avoid the situation where not now but years down the line, citizens who built their lives find themselves here struggling to prove their rights in the .
the minister also said that so far the number of nationals seeing their status refused was five and it was not enough to appease opposition peers and there will be votes on these moments that make and if you’re wondering what ward proved was talking about big ben bonking for present, it is out of action with the whisper tower being mystery, his response was saying that it would cost half—million pounds to get the hell to chime in january the 31st.
50,000 pounds a bong as the speaker put it.
the prime minister agreed that was too expensive but he is estigating a crowdfunding option inding a all for a bang or finding a ball fora big bang bong.
that is it for tuesday in iament.
i do hope you can partiament.
i do hope you ranjoin me at the same time tomorrow for esday in parliament, including the ime minister’ questions.
ank you for watching, by for now.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
taylor is a bit better with england and wales seeing a bit of sunshine blustery day.
it will remained indy across the north of scotland strong winds and high clouds ross the area of low pressure.
to clear from the south—east east nglia.
a wet start to wednesday
but it will brighten up as away.
a of sunshine around.
it moves away.
a of sunshine around.
if few showers in the west.
most of in the north—west of scotland ome heavy snow on the hills.
ages ranging from seven to around ine or 10 degrees in the south—east ttle ooler there.
as we had so a little cooler there.
as we had through thursday, and other wet and day on the cards, particularly indy across west of the country where we will see gail’, gusts ching 240 or 50 or maybe 60 xposure.
rain here as well with but in the east.
a mild day for england and wales and quite cool orth.
welcome to news.
my name’ mike embley.
our top stories: britain, france and germany trigger a formal dispute process over iran’ violations of the international nuclear deal.
: we believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
after her resounding election victory, taiwan’ president tsai ing—wen tells the china needs to face reality.
a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
the royal couple are welcome in canada, but the details of prince harry and meghan’ new lives are proving tricky.
european nations have put iran on notice over its breaches of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
that deal was supposed to discourage iran from building nuclear weapons.
from the deal.
france, germany, and the have been trying to maintain it, but officials in tehran have been lifting limits on enriched uranium production, saying it’ a reasonable response to sanctions and rising tensions.
european nations disagree, and now an official dispute mechanism has been triggered.
gareth barlow reports.
preventing iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term goal of europe and the , but the landmark agreement that bound tehran to strict limits is now in full dispute.
france, germany and the reject iran’ argument it can withdraw production limits on uranium used in nuclear powerplant and also weapons after america walked away from the deal.
the aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not to reimpose sanctions.
the aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating to the implementation of the agreement.
the beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to curb iran’ ability to build nuclear weapons.
in 2018, president trump pulled out of the deal, last year tehran said it wouldn’ comply with all its commitments and recently has gone further following increased attention with the .
the three european governments say these breaches have left them with no choice but to trigger the dispute process is a first step towards reinstating international sanctions.
: we call on iran to constructively participate in these negotiations, the goal of which will be to safeguard the nuclear deal.
we believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
the iranian foreign minister, mohammad javad zarif, decried the dispute as a strategic mistake but iran’ foreign ministry spokesman said iran was ready to maintain international agreements.
all sides now have 15 days to resolve the issues raised.
security council, which could vote to reimpose any sanctions on iran.
gareth barlow, news.
the leader of the republican majority in the senate, mitch mcconnell, has said the impeachment trial of president trump is likely to begin there next tuesday.
democrats accuse the president of abusing his power and obstructing congress.
with regard to impeachment, our understanding is, and i think your understanding is as well, that the house is likely to send the articles over to us tomorrow, and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we will go through some preliminary steps here this week which could well include the chiefjustice coming over and swearing in members of the senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
we hope to be able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up to begin the actual trial next tuesday.
one of the most contentious issues not yet resolved is whether to have witnesses in the senate trial.
democrats want to hear from current and former white house officials, such as former national security adviserjohn bolton.
we join the american people in wanting the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth to come out of the trial.
if you want the truth, you have to have witnesses.
you have to have documents.
who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses and documents?
i’ pleased that some of my republican colleagues are now beginning to come around to our position.
chuck schumer there for the democrats.
our correspondent, peter bowes, joins us from los angeles.
a likely start date ‘ still we have a likely start date and still uncertainty over the shape of rial and whether or not they this trial and whether or not they will be witnesses, a crucial matter , and also whether there will be new evidence.
is still far from certain whether ere will be witnesses and this is ’ve really had a delay for the last three weeks or so, the ocrats were hoping to put ressure on the senate republicans to witnesses and any new evidence, documents or digital ence in the form of —mails and he democrats will argue that since rticles of impeachment were reed before christmas that new idence has emerged and there were ils before christmas.
in the ast 24 hours, documents the emocrats say show an age to rudy liani, the president’ personal yer.
is all is significant?
the democrats will oping to present that kind of evidence to prove, as they see hat there’ a paper trail or even a digital paper trail to link ident donald trump to what’ president donald to what’ been happening behind—the—scenes ving eople like rudy giuliani involving peopla like rudy giuliani and linking president donald trump hat aim that he put pressure on ukraine to investigate his likely ical rival, joe biden.
peter, ust to remind ople, of course, against this kdrop of impeachment, the people wanting to rumpfor white house fight for the white house in the presidential election next re beginning ebate in iowa year are beginning a debate in iowa right now, the democrat party’ top ndidate, their seventh debate, the last until iowa has its caucus in ebruary.
what are we earty in february.
what are we hearing from the debate?
we don’ any material from it yet
but what do they candidates have to do ore generally in the campaign, is going to be tricky for the idates who are senators to have a senate trial going on?
going to be tricky for them of course there are several ators who are vying for the role didate for the democrats to go against donald trump next year.
zabeth warren, burnie, two of the ding candidates if and when the ial in the senate takes place, will have to be there in the amber every single day taking part the in fact they won’ even be llowed to speak for the early part the ial
but what they won’ be doing is campaigning on the streets the states where there are and in the states where there are upcoming caucuses and primary tions over the next few weeks, that is where they will want to meet and appear in local media.
people and appear in oral media.
they will be constrained by people biden and the mayor 3pete buttigieg be allowed to campaign.
it will be tough for them they have other because they have other responsibilities —— pete buttigieg.
jor ying events over the next two major vying events over the next few weeks in the , one is the stage of the election and the her is the trial in the senate.
ariy those are senators involved the won the emphasis to be on them use they want to be chosen to epresent their party —— want the hasis stop ter, thank you very much that.
— he emphasis stop the peter, ank you very for that.
want he let’ get some of the day’ other news.
more than a0 people, most of them children, have been treated for breathing problems and skin irritation after a commercial airliner apparently dumped fuel near a school, just before an emergency landing at los angeles airport.
the delta airlines flight to shanghai had just taken off when an engine problem forced its return.
government forces in the sudanese capital, khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters where security personnel loyal to the former president, omar bashir, were based.
the mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now moved into the northern suburb of kafouri.
there are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets, and the international airport is closed.
40,000 people have now been moved from their homes near the taal volcano in the philippines, which authorities say could erupt at any moment.
taal, one of the world’ smallest active volcanoes, is in the middle of a lake about 45 miles south of the capital, manila.
it’ been producing a cloud of ash and fountains of lava.
fire services in catalonia in north—east spain are saying a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant, has now been contained.
the blast, near the port city of tarragona, killed one person and injured eight others.
some have severe burns.
one person is still missing.
authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
the wildfires in australia could become common in other parts of the world by the end of the century if global temperatures continue to rise, according to british scientists.
and there is widespread consensus among scientists that average temperatures on earth are on course to rise by three degrees celsius above pre—industrial levels.
our science editor, david shukman, has more details.
day after day, fire crews brave the front lines in a crisis that’ still escalating.
many of the blazes are out of control and beyond anyone’ experience.
it’ the worst i’ve seen in 21 years.
this is honestly the worst i’ve seen, the most i’ve actually been out.
it makes it very hard, especially when you’ve got family and commitments and all the rest of it.
in victoria, a ghostly scene — cars burnt and grey with ash.
fires are a natural feature of australia, but record heat has made them more severe than usual.
something that was predicted as temperatures have been rising with climate change.
this graph shows how the average temperature in december in australia has risen over the past century.
2018 set one new record and then last year set another that was far higher.
and you’ expect this kind of heat in a world that’ nearly three degrees warmer than the pre—industrial level.
climate scientists knew this was going to happen at some point, whether it was now or ten years from now.
we were going to get this perfect storm, and it was going to be pretty horrible.
we dodged a bullet a couple of years ago when we had a hot summer then.
but it was eventually going to transpire.
and this seems to be part of a pattern.
a new study of wildfires around the world, from the amazon rainforest to california, says human activity is raising temperatures and adding to the threat, including in europe and many other regions.
this was spain last year.
the aim of the study was to assess what we know about the risk of wildfires.
the scientists found that the total area burnt has actually reduced over recent decades, mainly because dense natural vegetation has been cleared to make way for farmland.
but they also say that the length of the fire season, when conditions are right for fire to take hold, has increased by 20% globally.
and they warn that if the average temperature rises by three degrees celsius, which at the moment looks likely, the area burned will increase in size.
the scientists involved in the research say the key new is to cut emissions of the gases that are heating the planet.
in terms of the urgency, it’ getting worse all the time.
so the sooner we can rein in emissions, the sooner we ran slow the increase in warming and increased climate change impacts.
back in australia, as human activity is linked to the fires, it’ wildlife that’ suffering most.
this emergency food is for animals that survived the onslaught.
millions of others are thought to have died.
the challenge now is to make sure there are systems in place to cope with fires on this scale in future.
david shukman, news.
stay with us on news, still to come: more than 130 people across pakistan and afghanistan are killed due to avalanches and floods.
day one of operation desert storm to force the iraqis out of kuwait has seen the most intense air attack since the second world war.
tobacco is america’ oldest industry and one of its biggest, but the industry is nervous of this report.
this may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
there is not a street that is unaffected.
huge parts of kobe were simply demolished, as buildings crashed into one another.
this woman said she had been given no help and no advice by the authorities.
she stood outside the ruins of her business.
tens of thousands of black children in south africa have taken advantage of laws passed by the country’ new multiracial government and enrolled at formerly white schools.
tonight sees the 9,610th performance of the long—running play, the mousetrap.
when they heard about her death today, the management considered whether to cancel tonight’ performance, but agatha christie would have been the last person to want such a thing.
this is news, the latest headlines: iran has condemned france, britain and germany for triggering a formal dispute process over tehran’ violations of its international nuclear deal.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
china needs to face reality and respect the will of the taiwanese people according to taiwan’ newly re—elected president tsai ing—wen.
speaking exclusively to the , president tsai said the threat from china, which claims the self—governing island as part of its territory — is intensifying, but she warned that any military action could prove costly to china.
our correspondentjohn sudworth spoke to the president in taiwan’ capital, taipei.
hello, president tsai.
hi.
it was her warnings about china that hit home with voters.
but now, she had something to say direct to beijing.
this is a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, you know, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
we’re a successful democracy.
we have a pretty decent economy.
you know, we deserve respect from china.
her critics say she is reckless, that she risks provoking china.
but her promise to stand up for taiwan saw her re—elected by a landslide in saturday’ vote.
china has been intensifying its threat.
and they have all sorts of actions, military exercises, and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising around the island.
and also, with the things happening in hong kong, people get a real sense that this threat is real.
your predecessor, ying—jeou, was able to preserve taiwanese democracy whilst building stronger ties with china.
what’ not to like about that approach?
the situation has changed, so we’re facing a very different situation now.
taiwan is also changing.
the first place in asia to legalise gay marriage, it is, she says, growing ever more distinct from china.
we are an independent country already, and we call ourselves republic of china, taiwan.
and we do have government, we have the military and we have elections.
few statements are likely to infuriate china more.
with pressure bound to increase, taiwan’ military is being beefed up.
you cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
i do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
invading taiwan is something that is going to be very costly for china.
she says she plans to further strengthen taiwan’ democracy.
the very thing that divides it from its authoritarian neighbour may in the end prove its most powerful defence.
john sudworth, news, taiwan.
our correspondent cindy sui is in taipei.
i asked her if it works to antagonise such a poweful neighbour?
her critics would definitely say no, it is not wise.
potentially very dangerous.
they believe that she is actually manipulating public opinion by not presenting the reality which is that beijing actually has never asked her to accept a one country two system formula.
it simply asked her to accept the 1992 consensus which was that one china concept.
the prior president was able to use that concept to define that one china is simply the republic of china which is taiwan’ official lﬂnl-
she refuses to do that because her party ultimately wants to create a new country called simply taiwan with no links to china.
her critics say this is very dangerous and she is pursuing her party’ own agenda when the majority of people here want the status quo and only less than 30% went formal independence.
you would have to see how she plays this out but right now, it is looking like a very dangerous game because after all, china spends more than ten times as much as taiwan on military and it has 1,000 missiles targeted at taiwan to warn it against declaring formal independence.
it could be very potentially dangerous for taiwan, not only economically but in terms of stability and peace.
harsh weather including avalanches and floods has killed more than 130 people across pakistan and afghanistan in recent days.
schools have shut and many villages have been left isolated.
worst affected has been pakistani kashmir with 62 people killed and 10 others missing.
more than 50 bodies have been recovered.
olivia crellin has the latest.
buried in snow, villagers struggle to free a man completely submerged after an avalanche hit a kashmiri village just north of islamabad, killing dozens and destroying more than 50 homes.
extreme winter weather in recent days has killed more than 130 people across pakistan, afghanistan and indian—administered kashmir.
many more are injured or remain missing.
pakistan’ prime minister, imran khan, tweeted: referring to the part of kashmir controlled by pakistan.
military helicopters exchange rescued avalanche victims for supplies in the hope of providing relief to those cut off by conditions as more heavy snow is forecast.
but there has been criticism from some about the government response to the weather.
truck drivers travelling along key supply routes across the country were stranded.
: i’ coming from taftan and i’ heading for punjab.
it is snowing here and the roads are closed because the vehicles skid.
i asked the government to bring heavy machines which will clean the snow in about half to one hour.
they have brought these small tractors here which will not clear the snow for three days.
pakistan’ disaster management authority also declared a state of emergency in the south—east balochistan province.
there the weather has isolated communities, shut schools and brought trade with their afghan neighbours to a halt.
while such harsh weather is common and seasonal for this region, the area’ embattled status and poverty means the heavy snow comes with a heavy toll.
olivia crellin, news.
storm brendan is still causing destruction, with strong winds hitting parts of the .
a large section of a roof was blown off a block of flats in slough, in berkshire.
it’ thought nobody was injured.
and would you ‘bung 3 bob for the big ben bongs’?
the british government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign could be launched to pay for big ben to chime to mark brexit day.
the hell is currently being restored and the official estimate is it would cost half a million for temporary work to be done to allow it to ring, for people who want to celebrate brexit, on january the 31st.
it seems canada’ prime minister is ready to welcome prince harry and his wife meghan, butjustin trudeau does want to know who will pay for the royal couple’ security.
on monday, queen elizabeth signed off on a ‘period of transition’ for the duke and duchess of sussex, but there are still questions over how that will work.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell reports.
a new direction has been agreed.
less than 20 months since their wedding, the duke and duchess of sussex, harry and meghan, have been given the go—ahead by the queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans to move out and to base themselves in part in canada.
harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
his invictus games was staged in toronto in 2017, and meghan lived there for seven years as an actress.
there will be questions about their tax and immigration status, but canada’ prime minister appeared to be offering a cautious welcome.
i think most canadians are very supportive of having, you know, royals be here.
but how that looks and what kind of costs are involved, there’ still lots of discussions to have.
here in britain, the prime minister declined to offer a public view on the sussexes’ move.
i’ absolutely confident that they are going to sort this out.
and do you know what?
i think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier without any particular commentary from me.
meghan believes she has been badly treated by the british media.
she is suing the mail on sunday over its publication of a letter she wrote to her estranged father.
in its court submission, published today, the paper says to which meghan might respond, from now on, i will not perform royal duties, and it is our intention not to receive public money.
but royal duties are what the royal family does.
prince william was at buckingham palace today, bestowing honours.
it mis a staple of royal life, the life to which the queen has devoted herself, but from which harry now wishes to break free.
it is a parting over which the royal family feels great regret, coupled with realism.
nicholas witchell, news.
let’ end on a high.
this is the momenta french daredevil flew through a mountain in hunan province known as ‘heaven’ gate’ wearing a jet pack.
crowds watched as two frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter before flying through the stone structure wearing powered wings made from carbon fibre.
apparently the jet packs can reach speed of 400 kilometres an hour, and are steered by the way the pilot moves their body.
a reminder of our top story: iran has condemned a decision by britain, france and germany to trigger a formal dispute process over iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
the iranian foreign minister described the move as legally baseless, and a strategic mistake.
the europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
the united states unilaterally withdrew from it under president .
thank you for watching.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure comes hurtling into thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on to the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here.
england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
this is news, the headlines: iran has condemned a decision by britain, france and germany to trigger a formal dispute process over iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
the iranian foreign minister described the move as legally baseless, and a strategic mistake.
the europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
the impeachment trial of donald trump has moved a step closer.
the house speaker, nancy pelosi, says a vote on sending articles of impeachment to the senate will take place on wednesday.
senate majority leader, mitch mcconnell, says the trial is likely to begin next tuesday.
that the island has no need to declare formal independence because it already is an independent country.
tsai said last week’ presidential election, in which she won a second term in office, showed taiwanese people did not like being threatened by china.
now on news, panorama.
britain’ high streets are in crisis walking down here i can see lots of vacant shops.
and there is a very big one here.
we’ve lost more than a quarter of shops on our high streets injust over a decade.
i haven’ been down the high street in a couple of months.
the new government has promised its help, with investment for left behind towns, but how should that money be spent?
retail has only ever been a part of the functions of a town.
so it’ time for a re—think.
i think it’ vital, actually, that the high street becomes a place for community, for people to come together somewhere in the centre of the high street, there could be a key public space.
tonight on panorama, we’ll see how, in parts of the country, things are already changing that has to increase footfall, that has to regenerate the area.
stockton, sitting on the river tees, in the north—east of england.
it has a proud heritage, but its high street has been struggling for a while.
in the last five years, the town centre has lost more than 100 stores.
hi, richard.
hi, adam.
this is a prime example of what’ happening in the retail market.
this was a former & unit which closed in august last year.
it’ been vacant since their departure.
it’ not a good sign, is it, if a big retailer like & is going, "it’ just not working"?
that’ got to be disheartening.
it’ absolutely disheartening.
it’ frustrating.
it’ one in a long line of retailers who are consolidating right across the
and we are victims of that.
and we’ve got to step in and look at different uses for our town centres.
i can see another vacancy up there.
but debenhams ahead of us.
debenhams have announced that stockton will be one of many towns where their stores will close and that leaves a very large retail store with a problem not only for its owners but also us as the council.
this week debenhams is closing 19 of the 50 shops it plans to shut in the next few years.
it’ part of what the company describes as a ?
restructure’.
this one will close in a couple of days’ time.
as soon as you walk into the high street you see debenhams.
we’re just going to have an empty shop welcoming us!
it employs a lot of people for this area, especially with the unemployment in this area being really high.
it will be a big loss.
every year i used to go and get the same christmas present, the same perfume from debenhams for my mum.
sorry, every year you get your mum the same present?
ever think it’ time for a change?
she likes it, she knows it’ my present!
these local teenagers have already seen big changes.
maybe a few years ago there was more to do, a lot more shops were open, where new i tend to go elsewhere.
i haven’ been down the high street in a couple of months.
why?
it doesn’ appeal to me.
i do tend to use it for, like, the music scene but that’ generally all i really use it for.
stockton has a reputation for being ahead of the curve in rejuvenating its town centre, with the council planning and investing in change.
investment in our town centre started with the public realm and this central fountains area.
we’ve created what we describe as a large outdoor room so that we’ve got places for performers and our large sporting events that we have right throughout the year here in stockton.
it’ about creating that footfall.
so, the more people that we’ve got living in town, working in town and coming and experiencing the fantastic events program that we’ve got, then, they’re going to use the retail.
so, how much have you spent on the town centre?
well, over recent years, particularly since 2010, 11, we’ve spent £38 million.
and their plans don’ end there this is a very big site, built in the 19705, and it provides a bit of a barrier to the river.
stockton is on the short list for a share of a £1 billion pot the government has committed to spend, helping town’ realize plans for their high streets.
we’re investing in buildings that we can take control of.
we recognise that retail is a changing market.
it needs to contract to be fit for purpose for our town.
they’re looking at different development options.
the council says what matters most is that by owning these sites they’ll be able to lead on regeneration of the area.
we started a conversation with our residents about what they want to see for the future of their town.
do they want to see more leisure based facilities, more open space, more housing, more commercial development to help with part of the town centre’ redevelopment?
the truth is, high streets have always had to adapt and change, responding to the shifting demands of their communities.
it’ always good to look at maps like this cos you’ve got the history of town centre and retail change in one place.
professor cathy parker is one of the leaders of the high streets task force, set up by the government last year, to support the transformation of town centres.
she’ an expert on the history of retail.
if you were going to go out and buy an outfit then you’ be buying your gloves in one shop, and your dress in another and petticoats in another, so yes, far, far more specialised.
but high streets were never just about shops.
they were also social hubs, bustling centres for communities to live, work and play together.
retail has only ever been a part of the functions of a town and city.
perhaps, especially in the last century, the 19805 and ‘905, we got a little bit fixated on retail, and we thought that the whole town and the whole city was all about retail.
and as we became more fixated, so high streets started to lose their individuality.
many once—distinctive town centres became home to the same set of chain stores.
a lot of our prime space in our town and city centres has been filled up by very boring retail, actually.
but with some chains going out of business, and others re—structuring, there’ an inevitable impact on high streets.
last year nearly 6,000 chain stores closed their doors for the last time.
that space is now an opportunity for other types of retail, that’ really what people want, they want things a little bit more exciting and new.
so, what about the future, then?
i think places need to understand their function and the things that do draw people in to the town centre, some still have a very important retailfunction, some are much more about an experience, so they’re a mixture of heritage and culture.
some places are just much more sort of everyday, they’re multifunctional.
then we have another category which is the sort of holiday town.
southend—on—sea — it’ been a holiday destination for east end day trippers for generations and still attracts millions of visitors a year.
now, its challenge is to make its high street more of a draw for locals and visitor alike.
ground floor for perfumery, stationery and leather goods two of my wedding presents came from this shop.
i was asked to pick out something i wanted and i picked a set of cutlery and a dinner service.
there was a glass cabinet there
and i bought a little lady from that glass cabinet all them years ago — it was lovely.
us old ones, we like going to have a cup of tea and a look around the shops.
don’ know what we are going to do when they close them all.
this is havens on hamlet court road in the suburb of westcliff—on—sea.
up here is my great grandfather, rawlings this is my grandfather on his motorbike there, and this is my father.
nigel’ great—grandfather first opened a shop on this street more than 100 years ago.
what was it like here then?
it was fantastic.
families would on saturdays come out and go on a shopping expedition.
they would stay in areas like this and not only use the shops, but the cafes and restaurants.
they’ get dressed up for it, as well, so it was a pretty good, grand day out.
havens started out selling china and fancy glassware.
when i came in, we put in a stationery department on the ground floor and a perfumery department, and then in letter days we put in ladies fashion that worked for about three months and then we started to see that become increasingly challenging.
so, we moved out of that and then back into more housewares in that area.
nigel and his family saw the writing on the wall and shut up the bricks and mortar shop in 2018.
there comes a point when you think, "you know what?
"we’ve got to make changes, even more serious changes than we’ve made.
"
and so that’ when you end up doing what we’ve done, which is to cut yourself from the retail side of it, and just purely trade online.
they now run that online business from the top floor of the building.
and the allure of internet shopping continues to be felt around the country
but it still only accounts for about 20% of total sales.
the problem for high streets like this is that it seems we have decided to do much of our shopping out of town centres.
so, we might bemoan about the decline of the high street, but it’ happening because we choose not to shop here.
in december, the number of people visiting our high streets, known in the trade as footfall, fell by 3.
5% compared to the year before.
it’ a trend that has marked the last decade.
since 2009, footfall has fallen byjust over 20%.
havens is just one of the many shops to have closed in this suburban high street.
there’ll be a cafe here.
and all the tables will come out here.
so this is where they used to sell jewellery and makeup and smellys and that type of thing.
so, it’ going to be totally transformed.
local charity chief, lin boulter, has taken over most of the building with plans for a service hub that she hopes will help cover the cost of the rent.
you’ll come to this end of haven, we’ve got our first, for feet, a podiatrist here, public health doing flu jabs and smoking cessation, we’ve got a kitchen that is going to be serving the cafe.
toilet block, very important.
and in here we’ve been working with a local day care provider and we’re going to have a day centre that’ going to be available for up to 15 people a day.
lin’ hope, for this place to be buzzing by the end of january, is going to take a lot of doing.
just down the road on southend’ main high street, i’ meeting cathy parker again.
this is the entrance to the high street.
what do you make of it?
well, i only know it’ the entrance cos quite a few people are walking up that way.
there’ nothing to tell me this is the grand entrance to southend—on—sea.
this really should be welcoming people and attracting people and drawing people in and it actually is just the back of some very ugly retail units.
this is a high street facing challenges typical of many others around the country.
so we’ve come into this space.
it’ opened up, certainly.
what do you make of this bit of the development?
um, well, i think it’ very much of its time.
i suppose it’ anchored here by a shopping centre and we’ve got some newer retail over this side of the public space here, but itjust looks a bit sad.
i know the council is thinking of encouraging sort of food and beverage into this area, market stalls selling food.
goodidea?
that’ definitely a good idea — the regeneration of a lot of town centres now is coming from more temporary usage.
things like food markets, farmers markets, small festivals.
the council is now investing in a major overhaul of the public spaces around here, part of wider plans to draw people and business back in.
the council would like to see a rich and evolving town centre, so it’ not about setting a static vision but one that is dynamic.
so, that might be more residential, certainly looking above existing retail units, but also thinking maybe about theming areas of the high street, around residential or cultural leisure activities, orfood and drinks, digital even.
building on southend’ heritage, they want to reduce the amount of space given to shops and create a mix of offerings on the high street.
just a short walk from here, it has plans to transform areas it owns, creating new homes and better connections to the high street.
and another for a privately—funded all—weather leisure scheme including a cinema, restaurants and a hotel.
hi entrepreneurjohn timpson chaired an expert panel tasked with advising the government on what can be done to help high streets like this to thrive.
it seemed pretty obvious to me that we’ve got more shop premises than we need.
so, not change them into houses because we haven’ got enough houses?
put more people back in, that gives a bit more life.
but also put back in there what people need to do, they want to do, like to do with leisure, to do with medical services, libraries, all the things which will make sure that people not only go into the town, but actually meet other people.
right.
because my worry was that we’re losing that sense of community and, actually, human beings need human contact.
and many people are putting ideas like this into practice.
james hampton is an architect whose firm works with councils to rejuvenate town centres.
tell me what you think the philosophy for a good high street — how it should work.
we came up with these four key design themes.
resilience is the idea of flexibility and adaptability, so in the design of the high street, you allow for different uses over time, things can flex and change.
local—ness is about the idea that whatever you do in the ideal high street, it has to come from the local area.
it has to be specific to the local people and local needs.
connectivity is critical, in a high street people can get there, but can get there easily, through walking, cycling and public transport.
the idea of greening — that the high street should be a place of health and wellbeing, and greenery is a way to do that.
it also helps to, you know, improve air quality, and creates places that people want to be.
you’re going to show me what the elements are that go into the ideal high street, are you?
right, let’ get building.
start off with an anchor building at one end of the high street, something like an art gallery, a community theatre, for example.
something to attract visitors in.
that’ right.
and as you move along the high street, there will be buildings that have work space or retail on the ground floor, and probably residential uses above.
and somewhere in the centre of the high street is a key public space.
so will be a flexible public space.
it could be a market or an event space or a performance space.
somewhere where people ran come and gather outside.
crucial to have greenery.
they might be local parks that can connect to the high street.
but you can also have smaller parks, actually on the high street.
and then just continuing the high street with retail units at the ground floor, and then more residential above.
the perfect high street.
it was easy.
well, 0.
of course it’ not that easy when it comes to the real world.
there may be some agreement that change should happen.
it’ less clear who should create it.
some local authorities are choosing to take the lead, but that can come at a cost.
in the last three years, £775 million has been spent by councils buying up shopping centres.
in some cases, borrowing money to do it.
so, is buying up properties the right thing to do?
i think each location needs to make their own choices and decisions on that.
some authorities clearly have.
they feel that’ the right thing, to be able to have ownership.
there’ no doubt that, if you own something, it is far easier to regenerate it and do what you want to, than if it’ owned by a third party.
so, i think it’ a case of horses for courses.
councils are stepping in and buying properties to redevelop them themselves.
are you not worried that it’ placing councils at some risk, with public money?
well, there is always risk when you run a council, and you have to do a risk assessment on whatever decision it is that you’re making.
back in stockton, i’ getting my steel—capped boots and hard hat on.
this is the newjewel in the crown of our town centre.
the council is renovating the town’ art deco theatre, the globe.
the plan was to put £1 million of public money into the building work.
but now the project has been revamped, and it’ set to cost them more than £22 million — nearly £19 million of that borrowed.
how does this fit in to your strategy of revitalising the town centre?
it’ part of our diversification strategy.
town centre’ notjust about retail, but about evening economy, leisure offer.
and this sits right at the heart of what we’re trying to achieve, to bring new people into town for different reasons.
i mean, it is a huge gamble.
it’ a lot of money on the hope that people will come.
we’re very confident in that.
there is a strong market for venues of this size, not only for audiences to come, but the acts that want to play here.
i am available for the opening night, if you need a performance.
perhaps a double act!
the new ant and dec?
indeed.
the better looking new ant and dec.
absolutely.
the council says the globe could attract 200,000 visitors a year, generating £18 million for the local economy.
as part of its regeneration effort, the council also runs this enterprise arcade.
it’ meant to help grow retail businesses.
they hope some will set up shop on the high street and prepare them for the risks that entails.
how do you like your tea?
do you like it weak, in the middle, or strong?
karen runs a small cafe here.
after five years building the business, she’sjoined by her mentor as she looks for somewhere more permanent.
you’ll see it’ split into two different parts.
oh, wow, yep.
perfect kitchen this, karen.
i’ probably want the sink further back, right over there.
and then the rent?
what i’ hope is we can do something around about £1,000 a month on this shop,
so that’ £12,000 a year.
right, 0.
£1,000 for the rent, that’ the rent, and then you’ve got to pay the rates, and then you’ve got to pay the service charges.
and rates are a big issue for those on the high street.
councils don’ set the rates, but they do collect them.
half goes to the government, and they keep the rest.
but they can offer discounts.
will i be allowed an oven?
of course you will.
it’ your shop, you can have what you want.
a real oven, imagine that.
even factoring in the discounts she’ entitled to, karen would have to pay around £7,000 a year in rates for this space and almost £2,500 more for the service charge.
that’ massive, isn’ it?
that’ a lot of money, that’ a lot of money.
i can see us fitting into this position, and making it something, you know, it’sjust getting it to the right price.
the reason we’re seeing a lot of retailers go out of business is because their their rates are very high.
so, if you had boris on the phone, your plea to him on business rates would be what?
that we need a thorough review of business rates.
if retailers are going to thrive on the high street, they need lower business rates.
and we need a review, which will ultimately lead to online retailers and physical retailers having a level playing field.
the government has announced a review, but not when it will happen, or exactly what it will look at.
what it has committed to is cutting the rates bill for small retail businesses, by increasing their discount from one third to a half.
but that won’ be enough to answer all the challenges our high streets face.
i’ standing between two iconic brands — john lewis and debenhams.
thisjohn lewis has already closed, and this debenhams is scheduled for closure.
the new owners of what was thejohn lewis building have grand designs for its future, and shopping doesn’ get much of a look in.
thank you very much.
quite a site.
yes, very different to how it would have been before the store closed.
this’ll be the heart of the building.
so central reception here, where one can check in for hotel, check in for office use, buy coffee.
all around the outside will be retail units, florists, vinyl, barbers, etc.
at the front, all the way along, facing the high street, we have private offices for our work space members.
this multimillion—pound project will see the building transformed, with office space for co—working, a bike workshop, pop—up stores, a hotel, a cinema, and more.
now, what makes you think this is going to work?
we look at a breakdown of the city, the population.
350,000 people live in portsmouth.
the university — very large university here, growing, cosmopolitan.
we have good corporate base in the city, so larger companies where smaller companies can feed off and work with.
we need a very good micro location, where people want to work, where you want to come and work because there’ shops, bars, restaurants around, close to the sea, go for a run at lunchtime.
all of that thrown together.
this ticks every box.
i mean, this mixed—use sort of development, do you think that is the future for the high street?
the more different uses you can find, gives you more options.
more chances to create value.
the sum of what you put together is greater than the sum of the parts.
how long ‘til i can actually get a drink up here?
i’ very much hope by the autumn.
i’ll see you there.
well, i’ve waited longer in pubs, but i’ll look forward to it.
good for you.
not bad.
back in southend, new attractions are popping up in what were once shops, and they’re helping to draw a new crowd into town.
this is kind of like the start of your experience.
it will feed through, and at the end you’ll go into the restaurant.
we are crazy golf, but we combine it with food, we combine it with beverages.
so it’ an interesting hybrid of three very distinctive businesses that we’ve kind ofjust spliced together.
caddy says around 120,000 visitors came through their doors in theirfirst year.
we’ve survived 18 months and hopefully will survive three years is that it is a hybrid.
people come and have a drink and a game of golf, it goes hand—in—hand.
what works is all three together 7 if we took any of those away, we probably would have closed down by now.
people that are travelling outside of southend very much come to us as a destination, but will then do a bit of shopping and vice versa.
if everyone spent £5 a month on their high street, and i think communities coming back and just spending that extra money, even just £5 a month, would see their high street change drastically.
whilst the crazy golf on the high street is attracting a younger crowd, a few miles down the road at the haven they seem to be doing well with a more mature market.
there are activities such as tai—chi, snooker, and darts that are happening all the time.
the classes — keep fit, like over here now, we have stroller size, we have yoga.
downstairs, the renovation is complete.
they’re loving the cafe.
we have a day centre that’ actually working with people who are paying for our services.
we have social services, we’ve got our hairdressers.
we would hope, with all the services up and running, with the day centre working, we’re talking anything between 500—1,000 a day, which when you think, and nigel i think would agree with me, that he used to maybe have five or ten sometimes a day.
that has to increase the footfall, that has to regenerate the area because those people will then go into the bakers and the shops and buy.
nigel’ father, graham, who ran the family business here for years, has come to see how it’ changed.
so, here we are.
yes, a little tea/coffee shop.
used to be the perfumery department over there, do you remember?
it’ nice to see the building being put to good use.
and bringing the local community together, where they can enjoy the autumn of their lives.
it’ always been about people.
you don’ have a business without people.
i reckon, by the end ofjanuary, all of this will be buzzing.
we will regenerate this area.
this is news — welcome if you’re watching here in the , on in america or around the globe.
i’ mike embley.
our top stories: britain, france and germany trigger a formal dispute process over iran’ violations of the international nuclear deal.
: we believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
the impeachment charges against president trump — will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
after her resounding election victory, taiwan’ president tsai ing—wen tells the china needs to face reality.
a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
the royal couple are welcome in canada, but the details of prince harry and meghan’ new lives are proving tricky.
european nations have put iran on notice over its breaches of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
that deal was supposed to discourage iran from building nuclear weapons.
from the deal.
france, germany, and the have been trying to maintain it.
but officials in tehran have been lifting limits on enriched uranium production, saying it’ a reasonable response to sanctions and rising tensions.
european nations disagree, and now an official dispute mechanism has been triggered.
gareth barlow reports.
preventing iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term goal of europe and the , but the landmark agreement that bound tehran to strict limits is now in full dispute.
france, germany and the reject iran’ argument it can withdraw production limits on uranium used in nuclear powerplants and also weapons after america walked away from the deal.
the aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not to reimpose sanctions.
the aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating to the implementation of the agreement.
the beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to curb iran’ ability to build nuclear weapons.
in 2018, president trump pulled out of the deal, calling it flawed, and reimposed sanctions.
last year, tehran said it wouldn’ comply with all its commitments and recently has gone further following increased attention with the .
the three european governments say these breaches have left them with no choice but to trigger the dispute process is a first step towards reinstating international sanctions.
: we call on iran to constructively participate in these negotiations, the goal of which will be to safeguard the nuclear deal.
we believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
the iranian foreign minister, javad zarif, decried the dispute as a strategic mistake but iran’ foreign ministry spokesman said iran was ready to maintain international agreements.
all sides now have 15 days to resolve the issues raised.
security council, which could vote to reimpose any sanctions on iran.
gareth barlow, news.
the leader of the republican majority in the senate, mitch mcconnell, has said the impeachment trial of president trump is likely to begin there next tuesday.
democrats accuse the president of abusing his power and obstructing congress.
with regard to impeachment, our understanding is, and i think your understanding is as well, that the house is likely to send the articles over to us tomorrow, and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we will go through some preliminary steps here this week which could well include the chiefjustice coming over and swearing in members of the senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
we hope to be able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up to begin the actual trial next tuesday.
one of the most contentious issues not yet resolved — is whether to have witnesses in the senate trial.
democrats want to hear from current and former white house officials, such as former national security adviserjohn bolton.
we join the american people in wanting the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth to come out of the trial.
if you want the truth, you have to have witnesses.
you have to have documents.
who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses and documents?
i’ pleased that some of my republican colleagues are now beginning to come around to our position.
trump’ own party has majority the senate.
our correspondent peter bowes joins us from los angeles.
: we have uncertainty as to whether they will be witnesses.
the crats are strong on this new vidence because they say they eve that that should be part of he trial and they want to see esses as well.
as for the witnesses as well.
as for the evidence, they say, even during this of three weeks, that new delay of three weeks, that new evidence has emerged, there were ils hat came out before —mails that came outjust before christmas and just in the past our, emocrats —— documents at 24-hour, democrats -- documents at the democrats show our key evidence, ay it shows the top prosecutor in ukraine offered some damaging rmation about biden, the information about joe biden, the president’ likely or possible idate, opponent, at the next election.
damaging information about iden ich was offered to an joe biden which was offered to an associate of rudy giuliani, the ident’ personal lawyer who had een involved in talks for some time raine.
it is kind of a convoluted story but goes to the of the matter, the allegation democrats that this was going .
they believe that president be held to account for this, the apparent request for a favour stigate joe den ahead of investigate joe biden ahead of the next election.
we should save use that pet —— president trump ﬂatly denies he ad done anything ng.
and it may well be that the epublicans will call their own sen individuals that could be biden that perhaps is something, ecially as he is campaigning long with other democrats to become andidate for the democrats, at is probably something that he sn’ want.
just to remind people, gainst this kdrop, the people a that ant to fight trump for the ite use in the presidential lection next year are debating in the last before iowa holds its caucus earlier in february.
—— later bruary for what is coming in february for that what is coming out of that debate?
it is cinating because they have come ross the full gamut of issues, as uld affect.
healthcare, you would affect.
healthcare, employment, iran, clap —— trade, ate change, all been on the climate change, have all been on the agenda.
also a spat between two of eading candidates, elizabeth arren and bernie sanders, over the tion over whether bernie sanders dn’ believe a woman could win the idency.
it was put to him and he atly denied he ever said that and act he strongly believes a a woman could win a presidential tion.
fact, gave example election.
in fact, gave the example of hillary clinton who rashly got tes than donald trump.
the system in america meant that donald ctually won the election.
—— actually won the elaction.
-- actually got more votes.
the tors who are standing, otentially to be chosen as a didate, they want to keep on bating, whereas, actually, they be sitting in a senate trial as the judge jury of the —— over he next weeks.
thank you very ch, peter.
let’ get some of the days other news.
more than a0 people, most of them children, have been treated for breathing problems and skin irritation after a commercial airliner apparently dumped fuel near a school, just before an emergency landing at los angeles airport.
the delta airlines flight to shanghai had just taken off when an engine problem forced its return.
government forces in the sudanese capital, khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters where security personnel loyal to the former president, omar bashir, were based.
the mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now moved into the northern suburb of kafouri.
there are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets, but the international airport has now reopened.
fire services in catalonia in north—east spain are saying a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant, has now been contained.
the blast, near the port city of tarragona, killed one person and injured eight others.
some have severe burns.
one person is still missing.
authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
to the philippines now — taal volcano continues to spew ash with plumes of steam reaching almost a kilometre into the sky.
volcanologists say the alert level remains at 4 which means a dangerous eruption could happen within hours or days.
more than 50,000 people have evacuated the area — but despite the warnings some have returned to their homes today, to check on the livestock they left behind.
howard johnson sent this report from tagaytay, cavite.
they have declared a state of calamity here and it is clear to see despite the continued why.
but despite the continued threat of a hazardous eruption, some a are returning to their family homes.
hese two people own a small of land in the centre of the lmno.
they plot of land in the centre of the volcano.
they raise chickens for a ing and plant tables at their living and plant vegetablas at their lands -- their lives turned upside fter taal volcano.
down after taal volcano.
: we could smell thing awful, ash began falling small stones and soil.
evacuated because some people said they would be a tsunami.
we became stared.
nowell said he wanted to to his house today to check his livestock but he found that of his birds were in a sorry te.
they are assuring me a fighting kok is as —— sport here in hilippines the bird is overed in dirt and ash.
he said a of the birds were left ear and ther chickens were in a bad state.
one in the back that looks it has a broken wing.
the lippine department of agriculture 5 that the ash has caused more han $10 million worth of damage to estock and crops.
he is showing us his vegetable patch where he squash but he says the condition of these plants now are so at he can’ harvest them and that he an’ take them to rket for sale.
today’ monitors say that though the tions in the main although the eruptions in the main crater have been weaker in the last rs, residents evacuating from 24 hours, residents evacuating from the 14 kilometre danger zone should lulled into a false sense of ecurity and return to their homes.
johnson, news, tagaytay.
stay with us on news.
still to come: we meet the 91—year—old who has no plans to retire from teaching.
day one of operation desert storm to force the iraqis out of kuwait has seen the most intense air attack since the second world war.
tobacco is america’ oldest industry and one of its biggest, but the industry is nervous of this report.
this may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
there is not a street that is unaffected.
huge parts of kobe were simply demolished, as buildings crashed into one another.
this woman said she had been given no help and no advice by the authorities.
she stood outside the ruins of her business.
tens of thousands of black children in south africa have taken advantage of laws passed by the country’ new multiracial government and enrolled at formerly white schools.
tonight sees the 9,610th performance of the long—running play, the mousetrap.
when they heard about her death today, the management considered whether to cancel tonight’ performance, but agatha christie would have been the last person to want such a thing.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: iran has condemned france, britain and germany for triggering a formal dispute process over tehran’ violations of its international nuclear deal.
the impeachment charges against president trump will be sent to the senate on wednesday.
a trial could start within days.
china needs to face realityand respect the will of the taiwanese people, according to taiwan’ newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen.
speaking exclusively to the , president tsai said the threat from china, which claims the self—governing island as part of its territory, is intensifying.
but she warned that any military action could prove costly to china.
our correspondentjohn sudworth spoke to the president in taiwan’ capital, taipei.
how do you expect beijing to react to your victory?
they should have serious thoughts about the people’ expectation as expressed by the election result.
and this is a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, you know, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
we’re a successful democracy.
we have a pretty decent economy.
you know, we deserve respect from china.
you spoke after the result about your hope that there could be a return to dialogue.
what can you offer beijing that might, in your view, open that door a little?
i think it’ for the chinese to have this preparedness to face the reality.
that is the key.
if they are not prepared to face reality, whatever we offer won’ be satisfying to them.
do you think china was such an issue for voters?
because over the last three — more than three years, we’ve seen that china has been intensifying its threat.
and they have all sorts of actions, military exercises, and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising around the island.
and also, with the things happening in hong kong, people get a real sense that this threat is real, and it’ getting more and more serious.
without an expression of good faith on your side, and this is what your critics say, that you in a way are inviting china to react in a way that it is.
i have been rather reasonable in terms of managing our relationship with china and we have been refrained from doing things that may me be considered as provocative to china.
despite that, there’ so much pressure here that we should go further, but in the last more than three years, we have been telling china that maintaining status quo remains to be our policy.
and i think that is a very friendly gesture to china.
are you, in principle at least, in favour of the idea of a formal taiwanese independence?
we don’ have a need to declare ourself an independent state.
we are an independent country already.
and we call ourselves republic of china, taiwan, and we do have government, and we have the military, and we have elections.
you’ve spoken about the rising threat from china.
how serious in your view is the risk of war today?
you cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
but the thing is, you have to get yourself prepared and develop the ability to defend yourself.
but in addition to this military preparedness, i mean, what is more important is that you have to get international support for your cause.
do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
i do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
invading taiwan is something that is going to be very costly for china.
taiwan’ newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen, taking to the ’ john sudworth.
harsh weather including avalanches and floods has killed more than 130 people across pakistan and afghanistan in recent days.
schools have shut and many villages have been left isolated.
worst affected has been pakistani kashmir, with 62 people killed and ten others missing.
more than 50 bodies have been recovered.
olivia crellin has the latest.
buried in snow, villagers struggle to free a man completely submerged after an avalanche hit a kashmiri village just north of islamabad, killing dozens and destroying more than 50 homes.
extreme winter weather in recent days has killed more than 130 people across pakistan, afghanistan and indian—administered kashmir.
many more are injured or remain missing.
pakistan’ prime minister, imran khan, tweeted: referring to the part of kashmir controlled by pakistan.
military helicopters exchange rescued avalanche victims for supplies, in the hope of providing relief to those cut off by conditions as more heavy snow is forecast.
but there has been criticism from some about the government response to the weather.
truck drivers travelling along key supply routes across the country were stranded.
: i am coming from taftan and i’ heading for punjab.
it is snowing here, and the roads are closed because the vehicles skid.
i asked the government to bring heavy machines which will clean the snow in about half to one hour.
they have brought these small tractors here which will not clear the snow for three days.
pakistan’ disaster management authority also declared a state of emergency in the south—east balochistan province.
there, the weather has isoltaed communities, shut schools and brought trade with their afghan neighbours to a halt.
while such harsh weather is common and seasonal for this region, the area’ embattled status and poverty means that the heavy snow comes with a heavy toll.
olivia crellin, news.
storm brendan is still causing disruption.
a large section of roof own off a block of was blown off a block of ﬂats.
despite the way it looks, it seems was hurt.
it seems canada’ prime minister is ready to welcome prince harry and his wife, meghan, butjustin trudeau does want to know who will pay for the royal couple’ security.
on monday, queen elizabeth signed off on a period of transition for the duke and duchess of sussex, but there are still questions over how that will work.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell reports.
a new direction has been agreed.
less than 20 months since their wedding, the duke and duchess of sussex, harry and meghan, have been given the go—ahead by the queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans to move out and to base themselves in part in canada.
harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
his invictus games were staged in toronto in 2017, and meghan lived there for seven years as an actress.
there will be questions about their tax and immigration status, but canada’ prime minister appeared to be offering a cautious welcome.
i think most canadians are very supportive of having, you know, royals be here.
but how that looks and what kind of cost is involved, there’ still lots of discussions to have.
here in britain, the prime minister declined to offer a public view on the sussexes’ move.
i’ absolutely confident that they are going to sort this out.
and do you know what?
i think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier without any particular commentary from me.
meghan believes she has been badly treated by the british media.
she is suing the mail on sunday over its publication of a letter she wrote to her estranged father.
in its court submission, published today, the paper says to which meghan might respond, from now on, i will not perform royal duties, and it is our intention not to receive public money.
but royal duties are what the royal family does.
prince william was at buckingham palace today, bestowing honours.
it is a staple of royal life, the life to which the queen has devoted herself, but from which harry now wishes to break free.
it is a parting over which the royal family feels great regret, coupled with realism.
nicholas witchell, news.
at a time of life when many people are retiring, would you start a new career as a teacher at the age of 67?
and how would you feel about continuing in the job until you’re 91?
that is exactly what lakshmi sen has done in india.
we caught up with her at her school in bangalore.
: good morning, ma’am.
good morning.
i never worked, so i had all the energy, even to do it at the age of 67.
ijust wanted to get out and meet people.
how old were you?
19a8, this is.
first of all, i myself had all these aspirations.
first of all, i wanted to become a doctor and look after sick people, but in those days, the girls had very, very limited rights.
but half the dream is being fulfilled, isn’ it?
i am helping these here children who have no other disdain.
i have to be satisfied with that, as you would say.
i am very, very happy.
today, women who want to come up, they have their independence.
because we don’ have any problems in my house.
i have three daughters, five granddaughters, eight great—granddaughters.
the youngest granddaughter, she beats everybody.
let me see what god thinks, you know?
every night i pray, you know, that i will get up tomorrow morning.
every morning i get up, make my coffee.
so that is it.
whatever god wills, that’ it, nothing else.
and i’ very happy with my family.
thank you so much for watching.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure comes hurtling into thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on to the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here.
england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
this is news, the headlines: iran has condemned a decision by britain, france and germany to trigger a formal dispute process over iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
the iranian foreign minister described the move as legally baseless, and a strategic mistake.
the europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
the impeachment trial of donald trump has moved a step closer.
the house speaker, nancy pelosi, says a vote on sending articles of impeachment to the senate will take place on wednesday.
senate majority leader, mitch mcconnell, says the trial is likely to begin next tuesday.
taiwan’ president, tsai ing—wen, has told the that the island has no need to declare formal independence because it already is an independent country.
tsai said last week’ presidential election, in which she won a second term in office, showed taiwanese people did not like being threatened by china.
now on news, hardtalk’ stephen sackur speaks to douglas silliman, former ambassador to iraq.
welcome to hardtalk, i’ stephen sackur.
though the fear of imminent war has receded, the middle east has been profoundly destabilised by the american assassination of iranian general qasem soleimani.
the unfolding —iran conflict will impact the whole not least iraq, where the iranians are intent on hastening the end of america military presence.
much now depends on the strategic vision of the trump administration.
my guest, douglas silliman, was ambassador in iraq until one year ago.
does trump have a strategy?
if so, what is it?
ambassador doug silliman in washington, , welcome to hardtalk.
steven, i’ very happy to be here.
well, you have a very special perspective of what’ happened over the past ten days or so as the last retiring ambassador in baghdad, you leftjust one year ago.
from your perspective, does the assassination of qasem soleimani in baghdad appear to you both lawful and wise?
i must say first of all, i’ not going to address the question of whether it is lawful or unlawful because i’ not an expert in international law or a particularly good diplomatic historian.
looking at this from the standpoint of president trump and the trump administration, he seems to prefer shaking up the situation to see how the chips fall and then to make things go his way on the back end.
i think certainly with the killing of qasem soleimani, and also the killing of the chief iranian lieutenant, abu mahdi al—muhandis, inside iraq, he has certainly shuffled the deck and made things a little bit more interesting on the back end.
shuffle the deck, you say — it’ a metaphor that implies gambling.
do you regard this move as a high—risk gamble?
i don’ know if this is a high—risk gamble, because there’ certainly a lot of reason an american administration would want to take out qasem soleimani.
especially since the invasion of iraq in 2003, soleimani has driven the iranian expansion into iraq, into syria, into yemen, afghanistan and pakistan to some extent and has consolidated the control of the revolutionary guards inside iran and planted sleeper cells and trained rebels in saudi arabia, bahrain and other places in the region.
he has been one of the most destabilising figures and has certainly been the mastermind behind the post—2003 hegemonic iranian expansion into the region and support for lebanese hezbollah.
so he was a very high level target to take out, and i think iranian strategy and probably some of their implementation will suffer without him at the helm.
interesting you rate it as that significant
and i want to get back to soleimani and indeed the wider iranian influence in iraq a little later in the interview, but one more point on the issue of lawfulness.
you very carefully say it’ really not for you to judge the lawfulness or not, i would put it to you that as a ambassador long—standing, it really does matter to you and now your successor in baghdad this question of whether it’ legal or not.
you are there not as donald trump’ representative but a representative of the government, a government that prides itself by its abiding by international rules, international law.
when you hear the special raconteur on extrajudicial executions, agnes callamard, concluding that in this case the test of legality or illegality is unlikely to be met, i.
it looks illegal to her, you must be worried, musn’ you?
i’ worried about the reputation of the united states but frankly the reputation of the united states is still going to be shaky given the policies of the trump administration in many other places in the world.
the reality is there’ also a strong argument to made for self—defence, and that’ the argument the american administration is making.
i am personally aware from my time serving as a diplomat of what qasem soleimani and some of the groups he supported and trained in iraq and elsewhere have done to to target american diplomats, american servicemembers and other coalition members serving in iraq and in other places in the region.
i’ quite certain he was behind the escalating attacks in 2019, the attacks on shipping outside the strait of hormuz, attacks on saudi civilian infrastructure, the downing of an american drone and the attacks on abqaiq, the saudi arabian oil processing centre.
so there are a number of reasons how you can define this as an act of self—defence.
ambassador, if i may say so, when you put it like that it makes me wonder the americans sat back so long and allowed qasem soleimani to build his expansionist network inside iraq.
you were sitting there as ambassador for more than two years.
were you constantly telling washington they should be addressing in really serious terms what soleimani was building inside iraq with all of those popular militias, the popular mobilisation units, the shia forces at his disposal.
should america have acted sooner?
i was telling washington absolutely the threat i saw both to american policy and america citizens serving in iraq from the iranian supported shia militias.
i will not paint the entire popular mobilization forces units with the same brush.
there are some that were very responsive to soleimani and tehran, and there were others who are more iraqi nationalist and even some of the units were trained by the coalition military and later absorbed into the popular mobilization forces.
a number of shia militias, most of them predated the rise of isis, and many of them cut their teeth in fighting american forces in iraq between 2008 and 2011, forming the backbone of soleimani’ iraqi proxy forces.
they have been dangerous for a long time, and i was absolutely telling washington that they were dangerous.
how difficult is it as an ambassador to represent a government that seems so chaotic in its thinking?
donald trump in the last 48 hours has said he had direct information, there were four attacks in train under soleimani’ guidance on four different embassies in the region.
the defence secretary, mark esper, said he didn’ see any such evidence.
you’ve been at the sharp end working for the trump administration as an ambassador, how difficult is it to make sense of what goes on in washington?
i would also say the trump administration is not the first administration that had contradictions, and as an ambassador or a morejunior diplomat, i generally triangulated different statements and to walk down the middle to to make sure i captured the message washington was trying to convey.
what about when the message isn’ clear at all?
what about when the president is speaking off—the—cuff, random quotes that don’ seem totally with the intelligence and information coming from other parts of the security establishment.
what do you do then?
well, in that case you go to the basic point that underlies what everyone is saying, qasem soleimani and iranian supported forces and iranian forces in some cases pose a danger to american and coalition forces in iraq and in the region, and likely to american diplomats in embassies in the region as well.
let us now consider what next in iraq.
it’ a political situation you know very well.
you will have seen the acting prime minister, adil abdul—mahdi, has said this egregious violation of iraq’ sovereignty must be met troops from iraqi soil.
do you think that’ going to happen?
it’ a very good question
and i honestly do not know yet.
i will also note when the iraqi parliament took its vote, theoretically there were 170 votes to zero, but nearly that many members of the parliament, mostly kurdish and sunni members, but also some shia members, boycotted the session because they did not agree with the vote that was being taken.
who did not come and vote for the resolution to ask the prime minister to ask coalition forces to leave.
what you have seen since that vote is statements by prominent politicians in the kurdistan, a number of sunnis and a couple of fears in support of a continued coalition military presence, focused on fighting isis and focused on training and professionalising the mainline iraqi security forces, i.
the air force and the counterterrorism forces.
you talk about the focus on the islamic state group but the truth is the 5,000 or so military personnel in iraq are completely hamstrung.
they have bunkered down and they are focused on their own forced rejection, such is their own insecurity in iraq today, and they certainly aren’ doing any counter operations in conjunction with the iraqi military, who they don’ seem to trust.
that entire strategy lies in ruins today.
i would actually take issue with your statement that the iraqi army or the army do not trust the iraqi army.
what you have in iraq unfortunately is security forces that are split in the middle.
you’ve got the mainline forces — the army, the air force and the navy, and the counterterrorism service, largely supplied and trained and mentored by coalition forces.
then you have the popular mobilization forces, which have been dominated by iran and qasem soleimani throughout this period.
the impression i get from people who are still in baghdad is the personal and cooperative relationships between coalition military and the iraqi military remain strong.
there is, however, more tension with the popular mobilization forces especially those more tied with qasem soleimani.
with respect no, no, to answeryour question, the violence of the past week and a half has constrained what the nato mission and what the coalition has been able to do, and it is incumbent upon the prime minister and the iraqi government to put in place methods to protect coalition forces from attacks from other parts of the iraqi security forces.
this is an issue with which i’ve been most frustrated throughout my period, both under the obama administration and trump administration — the unwillingness or inability of the iraqi government to challenge the expansion of these shia militias to conduct activities, use force separate from the command structure of iraq with the prime minister at the top.
surely another frustration is the apparent contradiction in a strategy which needs a strong relationship with the iraqi government, which of course right now is still headed up by acting prime minister adil abdul—mahdi.
and at the same time, donald trump has started issuing threats toward the acting prime minister and his government, saying that if they couldn’ make good on any attempt to remove forces from iraq, then the most punitive sanctions the iraqis had ever seen will be imposed.
and we’ve got one source today talking about the americans telling the acting prime minister’ office that the is countenancing blocking iraqi’ account at the federal reserve bank in new york, which would effectively completely destroyed iraq’ oil economy.
what on earth is going on here?
what does donald trump want from the iraqis?
does he want to be their friend, or does he now see them as an enemy?
on the economic front, the iraqi government has been cooperating with the treasury to prevent the flow of dollars into iran, as part of the sanctions, because we are afraid that especially the quds force and the revolution guards use the hard currency they earn to expand their activities into and outside of the region.
iraq has been very cooperative, and we think relatively few dollars have gone into iran from iraq.
now that i’ outside the administration, i don’ want to speculate too much.
but i know that when i was doing myjob in baghdad, we were concerned that if the cooperation of the iraqi treasury or the iraqi central bank ended, that it would be much easier for iran to get dollars to iraq.
and i think that is one of the main fears.
because the goal of iran, of qasem soleimani, was not only a security goal.
i mean, you keep telling me about all the concerns you had as ambassador, and that continue, about iran’ various leverages inside iraq.
is it not your concern and the truth that the killing of qasem soleimani has actually strengthened iran’ hand in iraq?
it has made it much more difficult for your troop presence to continue.
it has made it more difficult for those allies of the united states inside iraq to have their voices heard.
and what we see is an iran which over the next few months and years has every prospect of projecting more power and control over iraq.
what i think the killing of qasem soleimani has done has a short—term impact that is sort of what you describe.
it is clear that those in iraq who would like to see a continuation, an increase, of iranian influence in the country now have more enthusiasm for that point.
it also has a short—term benefit to — or i should say provides an opportunity to an iraqi government that wants to be more independent of tehran, and for an international community that would prefer to see iraq plugged into the world community and the world economy more effectively.
let me tell you why.
qasem soleimani and his iraqi lieutenant, abu mahdi al—muhandis, both accelerated expansion of iranian influence, attacks on coalition and other forces, and support for shia militias in iraq.
they were also a brake on those activities when tehran and especially soleimani saw that to be to the benefit of iran.
what happened through tehran, to soleimani, to muhandis, i suspect what you will see inside iraq over the coming year or two will be something akin to a power struggle.
the shia militias in iraq are not unified.
they are made up of individual commanders, often brigade—sized units, who have now lost their recognised command structure, and i think they will now begin to struggle and jostle for predominance among this group.
one thing seems clear, that as a result, again, of the soleimani assassination, tehran is now intent on pushing ahead with its nuclear programme.
they haven’ formally left the international agreement, the so—called , but they are now enriching uranium to new levels.
they are to all intents and purposes back on the nuclear weapons track — agree?
i think this is in fact correct, and there are actually three points i want to make.
all of what has taken place in the past two weeks has shuffled the deck, as i said, but it has not resolved any of the underlying issues.
from the standpoint of washington, and largely from the west, there are still three big issues that iran continues.
one is a support for proxy forces in the region.
the second is the now lack of commitment to thejcpoa, the nuclear agreement.
and the third is iran’ development and deployment of ballistic missiles, and you saw the strategic use of iranian ballistic missiles in the attacks on coalition forces last week.
from the iranian side, you still have united states which is outside thejcpoa, and you have a united states which hass not only supporting sanctions, but last week secretary of state pompeo and secretary of the treasury mnuchin doubled down on sanctions and imposed a number of other sanctions.
so the underlying questions and the reasons for the tension remain there.
but, if i may, i want to keep this as simple as possible.
itjust seems to me and to many observers around the world there is still a fundamental contradiction, a deep confusion, in trump’ strategic vision for iran and the wider mid east region.
and david singer of the new york times put it very well the other day.
he said trump has yet to resolve the two conflicting instincts that he has on national security.
that is, on the one hand, bellicosity, and on the other hand, desire for disengagement.
so for you, as a 35—year—long diplomat who is recently out of baghdad, which is driving a strategic vision here?
is it the gut bellicosity of trump, or is it the desire, as he has said so many times, to get forces out of this mid east sand, where so much blood has been shed for so little?
which is it?
i think it’ fundamentally the difficulty that the trump administration has in following and articulating a consistent set of goals that they want to see on iran.
the three that ijust mentioned, ballistic missiles, nuclear weapons, and support for proxies, are always in the mix.
but there are other members of the administration, and i am not certain whether president trump fits in that, who would like to see regime change.
although last week president trump said very clearly in public remarks that he did not seek regime change in iran, i think that there are still people in the administration hoping that pressure on the iranian economy, and perhaps now pressure on the quds force and the military, will result in a revolution from within, inside iran.
if i may say so, ambassador, that’ a very interesting answer, ‘cause you have just revealed to me your very deep confusion.
because you have just left government, let’ not say the administration, but you’ve been in baghdad for a long time representing the government.
it sounds to me like you are deeply, deeply confused about who is really driving policy in the white house, and what that strategy is.
well, the day after, i believe, last week president trump said i do not seek regime change, former national security adviser john bolton tweeted that he supported regime change.
and if i were in tehran, and i was not getting a consistent message from washington that we do not seek to pull down the regime, i would be very reluctant to go into any sort of negotiations.
i would also say that it appears to me that the trump administration seeks iranian capitulation under pressure.
as i’ve said a couple of times in the media, economic sanctions are a tactic.
they are not a strategy or a goal.
and i’ struggling to find out, what does the trump administration hope to achieve at the end of this road?
if it wishes negotiations, does it want to do negotiations in conjunction with our traditional allies, as we did in thejcpoa, plus the security council members?
do we seek a smaller group?
and what is in it for iran if they engage in negotiations?
because the trump administration has been unable to articulate what the end result, the benefit for iran would be, were they to engage in serious negotiations on the three issues i mentioned.
you say you’re struggling to really comprehend what the trump endgame is.
many other diplomats have quit, saying that they can no longer serve a president that they don’ really respect, in terms of the way he conducts foreign policy.
i’ mindful that bill burns served 35 years in the state department and in diplomacy, just the same way you did with your 35 years, and he left saying this.
he said, i’ve never seen an attack on diplomacy as damaging as what we have seen under the trump administration.
notjust on the state department as an institution, but our international influence.
did you leave feeling the same, and is that frankly you were pleased to leave government?
i think that the trump administration came in in 2017 not quite knowing what to do with the state department.
first of all, the way that we are structured, if you look at the top, with ambassadors, ambassadors are the personal representatives of the presidents that appoint them, as well as the representatives of the united states.
and i think that president trump felt that all of the ambassadors appointed by president obama really represented obama, and did not represent him.
so you have seen a replacement of a lot of ambassadors, and the departure of a lot of people, even though they were career diplomats, who had been in senior positions in the obama administration.
so i think some of that is trump not believing that a cadre of diplomats, of civil servants who are committed to the constitution, would be as committed to him as he would like, and i think he wanted to see more of his own people in senior positions at the state department.
and, to put it bluntly, were you glad to get out?
i should say i’ very happy now, being in the private sector, and i enjoy the opportunity for the first time in 35 years to say what i actually believe, as opposed to having to speak only on behalf of the united states.
so i’ve found a bit of freedom in leaving the government.
all right, well, ambassador douglas silliman, i thank you very much indeed for being on hardtalk.
stephen, thank you very much.
it was a pleasure.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure comes hurtling in for thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on to the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here.
england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frost.
this is the briefing.
i’ sally bundock.
our top stories: the remaining contenders to take on donald trump clash in the final debate before the selection process begins.
iran condemns britain, france and germany for triggering a dispute over tehran’ violations of the nuclear deal.
schoolchildren are treated after a plane dumps fuel over los angeles before making an emergency landing.
in business briefing, and chinese officials are set to sign the first part of a significant trade deal.
good to have you with us.
this is wednesdays app briefing.
—— wednesday’ briefing.
a warm welcome to the programme, briefing you on all you need to know in global news, business and sport.
also in the programme, rutland in the will lose its status as the only county without a mcdonald’ as plans for a new drive—thru restaurant have been approved.
so, we’ like to know where you live, are there many global chains?
if so, is it good for your local community, for businesses?
get in touch — just use the hashtag bbcthebriefing.
in the last few hours, the candidates to take on donald trump in this year’ presidential election have squared off in the final debate before the selection process begins.
there were lively exchanges as the former vice president joe biden tussled with progressive favourite bernie sanders over the iraq war.
and sanders was assailed by elizabeth warren over his alleged comment that a woman couldn’ win in 2020.
from iowa, here’ our correspondent gary ’donoughue.
here in the spin room, all of the campaigns are trying to hone their to the waiting journalist, trying to argue that their candidate was the outright winner.
but tmth, alone was the outright winner.
but in truth, no—one delivered a kout below —— blow tonight, but there have some palpable nsion between elizabeth warren and sanders.
they have failed to ake hands on the debate stayed at end of proceedings.
unusual for these baits, there was a discussion of foreign affairs and tions of the run and the attentions of the and the killing of qasem soleimani.
some candidates want to bring troops me straightaway.
others want to some in the middle east for time being.
there were candidates on the stage tonight, tmth, there was a seventh.
a seventh sence, that of donald mmp.
and a seventh presence, that of donald trump.
and a big question, who could eat him in the november best beat him in the november election?
joe biden will feel he made case once again for that laim.
there is still a long way go.
gary ’donoghue.
before that debate took place in iowa, another event with big implications for the election.
the republican leader of the senate has said the impeachment trial of president trump is likely to begin next tuesday.
here’ mitch mcconnell.
with regard to impeachment, our understanding is, and i think your understanding is as well, that the house is likely to send the articles over to us tomorrow, and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we will go through some preliminary steps here this week, which could well include the chiefjustice coming over and swearing in members of the senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
we hope to be able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up to begin the actual trial next tuesday.
democrats accuse the president of abusing his power and obstructing congress.
and as part of the trial, democrats want to hear from current and former white house officials, such as former national security adviserjohn bolton.
we join the american people in wanting the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth to come out of the trial.
if you want the truth, you have to have witnesses.
you have to have documents.
who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses and documents?
i’ pleased that some of my republican colleagues are now beginning to come around to our position.
the senate democratic leader on the impeachment trial.
president trump has already pulled the united states out of the iran nuclear deal.
and now, european nations have put iran on notice over breaches of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
that deal was supposed to discourage iran from building nuclear weapons.
gareth barlow reports.
preventing iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term goal of europe and the , but the landmark agreement that bound tehran to strict limits is now in full dispute.
—— formal dispute.
france, germany and the reject iran’ argument it can withdraw —— ignore production limits on uranium used in nuclear powerplants and also weapons after america walked away from the deal.
the aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not to reimpose sanctions.
the aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating to the implementation of the agreement.
the beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to curb iran’ ability to build nuclear weapons.
in 2018, president trump pulled out of the deal, calling it flawed, and reimposed sanctions.
last year, tehran said it wouldn’ comply with all its commitments and recently has gone further following increased tension with the .
the three european governments say these breaches have left them with no choice but to trigger the dispute process as a first step towards reinstating international sanctions.
: we call on iran to constructively participate in these negotiations, the goal of which will be to safeguard the nuclear deal.
we believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
the iranian foreign minister, javad zarif, decried the dispute as a strategic mistake, but iran’ foreign ministry spokesman said iran was ready to maintain international agreements.
all sides now have 15 days to resolve the issues raised.
security council, which could vote to reimpose any sanctions on iran.
gareth barlow, news.
let’ brief you on some of the other stories making the news.
government forces in the sudanese capital, khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters where security personnel loyal to the former president, omar al—bashir, were based.
the mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now moved into the northern suburb of kafouri.
there are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets, but the international airport has now reopened.
fire services in catalonia are saying a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant, has now been contained.
the blast, near the port city of tarragona, killed one person and injured eight others.
some have severe burns.
one person is still missing.
authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
police in peru have detained six foreign tourists for vandalising a temple wall in the ruins of machu picchu, the ancient city built by the inca empire.
one of them, an argentine national, allegedly tried to remove a stone that fell on the floor and caused damage to the site.
he’ll be tried in peru and could be sentenced to jail.
the other five tourists will be deported.
mexico’ president says that his government has so far failed to sell his predecessor’ $130 million aircraft.
the boeing 787 dreamliner was acquired by former president enrique pena nieto eight years ago.
but current leader andres lopez obrador says it’ a hangover from what he called an out—of—touch ruling elite.
the mexican government is also selling 70 other government helicopters and planes.
president trump and the chinese vice premier will sit down and sign a trade deal that could signal the beginning of the end of their bruising battle over the price of everything from soybeans to iphones.
but don’ expect tariffs to be lifted soon.
the white house says that won’ happen until "phase two" is in the bag.
jeremy thomson cook, founder of complete currency consulting, joins me now.
finally we have arrived where the and china will be in the same room shington, pens in hand, in washington, pens in hand, signing something.
narrative for pens.
phase now complete, and this will one is now complate, and this will see china locked into or agreeing to billions of buy many billions of agricultural goods, energy goods but also things lanes and cars from the , which they were not beholden to do iously.
some people are previously.
some peopla are saying this is a win for the trump inistration there is bviously still a lot of road to travel use a lot of issues around the trying to trade have addressed.
to get to this nt, sign phase one, they have put the roversial tricky stuff one ide, which in a way, it is a good way of things, because you have to some progress.
you have to take steps.
and this is progress.
he trickier things ike intellectual property, which really to the heart of the —china investment flow, which is the gest in world, has to be done largest in the world, has to be done in phase two by the end of the year.
say, still a long road ahead.
terms of the impact of all of so far, could you some of it as been like with your mark it has inated business, it has dominated obal trade.
inancial kets global trade.
financial markets since began this war.
ically since trump began this war.
basically one of the first that he did when he came into the idency was to take on china, aking on their currency, taking he economy and saying the is not a fair deal the economy getting a fair deal for the economy and for its consumers.
so many ions, 250, $275 billion of billions, 250, $275 billion of tariffs levied on chinese coming into the economy.
this is step.
those tariffs are ill in place and will be in place at least after the election, this is a phase one approach to be just deescalating the risk of the china trade pact.
thank for now.
jeremy turned later.
when omes to he story on washington, we will discuss it further in ness briefing as well.
an investigation is under way after a passenger plane dumped fuel over the grounds of several schools while coming in for an emergency landing at los angeles airport.
more than a0 people, most of them children, were treated for minor injuries.
the delta airlines flight had reported engine trouble.
richard forrest reports.
thousands of litres of aviation fuel raining down onto a school below.
elta airlines flight which had ust left international rport and was destined for shanghai dumped before making an the fuel before making an emergency landing shortly after takeoff.
ols across the region, children adults required treatment for irritation and breathing ssues.
although nobody was italised, over 70 firefighters paramedics were dispatched.
upils at ark elementary school, me 26 kilometres from the airport, utside under the flight class were outside under the ﬂight class -- path as the plane ossed overhead.
delta, the flood public rators, pilots reduced —— operators, said pilots reduced -- release the fuel to reduce the raft was nic weight ahead of he emergency landing.
federal aviation ation reveals date that while regulation reveals date that while fuel may be dumped in emergencies, only be done so it may only be done so over designated areas and at high tude because of an vestigation is under way.
still to come: they call themselves the jetmen — two french daredevils through heaven’ gate in china.
day one of operation desert storm to force the iraqis out of kuwait has seen the most intense air attack since the second world war.
tobacco is america’ oldest industry and one of its biggest, but the industry is nervous of this report.
this may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
there is not a street that is unaffected.
huge parts of kobe were simply demolished as buildings crashed into one another.
this woman said she had been given no help and no advice by the authorities.
she stood outside the ruins of her business.
tens of thousands of black children in south africa have taken advantage of laws passed by the country’ new multiracial government and enrolled at formerly white schools.
tonight sees the 9,610th performance of the long—running play, the mousetrap.
when they heard of her death today, the management considered whether to cancel tonight’ performance, but agatha christie would have been the last person to want such a thing.
you’re watching the briefing.
our headlines: the remaining contenders to take on donald trump have clashed in the final debate before the selection process begins.
iran has condemned france, britain and germany for triggering a dispute over tehran’ violations of the nuclear deal.
china needs to face reality and respect the will of the taiwanese people according to taiwan’ newly re—elected president, tsai ing—wen.
speaking exclusively to the , president tsai said the threat from china, which claims the self—governing island as part of its territory, is intensifying, but she warned that any military action could prove costly to china.
our correspondentjohn sudworth spoke to the president in taiwan’ capital, taipei.
hello, president tsai.
hi.
it was her warnings about china that hit home with voters.
but now, she had something to say direct to beijing.
this is a very strong message from the people of taiwan.
that is, you know, they don’ like the idea of being threatened all the time.
we’re a successful democracy.
we have a pretty decent economy.
you know, we deserve respect from china.
her critics say she is reckless, that she risks provoking china.
but her promise to stand up for taiwan saw her re—elected by a landslide in saturday’ vote.
china has been intensifying its threat.
and they have all sorts of actions, military exercises, and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising around the island.
and also, with the things happening in hong kong, people get a real sense that this threat is real.
your predecessor, ying—jeou, was able to preserve taiwanese democracy whilst building stronger ties with china.
what’ not to like about that approach?
the situation has changed, so we’re facing a very different situation now.
taiwan is also changing.
the first place in asia to legalise gay marriage, it is, she says, growing ever more distinct from china.
we are an independent country already, and we call ourselves republic of china, taiwan.
and we do have government, we have the military and we have elections.
few statements are likely to infuriate china more.
with pressure bound to increase, taiwan’ military is being beefed up.
you cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
i do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
invading taiwan is something that is going to be very costly for china.
she says she plans to further strengthen taiwan’ democracy.
the very thing that divides it from its authoritarian neighbour may in the end prove its most powerful defence.
john sudworth, news, taiwan.
here’ our briefing on some of the key events happening later.
now it’ time to get all the latest from the sports centre.
hello i’ marc edwards and this is your wednesday sport briefing.
we start with the english cup where tottenham hotspur are through to the fourth round after seeing off middlesborough 2—1 in their replay in london.
the argentinian job if you will, giovani celso opened the scoring for the home side after a dreadful pass from boro keeper, tomas mejias.
the argentine international finishing well afterjust 2 minutes for his first goal at tottenham hotspur stadium.
and it was his fellow erik lamela, who doubled tottenhams lead after a quarter of an hour.
boro did pull one back with 7 minutes to go but it’ tottenham who go marching on into the next round where they will face southampton.
they worked so hard against such a dominant team, in the end, so we did lots of things well.
conceding a goal is a bit frustrating, but i am more frustrated that we didn’ score three, four, five.
the crowd deserved it, a full stadium in these cup matches, with this emotion.
the magic of the cup is still alive and well, the chance for a david and goliath encounter.
let’ paint the picture: you’re a team in the third tier of your country’ football league and you draw a cup tie against one of the world’ biggest clubs — cue pandemonium.
that’ exactly what happened to spanish third division football club unionistas salamanca — here they are going wild on tuesday after being drawn against giants real madrid in the last 16 of the copa del rey.
imagine the celebrations if they end up winning!
there’ more cup action on wednesday — this time it’ manchester united up against wolves in an all premier league clash at old trafford for their cup 3rd round replay.
with united off the pace in the english premier league and needing to overturn a 3—1 first—leg deficit to rivals manchester city in league cup — the cup is perhaps the one real prospect they have of domestic silverware this season.
: we to make sure that we go through.
i’ sure that they want to ough as well because this go through as well because this tournament is one that we all dream about winning when you are young.
i have loved my time in the finals and the trophies.
we want to go first.
-- through.
also later on wednesday — the three—time world champion mark williams is in action at the alexandra palace in london.
the welshman has won this competition twice before and he’ll be hoping to add to his trophy cabinet when he takes on the 2015 world champion stuart bingham in theirfirst round matchup.
the invitational event features the world’ top 16 players.
and finally — she packed my bags last night pre flight.
the first line of course to eltonjohn’ smash hit rocketman.
and perhaps the song listened to by two intrepid daredevils known as the jet men who performed some mind—blowing stunts in china.
jumping out of a helicopter before flying with carbon fibre wings through heaven’ gate as part of ‘mission: human flight’ — a programme that aims to achieve 100 percent autonomous human ﬂight.
watched by some rather confused fishermen they flew through the break in the rocks on tianmen mountain.
according to the organisers they reached speeds of 400 kilometres per hour and did admit it was a bit scary.
you won’ find me and what of those.
you can get all the latest sports news at our website — that’ bbc.
com/sport.
but from me and the rest of the sport team, goodbye.
our thanks to mark and the team.
the taal volcano continues to spew ash and plumes of steam reaching almost a kilometre into the sky.
volcanologists say the alert level remains at four which means a dangerous eruption could happen within hours or days.
more than 50,000 people have evacuated the area — but despite the warnings some have returned to their homes, to check on the livestock they left behind.
howard johnson sent this report from the phillipines.
they’ve declared a state of calamity ere
and it is clear to see why.
but pite the continued threat of a azardous eruption, some people are urning to eir family homes.
hey own a small plot of land in the inity of the volcano and grow vicinity of the volmno and grow vegetablas and bread chickens for a .
ng.
there lives were turned upside down on sunday when taal erupting.
: around , there as panic.
we saw a few smoke oud coming from the volcano could something awful.
ash egan following with small stones soil.
we were evacuated them cause some people said there would oon army in the lake next to be a soon army in the lake next to the house.
we became scared.
he says nted return home to his house today to check on his estock and he found that many of his birds were in a sorry state.
he was showing me a fighting cox here, popular sport in the it is a popular sport in the philippines.
the bird here is red in dust and ash.
he said a of the birds were affected when eft his farmer to seek safety in elter in an evacuation centre.
ther other chickens are in a bad state.
i saw wanted the back with what looks broken wing.
the philippine epartment of agriculture says the ash has caused more than $10 llion worth of damage to livestock crops.
he is showing us his vegetable patch where he grows sh.
he says the condition of hese plants now are so bad that he ’ vest them and he can’ take them to arket for sale.
today, ismologists that although the seismologists say that although the eruptions in the main way to have weak in the last 2a hours, residents evacuated from the 1a kilometre danger zone it should not led into a false sense of be lulled into a false sense of security and return to their homes.
johnson, news.
and would you ‘bung 3 bob for the big ben bongs’?
in the words of the prime minister.
the british government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign could be launched to pay for big ben to chime to mark brexit day.
the hell is currently being restored and the official estimate is it would cost half a million pounds for temporary work to be done to allow it to ring, for people who want to celebrate brexit, on january the 31st.
apparently, we’ve been having a look and there is a crowdfunding site on and apparently so far they raised £205 so a little way off the clock is ticking so we will see how progresses.
and, tell me what you think about our talking point today.
they are about the news that mcdonald’ is actually now going to utland which was the only be in ruﬂand which was the only county in the without a onald’.
local planning has given go-ahead or a drive—through tops on there happy and others re not.
and were protesting about we ask you, how do global chains your area act your community, oral businesses, many of you have in touch.
we heard from sky, if at is yours with to handle, he 75 there are several big chains they bring in what people want eed and jobs.
people say, local sinesses are better but they all their place in the community.
not give small business owners the chance to open a taurant instead of a mcdonald’.
ran offer healthier eating.
here they can offer healthier eating.
there are more objections to the nald’ opening but yet the ouncil still approves it.
rruption on so many levels.
that not the gation against is not the allegation against rutland by the way i might add.
ter ays, they are good for the ommunity because they create jobs eople but i think it is about time at global inesses are made pay taxes in the country where are doing business.
thank you comments.
be back with for your comments.
i’ll be back with business briefing.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
it will remain windy across the north of scotland with strong winds and high clouds across the area of low pressure.
you can see low pressure to the north of the which will bring her frequent showers to scotland northern parts of northern and.
some of these went on the lls.
sunshine further south.
the night weather front which will slow to clear from the south—east it of a start here.
so a bit of a wet start here.
eventually, it will do and we will lanty of unshine for england and see plenty of sunshine for england and wales.
one or two showers in the fairty breezy and strong winds west, fairly breezy and strong winds for scotland.
lots of showers here ese will hit the high grounds.
temperatures, a few degrees up on nes we had on tuesday.
and eling a little cool further south.
ess you have the sunshine to mpensate.
that window a fine ther is short lived.
the next a of low pressure moves in for ursday to bring another wet and day.
we will see lots of sobars on the charts those isobars together further west so those tern areas will see the strongest he winds.
heavy rain as well eping northwards, crossing across the and a bit of rain getting into the east later in the ike i mentioned.
a very day like i mentioned.
a very blustery date for gusts of maybe 50, into the irish seacoast into 60 into the irish seamst into the he afternoon.
rain will continue to as well.
with the wet and windy weather comes the milder air gain.
england and wales ten to 12 grees but still on the cool de.
scotland and northern ireland.
wet and windy weather sweeps northwards during thursday night.
we will start to see more of a westerly th—westerly chicken for or north-westerty chicken for friday.
just a few weather fronts ing howers or longer spells of ain.
friday is a transitional phase the wet and windy weather to something more settled which will for the weekend.
while not to see a bit ore sunshine for otland, northern ireland, while owers.
most of the showers cross england and wales and a bit unshine in between.
the temperature is five to nine degrees be turning cooler.
they and will be turning coolar.
they have it, blue colours invade later riday and the weekend.
but, with high pressure building, it be fine and settled for should be fine and settled for saturday and sunday stop lighter for many of us.
more on the winds for many of us.
more on the way of sunshine
but it will be ceably colder with a return to vernight frosts.
in taiwan’ capital, taipei.
this is the business briefing.
i’ sally bundock.
the first phase: and chinese officials are set to sign the initial part of a significant trade deal.
we’ll find out what impact it’ll have around the globe.
amazon’sjeff bezos arrives in india for a 3—day visit.
but is he being greeted with open arms?
and asian financial markets are seeing their first declines for five days with concerns —china trade tensions will go beyond today’ signing of an initial deal in washington.
let’ discuss in more detail now that significant step that is being in washington.
president trump and the chinese vice premier will sit down and sign a trade deal that could signal the beginning of the end of their bruising battle over the price of everything from soybeans to iphones.
since the start of the trade war, the two sides have raised import taxes on $470 billion worth of each other’ goods, more than half of what they buy and sell from each other every year.
while and chinese consumers have borne the brunt of this, the two countries account for more than 40% of the world’ economy and there’ no doubt the trade war has hurt global growth.
the so—called ‘phase one deal’ is expected to include a commitment by china to spend an extra $200 billion on american made goods, while the will rollback some tariffs.
however, under the deal tariffs, worth billions of dollars, will remain in place.
here’ treasury secretary steven mnuchin.
these tariffs will stay in place until there is a phase two.
if the ident gets a phase too quickly, will consider releasing tariffs of phase two.
if not, there not be any tariff relief.
let’ get more on this story from anahita thorns, head of international trade practice at baker mckenzie, who joins me from brussels.
welcome to business briefing.
how optimistic are you about this phase being done?
it certainly means deescalation, it is a truce, it is a comprehensive deal.
but certainly a step in the right ction because it means that of the biggest players will sit down rike a deal, even if it is and strike a deal, even if it is just phase one.
when you look at the we know about in terms of the compromises made to get to this , it looks like china getting a lot more than the .
—— ng.
certainly, countries giving.
certainly, both countries are not entirely happy with this.
and china, china ted certainly to have no tariffs at all, sides think this is a so both sides think this is a compromise and certainly, phase maybe phase three and four will follow.
and talk us through have to follow.
and talk us through the winners and losers.
for example, ment we will hear from in a moment we will hear from american business owners who really lost out.
but some countries ietnam and others have benefited, haven’ they?
trade wars produce losers.
certainly, the has lost because of higher costs for nsumers.
china has lost cause of lost trade.
some have nefited, certainly you mentioned nam is one country that has nefited, but these are short—term efits we have to see mid term hat happens.
certainly, long—term, all ose because of have we will all lose because of have indicated, global growth is icated when two of the biggest ountries have a trade war going for almost two years.
do you this trade war was necessary?
hink that we have a fairer playing between the and china now?
now, phase one doesn’ strike a in a comprehensive way.
goal was in the beginning, you are ing about forced technology ransfer, but most importantly, arding market access and subsidies.
so when you speak about a ehensive deal, we are not there yet.
already, before president , , people have tried to reach a ompromise, but are efinitely not there yet.
all right.
a long way thank you very much indeed.
now, today is the beginning of the end of president trump’ trade war, some say.
samira hussain spoke to some companies that have been affected.
relief cannot come soon enough at the sawmill.
when china slapped wood, retaliation against american tariffs on chinese , business he had dropped a0%.
goods, business he had dropped 4096.
this plant lone let go of 15 people it now runs one shift per stop it now only one shift per day.
66 6 employees here.
this is their lives, this is our lives.
we come to work every day to make a product to put out there, if we can’ sell our product, we be able to make our product.
orth—west hardwoods, which rates the mill, has to close the mill, has had to dose operations in several states.
the if the trade war does not soon, it could be the end of the ican timber industry.
jobs hat are being verely impacted are ose rural communities that have been around these sawmills a decade that will continue to the brunt of the impact of a lack of the of the impact of a lack of trade with china.
it wasn’ meant to this.
donald trump’ be like this.
donald trump’ pitch to the working men and women of like if he states like if he imposed tariffs on imports from a, their would be china, theirjobs would be protected.
they and their employers thrive.
ijust announced would thrive.
ijust announced it will increase tariffs in china, and ’ back down until china stops cheating our workers and aling their bs, and that is what going to happen.
otherwise we don’ do business with them, we on’ have to do business.
we can the oduct right here if we ave to, like we used to.
despite years of tit—for—tat tariffs, economy keeps growing, the employment rate is at record lows nancial markets have been in financial markets have been eating all time highs.
other trade damaged many industries, articularty in anufacturing and riculture here so many of trump’ porters work.
finally, presidents to at least a truce, which should be good news for panies like hardwood.
but executives and across america may be left wondering if the end of the trade as with fighting it in the first place -- thwest hardwood.
now, let’ brief you on some other business stories.
the american planemaker boeing has revealed that 2019 was its worst year for orders in decades.
and plane deliveries in 2019 hit their lowest level in 11 years.
the drop in fortunes is of course attributed to the 737 , which has been grounded after two fatal crashes.
citigroup beat analysts’ estimates for fourth—quarter profits, boosted by growth in its credit card business and a jump in trading revenue.
the third—largest bank by assets has been leveraging its robust card business to help grow deposits by pitching, checking and savings accounts to card holders.
for deliveries of some of its prime orders sold through third parties.
it banned the freight service during the holiday period amid concerns over its performance.
the national security agency, the , has discovered a vulnerability in microsoft’ windows operating system that provides a backdoor for hackers.
both the and microsoft say they had no evidence that the flaw had previously been abused.
this is the first time the has publicly taken credit for finding a security flaw, prompting a software update.
let’ now tell you more.
amazon founderjeff bezos arrived in india as thousands of small traders across 300 cities planned protests, claiming the firm is distorting the local retail market.
arunoday mukharji has more from delhi.
jeff bezos landed here in india on tuesday and one of the first steps ops he ade was a memorial to ay his respects.
azon have been airty tightlipped about the ogramme of eff bezos, we know he ill be ttending this event today ell as tomorrow.
he is expected be speaking here.
his visit comes ifficult time for amazon when the competition commission of a has launched an investigation into steep counts as well as the steep discounts as well as exclusive offers on mobile phones at has had to offer.
there amazon has had to offer.
there have been complaints by local retailers hat local businesses.
even that affect oral businesses.
even as we speak, a big trading ociation has called for protests association has rallad for protests across the country.
they will be ecting between 1130 and 1230 against discounts affecting their sinesses.
writer is expected own businesses.
writer is expected to meet the prime minister to uss various issues of his trip.
that’ it for the business briefing this hour.
now, let’ bring you more detail on the story that is our talking point .
england’ smallest county, rutland, boasts two historic towns, a large lake and a population of 38,000 people.
but there’ one thing it doesn’ have, and that’ a branch of mcdonald’.
it’ the only county in england not to have a branch of the fast—food chain.
but that could soon change.
councillors will be meeting shortly to consider allowing a drive—thru outlet asjohn maguire reports.
this is rutland, england’ smallest ounty and the only one where cken nuggets are not on the menu.
artie blogged ith pride about the ounty of her irth and is ery protective of its status.
our is the last one in england without and i think that is one, and i think that is really special and it is just a great point our really quirky county, our streets are scattered with nderful independence that offer thing unique
and there really is local businesses you can go so me oral businesses you ran go into and get a real special service ecial experience, i think we at a special experience, i think we don’ need a mcdonald’
and i think he fact that mcdonald’ is verywhere in the world, i think it eally unique the fact that we ’ have one here and i would kind like to keep that for our special ttle county.
but rutland is a aim fame that is under threat.
onight, counsellors are ommended to grant planning permission for a drive—through at this 24-hour drive-through at this site just outside oakham.
mcdonald’ is sing more than 60 jobs, promising more than 60 jobs, much—needed here.
if counsellors he go—ahead tonight, the last give the go-ahead tonight, the last bastion of resistance in england fall and oakham will host one will fall and 0.
1ka will host one of the mcflurry which mcdonald plans .
-- cdonald’ plans to open.
-- mcdonald’ plans to open.
they did approve the move to have a mcdonald’ in rutland last night.
this is the briefing from news.
the latest headlines: the remaining contenders to take on donald trump have clashed in the final debate before the selection process begins.
iran has condemned britain, france and germany for triggering a dispute over tehran’ violations of the nuclear deal.
schoolchildren had to be treated after a plane dumped fuel over los angeles before making an emergency landing.
now, it’ time to look at the stories that are making the headlines in the media across the world.
we begin with japan times and its headline "china not a currency cheat.
" a declaration, it says, necessary for the two countries to clear a path to sign a trade deal and overcome their battles over tariffs.
singapore’ strait times says lifting the stigma of being labiled a currency manipulator was key to ending the stand—off between beijing and washington.
on our news feed, we’re reporting on president trump’ latest attack on apple.
it comes as the company refuses to unlock the phone of a shooter who carried out an attack on a base.
the financial times looks into the rescue package offered by the government to save flybe after a £100 million investment plan failed.
and as we have just said, a rutland rive-through has been a proof donald’.
it is the one county in gland that is yet to have the den arches.
and finally, the daily expressjoins the prime minister’ plea for crowd funders to finance the cost of ensuring big ben bongs for brexit.
with me isjeremy thomson cook founder of complete currency consulting.
and you are the perfect gas for this morning because it is all about the for many new paper is today.
japan mes has it on its ont page.
the raits times as well.
what do you make of their rage ecause they’re sort of coverage because therre sort of talking a lot about the fact that is all about politics.
it has thing to do technicalities and yet, this is a semi—annual to ongress which is supposed report to congress which is supposed to be a technical report of our encies.
it is as you say, every months we see the way in on what they ieve certain countries re doing with our currencies and the first five reports of the rump administration, they didn’ ina as a currency label china as a currency manipulator.
and yet he said he do it on day one in office.
would do it on day one in office.
that was one of his pre—election ises.
that right.
he said it promises.
that is right.
he said it was the first thing he would do but ok him over two years to do so only really happen in august year after we saw a big move in the value of the chinese an.
the chinese yuan 1 currency at is actively naged by the that is actively managed by the government.
it doesn’ freely float the und of the japanese yen like the pound of the japanese yen or the euro for example.
they were that china now has got to a oint where it is continuing to ken its currency on the basis that that will help its exports.
in the grand scheme of things now, the hat the is now saying that china is no longer a currency pulator.
maybe because they’ve just agreed to he has asked just agreed to what the has asked them to on agricultural purchases or ases of aeroplanes in the future as a result of this phase i trade deal, it begs the question, how, just how sacrosanct are ese technical of whether they be seen as legitimate going forward whether it is just a tool of ump administration to get to their end goals.
what do you think?
sed to be, sed to be a lots it used to be, it used to be a lots more of a market mover, these ency decisions but since the rump administration and as you , since he campaigning, he said it was the first thing he would do he gets into the oval office he would labour china a cheat.
was it to say that ina was fair to say that china was ventilating its currency?
not at point.
it is widely agreed that een two thousand and three.
and 14 that china was debating its rrency -- 003.
the moves last ear were more a sult of market orces.
nine other countries are on radar according to the report on the list is germany.
ngapore is on there, ireland, aly, japan, uth korea, malaysia, switzerland and vietnam.
we are king at japanese press and looking at the japanese press and the singapore press today.
to say the has large trading elations of a lot of those untries.
it is interesting that 3 zone countries are in the euros zone countries are in the because obviously that don’ have endent means.
were not there.
exactly but brexit has weakened the dramatically.
it has currency dramatically.
it has indeed.
good for some above others.
look at online, a story hat was posted just an hour ago ing about trumpet launching a fresh tack on apple over privacy.
is is a difficult ethical debate ’ it about when is a government allowed to access formation about an individual and apple is in the middle.
is interesting because we just talked currency and what the about currency and what the government wants for doing thing.
this is very, it is almost like the quick pro quo of the administration writ large once gain.
donald rump has tweeted that bviously, how well he is obviously, given how well he is doing for apple and how well he’ for businesses, doing for businesses, specifically on trade that therefore uld be able to and the government should be able to look the phones of killers, drug into the phones of killers, dealers and other violent criminal and obviously this goes back to 2015 with the san bernardino rist attack and the fact that he government had to outsource the ing of said phone to be able to ook into the private details of .
it is a difficult want to that.
it is a difficult want to answer isn’ it because on the nded, you want governments to eep us safe if that means they eed information and they need elligence but on the other hand, ere is the line?
where does the creep ctually end.
we are aying this, obviously talking about and china, so filters into the argument about huawei as well he ability of the chinese and the ability of the chinese telecommunications industry to viously details about what is obviously pass details about what is going on with their cellular orks to the national networks to the national government there.
financial times looking at to keep flybe in the air the deal to keep flybe in the air and obviously wonder that provides ngers all over the
and it is a lifeline for some.
people want to northern ireland quickly for ple from the south of england.
this is their only means of doing .
what do you make of help for flybe, regional ansport which in countries is heavily subsidised ause it is hard to make a profit.
is heavily subsidised.
and flybe of the few internal operators in the aviation market that does certain areas which aren’ particularty ell served by the rail work for example.
if you want to from cornwall to newcastle for ample which is a common this of united states, not a particularly large distance
but here it is obvious we are big ove.
it takes six or seven hours on ain and it is a very infrequent rvice.
i was talking to a just tier this week who said that to to london, problem but to get rom harrogate to across the thern england via public transport takes forever.
it is so nsive and there are real issues when it comes to getting around the was a manifesto pledge on the art of the conservative government.
absolutely.
is this the job of government to bailout flybe?
i think it is the job of government to that local transport links ensure that oral transport links are upheld and while flybe other pla who re doing that, that ould people who are doing that, that should be done but there should be a alternative and obviously rom a green point of view, bsidising airlines, cutting air assenger , that actually passenger duty, that actually happens as well.
because that is as a green tax on passengers maybe there is another way of porting regional trouble without.
labour was for example here may be a way to do it frequent flyers but in the grand cheme things, as long as the ail network is holding up that end he bargain, the social contract getting people from place a to ace be, they flybe will do that.
’ move onto the rutland acdonnell scandal.
i knew it well.
over exaggerating a bit.
maybe over exaggerating a bit.
donald has got rutland for breakfast.
i grew up new here
and i know it really well.
it is a utiful country and oakham is a beautiful country and 0.
1ka is a lovely town so they will be a —through.
the one day county that has ver had the golden arches til now in england.
they have held for so long and now counsellors given.
the given end.
there are ways of looking at it, obviously ere is the local element as you said.
it is tiful, unspoiled, there are loads of local businesses the side of things is that but the other side of things is that how many jobs is going to create.
65 .
but a huge number.
30 it says.
but a huge number.
30 full-time and 35 part—time.
the one about retail obviously mcdonald’ is a retail business, is restaurant, is that the a retail restaurant, is that the employees, 16 years old but also 60 —year—olds.
certainly utside cities, and large towns, ’re starting to see unemployment ounger people and for younger people and older people a lot higher.
it is tricky though you see your local town as you when you see your oral town as you go around the community, you can’ oral ocal independent coffee see your oral independent coffee shop for the starbucks, mcdonald’, hatever it may be.
because obviously local independents find a hard compete.
it is true.
really hard to compete.
it is tme.
more expensive.
i live in the part uth—east london that has seen quite a few dependent businesses out of business recently as a sult of rent increases for example nue business rates in things like .
only the larger high—street chains an pay those rates that dlords are asking huge erican dollars in the case of donald’.
and this is obviously what we want.
we want a strong vibrant economy.
are you going to stump up some cash though big ben can strike midnight brexit happens.
but things to spend my money on.
what is it an nious idea the prime ingenious idea from the prime minister to say on exclusively, , if you want this to happen than crowd funded.
that is what is about.
i like the idea that isn’ coming out of taxpayers and if people actually wanted and are to pay for it than ne.
it is a bell ringing.
i can’ ally get that.
dead really get that is at a dead ringer?
it will ring at 11pm on the .
it is idnight, midnight in brussels.
50 there some were saying hat if it rings at akes 50 that if it rings at 11pm, takes 50 seconds.
that is £10,000 a second it will cost to ring those that it will cost to ring those bells which is twice as much as a to find the per second.
ere you go.
you have same i don’ ink.
thank you very much my remy for being the efing.
and thank also for your comments as well.
of you have been in touch with he guards to the story of onald’ and rutland.
quite a mcdonald’ and ruﬂand.
quite a view, a lot of you are for but some say it’ not a good idea over you don’ like the presence of nald’, starbucks, cetera on high—street.
keep the comments ing.
a really day
and i will see you soon.
hello there.
tuesday was another very windy day across the board, particularly england and wales, which saw another area of low pressure move up from the south.
early on wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds, heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east corner of the country.
elsewhere, clearer skies to start wednesday, but it will be another blustery one, very windy for scotland, with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers, particularly across scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
and you can see the isobars closer together here, so it will be another windy day for scotland.
less so for england and wales, but we’ll have this weather front, which will continue to bring some rain through the morning across east anglia and the south—east.
so a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away into the afternoon.
it should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit of sunshine around across the country.
but western areas see a few showers, most of these, though, across the north—west of scotland, where some will be heavy, with snow on the hills.
temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9 in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south than what we had on tuesday.
so it is a brief window of fine weather.
the next area of low pressure comes hurtling in for thursday.
you can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again, where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds will tend to build in.
could see a few showers across eastern areas, but generally speaking, it’ going to be another windy day across the board, and i can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps around some irish sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 in some of the worst affected areas, and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
the milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for england and wales, single—figure digits in the north.
that area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
we see a tangle of weather fronts move in for friday, but friday is a transitional day to something cooler, and something that’ gradually going to become more settled as we head on to the weekend.
so we’ll start to see some sunshine for scotland and northern ireland, turning colder here.
england and wales, thanks to those weather fronts, sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
but notice the temperatures.
the single—figure values will even be across the south and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
that cooler air invades across the whole country, then, late on friday and into the weekend.
but, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions will settle down.
so the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frost.
i’ the midwife in charge.
you’re unwell and we can help.
: turn!
turn!
turn!
by the the lift has got stuck.
could you please get help?
it’ the incubator fund for the maternity home.
you should be doing a fashion show.
ow!
blair, your baby is coming.
eight minutes ago, a sunbeam struck out into the vast vacuum of space.
it did not bounce off course, as so many others do.
it was not absorbed.
when it reached our atmosphere, it continued, unfazed.
this particular sunbeam came to you.
and you were ready for it.
to know what’ coming, check the weather app.
it’ the first time, i’ say, in my life that i’ve worn the same thing that everybody else is wearing but still felt horrendously embarrassed.
it was at that point that the session very much got away from me.
but they were nice.
they were very friendly.
: but, no, i genuinely didn’ want to come on.
mate, the offer’ there.
oh, god, i’ funny.
that peter crouch podcast — it’ back, stronger and funnier than ever.
to meet the men and women behind europe’ populist revolution.
are any of the politicians listening to you?
quatsch!
first the middle, the right, to the far right.
we’re defending europe.
totally normal.
we’re from the saint marie police.
the victim is donna harman.
she’ an artist.
there was something wrong about those two.
they brought out something in each other.
something really dark.
sir, we’ve got another body.
i wasn’ expecting to meet anyone.
i really would like to get to know you some more.
brand—new.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast with dan walker and mega munchetty.
our headlines today: the duchess of sussex is seen in public for the first time since she and prince harry decided to step back from royal duties.
flybe is saved for now, but environmentalists are criticising the government’ pledge to review air passenger duty.
will it bong for brexit?
the campaign to get big ben ringing again is ramped up.
the cost of borrowing goes up again.
santander becomes the latest bank to announce it’ raising overdrafts charges and cutting interest on savings.
i’ll look at banks are changing what they charge.
cup magic for shrewsbury — a late winner gives them victory over bristol city and a fourth round meeting with liverpool.
good morning.
we got some heavy rain and blustery winds to move away from uth—east, then most of us will have a and ight day, except far north, where we continue gales and also some showers.
’ll have re in 15 minutes.
it’ wednesday the 15th of january.
our top story: the duchess of sussex has made her first public appearance since she and prince harry announced their intention to step down as senior members of the royal family.
the downtown eastside centre, 3 women’ refuge in vancouver, posted a picture of meghan with staff and visitors on facebook.
sophie long reports from vancouver island.
the duchess of sussex pictured smiling at a women’ centre, the time she’ been seen in public since the so—called sandringham it.
it’ not hard to see the uke and duchess of sussex might to spend more time here, and if hey did, it seems they’ be more an than welcome.
very exciting!
well, i think, you know, maybe it’ a nice for hem to ome to canada and share it with nice canadians.
i think it’ a nice move, beautiful .
i know they visited before really liked it.
happy to have obviously.
but some question they would be afforded the rivity they seek.
should leave them stations are talking about it.
it can’ stop and it’ really ortunate, they won’
let people live eir lives the way they want live it.
everyday for 112 years the empress , named after queen victoria, has served high tea.
on special sions they do so in china given them by the queen.
people here they would welcome the couple if canadians have to cover the of their security.
canadians are truly a very lovely le.
i think there obviously will be a ction of backlash, there’ no estion about that, but as a whole would elcome them into our ional community.
national community.
it’ thought prince harry may come be reunited with his wife in the coming days, but that remains a matter for an increasingly private couple.
sophie long, news, vancouver island.
we’ll speak to sophie, who is in vancouver island, just after 6:1sam.
environmental groups have expressed their anger at plans to review air passenger duty as part of a rescue deal to save the struggling domestic airline flybe.
green campaigners say cutting the tax would hamper efforts to tackle carbon emissions.
the government’ proposal was driven by its election pledge to improve connectivity outside of london.
jon donnison reports.
flybe will again.
good news for passengers and huge relief for company’ more than 2000 workers.
absolutely ecstatic, yeah, happy or myself and my really happy for myself and my partner works for flybe
so yeah, good for everybody.
the exeter based airline survives coz eholders, which include its shareholders, which include virgin atlantic, have agreed to put muggy, but only in return for the government agreeing to ider cutting taxes on domestic irtines.
earing that things like passenger duty will be reviewed ery interesting for them, of ourse it will be reviewed for ryone, and ensuring the way that egional connectivity works, that we can level up communities, sure union is strengthened.
make sure our union is strengthened.
cutting air passenger duty, which bout £13 to the price of every adds about £13 to the price of every domestic flight, would make it aper for ople to fly.
the air cheaper for peopla to ﬂy.
the air industry says such a move would ide a boost but provide a boost but environmentalists are not happy.
ion is the highest carbon form of transport, and cutting air enger duty is just going to make viation