tam this is news.
the headlines the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open
and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and horse—racing.
the overall view from vail is that you must do this cautiously which is sely what we are doing —— the verall iew from is that you do this cautiously.
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree that it’ safe enough.
how is it safe enough?
the pressure is being put back onto us and the dren.
i woke up this morning and felt anxious, now he science, but it is still scary.
confusions ome.
urfews gnored as for some.
curfews ignored as american protests continue after the of george floyd.
they are off, of, the world of sport prepares return, but in front of empty nds.
good afternoon.
the chancellor rishi sunak says people will soon get ives back to normal in the .
the biggest easing of lockdown measures since the restrictions were introduced in march is underway.
ministers insist they’re following the science and taking the steps in a ‘very cautious’ way.
all four nations of the now have guidelines in place allowing more than two people to meet outside.
vulnerable people in england and wales — who have been advised to stay home since march — have been told they can go outdoors again.
but shielding advice in northern ireland and scotland hasn’ changed.
the first phase in the reopening of schools has begun in england, with children in nurseries and years one and six returning this morning.
and, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect shoppers and workers, open air markets and car showrooms in england are also able to trade again.
but the measures come as another group of public health officials warn the pace of change in england could lead to a rise in a moment, we’ll be looking in more depth at the messages to parents — and to the most vulnerable — but with our first report this lunchtime, here’ duncan kennedy.
some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
it may not be a manic monday of openings but the lid on lockdown is starting to creek open.
at the sandbanks beach in dorset, a new week and a new month brought more glorious sunshine.
from today, six people can now gather outside in england if they keep two metres apart.
so, what do people here think of that?
i think we just need to be cautious about it.
even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
everyone seems to respect other people’ space.
you see now there is a good amount of space between everybody on the beach.
you feel ?
i feel fine.
but local officials say with the numbers they have seen outside in recent days, the message about the rules still is not clear.
i think people are completely confused now by the rules.
they’re so inconsistent.
they do not make any sense to people.
you ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’ know
and frankly they don’ care any more.
what now are the rules for gathering?
in england from today, groups of up to six can meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
in wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households, are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more than five miles from home to meet.
in scotland, up to eight people, from a maximum of two households are able to meet outside.
whilst in northern ireland, groups of up to six can now also gather outside.
but everywhere, social—distancing rules apply.
all these changes in england, wales, northern ireland and scotland are dividing opinion.
it’ making some people nervous, but others say they welcome the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
the one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation, and it’ the one we have heard throughout this crisis, is that science must lead the way.
and the following of that science was again the government message today.
we must do this cautiously which is precisely what we are doing.
we have also said if people comply with the rules and the test and trace system is up and running, which it has been since thursday, then there is a good likelihood we will not breach the value factor above one.
but some health professionals remain nervous about the speed of society’ reengagement.
i think it’ just a bit difficult to understand the message when you’re urging caution, at the same time as saying that there are all these additional liberties to be taken.
don’ get me wrong.
the vast majority of the public will follow those guidelines extremely well but there is a danger there is a confusing message.
that whole national blended mood of the cautious and carefree was also shared by some people we spoke to in exeter today.
i’ delighted we can do it
but it is tinged with nervousness.
just a little bit concerned that it might be too early
and we might have a second wave.
loosening lockdown measures are a challenge for everyone.
in our changing world of inside outside living.
duncan kennedy, news, in dorset.
parents across england faced a dilemma this morning — is it safe for children to go back to school?
after six weeks — closed because of the coronavirus — primary schools re—opened this morning — but parents don’ have to send their children back, and many teachers unions are warning it’ too soon for them to do so.
dan johnson reports.
after so many weeks, school’ back for summer.
morning.
welcome back.
at thisjunior school, it isjust year 6, the 10 and 11—year—olds returning.
there isn’ a head that doesn’ want as many pupils back as soon as they can but as safely as we possibly can and that is what we have been working to do over the last few weeks, to make sure our school is safe but welcoming to pupils.
harry was keen to get back and see some of his friends and stuff, he knows it’ going to be different but given the space they have got and it is only year 6, hopefully, it should be .
i have to say i woke up
and i did feel quite anxious this morning.
i know the logic, i know the science, but even so, it’ quite scary.
and that’ these are some of the few socially distanced actually reaching their new lower capacity today.
it’ be good to see my friends, albeit it’ only half the class
but it’ good to catch up with my mates.
i have wanted to come back for ages.
it’ been a bit hard at home.
my mum told me it would be a bit different than it used to be so i was a bit nervous what would’ve happened.
but there is huge variation across england.
in walsall, two thirds of the schools are not accepting more children yet.
i am very worried about the children being at home but, weighing it up, i think their health is really important and the health of their families and the wider community, as well.
i want to get them back as soon as possible, but i will keep reviewing it and as soon as we are convinced that everybody is saying the same thing, instead of having conflicting messages, we will reopen.
and there are estimates that up to half of parents will have decided to delay returning their kids to the classroom.
the risk of transmissibility, if he catches it, can he bring it back, pass it on to other people?
it’ not clear.
for us, we wanted more evidence, how is it safe to send back?
the pressure is being put all on us as parents and teachers and on the children.
here, the children are being kept in smaller classroom pods or bubbles so they’re not mixing.
but it’ the busier times like lunch that are the real pinch points.
now, it’ manageable with limited numbers of children.
but what about getting back to a full school?
that will be much harder.
government guidance, as you know, has changed quite often.
they are starting to understand it’ the heads who need to make those decisions and every head’ school community, circumstances are different and therefore there will need to be flexibility.
more of england’ schools will get to this in the next week or two.
wales, scotland and northern ireland are expected to follow in the months ahead.
dan danjohnson, news, hertfordshire.
in england and wales, people who have been shielding — those who are clinically very vulnerable to coronavirus — can now exercise and meet people from another household outdoors.
but some medical professionals are concerned that the changes come too soon.
they want to see the scientific evidence to show that it is safe.
hywell griffith reports.
after 11 weeks of shielding for derek this is a day to savour.
means his lungs are vulnerable.
he knows covid—19 could kill him, but being confined to his home in treorchy for so long has been hard.
he says this is the end of his house arrest.
it’ relief.
you have got to be sensible.
you won’ see me on any beaches or with any crowds.
you have to use your sense.
if you’re not sensible you’re asking for trouble.
you’ve got to keep your distance.
from today, shielded patients in england and wales can go outdoors and meet other people.
the world they’re going back into has changed considerably but they are being assured it is safe.
now that we have passed the peak and the prevalence of covid—19 in the community has reduced significantly, we believe that the risk to those shielding is lower.
for around 2.
3 million patients in england and wales this is a huge step.
but it’ one some are reluctant to take.
the change in guidance came unexpectedly, with no clear reduction in the number, or the rate at which the virus is reproducing.
health charities say they’re being inundated with questions which they’re finding difficult to answer.
does this mean it’ the end of shielding?
does this mean that my employer is going to now ask me to go back to work?
"i am not ready for that, i’ not confident with that.
" also people are saying, is it safe?
the beaches are crowded, the parks are crowded, the beauty spots, too.
and in this new world that’ developing is it now safe for me to go forward?
the guidance on shielding in scotland and northern ireland hasn’ changed.
across the there are calls for more tailored patient—specific advice for what lies ahead for those most at risk.
let’ talk to our political correspondent helen catt.
the government pushing ahead with this and a lot people saying, where he idence that this is the is the evidence that this is the safe route forward?
there have been ions raised about that and if there is one thing we have heard and over again in recent days, cautious, a phased and cautious approach, and there is a gnition this is a sensitive and licate point.
scientific experts said they would be no entirely isk-free way easing lockdown strictions —— their word.
the vernment is nfident it is government is confident it is meeting those five tests, some of were scientific and some of hose were logistical, like having a on testing and , and a spokesman for downing street said vernment is confident that with the test and trace programme aunched and if people comply now hunched and if peopla comply with the social distancing elines and the new rules, they don’ ink it will push the rate of ansmission of the virus above one is one of the things they which is one of the things they really want to avoid.
the government weigh up looking at the has to weigh up looking at the evidence on the science, rounded smission of coronavirus with ther factors like the impact on and well—being of people who are in lockdown and because he damage to the economy.
50 we are eeing the opening of outdoor kets and car showrooms.
the ancellor has defended the ernment taking these steps.
it is bsolutely safe and we have a clear we have been sticking to oughout the process in terms of aling with coronavirus and we are the stage of the plan where an get our ves a bit back to ormal, but it isn’ an overnight band thing.
it is measured and gressive
and we do this in a safe responsible way —— big bang.
is we start with that is we have start with outdoor markets and car showrooms in a couple eeks we can get and in a couple of weeks we ran get shops open and then hopefully a time after that we can have restaurants and pubs open again.
ran get their lives back to normal.
the genie is out of the le, is that the sense?
we saw beaches packed at the weekend.
if the government had to re—introduce res, they have the control measures, but they have the control to do so?
the government has said it not hesitate to do so, at the strategy seems to be that they would king to do that in a localised way, so in westminster it has been rred to as a strategy where ere are localised outbreaks they impose more stringent measures and they are hoping through the test ace programme where people a would solate themselves if they come into contact with somebody has tested positive for oronavirus, that that will keep any ture breaks restricted, future outbreaks restricted, although boris johnson has said will be some more localised outbreaks.
this isn’ going to go .
the government messaging seems to be relying heavily on saying to you really do need to comply with those guidelines but as you ined earlier, with different uidelines ifferent parts of the country there is the risk that it become confusing and people a will ave to pay attention to what are being asked to do.
the ding principle that the government is repeating is the distancing measure, you must keeping two metres away from people at all times.
helen, thanks joining us.
the headlines on news the lockdown is beginning to ease in england.
in england, hundreds of returned to school despite worries about safety.
restrictions osened on those classed as extremely vulnerable but scientists aid it is safe for them.
there’ been a sixth night of unrest across the united states.
rfews are in force in nearly a0 cities — but many are being ignored as demonstrations continue over the death of an unarmed black man in police custody.
in a moment, we’ll have a report on the violent protests in the capital, but first, james robbins looks at the situation across the .
the anger, protests, fires and looting have spread widely across the united states.
but this is where it began.
almost a week after a police officer in minneapolis killed an unarmed black man, thousands gathered outside the state capital, confronted by police and troops from the national guard.
the focus of anger is clear from the chants, placards and masks.
the death of george floyd has provoked a sense of outrage that racism is still widespread, too often ignored and unpunished.
all these voices are here because the same thing keeps happening over and over again, it is the new lynching.
i am just really hoping justice is served, that the people responsible are held accountable and i don’ have to do this again, i don’ want to be here.
: hands up, don’ shoot!
the anger is spreading across the united states.
in kansas city, these demonstrators want their police under tighter local control, with the citizens review board to help investigate misconduct.
no violence!
one officer pleaded with the crowd not to resort to violence and even made an extraordinary gesture of solidarity, which is steeped with meaning in today’ america.
take a knee.
the killing of george floyd last week has terribly undermined whatever progress may have been made in recent years.
and the fact that only one policeman, derek chauvin, has been charged with murder, and that others who stood by do not face prosecution, has fuelled the protests and violence.
night—time curfews have been imposed in nearly a0 american cities, but many people have ignored them.
thank you.
in minneapolis, 3 german correspondent reported police targeting him and threatening his team with arrest.
get inside now!
where would you like us to go?
0!
thank you, officer.
in san diego, largely peaceful protests turned violent, as police used tear gas and pepper balls in the city.
they were enforcing, they said, an unlawful assembly order.
hands up!
in new york city, violence including looting was widespread, despite appeals for this to stop from those who want to honour george floyd.
fires were started with no sign of angerfading, almost a week after his killing.
in brooklyn, a woman made her own peaceful gesture, but the wider reality is that the united states has not seen racial tensions explode on this scale since the 1960.
james robbins, news.
washington has seen some of the worst violence, with buildings not far from the white house vandalised, cars set on fire, and a historic church attacked.
president trump was briefly taken to an emergency underground bunker in the white house on friday, because of concerns about the threat from protesters outside.
aleem maqbool reports.
nojustice.
no peace.
no racism.
police.
these were protests against the killing of george floyd.
but given the location, they were also a message to one person in particular.
he needs to grow up, he needs to be a man, stop with the childish acts, the childish tweets, he needs to be a man.
as night fell, the mood got angrier.
i’ here outside the white house, for the most part a peaceful protest but fires have been it now.
and the police keep firing gas into the crowds.
and they fired other projectiles, too, in defence of the home of the president.
they were clearly on edge — but also did little to dispel the impression that police use unnecessary levels of force.
at one point, charging our own cameraman.
in the streets surrounding the white house, with no sense of any attempt at de—escalation, there was anarchy, with shops and vehicles vandalised at will.
hard to imagine these were scenes playing out in the american capital.
that’ probably the white person that owned it.
they can cover it with insurance all right, here we go.
we got every right to burn it down.
this is pain right here, this is pain, this is the only way we can get it to them.
they’re not hearing us.
when you just talk, it’ just words to them.
they don’ feel anything.
and there’ no doubt this has now become about much more than the brutal death of one unarmed black man.
aleem maqbool, news in washington.
: we are returning to the and the easing of the lockdown.
some schools eturned to david somers have returned to david somers definitely haven’.
—— have returned but some efinitely haven’.
well, we can speak now to christopher king — chief executive of the independent association of prep schools.
what percentage of schools that you know will be open this week at some ?
we have 600 members throughout the , the majority in and we expect a large england and we expect a large majority of those schools to open, in fact opened today, and if not today tomorrow.
what about ding chools?
it does apply to hem, but fewer of them it will have .
one thing that has happened duﬂng ring the lockdown period is that perience of online learning teaching children remotely has xtremely the process of beginning the day, but beyond that, it is very ficult, especially with the ounger children, to really sustain distancing all the way, so a focus on hygiene, hand washing the schools cleaning more larty than they have in the st, as , as well as having dedicated ipment for the children to use.
hools that charge fees, do they under greater pressure at the moment to get back to work?
well, i think as i have already mentioned xperience of online learning gone far better than anybody uld have imagined.
we have also in ool setting there is no i’ just wondering if there are some schools ay have already before the coronavirus pandemic may have been ling somewhat, whether they somewhat, whether they are now seriously in trouble?
well, tme that the sector is under pressure financially and the navirus would not have helped that situation.
but the independent sector generally, the prep school sector generally, the prep school particularly, is a pretty ust body chools, and they’ve robust body of schools, and therve been through difficult periods in 6 years since this association the 126 years since this association has existed and i am confident they ome through again.
substitute what are the final barriers before some sort of ality comes into force?
a lot of it is to do with confidence, i think.
within the membership i have schools that have been open throughout the lockdown period with 50, 170 hildren ttending 100, 150, 170 children attending on a daily basis, looking after dren of key workers and in those situations it has built up fidence in staff and built up onfidence in the parents but you operate -- at you can operate -- that you ran operate safely and tively, and i think safely and effectively, and i think we have got to build on that erience and as the knowledge ecomes more widespread, i’ sure ools will be able with djustments to feel that they can their more widely.
open their doors more widely.
christopher kane, thanks for joining king.
we are getting the us.
-- king.
we are getting the latest figures, 108 new deaths of who tested positive for ovid-19, at brings the total to 6,722 in erms of people who have ied in spital, but monday there a lag because of reporting issues the weekend.
we are also getting figures from northern and.
one more death linked to vid-19 northern ireland over last a hours, bringing the the last 24 hours, bringing the total number recorded to 524 during andemic in northern ireland.
we will have more analysis of the res later.
open—air markets and car showrooms are re—opening in england today — but with strict distancing measures in place.
for example — if you’re taking a carfor a test—drive — normally you’ have a sales rep in the car with you.
not any more.
from today — you’ll be alone.
ministers say the risk of infection is lower outdoors, and in more open spaces.
in a fortnight, other non—essential shops will open again — but businesses are having to overhaul how they operate, to keep customers and staff safe.
simon gompertz reports.
this is the monday with a difference they’ve been waiting for at barnsley’ open—air market.
at lest, they can get back to selling what are called non—essentials, like clothes and things for the home, as well as fruit and veg.
customers a bit cautious, but the buying began before eight ’clock.
i’ quite impressed, actually, because these days, you just don’ know, do you?
and how did it work?
was it different for you?
she was stood over there looking at duvets, asking about size and prices.
she stood over there, i got them out
and then she put the money over there and then took it from there.
social distancing is vital, keeping everyone two metres apart.
hygiene, as well, hand sanitisers using foot pumps.
the feeling here is of relief.
to have a permanent lockdown for ten weeks is a nightmare in a small business.
you can’ measure it.
one trader said to me it was like falling off a cliff.
one big issue today as things start going again is the threat of congestion, which is a lot of markets are reopening stalls gradually, in order to guard against the risk that people will start bumping into each other on narrow pavements and walkways.
and bearing in mind as well, it is only a couple of weeks until nonessential shops on the high street will also be opening up.
today also sees car dealers back in business, after sales of new vehicles fell close to zero during the lockdown.
again, a big emphasis on measures to reduce the risk of transmission, helped by the fact that, in most showrooms, there is more indoor and outdoor space.
during lockdown, the whole industry effectively shutdown.
april was very low numbers.
may was better.
but i think until we see the impact of retail opening, it’ going to be very difficult to understand what the true level of demand is.
england is moving fastest on this.
in scotland, smaller shops and outdoor markets can open in the second phase of its easing plan, no date yet.
the timing hasn’ been fixed yet in wales, either, where non—essential shops and services could open in the amber phase of the exit strategy, nor in northern ireland, where non—food outlets will reopen in step two of its plan.
here is possibly a sign of what is to come the queue outside ikea in gateshead, which let customers back in today, with a general reopening of nonessential shops in england expected from the 15th, our eerily quiet high streets expect to become much busier.
the queen has been photographed riding in the grounds of windsor castle — the first time she’ been seen outside since the coronavirus lockdown began.
the queen was pictured on one of her ponies — a —year—old, called balmoral fern.
she’ been isolating at windsor with her husband, the duke of edinburgh, and a small number of staff.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with tomasz.
the 1st of june marks the first day of summer at least that is what orologists say, although madama —— midsummer states a while ay.
look across today, late look across the today, late afternoon temperatures will range he high 205 for a few areas in the south to around about 20 in hern scotland.
very little appening on the weather front ight, a case of clear skies and first signs a weather front in the very far north-west of the and that is a sign of things to come coming days.
through the in the coming days.
through the course of tuesday we will have easing amounts of cloud through scotland and late in the day showers oping over the highlands, but elsewhere tomorrow it will be her very warm and very sunny day but big temperature contrast between far north and the far outh.
hello, this is news, with simon mccoy.
the headlines the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open
and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
: we are now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little more to normal, but look, hat isn’ an overnight, big bang ng.
it is measured, progressive, it in a self and responsible .
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree that it’ safe enough.
confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable.
curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts in cities across the — sparked by the death in police custody of george floyd.
sport now, and for a full round up, and there is some, ollie.
full —ish.
june could be a good month for sport.
two and a months since the last meeting before lockdown, horseracing has returned, a 10 race card at newcastle’ gosforth park is underway behind closed doors.
our correspondent katie gornall is there.
’i-i so much about it does feel very different.
numbers have been very limited.
this fence behind me is keeping out all but essential .
ispoke the chief staff.
i spoke to the chief executive of the earlier.
he is lowed in, it is only people not allowed in, it is only peopla who are essential to race day.
yone gets temperature tested on he way in.
all of the jockeys have masks around the site.
there a one-way stem as well to eep people ocially distanced.
they even built a separate changing for the male jockeys.
have have changed from the original one to these to me to pods inside so ryone ran ocially distance, so hey are really trying to think of rything here to make racing as afe as possible.
but you are right, peopla will be watching a lot of peopla will be watching what is going on here in newcastle, how they cope with everything, they are aware that is a lot of attention on them re, and they feel that ponsibility as well, so far from hat we have heard things seem to be ing relatively smoothly.
a bit a glitch running relatively smoothly.
a bit of a glitch with the system for to to get to protect this peopla to get to protect this morning, but they have sorted that they have racing away and hat is the main thing.
—— to get perature temperature checked this morning.
as it tries to recover from a financial £50 million hole in their hit, a £50 million hola in their finances at the moment, so it is a elief to get back under track oday.
snooker also returns today, the championship league is a round robin format for 64 players, it’ taking place in milton keynes at a venue that also has a hotel attached, so players and staff can be fully isolated and monitored over the next 11 days of competition.
everyone is tested for covid—19 when entering the venue, world number onejudd trump plays today, he’ described how unpleasant it is to have a swab taken on arrival.
another former world champion mark selby says some players could be a bit rusty.
: we have had no tournament now for a few months.
the last tournament we was in gibraltar, in march before the lockdown.
i have been unate enough to have a table at home so i have been practising a bit but it is not the same as laying other players on the tour or getting that competitive match ractice.
50 it will be good to play.
mate.
iously will be behind closed doors and i think it will be that for a long period of time, we sort of need to get used to , so it is a good way to start.
starts in the next half hour or .
the chief executive lee hoos says the club is ‘stunned’, "appalled" and "vehemently opposed" to the football league’ plan for the championship to resume onjune 20th.
he says there was no consultation with clubs before last night’ announcement by the league.
the manager mark warburton says they are going too quickly, with players yet to start contact training.
the say the date is provisional and "subject to the strict proviso "that all safety requirements and government guidance is met".
staying with football, manchester united have extended odion ighalo’ loan from chinese club shanghai shenhua tiljanuary.
the original deal expired yesterday.
the premier league is set to resume on the 17thjune.
england’ three—match rugby league test series with australia has been cancelled because of the pandemic.
new england coach shaun wane was due to take charge against the world cup holders in october and november, but the series has been called off due to what’ been cited as the "the continued complications "surrounding global travel" the british basketball league have cancelled the the current season saying it wouldn’ be financially viable to play behind closed doors.
the season was suspended in march with glasgow top of the table with five games left to play.
it’ now been voided, meaning no title will be awarded.
that’ all the sport for now.
now on news — it’ time for your questions answered.
you’ve been sending in your health related questions with me to answer them is professor allyson pollock, director of the institute of health and society at newcastle university.
also, i’mjoined by alan maryon—davis, honorary professor of public health at king’ college london.
let’ crack on with the questions, and alan, if i can start with you, one paul.
if a child in a lassroom starts coughing and ezing, does that child get sent me and told to isolate, and do all other children get sent home and to isolate too?
that particular will get sent home and told to olate for seven days, as anybody who develops symptoms, and of rse the other people in their household should isolate for 14 days, but as as the other ildren in the class are concerned, yet.
not unless that child was sent home with the a test and that test is ositive.
and then what should pen then is the tracing system, it is up and running, and it is a ile a yet efore it fully is, will ake contact with the school, and things will follow from that.
strikes me —— it is likely that group of hildren who are losest to that child and possibly teacher as well will have two elf—isolate asked about.
it does end on arious things happening self—isolate after that.
it does pend on rious things happening order.
if we have a track and system, as a child is found to itive, whatever classroom that child has been in presumably will be will have to go home?
well, the guidance from the government is as alan has described it, i recommend people read the dance for schools and four children and staff with infections.
’ve just finished a report through the independent committee, on when school should rn, and we came to the conclusion that most schools weren’ ady to return because the stems haven’ been put in place to ect the children and staff and he community.
of course a key tems that alan has pointed out the system called contact that the system rallcd contact tracing, where if a child or staff have symptoms, not only do hey isolate but they should contact and then have a test, and turn the public health department in theory be notified, and they would send out contact traces.
is system isn’ yet up
and but this system isn’ yet up and running, and it is not due to be up nning until he end of une.
and mnning until the end of june.
we have also got a second problem, is don’ really have very which is we don’ really have very good data at the local level on actly many cases there are going on in the community, and ’ because these have not been ported to or to 111.
the issue, ough, is that schools an do a to prepare themselves, there ouldn’ be a lot of movement across classes.
our report mends having very small class zes.
in denmark, they went as low to ten, so you really should very small class sizes, so they ould be operating in a bubble, and ould have aggered meals, you would have staggered meals, staggered playtimes, and you would a lot of contact across not have a lot of contact across classes and across the school.
so if create small bubbles, then actually that ans increasing the affing levels of course, but that then you are decreasing the risk to the schools.
so the school to be prepared.
in the needs to be prepared.
in the independent sage report, we do ish risk assessment framework for the schools, the community, for iduals and for staff members individuals and for staff members and parents.
0, dralan, if you take his one, can we share food at a rbecue if we stay two tres apart from other guests?
that rom hope, i think that is the ame rather than any expectation!
it is all about this ness of mixing households, at’ the problem.
so keep to your gear, but you could dip into the .
obviously no double dipping, at’ not allowed, but you can fill your plate stuff and that should be fine.
the problem is ing all the gear.
and of course hen you go to the loo, if you go to loo in when you go to the loo, if you go to the 00 in the house, which is allowed, you should make sure at you wipe the handles, the loo ndle and the door handle, and is uch as you can as you come out much else as you ran as you come out and make sure you have washed your as you come away, thoroughly, horoughly wash your hands, as you away from the loo afterwards.
at’ absolutely crucial.
and a horough swer too.
professor ollock, this one from paul on ckton—on—tees.
he asked the rate nfection has been different in ach part of the country, so how can know the real risks are for us locally, and what will the rnment he doing to keep on top this?
it very much goes to what re saying earlier.
it does, fortunately.
so at the moment what ave in the way of data at a ral level are cases in hospital that been confirmed, the blood have gone missing, so we only have the hospital confirmed cases, lso only have the deaths, so we are very reliant on those but are the tip of the iceberg.
hey may be good proxy measures but don’ really tell you what is ing on in the community, and at’ because people were told to ay at and not report their mptoms to gps, and also they were to phone 111, who did not turn he data to either.
now, here is a formal, established tem for notifying suspected ses, the government has choose to use , and this is the not to use that, and this is the real problem for the epidemic, use it won’ be dealt with at ral cal level.
the fire needs to be out ally, which is you need teams of local contact traces you need good data from and you need really good data from the tests that is on time.
so we not got a functioning and operational systems yet, which is ere is such concern about ople returning to work, and people returning to as well.
returning to schools as well.
instead of putting in place a really ystem, the government have not good system, the government have not taken its responsibilities seriously not yet put in the systems and have not yet put in the systems that will give the public the surance they need.
we are having light problems with your line, fessor, bear us, we will professor, bear with us, we will come back to you.
allen, this tion from kelly.
when the government six people can meet today outside, is six adults or does the number include children?
it includes children.
it basically up to six people can meet, and it ran be up to six ople from six ifferent ouseholds.
although the eral advice is to limit the ber of households as you can, because iously the more households you mix up with, the ter the risk that one of those households might have the vims.
so to keep it minimal if you can, you are lowed up to six.
yes, it ran be children as well.
there is xed evidence on this, but it is ought that children are actually, are they less likely to not only are they lass likely to suffer from or any illness he virus, they seem to be from the virus, they seem to be protected in some way very largely, so the evidence seems to be that they are less likely to pass irus on, which if that is true, and it is not actually certain yet is looking that way from the vidence, that is a blessing, use of course children do love to rush and hug people and mix—up peopla, the worry is that they will then ring that virus into sehold where there is an older person or a vulnerable person.
i know some adults like that as well, lly, alan!
that’ true!
is actually, alan!
that’ tme!
is the advice for parents with young dren about meeting up because they dearty children about meeting up because they clearly don’ understand the cial tance?
there are games you social distance?
there are games you ran play obviously which don’ lve lve hugging and getting really ose to each other with the kids.
you ran think of games that volve so if you can think of games that involve about, then that’ a good
but it is difficult.
—— games hat involve that.
the main thing is is some comfort that they are just that little bit less likely to on, but tried to think of pass it on, but tried to think of “75 of keeping them separate.
hildren on the whole, even quite children, understand about two res, not sure they know how far is, but it is the length of a grain person, aps as one way of doing it.
-- of a own person.
and have ertainly got the message bout watching hand so keep it .
yes, you can take hide and seek so far, you?
but anyway, this one from cathy.
is the rate infection in the so high, even though we have been in kdown?
i think the answer to that we were a bit slow off the mark tart with, won’ we, in this ountry, despite the warnings we getting from italy, and there some dire stories coming out northern italy in particular of health care services and the health rare services and hospitals being overwhelmed.
we were bit slow getting up to a little bit slow getting up to speed with that.
we were a bit slow the whole testing procedure, we were a bit slow with lockdown .
so consequently our figures up, and you see those graphs on television, almost a vertical in the rates in february, early march in cular.
so we are march in particular.
so we are coming down from a higher position.
aking us longer to come down.
are coming down steadily.
there bit of levelling off in just in the last few days, which are worrying, but we are coming down reasonably steadily, it is just to take much longer.
professor going to take much longer.
professor allyson pollock, i think we have to fiddle with the line, let’ if we are any better for stock as hite as the rate of new nfection still so high here, even ugh we have been in lockdown?
ell, we don’ really know.
we only bout the rate of infections from the number of deaths, the of hospital cases, but we number of hospital rases, but we don’ know what is actually ening in the community and of ourse what is happening is this is just one , huge outbreak, not just one big, huge outbreak, this is consisting of thousands of outbreaks going on in little outbreaks going on in different parts of the country at erent times.
so the south—west for example esn’ have much fection or hospital admissions mpared with the north—east and th-west, what you are having is the utbreaks going on in fferent parts of the country, and you put them together, then you till have one epidemic, so it is reasing.
of course, london oesn’ have nearly the same amount ection that it had three or our weeks ago, whereas other parts much more than they had a few eeks ago.
0.
are still having ight problem is with the line but ill persevere, everyone tells me new technology is wonderful.
’ve got to believe it.
let’ have one from julie.
she writes my sband been shielding since march, i am due to go back to work all the shops open on the 15th june.
hould i go?
again, that is ricky one, it pends what kind work julie es.
it sounds to me as though she obably works in tail, am i right, julie?
i don’ .
if you in retail, and the shops when they open on the 15th of will have rked out very june will have worked out very carefully how to maintain the social ncing of the customers.
they ill probably have a one—way system the shop, they will be very careful about goods that are led, they might to wipe them in some way, or steam cleaned em, or do various ways to clean goods.
so it depends in a way dangerous or risky your orkplace is.
and it also depends to extent how vulnerable your ouldered person is.
whether they a working mune system.
let me tick with that because the next stion from glen in darlington 575 says i am elding, and now we can go out in a limited at what what point do i return to work?
a lot of on that ist of the most people on that list of the most vulnerable, one minute we’re being , no, you stn’ move anywhere, told, no, you mustn’ move anywhere, and then over the weekend, suddenly all change.
there is a lot of it was all change.
there is a lot of confusion out there.
there is a lot fusion out there, it is not at all clear.
certainly the government talking about letting shielded people go to yet.
they are about them being able to go outside in the open air, whereas have been cooped up indoors, ould have been anyway, for the ten weeks.
but they can go last ten weeks.
but they ran go outside and they can also meet one person another household.
other person from another household.
so it is a very small step, but rtheless people are a bit nevertheless people are a bit confused about it.
that will be a a yet efore people can go out while yet before people ran go out to work.
of course they can work home that is possible, and that is certainly advisable, but it epend very much on the nature does depend very much on the nature of the workplace they will be going is from steve, with the new shielding regulation allowing us to , should we be wearing face sks?
again and again, people still clear out whether they are worth having or not.
well, there is ong evidence.
face masks have been used with other measures in a, south korea and taiwan, but evidence isn’ strong and they been no trials, and the very worry about face is that people them on, them off, touch heir face then hey touch other jects without washing their hands.
the moment the advice is in losed settings, on the underground tube, you have the same or the tube, but you have the same problam, people will take them off, hem in heir pockets and then put them in their pockets and then touch other surfaces.
50 really the washing ygiene is the hand washing and hygiene is the really important bit, and not ing facemasks on and touching our face and your nose with your ds.
so really important.
hands.
50 really important.
facemasks, there is no strong ence for, and the only time that you might want to use them is if got symptoms, though you should really be self—isolating at oint.
really the jury is ompletely out and there have been tudies, and i think it is nteresting, if you watch people cemasks, and how often they with facemasks, and how often they left them on and off their face and their with them.
so you touch their face with them.
so you would really need to make sure that ntervention wasn’ doing more arm than good.
a final one to you, , from peter in hampshire.
what re the hances with someone with no toms passing on the virus?
well, passing on the vims?
well, we do know from studies around the that it is perfectly possible a to pass on virus, even if you no of covert.
there is so—called ransmission, which can occur two or ree days before pear, or maybe may never in some people, but it is appear in some peopla, but it is possibla to pass on the virus, yes ,
so yes, that is a worry and of the most difficult things to to terms with, in terms of ntrolling the epidemic and erstanding the epidemiology of it of course that is we are all waiting really poor some of the ody studies which we hope will be put in place soon, antibody ing, so we get a much better testing, so we get a much better idea of how much disease there is and a much better idea of how hat disease is transmitted even people who don’ have among peopla who don’ have symptoms.
i am most grateful to both .
thank you for persevering, got pretty much most of what you to say, director of the institute of health and society at stle university, thank you both nemsﬂa university, thank you both very much.
1 now on what is another sunny day for us, new figures say we have had the iest spring since records began in 1929.
the met office says the amount of sunshine across the has been "absolutely extrordinary".
roger harrabin has been looking at the reasons behind it — and asking whether the glorious weather is also a cause for concern.
the sun has made locked in so much easier to beer for those lucky enough to get outside.
we’ve seen record sunshine in all the home nations, barely a drop of rain.
but the statistics have dumbfounded scientists.
look at the numbers.
on average, the gets a36 hours of spring sun.
the previous record is 555 of sun between march and the end of may.
this year, we’ve bathed in 613 hours and that’ still rising until final figures later today.
a met office spokesperson said they were staggered by the statistics.
they are very un—british.
especially following the drenching winter, which saw widespread flooding and the wettest february on record.
one extreme to another.
both phenomena are driven by the jet stream, the high—level wind that locks weather patterns in place for long periods.
the contrast is unprecedented.
it’ the shift from the amount of rainfall that we saw during the winter, december, january and february, into the spring months, march, april, may.
that is the largest difference in rainfall that we have seen from a notably wet season, the winter season, into spring.
we’ve never seen that before.
and we do shift from wetter seasons to seasons and vice versa, we have seen prolonged droughts in the past, and we have seen wetter seasons in the past.
but it’ the largest difference that we have ever recorded and that is i use the word unprecedented.
you can blame the jet stream.
that is the high—level wind that can lock in place weather patterns in the .
whether they are wet or dry.
is man—made climate change playing a part?
well, we know it is warming the arctic.
melting ice and causing wildfires in places like siberia, which hit record temperatures recently.
is this affecting the jet stream?
scientists are not yet sure.
they do know this fine spell is set to end, so enjoy it while you can.
is the lockdown restrictions are eased, grandparents have been hit perhaps of all.
so if you are reuniting your family with dparents today or even perhaps introducing them to a new edition of mily, we would like to see our pictures and videos.
: we will be showing those later on.
now it is time for the weather with schafernaker.
it has been so warm for the last few weeks, and very sunny too, a bit of perature blip in the next uple of days, from mid week nwards some of us will have a 10 rees drop compared to what we had recently.
the skies are across the , but to the of of us we are starting to see nges, closer to iceland and cross the norwegian sea.
fact, the next few days we will see currents shifting, rather than ming in rom he south, it air coming in from the south, it will start coming from the north , and the winds will strengthen again, so you can imagine it will a ttle bit colder.
now one feel a little bit colder.
now one thing that many gardeners and ers are hoping for is a bit of ainfall, and at the moment it looks ough the rain is going to be ery hit and miss across the in next few days.
now, the late rnoon temperatures today, iously not a drop of rain and warm, 26 or 27 degrees, mid 205 the north of the country as well, to the very far north—west you an start see the changes in that ather.
0 with the first weather front proaching the very far rth—west of scotland by the end of night but most of us it is the night but for most of us it is clear again and copycat conditions uesday.
pressure is on tuesday.
high pressure is essentially still in charge but is this weak weather front hat has sort of snuck into its edge so that does mean more cloud the possibility of some rain oss the highlands through the urse of the day.
there could be me heavy showers in one or two ots across scotland and the very north of england, but the vast jority of us on tuesday, tomorrow, , another sunny day and a very warm one too.
then from roundabout sday it starts to change.
you wednesday it starts to change.
you ran see a weather front pretty much cing the there in half.
50 so that eans increasing amounts of .
in one or two spots it could a little on the heavy side.
many will probably have of us will probablyjust have overcast skies and little bits and of rain.
some of us will have pieces of rain.
some of us will have mostly bright weather but the main re is just how much cooler it ill be.
12 in newcastle and in the for everybody, and that cooler with more cloud and a chance some rain, which is good news, continue through the week.
this is news.
the headlines the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open
and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
we’re now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little bit more back to normal, but look, that isn’ an overnight, big bang thing.
it’ measured, progressive, we do it in a safe and responsible way.
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree that it’ safe enough how is it safe to send back?
the pressure is being put back onto us and the children.
i woke up this morning and ifelt anxious, i know the logic and the science, but it’ still scary.
confusion for some — as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable.
curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts in cities across the — sparked by the death in police custody of george floyd.
and, they’re off sort of.
horse racing is back — as the world of sport prepares to return, but in front of empty stands.
are slowly going to get their lives back to normal — as the biggest easing of lockdown measures since they were introduced in march gets underway.
ministers insist they’re following the science and taking the steps in a ‘very cautious’ way.
all four nations of the now have guidelines in place allowing more than two people to meet outside.
vulnerable people in england and wales — who have been advised to stay home since march — have been told they can go outdoors again.
but shielding advice in northern ireland and scotland hasn’ changed.
the first phase in the reopening of schools has begun in england, with children in nurseries and years one and six returning this morning.
and, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect shoppers and workers, open air markets and car showrooms in england are also able to trade again.
but the measures come as another group of public health officials warn the pace of change in england could lead to a rise in the infection rate.
in a moment we’ll be looking in more depth at the advice for parents — and the most vulnerable — but first, here’ duncan kennedy.
some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
it may not be a manic monday of openings but the lid on lockdown is starting to creek open.
at the sandbanks beach in dorset, the new week and new month brought more glorious sunshine.
from today, six people can now gather outside in england if they keep two metres apart.
so, what do people here think of that?
i think we just need to be cautious about it.
even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
everyone seems to respect other people’ space.
you see now there is a good amount of space between everybody on the beach.
you feel ?
i feel fine.
but local officials say with the numbers they have seen outside in recent days, the message about the rules still isn’ clear.
i think people are completely confused now by the rules.
they’re so inconsistent.
they don’ make any sense to people.
you ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’ know
and frankly they don’ care any more.
what now are the rules for gathering?
in england from today, groups of up to six can meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
in wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more than five miles from home to meet.
in scotland, up to eight people from a maximum of two households are able to meet outside.
whilst in northern ireland, groups of up to six can now also gather outside.
but everywhere, social—distancing rules apply.
all these changes in england, wales, northern ireland and scotland are dividing opinion.
it’ making some people nervous, but others say they welcome the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
the one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation, and it’ the one we have heard throughout this crisis, is that science must lead the way.
and the following of that science was again the government message today.
we must do this cautiously which is precisely what we are doing.
we’ve also said if people comply with the rules and the test and trace system is up and running, which it has been since thursday, then there is a good likelihood we will not breach the value factor above one.
but some health professionals remain nervous about the speed of society’ reengagement.
i think it’ just a bit difficult to understand the message when you’re urging caution at the same time as saying that there are all these additional liberties to be taken.
don’ get me wrong.
the vast majority of the public will follow those guidelines extremely well but there is a danger there is a confusing message.
that whole national blended mood of the cautious and carefree was also shared by some people we spoke to in exeter today.
i’ delighted we can do it
but it is tinged with nervousness.
just a little bit concerned that it might be too early
and we might have a second wave.
loosening lockdown measures are a challenge for everyone.
in our changing world of inside outside living.
duncan kennedy, news, in dorset.
parents across england faced a dilemma this morning — is it safe for children to go back to school?
after six weeks closed because of the coronavirus — primary schools re—opened this morning but parents don’ have to send their children back.
many teachers unions are warning it’ too soon for them to do so.
dan johnson reports.
after so many weeks, school’ back for summer.
morning.
welcome back.
at thisjunior school, it’sjust year 6, the 10 and 11—year—olds returning.
there isn’ a head that doesn’ want as many pupils back as soon as they can but as safely as we possibly can and that is what we have been working to do over the last few weeks, make sure our school is safe but welcoming to pupils.
harry was keen to get back and see some of his friends and stuff, he knows it’ going to be different but given the space they have got and it’ only year 6, hopefully, it should be .
i have to say i woke up
and i did feel quite anxious this morning.
i know the logic, i know the science, but even so, it’ quite scary.
and that’ these are some of the few socially distanced classrooms actually reaching their new lower capacity today.
it’ be good to see my friends, albeit it’ only half the class
but it’ good to catch up with my mates.
i’ve wanted to come back for ages.
it’ been a bit hard at home.
my mum told me it would be a bit different than it used to be so i was a bit nervous what would’ve happened.
but there’ huge variation across england.
in walsall, two thirds of the schools are not accepting more children yet.
i am very worried about the children being at home but, weighing it up, i think their health is really important and the health of their families and the wider community, as well.
i want to get them back as soon as possible, but i will keep reviewing it and as soon as we are convinced that everybody is saying the same thing, instead of having conflicting messages, we will reopen.
and there are estimates that up to half of parents will have decided to delay returning their kids to the classroom.
the risk of transmissibility, if he catches it, can he bring it back, pass it on to other people?
it’ not clear.
for us, we wanted more evidence, how is it safe to send back?
the pressure is being put all on us as parents and teachers and on the children.
here, the children are being kept in smaller classroom pods or bubbles so they’re not mixing.
but it’ the busier times like lunch that are the real pinch points.
now, it’ manageable with limited numbers of children.
but what about getting back to a full school?
that will be much harder.
government guidance, as you know, has changed quite often.
they are starting to understand it’ the heads who need to make those decisions and every head’ school community, circumstances are different and therefore there will need to be flexibility.
more of england’ schools will get to this in the next week or two.
wales, scotland and northern ireland are expected to follow in the months ahead.
dan johnson, news, hertfordshire.
in england and wales, people who have been shielding — those who are clinically very vulnerable to coronavirus — can now exercise and meet people from another household outdoors.
but some medical professionals are concerned that the changes come too soon, they want to see the scientific evidence to show that it is safe.
hywell griffith reports.
after 11 weeks of shielding for derek this is a day to savour.
means his lungs are vulnerable.
he knows covid—19 could kill him, but being confined to his home in treorchy for so long has been hard.
he says this is the end of his house arrest.
it’ relief.
you have got to be sensible.
you won’ see me on any beaches or with any crowds.
you have to use your sense.
if you’re not sensible you’re asking for trouble.
you’ve got to keep your distance.
from today, shielded patients in england and wales can go outdoors and meet other people.
the world they’re going back into has changed considerably but they are being assured it is safe.
now that we have passed the peak and the prevalence of covid—19 in the community has reduced significantly, we believe that the risk to those shielding is lower.
for around 2.
3 million patients in england and wales this is a huge step.
but it’ one some are reluctant to take.
the change in guidance came unexpectedly, with no clear reduction in the number, or the rate at which the virus is reproducing.
health charities say they’re being inundated with questions which they’re finding difficult to answer.
does this mean it’ the end of shielding?
does this mean that my employer is going to now ask me to go back to work?
"i am not ready for that, i’ not confident with that.
" also people are saying, is it safe?
the beaches are crowded, the parks are crowded, the beauty spots, too.
and in this new world that’ developing is it now safe for me to go forward?
the guidance on shielding in scotland and northern ireland hasn’ changed.
across the there are calls for more tailored patient—specific advice for what lies ahead for those most at risk.
hywell griffith, news.
let’ talk to our chief political correspondent vicki young.
the government seems determined to press ahead despite some concern.
he committee of scientists is made up of dozens and dozens of from all aspects of the people from all aspects of the science community and they don’ all about everything.
it is like economic forecasting, they are to make forecasts and predictions and nothing is certain , partly because they are earning about this illness as they ong as everyone else is as go along as everyone else is as well.
in the end this is about risk owering that risk and no one is really talking about eradicating it etely.
that is the decision complately.
that is the decision that peopla have to take on the unt of risk you are willing to ive with will be different for ferent people.
—— and the amount.
’ what he government is balancing, schools, for example, schools to open, but not all urging schools to open, but not all of them are following the guidelines king back the different years at one point, so everyone is oaching this differently.
the chancellor rishi sunak has his eyes economy, and he has warned of a severe recession coming for the was out and about reassuring eopla.
it is absolutely safe and we have a very dear plan that we have been king to very clear plan that we have been sticking to throughout the process ling with the coronavirus and are now at the stage of that plan re we can get our lives a little bit hit back normal, but that isn’ overnight big bang then, it is sured and progressive and we do in a safe and responsible way and is today we are starting covered markets and dietary and a couple of weeks will get shops open and then hopefully in eginning of uly we will be the beginning of july we will be able to get restaurants and pubs .
that is the plan, we are sticking to it.
people have got the urance they can get their lives reassurance they ran get their lives a little bit more back to normal.
: we see pictures from over the weekend that people are not ssarily sticking to the letter the law, is this going to be orced?
that is the issue, as the idelines are relaxed, it then comes a point where people have to heir common sense.
some cientists looking at that will be rned and they would point out that being outdoors does help an lot, the transmission is owhere near the same as being de, and although things might be king like they are normal, most hops are not open and pubs and aurants are not open and at most chools there is a great range of happening, some not opening ntil september, but the government be hoping the transmission rate stays down.
government is looking at countries, like and italy, and to some extent in spain, —— like and italy.
ose areas have france and italy.
those areas have opened up and there doesn’ seem to een a big spike in have been a big spike in transmission or new cases and that hat they be hoping it’ is what they will be hoping it’ happening here.
thanks for joining in the last hour first minister for scotland nicola sturgeon gave an update on the situation in scotland.
she said the vast majority of people followed the new measures over the weekend however some people did break the rules.
on saturday there were 797 dispersals by police scotland, five times higher than the figure from the previous saturday.
and on sunday road use was up up by 70% on the previous sunday.
it is hard to see how that can have been caused by local residents and ople velling a reasonable people travelling a reasonable distance to meet loved ones, so we be considering this as we continue as we must do to assess the of the phase one changes.
impact of the phase one changes.
last week we deliberately allowed lexibility when we changed the ockdown restrictions and we ommended that people do not avel more than five miles for reation but we left room for some scretion so that you can go further isit family.
we also trongly recommended that when two holds meet there should be no ore than eight people in the grip, put that into guidance rather than law because we trust and inue to trusty majority to keep hose groups more and to stay within -- the mles -- trust the majority.
it is worth being clear and i have a to be clear, if there is duty to be clear, if there is continued evidence of even a rity not abiding by these guidelines and travelling cessarily and if people meet up larger groups and if they are ing journeys which risk of reading the virus, we would have these restrictions on group ize and travel distance into law.
on’ hesitate to do that if we ink that is necessary for the lective safety and well—being of the ulation.
nicola sturgeon here.
the headlines on news the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open
and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning — despite some parents worrying about safety.
confusion for some — as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable — calls for the scientific evidence showing it’ll be safe for them.
there’ been a sixth night of unrest across the united states.
rfews are in force in nearly a0 cities — but many are being ignored as demonstrations continue over the death of an unarmed black man in police custody.
in a moment we’ll have a report on the violent protests in the capital, but first, james robbins looks at the situation across the .
the anger, protests, fires and looting have spread widely across the united states.
but this is where it all began.
almost a week after a police officer in minneapolis killed an unarmed black man, thousands gathered outside the state capital, confronted by police and troops from the national guard.
the focus of anger is clear from the chants, placards and masks.
the death of george floyd has provoked a sense of outrage that racism is still widespread, too often ignored and unpunished.
all these voices are here because the same thing keeps happening over and over again, it’ the new lynching.
i’ just really hoping justice is served, that the people responsible are held accountable and i don’ have to do this again, i don’ want to be here.
: hands up, don’ shoot!
the anger is spreading across the united states.
in kansas city, these demonstrators want their police under tighter local control, with the citizens review board to help investigate misconduct.
no violence!
one officer pleaded with the crowd not to resort to violence and even made an extraordinary gesture of solidarity, which is steeped with meaning in today’ america.
take a knee.
the killing of george floyd last week has terribly undermined whatever progress may have been made in recent years.
and the fact that only one policeman, derek chauvin, has been charged with murder, and that others who stood by do not face prosecution, has fuelled the protests and violence.
night—time curfews have been imposed in nearly a0 american cities, but many people have ignored them.
thank you.
in minneapolis, 3 german correspondent reported police targeting him and threatening his team with arrest.
get inside now!
where would you like us to go?
0!
thank you, officer.
in san diego, largely peaceful protests turned violent, as police used tear gas and pepper balls in the city.
they were enforcing, they said, an unlawful assembly order.
hands up!
in new york city, violence including looting was widespread, despite appeals for this to stop from those who want to honour george floyd.
fires were started with no sign of angerfading, almost a week after his killing.
in brooklyn, a woman made her own peaceful gesture, but the wider reality is that the united states has not seen racial tensions explode on this scale since the 1960.
james robbins, news.
washington has seen some of the worst violence, with buildings not far from the white house vandalised, cars set on fire, and a historic church attacked.
president trump was briefly taken to an emergency underground bunker in the white house on friday because of concerns about the threat from protesters outside.
aleem maqbool reports.
nojustice!
no peace!
no racism!
police!
these were protests against the killing of george floyd.
but given the location, they were also a message to one person in particular.
he needs to grow up, he needs to be a man, stop with the childish acts, the childish tweets, he needs to be a man.
as night fell, the mood got angrier.
i’ here outside the white house, for the most part a peaceful protest but fires have been it now.
and the police keep firing gas into the crowds.
and they fired other projectiles, too, in defence of the home of the president.
they were clearly on edge — but also did little to dispel the impression that police use unnecessary levels of force.
at one point, charging our own cameraman.
in the streets surrounding the white house, with no sense of any attempt at de—escalation, there was anarchy, with shops and vehicles vandalised at will.
hard to imagine these were scenes playing out in the american capital.
that’ probably the white person that owned it.
they can cover it with insurance all right, here we go.
we’ve got every right to burn it down.
this is pain right here, this is pain, this is the only way we can get it to them.
they’re not hearing us.
when you just talk, it’ just words to them.
they don’ feel anything.
and there’ no doubt this has now become about much more than the brutal death of one unarmed black man.
aleem maqbool, news in washington.
the first court appearance for derek chauvin — the fired minneapolis police officer charged with the murder and manslaughter of george floyd — has been postponed.
chauvin will instead appear in court next monday 8th june.
no reason has been given for the delay, but prosecutors said a scheduled change was not unusual, and they were moving as quickly as possible.
the netherlands is easing its lockdown with primary schools returning to normal, and restaurants, bars, cinemas, and theatres allowed to re—open.
museums, too, are opening their galleries once more — as anna holligan reports from amsterdam.
the first thing is the numbers.
they’re allowing a fifth of the number of visitors in every day, which of course means it will be a lot quieter if you can get a space.
they aren’ allowing people to just walk in off the street any more — you have to book your 15—minute time slot in advance.
and when you do go inside, the rules are the same as outside — you must keep your distance from other people.
here in the netherlands, that’ 1.
5 metres.
the good news is that there is no limit placed on the amount of time you can stand in front of the masters, so rembrandt, vermeer of course, amsterdam is home to so many cultural attractions — the anne frank house, the van gogh museum — but there isn’ one policy that fits all.
they’re essentially trying to allow people to come in in a safe way without restricting their enjoyment, that there’ no rush.
so, if you’re worried about being able to travel — these masterpieces were here before the pandemic and they will be around long after it’ gone.
the colosseum and the number of people allowed at the site.
—— the coliseum in rome is opening for the first time to tourist in hs, but there are restrictions the numbers allowed in.
returning to the and our easing of the lockdown — as we’ve been reporting some schools in england are opening to more pupils today while some — are definitely not.
and some parents remain concerned about safety.
harriet shearsmith, is a mum to three — all under 10 and is also the founder of parenting website @tobyandroo — we can speak to harriet via webcam from york.
: not back at school at the moment?
not at the moment.
we feel it is too for us as a family and we have ielding relative that lives in annex and we only had one child would be eligible to go back to hool the moment.
it would be hallanging to xplain to her brother they can’ go back to and see their friends but she .
we think it is a bit too soon us.
how long you think you ill have the ability to make that ision for yourself?
not sure, decision for yourself?
i’ not sure, to be honest.
we are happy to inue home—schooling, we are anaging at moment, in a very ortunate position to home—school children and continue to work i appreciate that is not the for everybody.
whilst we are anaging it re happy to do so, but how long we will be able to do allowed to do so, i’ not sure.
the government says it is ing at scheduled for dealing ith this and at the heart of this he rate, so does that mean ran’ go to school?
it is not or me to say whether the government or not, and i can only is right or not, and i ran only speak to my own circumstances and in my own comfort zone and at the moment we are managing well and may be the places could be we feel may be the places could be better used.
there are limited they could be used for people who have to return to work —— there imited places maybe they are limited places and maybe they could be better used for other like those who have to return to work.
do run a parenting to work.
you do a parenting website, , what kind of feedback are tting you getting from other parents?
it has been a mixed bag and some are comfortable to send heir children back and some don’ choice and somehow children have a choice and somehow children who have been going throughout the ety of the virus.
because they entirety of the vims.
because they are key workers.
and for that we got to be grateful to them.
people share concerns and have hosen to their children at chosen to keep their children at home so it is a mixed bag as far as nting goes with everybody valid isions.
some confusion as to younger and the oldest children ing asked to go back and those the middle not yet?
there is a of confusion around that, but rents ran make the best decision at they ran based on what information they have been given, .
what bout teachers unions?
really.
what about teachers unions?
many have expressed unease about is going on.
who are parents ally istening to given that many are under huge pressure hemselves that they need to get to work?
parents have got to isten to their own gut instinct.
chers unions have largely come rward and said they are not comfortable with the return
and i know many teachers are not comfortable with the return who i know, but then you have the ernment saying that we can ran return.
has fallen to parents to the best decision they can with he cards ’ve been dealt.
they have to oose individually who they ten to and i want to make that ecision for them at the moment, ortunately.
—— and they have to that ecision —— and no one can make that sion.
you are happy with home—schooling?
we are happy to for he moment, things are do this for the moment, things are changing with coronavirus, and it is to put a on when edith hard to put a date on when edith will return, but we won’ put a date she misses her iends?
yes, on it.
she misses her friends?
yes,
but she is incredibly lucky to have others she can play with and two brothers she ran play with and we are very lucky to be really ible around her, so she is getting lots attention
and we are contact with her school, as well.
have been able to speak to her her and sent photos of the ings we have been doing at home to acher so there has been a lot support for her in terms of her sing her riends and missing her routine we have tried our best to maintain.
harriet thanks for ing us.
the queen has been photographed riding in the grounds of windsor castle — the first time she’ been seen outside since the coronavirus lockdown began.
the queen was pictured on one of her ponies — a year old called balmoral fern.
she’ been isolating at windsor with her husband, the duke of edinburgh, and a small number of staff.
as lockdown restrictions are eased, many families are able to see each other for the first time in months.
grandparents have been some of the hardest hit by the restrictions.
so if you’re reuniting yourfamily with grandparents today, or even introducing them to additions to the family, we would love to share your pictures and videos.
you can send them to send them to yourpics@bbc.
co.
uk.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with tomas.
the 1st ofjune marks the first day of summer, at least that is what meteorologists’ say, although midsummer’ day is still a while away.
look across the today, hardly a cloud in the sky, late afternoon temperatures will range from the high 205 for a few areas in the south to around about 20 in northern scotland.
very little happening on the weather front tonight, a case of clear skies.
and that’ a sign of things to come in the coming days.
through the course of tuesday we will have increasing amounts of cloud through scotland and late in the day showers developing over the highlands, but elsewhere tomorrow it will be another very warm and very sunny day but a big temperature contrast between the very far north and the far south.
hello this is news with simon mccoy.
the headlines.
the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
: we are now at this stage of that plan where we can get our lives a tle bit re back to normal, but , that isn’ overnight, big bang , it is measured, progressive, do it in a safe and responsible .
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree that it’ safe enough.
confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable.
curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts in cities across the — sparked by the death in police custody of george floyd.
time for some sport.
two and half months since the last meeting before lockdown, horseracing has returned, a ten—race card at newcastle’ gosforth park is underway behind closed doors.
our sports correspondent katie gornall is there.
so much about it does feel very different.
numbers have been very strictly limited.
this fence is keeping out all but essential staff.
when i spoke to the chief executive of the rlier, he is not allowed in, it is people who are essential ace day.
everyone gets mperature tested on the way in.
of the jockeys
have to wear around the site.
there is a -way ystem as well and keep eople ocially distanced, they have built a separate dressing room he male jockeys, allow hese for the male jockeys, to allow these to me to pods inside so everyone can ially tance, so they are socially distance, so they are really trying to think of everything and make racing as safe as possible, but you are right, a peopla will be watching what going on here in newcastle, ing how they cope with erything.
they are aware that re is a lot of attention on them and we feel that response itary as well from them, so far hings seem to be running relatively oothly up there’ a bit of a smoothly from up there’ a bit of a glitch to the system of people ing on this morning and getting emperature checked.
they have sort all out here and got racing ay
and that is the main thing, as industry tries to recover from financial hit has taken a real financial hit it has taken due to this lockdown.
a £50 million in heir inances the moment hole in their finances at the moment so there is a big relief they have able to get on track in newcastle today.
snooker has also returned today, the championship league is underway in milton keynes.
it’ a round robin format for 64 players.
they are playing at a venue that also has a hotel, so all the players and officials can completely self—isolate during the 11 days of competition with everyone having to be tested for covid—19 on arrival, world number one and reigning world championjudd trump is one of the first to play.
matches are four frames each, with three points for a win and one for a draw.
trump leads david grace one frame to nil, the first of three matches he’ll play today.
the chief executive lee hoos says the club is "vehemently opposed" to the football league’ plan for the championship to resume onjune 20th.
he says the clubs weren’ consulted before last night’ announcement and with player’ yet to return to contact training he’ concerned about their welfare.
if you’ve got players who are picking up unnecessary injuries use you haven’ really looked at he load, paid attention to the science, there is a very expensive assets you have in the ds.
the likelihood of picking up njuries, and if you look at the esliga now, it is a very small sampla size, very difficult to the statistical significance of injury rate, but it is three times what it normally is, and i think that is something we really to take a hard look at, because ’ not just king at this season.
i don’ ant a treatment room of players going into next season.
ould be a big issue with me that would be a big issue with me when trying to operate with a ler squad.
staying with football, manchester united have extended odion ighalo’ loan from chinese club shanghai shenhua tiljanuary.
the original deal expired yesterday.
the prmier league is set to resume on the 17thjune.
england’ three—match rugby league test series with australia has been cancelled because of the pandemic.
new england coach shaun wane was due to take charge against the world cup holders in october and november, but the series has been called off due to what’ been cited as the "the continued complications surrounding global travel".
the british basketball league have cancelled the the current season saying it wouldn’ be financially viable to play behind closed doors.
the league was suspended in march with glasgow top of the table with five games left to play.
it’ now been voided, meaning no title will be awarded.
glasgow saying they are very disappointed.
that’ all the sport for now.
outdoor markets in england are now able to trade again, as the government starts to lift some lockdown measures.
the chancellor rishi sunak visited tachbrook market in pimlico, london to mark the first day many sellers have been able to open for business.
he said the timing is right for easing lockdown restirctions.
we’ve made great progress over the last few weeks and months in dealing he crisis, and today we are able to take a really important space.
a couple of markets pen, i’ here grabbing my lunch, ple are here doing the same, raders are all back.
i hope in the ing days and weeks many people do he same.
slowly we will get our back to normal.
this is a slow very important step.
it is olutely safe and we have a very ear plan we have been sticking to oughout his whole process, dealing coronavirus, and we are at the of that plan where we ran get our ives a little bit re back to normal but that isn’ ernight big bang thing.
it is asured, progressive, we do it in a and responsible way and that is oday we are starting with vered markets and car showrooms, a couple of we will get and a couple of weeks we will get the shops open, and hopefully by the ning of uly we will be able to get many ore restaurants and pubs as well.
so that is the plan, are sticking to it, it is safe peopla should have the onfidence to go out there and get life a little bit more back to rmal.
the chancellor was then asked what support there’ll be for businesses, if an increase in coronavirus infections leads to a second lockdown.
: we have put in place unprecedented measures to support not just nesses but also individuals rough this difficult period, and a of those measures last for a ery long time actually.
for one mple of things we have done is business rates for restaurants retailers who are really cted by what is happening.
they ast for the entire year all the way ough to march.
we have obviously them cash grants.
our given them cash grants.
ourjob retention scheme, the furlough me plus all the way to october, recently we did a second and payment for the self—employed will come in the summer, so aken together there is a huge unt of support and a clear plan to reopen bits of our economy that are closed and get country back mal, open again.
many of these to normal, open again.
many of these schemes last for the entire year, usiness rates holiday, it lasts the way to march, the job ntion programme lasts all way to retention programme lasts all my to october, , and so many of these things upport businesses and people for ite a while to come.
open—air markets and car showrooms are re—opening in england today — but with strict distancing measures in place.
for example, if you’re taking a carfor a test—drive, normally you’ have a sales rep in the car with you.
not any more.
from today, you’ll be alone.
ministers say the risk of infection is lower outdoors, and in more open spaces.
in a fortnight, other non—essential shops will open again — but businesses are having to overhaul how they operate, to keep customers and staff safe.
simon gompertz reports.
this is the monday with a difference they’ve been waiting for at barnsley’ open—air market.
at lest, they can get back to selling what are called non—essentials, like clothes and things for the home, as well as fruit and veg.
customers, a bit cautious, but the buying began before eight ’clock.
i’ quite impressed, actually, because these days, you just don’ know, do you?
and how did it work?
was it different for you?
she was stood over there looking at my duvets, asking about size and prices.
she stood over there, i got them out
and then she put the money over there
and then i took it from there.
social distancing is vital, keeping everyone two metres apart.
hygiene, as well, hand sanitisers, using foot pumps.
the feeling here is of relief.
to have a permanent lockdown for ten weeks is a nightmare in a small business.
you can’ measure it.
one trader said to me it was like falling off a cliff.
one big issue today as things start going again is the threat of congestion, which is a lot of markets are reopening stalls gradually, in order to guard against the risk that people will start bumping into each other on narrow pavements and walkways.
and bearing in mind as well, it is only a couple of weeks until nonessential shops on the high street will also be opening up.
today also sees car dealers back in business, after sales of new vehicles fell close to zero during the lockdown.
again, a big emphasis on measures to reduce the risk of transmission, helped by the fact that, in most showrooms, there is more indoor and outdoor space.
during lockdown, the whole industry effectively shutdown.
april was very low numbers.
may was better.
but i think until we see the impact of retail opening, it’ going to be very difficult to understand what the true level of demand is.
england is moving fastest on this.
in scotland, smaller shops and outdoor markets can open in the second phase of its easing plan, no date yet.
the timing hasn’ been fixed yet in wales, either, where non—essential shops and services could open in the amber phase of the exit strategy, nor in northern ireland, where non—food outlets will reopen in step two of its plan.
here is possibly a sign of what is to come the queue outside ikea in gateshead, which let customers back in today, with a general reopening of nonessential shops in england expected from the 15th, our eerily quiet high streets expect to become much busier.
let’ talk more now about how car showrooms will be managing in what’ being called ‘the new normal’ — andy barratt is the managing director of ford of britain — hejoins me now.
good afternoon to you.
good afternoon.
i wonder what sort of back you have had so far today.
are things going on this new , new beginning?
well, it is a low day on the first day back.
yone is getting used to the new protocols, making sure that all the and balances we have put in lace across our network, we have ably spent about £3 million in dealerships to make sure we got the level of , the right level protection for both staff and tomers.
we have to recognise that howrooms are relatively low tail ensity versus other retailers, so we have that space to to make sure we protect be able to make sure we protect customers and staff alike.
the virus operty in march, which is of urse one of the busiest periods in alendar.
how much of the your alandar.
how much of the business you are hoping to pick up today is response to that, from today is response to that, peopla going back to pick up because ordered back then?
there is no oubt absolutely on the nail all re, a considerable amount of usiness that will initially be pent eopla due to collect their car up, peopla due to collact their far in the second half of march, we have only completed half of our sales.
in april and may are both literally months in a normal calendar, so here is pent-up
and and then we have to see at happens.
we have ckages in place to make sure tomers have peace of mind when buy their vehicles.
i mentioned start of this that from now if you want a test drive, you go your own.
how comfortable are with that?
we are very omfortable.
clearly people will rive he dealership, they have already had a degree of discussion, know who they are to start with, and of course they are leaving own car behind.
as long as their own far behind.
as long as they are equipped with the features car
so they know what they of the far
so they know what they are experiencing and looking for, we happy.
as long as the customers feel safe and secure.
they know that the car is fully want to know that the far is fully dean, , sanitised, and they are not isk in that.
clearly not at a risk in that.
cleariy not having someone in the car, you start that les negotiation and to lose that sales negotiation and the emotion of buying a car, but we do at we can to make sure we will do what we ran to make sure we optimise that in other ways.
a lot opla who ere perhaps thinking of people who were perhaps thinking about buying a car will be thinking heir ads these car companies on their heads these rar companies are in trouble, they will have to their prices down, let’ wait.
how would you dissuade them?
well, an offer today which is effectively the customer does not ything for six months, and then they have 0% interest.
50 it is a very tive offer in place really to create peace of mind.
so effectively by now, pay in six hs’ time and then pay no interest.
clearly we at ford have a of lots of models, hybrid models coming in, and new models create extra interest, so we quite optimistic.
however, it is industry.
nearly a million eopla are mployed in the car industry from art to finish.
it contributes around 44 billion a year my.
it is everyone’ interest.
if i said to you a ago 90% of iflsaidtoyouayearago 90%of your business would have gone in a of a finger like that, snap of a finger just like that, would you have thought ford could ive it?
yes.
we have great resources, we have a great anisation.
we have done amazing ings, from helping to build ntilators, through to providing ergency service vehicles.
so a testament to the great team around we have a great resource, eing a global business.
so as you at the pandemic, it hasn’ been reat big hit in one place.
globally it has kind of progressed , and as markets have shut along, and as markets have shut down, others have restarted, that is nefit of being part of a the benefit of being part of a global business.
but we are strong.
a great dealers, loyal customers and we ran come back.
it may not be a quick comeback, but we be back, as well others.
sure, oyalty is one thing, confidence is other, and buying a car is very uch how nfident you feel about our own position, let alone the of a far.
do you think price of a car.
how do you think things will move in the next six or so?
i think we are going see that initial surge of pent—up rs, and hen we will see a orders, and then we will see a declined car market.
probably in the on of around below last region of around 4096 below last year’ evels, which is a big, big line.
but most car manufacturers are global yers come because they ill move that production capacity and maybe export more around and maybe export more vehidas or import less to the , ran so we ran move demand around.
i think what it leads to, though, is ndustry would really like to a stimulus package from the ernment, in conjunction with the ufacturers working together to and restart its engine for the omy and get as much revenue back nto the government, to get people furlough as quickly as they can really tart the economy.
here is a train roaring down the ck, and you have brexit to come.
are all managing towards 02 gets this year as well, so, you now, no one said it would be a ing industry to work in and it rtainly isn’, but brexit ertainly will bring its challenges .
haven’ spent one day too.
you haven’ spent one day thinking, i have had enough, it is time to go and do something else?
i am a long ford veteran, so that they ever come.
good of you to will never come.
good of you tojoin us, thank you so much.
the headlines on news the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open
and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning, despite some parents worrying about safety.
confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable, calls for the scientific evidence showing it’ll be safe for them.
as lockdown is eased, and thousands of people head to beaches, at the weekend people were been seen jumping from the cliffs on dorset’sjurassic coast, despite three men being seriously hurt at the weekend.
the casualties were airlifted to hospital, afterjumping 21 metres from durdle door on saturday afternoon — an activity known as tombstoning.
the coastguard and police have warned against leaping from the landmark arch into the sea.
however, despite this advice to stay away, officers said on sunday some people still attempted the jump.
mike wiley was paddle—boarding near the site on saturday, and rescued two men from the water.
the final guy that jumped, again, just in a pair of shorts, from a culous height, hit the water on he sides and just went straight to ttom.
me and my friend dylan gain had swum out for safety, and sure nough when he hit the water he didn’ come back up.
he knocked himself unconscious hitting ter in that way that he did.
the air was taken completely out of and he sank straight to the bottom of the sea bed.
we both off the board, trying to jumped off the board, trying to search for him, trying to find him.
a good few minutes.
there took us a good few minutes.
there were more people swimming out, ing to help trying to help out as well.
i managed to finally locate the body maybe two, three minutes of searching.
i could see a white re, deep in the water.
again, here about ten other people trying down, but none of us could to him.
i don’ know how id it, it maybe took about five attempts.
on the last attempt, i just, just compose myself and just swim with my eyes open anyway, i don’ need goggles or anything, and just him just laid on
i could just see him just laid on the kelp or the seaweed at the om, just completely motionless.
abbed him his hands, he had drowned, he was at the bottom of the sea.
when i managed to get to him, i tried to push off ﬂoor
but i had no purchase, you know, i had no , iwas just lding his boost, i was just holding his hand to swimming for my life for the ace was not i had let all the out of my lungs when i had got im, just to give myself some re time, and as i was dragging him dn’ think as going to make to the surface, i was so close to ting go of his hand just so i could get back to be able to could get myself back to be able to breathe, you know?
but your mind crazy things in those sort of ituations.
i managed to get him to rface, and he was completely urple, there was blood coming out is mouth and foam, and myself dylan, we both grabbed him and am back to shore with the help of ouple of other people on the ter and dragged him up onto the ach, and he was dead.
there was no rate, he wasn’ breathing, and ily for the sheer amazement, there were four male,
don’ know they were doctors or nurses, but just took over and just ash away at on him and managed to him back to life after about ten, 15 minutes.
it is an actual that he is still even alive, because i was beating myself up, king we had got to him sooner.
on what is another sunny day for us — new figures show we’ve just had the sunniest spring since records began in 1929.
the met office says the amount of sunshine across the has been "absolutely extrordinary".
roger harrabin has been looking at the reasons behind it — and asking whether the glorious weather is also a cause for concern.
the sunny spell has made lockdown so much easier to bearfor those lucky enough to get outside.
we’ve seen record sunshine in all the home nations, barely a drop of rain.
but the statistics have dumbfounded scientists.
look at the numbers.
on average, the gets a36 hours of spring sun.
the previous record is 555 of sun between march and the end of may.
this year, we’ve bathed in 613 hours and that’ still rising until final figures later today.
a met office spokesperson said they were staggered by the statistics.
they are very un—british.
especially following the drenching winter, which saw widespread flooding and the wettest february on record.
one extreme to another.
both phenomena are driven by the jet stream, the high—level wind that can lock weather patterns in place for long periods.
the contrast is unprecedented.
it’ the shift from the amount of rainfall that we saw during the winter, so december, january and february, into the spring months, march, april, may.
that is the largest difference in rainfall that we have seen from a notably wet season, the winter season, into spring.
we’ve never seen that before.
and we do shift from wetter seasons to seasons and vice versa, we have seen prolonged droughts in the past, and we have seen wetter seasons in the past.
but it’ the largest difference that we have ever recorded and that is i use the word unprecedented.
you can blame the jet stream.
that is the high—level wind that can lock in place weather patterns in the , whether they are wet or dry.
is man—made climate change playing a part?
well, we know it is warming the arctic, melting ice and causing wildfires in places like siberia, which hit record temperatures recently.
is this affecting the jet stream?
scientists are not yet sure.
they do know this fine spell is set to end, so enjoy it while you can.
: we will have a forecast and just a moment.
in istanbul, a symbolic easing of the coronavirus lockdown has taken place.
the grand bazaar — which dates from the 15th century — has been reopened after closing for more than two months.
many other restrictions are being lifted today in turkey — allowing travel between cities to resume, and the re—opening of cafes, restaurants and sporting facilities.
1 now the weather with tomasz schafernaker.
it has been so warm for the last few weeks, and very sunny too, another hit of a temperature blip in the next couple of days, from midweek onwards some of us will have a 10 degrees drop compared to what we have had recently.
the skies are clear across the , but to the north of us we are starting to see changes, closer to iceland and across the norwegian sea.
in fact, over the next few days we will see wind currents shifting.
rather than air coming in from the south, it will start come in from the north again, and the winds will strengthen again, so you can imagine it will feel a little bit colder.
now one thing that many gardeners and growers are hoping for is a bit of rainfall, and at the moment it looks as though in the next few days.
now, the late afternoon temperatures today, obviously not a drop of rain and very warm, 26 or 27 degrees, mid 205 in the north of the country as well, and to the very far north—west you can start to see the changes in that weather.
so with the first weather front approaching the very far north—west of scotland by the end of the night but for most of us it is clear again and copycat conditions on tuesday.
high pressure is essentially still in charge but there is this weak weather front that has sort of snuck into its edge here, so that does mean more cloud and the possibility of some rain across the highlands through the course of the day.
there could be some heavy showers in one or two spots across scotland and the very far north of england, but the vast majority of us on tuesday, tomorrow, again, another sunny day and a very warm one, too.
then from roundabout wednesday it starts to change.
you can see a weather front pretty much slicing the there in half.
so that means increasing amounts of rain.
in one or two spots it could be a little on the heavy side.
many of us will probablyjust have overcast skies and little bits and pieces of rain.
some of us will have mostly bright weather but the main feature is just how much cooler it will be.
12 in newcastle, and in the teens for everybody, and that cooler trend with more cloud and a chance of some rain, which is good news, will continue through the week.
this is news.
the headlines the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway — primary schools in england re—open
and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
we’re now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little bit more back to normal, but look, that isn’ an overnight, big bang thing.
it’ measured, progressive, we do it in a safe and responsible way.
in england, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree that it’ safe enough.
how is it safe to send back?
the pressure is being put back on to us and the children.
i woke up this morning and ifelt anxious, i know the logic and the science, but it’ still scary.
curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts in cities across the — sparked by the death in police custody of george floyd.
and, they’re off.
sort of.
horse racing is back — as the world of sport prepares to return, but in front of empty stands.
are slowly going to get their lives back to normal — as the biggest easing of lockdown measures since they were introduced in march gets underway.
ministers insist they’re following the science and taking the steps in a ‘very cautious’ way.
all four nations of the now have guidelines in place allowing more than two people to meet outside.
vulnerable people in england and wales — who have been advised to stay home since march — have been told they can go outdoors again.
but shielding advice in northern ireland and scotland hasn’ changed.
the first phase in the reopening of schools has begun in england, with children in nurseries and years one and six returning this morning.
and, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect shoppers and workers, open air markets and car showrooms in england are also able to trade again.
but the measures come as another group of public health officials warn the pace of change in england could lead to a rise in the infection rate.
in a moment we’ll be looking in more depth at the advice for parents — and the most vulnerable — but first, here’ duncan kennedy.
some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
it may not be a manic monday of openings but the lid on lockdown is starting to creek open.
at the sandbanks beach in dorset, the new week and new month brought more glorious sunshine.
from today, six people can now gather outside in england if they keep two metres apart.
so, what do people here think of that?
i think we just need to be cautious about it.
even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
everyone seems to respect other people’ space.
you see now there is a good amount of space between everybody on the beach.
you feel ?
i feel fine.
but local officials say with the numbers they have seen outside in recent days, the message about the rules still isn’ clear.
i think people are completely confused now by the rules.
they’re so inconsistent.
they don’ make any sense to people.
you ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’ know
and frankly they don’ care any more.
what now are the rules for gathering?
in england from today, groups of up to six can meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
in wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more than five miles from home to meet.
in scotland, up to eight people from a maximum of two households are able to meet outside.
whilst in northern ireland, groups of up to six can now also gather outside.
but everywhere, social—distancing rules apply.
all these changes in england, wales, northern ireland and scotland are dividing opinion.
it’ making some people nervous, but others say they welcome the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
the one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation, and it’ the one we have heard throughout this crisis, is that science must lead the way.
and the following of that science was again the government message today.
we must do this cautiously which is precisely what we’re doing.
we’ve also said if people comply with the rules and the test and trace system is up and running, which it has been since thursday, then there is a good likelihood we will not breach the value factor above one.
but some health professionals remain nervous about the speed of society’ reengagement.
i think it’ just a bit difficult to understand the message when you’re urging caution at the same time as saying that there are all these additional liberties to be taken.
now, don’ get me wrong.
the vast majority of the public will follow those guidelines extremely well but there is a danger there is a confusing message.
that whole national blended mood of the cautious and carefree was also shared by some people we spoke to in exeter today.
i’ delighted we can do it
but it is tinged with nervousness.
just a little bit concerned that it might be too early
and we might have a second wave.
loosening lockdown measures are a challenge for everyone in our changing world of inside outside living.
duncan kennedy, news, in dorset.
well, the daily coronavirus downing street briefing is due to get underway in around an hour — today led by the health secretary, matt hancock and professorjohn newton, national testing coodinator for england.
lets’ go to westminster and our chief political correspondent, vicki young.
the concern for some people is that the easing of the lockdown is too and too fast.
a lot of it comes to personal approach and rsonal circumstances and if you sten to the chancellor rishi sunak ging people to get back some of rmality and he is of kind of normality and he is of course focused on the economy and ing people back to work.
others getting peopla back to work.
others are very much focused on the health hich has been the main side which has been the main priority of course for the last months.
the government will these are tentative steps and his is not a free for all, but of rse if you look at those pictures the beaches at the weekend looks it like that but if you think out the reality of lives compared pre—lockdown we are not going to ormal.
many people are are still working home and if you re back in the office people are ing that in ferent doing that in different circumstances with the social ance and schools are opening but for a few years of pupils, ior is not going back at or efore september.
restaurants and , no cinemas and theatres, no rowded sporting events, so it is normal at the moment but there nxiety in government about etting this right and the truth is knows for certain what the outcome will be of all of this.
ran look at countries because even are are the ones who have had bad those are the ones who have had had outbreaks like italy and spain and , they have started to open up did so a few weeks ago, so they able to look at that and say, cautiously, we think this will be as long as people still remember to distance.
if you are socially distance.
if you are outside and socially distanced, they that can cut down on the think that ran cut down on the amount of transmissions of this .
there are fears that the ransmission rate, although it is neath one, it is still underneath one, it is still perilously close to one, between 0.
7 .
9, so ere are real dangers.
yes, not much room for manoeuvre, here is risk here and a lot of it will be about the amount of risk peopla to take.
they are that peopla want to take.
they are not going to eradicate that letely until there is a vaccine and that unfortunately does not seem ere very soon so in the meantime ministers have said you got to the man to live with the virus and that is it is about ging the way you do things —— inisters ave said you have got to arn to live with the virus.
they ant to hasise the message that has grown from a stay at home to the distancing, but you must not orget that that still matters an lot, whatever you are doing, though some restrictions have lifted, it is important that keep doing that, and that is hether you are in a school or an ice or on public transport, they be hoping they can open up bits the onomy and get people back to but without the rate going up over one.
thanks for ing us.
parents across england faced a dilemma this morning — is it safe for children to go back to school?
after six weeks closed because of the coronavirus, primary schools re—opened this morning but parents don’ have to send their children back, and many teachers’ unions are warning it’ too soon for them to do so.
kevin courtney is joint head of the national education union, hejoins me now from north london.
back to school in england today?
we don’ think it is right, we think it too early.
we want children to be back chool, every school as been open for key workers dren and vulnerable children and we want to get to wide opening as as we can but we think some quickly as we ran but we think some caution is needed in the way that cientists are talking about, evitably going back to school ans there is more contact and ere is a rise in the rate cause of that and less the contact ing is up and running to counter at there danger of a second peak which would be bad for the omy and bad for children’ ducation.
holding on a bit now in to slow down that grow, we hink that would be important.
the ernment did not agree and at some schools have reopened in england.
as far as you ran tell, what has been esponse and how many parents ave been sending back their ldren?
we will wait and see the lute figures but we are hearing figures around 50%.
it is only a nority of ols that have opened minority of schools that have opened all four groups that the government and there are lots of schools hat have delayed and there are no ools in durham that have moved to wide opening today or in rseyside and coventry, and so ere are other places where heads taking a decision to go a bit and open next monday or the nday after or open
semi monday after or just open semi - , and i wonder if the government might secretly be pleased that —— open some groups.
the fact that ome heads are taking it a slower might mean there’ less to rate.
we want to get risk to the rate.
we want to get back to wide opening and do it and if it takes a bit longer we think that is a sensible of time.
side of that of course is hat the flip side of that of course is that children are missing a huge of their education, months at they were not get back, and are vulnerable children who need to be at school and also ings today about depression and eliness in children and young ple by not going to schools and iversities.
we absolutely agree that, having the lockdown is very negative, not for children for hose people we’re shielding, ant to get out of ockdown, as quickly we can.
but it uld be a big false economy would be a really big false economy to do it too soon to get a second and then to have the lockdown gain, that would be worse the ldren’ education.
i agree about threat to vulnerable children in situation, and we want them to back at school.
we are worried the children’ will come back - the hildren who come back are kely to be the not from the likely to be the one not from the most vulnerable groups and that be an issue, as well.
what is he key test for you think it not exactly 100% safe but relatively enough for schools to reopen?
in your book, what is the st, the rate?
it is important to say nothing can be fectly fe, you can get run over perfectly safe, you ran get over them to the shops, so no one is talking about completely safe.
we are not scientists but what we are ening to it’ what scientists say about this matter we have had five tests that we have been alking about, and the first one of is that the case count needs be low ugh that contact to be low enough that contact tracing ran work properly.
that to me to be what the scientists from the group that out over the weekend were spoke out over the weekend were saying, that it takes more time to he contact tracing working, tact tracing is people people ay it has in other countries say it has worked in other countries but it ran hold the rate down when go of other measures, we you let go of other measures, we hope that is true, but scientists aying that our contact tracing is not working well enough here.
we ran wish the government had got it ing during the period of lockdown but it is not yet working.
tists that we have spoken to, he ex chief scientific adviser to vernment, he said we are 2—3 eeks away rom getting contact acing working
and that would be time.
those are the figures ’re looking at because the entists are giving us that of formation.
good to talk to you.
vin courtney, joint head of the tional teaching union.
there’ been a sixth night of unrest across the united states.
rfews are in force in nearly a0 cities — but many are being ignored as demonstrations continue over the death of an unarmed black man in police custody.
james robbins looks at the situation across the .
the anger, protests, fires and looting have spread widely across the united states.
but this is where it all began.
almost a week after a police officer in minneapolis killed an unarmed black man, thousands gathered outside the state capital, confronted by police and troops from the national guard.
the focus of anger is clear from the chants, placards and masks.
the death of george floyd has provoked a sense of outrage that racism is still widespread, too often ignored and unpunished.
all these voices are here because the same thing keeps happening over and over again, it’ the new lynching.
i’ just really hoping justice is served, that the people responsible are held accountable and i don’ have to do this again, i don’ want to be here.
: hands up, don’ shoot!
the anger is spreading across the united states.
in kansas city, these demonstrators want their police under tighter local control, with the citizens review board to help investigate misconduct.
no violence!
one officer pleaded with the crowd not to resort to violence and even made an extraordinary gesture of solidarity, which is steeped with meaning in today’ america.
take a knee.
the killing of george floyd last week has terribly undermined whatever progress may have been made in recent years.
and the fact that only one policeman, derek chauvin, has been charged with murder, and that others who stood by do not face prosecution, has fuelled the protests and violence.
night—time curfews have been imposed in nearly a0 american cities, but many people have ignored them.
thank you.
in minneapolis, 3 german correspondent reported police targeting him and threatening his team with arrest.
get inside now!
where would you like us to go?
0!
thank you, officer.
in san diego, largely peaceful protests turned violent, as police used tear gas and pepper balls in the city.
they were enforcing, they said, an unlawful assembly order.
hands up!
in new york city, violence including looting was widespread, despite appeals for this to stop from those who want to honour george floyd.
fires were started with no sign of angerfading, almost a week after his killing.
in brooklyn, a woman made her own peaceful gesture, but the wider reality is that the united states has not seen racial tensions explode on this scale since the 1960.
james robbins, news.
the death of george floyd in police custody has not only sparked protests across the — but in the as well.
the ’ shamaan freeman—powell has been speaking to black british people to find out how the shocking death has affected them.
i felt like someone had personally attacked me or done something to me personally.
the image of a white male police officer kneeling ack man’ neck 7 there is on a black man’ neck ?
there is an internal fire within me that starts to burn like a furnace and i get angry and mad and i want to do thing about it.
i was disgusted i still haven’ been able to the full nine minutes, it is umatic.
the first thing i think , but if that was my brother, my band, my brother, my dad?
it is ike we are reliving the same movie year, like a new list of black that are being killed.
we see things like this all the time, and times even as black people, even ugh we are shocked we are also esensitised to it.
2015 if there a period where there were people ying every week
and it was, i can’ , don’ shoot, and that the end that the person i started to come was just angry.
that is what corrosive and dangerous about itutional racism, you can still be tionally and physically hurt ven though it happens across the side of the world.
it is a of oppression which is happens over time —— which is thing hat happens over time.
scary, really, it almost feels like and the idea of seeing black people as lesser is brushed under carpet.
and search in the the carpet.
stop and search in the is targeting black people ifically.
those that live in ass houses should not throw ones, that is what we should ember.
it is important for them remember they are not alone.
single black person, no matter here you are from, no matter where he road, we all deal with similar struggles.
similar stmgglas.
if black peopla i never thought of the comfortable to his is what we are going through, nothing will change.
-- i never afforded to be comfortable tion to say.
this year’ summer reading challenge lineup has been announced — with a host of big names lending their support.
the scheme, which reaches out to over 700,000 children each summer, will be hosted online this year owing to the pandemic.
the aim of the challenge is to make sure children continue to read during the longer summer holidays — with this year’ event starting earlier than usual to support parents and carers with children already at home.
well, we can speak to now to one of the ambassadors, bestselling author and illustrator rob biddulph.
and congratulations on getting a blue peter badge!
what of the lenge is it so important to get children reading over the er?
they want to encourage summer?
they want to encourage primary school age children so 4—11 reading over the summer to keep reading over the summer holidays because traditionally there blip in reading over that time, obviously, ithink to fish it is re important than ever rause of school life has been so srupted —— i think this year it is ore important ever.
it is very important that we encourage them to reading and have some kind focus to that regard, apart from ything else i think it really parents and carers find a fun ivity to help maintain those teracy levels at this crucial time heir development.
we have been scussing the return to schools day for some primary schools but ourse they have missed out weeks weeks of their education, which are not going to get back.
that true, it is very difficult, and been doing a series of videos help parents have a little bit of tine in their lives because me—schooling is not something rents have trained in at all.
that is right these kind of tiatives are really important.
act we are launching it earlier than ual can only be a help for arents, ithink.
is your experience of ding amongst young eople and children in particular?
sumption is that with mobile phones and so on, so much digital nology, that people are reading lass, is at right?
how do we get hem to read more, if so?
one in children in england still can’ ead a particularly whereby the age 11, so it is oblem, and i do of“, so it is a problam, and i do lots of school visits and one of the questions i ask my hands up has a bedtime story and metimes it is heartbreaking how hands go up and then you nvestigate a bit further and it out these people don’ even a single book in their home.
ybe it is because of the evalence of screens and ipads and igital things, really is tragic.
we will key in this age is reading for pleasure.
that the thing, you can get children ading for asure, it has been roven that is more important in of determining their ducational success than their socio economic status, for xample, and those kids that read pleasure, they are more likely go on to a more fulfilled life, managerial or professional later in fe, and so it is clear at we get them early and get them eally kind of erested in really kind of interested in reading, not because they have to come about because they want to.
it develops a curious mind which will them in great stead for the stand them in great stead for the rest of their lives.
we can see some our books ind you, what is of your books behind you, what is your secret to unlocking a child’ nation?
that is a good imagination?
that is a good question!
i wish i knew, lly.
i think the key is as a children’ or you don’ talk down to author you don’ talk down to children and you to involve them story.
the books i write, are picture books and they really young ones, from ages ive - even so that experience is ten a joint perience, reading with mum or dad or carer on a -to-one is.
you will key in hat situation is the one—to—one and here are no screens time and there are no screens around, just you and mum and dad ing a book, and the child wants know what happens over the page just for the sake of the njoyment of reading and progressing , and i think that is really important.
there’ a certain amount eractivity with my books cause i illustrate my books as so you include lots of levels detail in your stories so the might spot something on the urth or ifth grade had not spotted before and that adds an ent to the story —— frith read.
as authors illustrators we rive to do this.
great to talk to, deserving of the blue peter dge!
thanks for ining us.
the queen has been photographed riding in the grounds of windsor castle — the first time she’ been seen outside since the coronavirus lockdown began.
the queen was pictured on one of her ponies — a year old called balmoral fern.
she’ been isolating at windsor with her husband, the duke of edinburgh, and a small number of staff.
on what is another sunny day for us, new figures show we’ve just had the sunniest spring since records began in 1929.
the met office says the amount of sunshine across the has been "absolutely extrordinary".
roger harrabin has been looking at the reasons behind it — and asking whether the glorious weather is also a cause for concern.
the sun has made lockdown so much easier to beer for those lucky enough to get outside.
we’ve seen record sunshine in all the home nations, barely a drop of rain.
but the statistics have dumbfounded scientists.
look at the numbers.
on average, the gets a36 hours of spring sun.
the previous record is 555 of sun between march and the end of may.
this year, we’ve bathed in 613 hours and that’ still rising until final figures later today.
a met office spokesperson said they were staggered by the statistics.
they are very un—british.
especially following the drenching winter, which saw widespread flooding and the wettest february on record.
one extreme to another.
both phenomena are driven by the jet stream, the high—level wind that can lock weather patterns in place for long periods.
the contrast is unprecedented.
it’ the shift from the amount of rainfall that we saw during the winter, so december, january and february, into the spring months, march, april, may.
that is the largest difference in rainfall that we have seen from a notably wet season, the winter season, into spring.
we’ve never seen that before.
and we do shift from wetter seasons to seasons and vice versa, we have seen prolonged droughts in the past, and we have seen wetter seasons in the past.
but it’ the largest difference that we have ever recorded and that is i use the word unprecedented.
you can blame the jet stream.
that’ the high—level wind that can lock in place weather patterns in the , whether they are wet or dry.
is man—made climate change playing a part?
well, we know it’ warming the arctic, melting ice and causing wildfires in places like siberia, which hit record temperatures recently.
is this affecting the jet stream?
scientists are not yet sure.
they do know this fine spell is set to end, so enjoy it while you can.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with tomasz.
hello.
the 1st ofjune marks the first day of summer, at least that is what meteorologists’ say, although midsummer’ day is still a while away.
look across the today, hardly a cloud in the sky, late afternoon temperatures will range from the high 205 for a few areas in the south to around about 20 in northern scotland.
very little happening on the weather front tonight, a case of clear skies.
and that’ a sign of things to come in the coming days.
through the course of tuesday we will have increasing amounts of cloud through scotland and late in the day showers developing over the highlands, but elsewhere tomorrow it will be another very warm and very sunny day but a big temperature contrast between the very far north and the far south.
this is news.
i’ ben brown.
the headlines: the biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is under way, as primary schools in england re—open and it’ back to business too for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
we’re now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little bit more back to normal.
but that isn’ an overnight, big bang thing.
it is measured.
it is progressive.
we do it in a safe and responsible way.
in england, more children have returned to primary schools, but not all parents agree that it’ safe enough.
how is it safe to send back?
the pressure is all being put on us as parents and teachers and on the children.
i have to say, i woke up and i did feel quite anxious this morning.
it’ i know the logic, i know the science but even so, it’ quite scary.
nice to be out in the sunshine.
confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable.
in scotland
, nicola sturgeon says she will not hesitate to use the law to enforce group sizes and travel distances, after there was a five—fold increase in police dispersal orders.
good afternoon.
we’re building up to today’ downing street briefing, led by health secretary matt hancock.
ministers have been trying to reassure people that they are not relaxing lockdown measures too fast.
the chancellor rishi sunak said the lifting of lockdown has been carefully planned.
so, let’ remind ourselves of what is changing.
all four nations of the now have guidelines in place allowing more than two people to meet outside.
vulnerable people in england and wales, who have been advised to stay home since march, have been told they can go outdoors again.
but shielding advice in northern ireland and scotland hasn’ changed.
the first phase in the reopening of schools has begun in england, with children in nurseries and years 1 and 6 returning this morning.
and, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect shoppers and workers, open air markets and car showrooms in england are also able to trade again.
but the measures come as another group of public health officials warn the pace of change could lead to a rise in the infection rate.
here’ duncan kennedy.
some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
it may not be a manic monday of openings but the lid on lockdown is starting to creek open.
at the sandbanks beach in dorset, the new week and new month brought more glorious sunshine.
from today, six people can now gather outside in england if they keep two metres apart.
so, what do people here think of that?
i think we just need to be cautious about it.
even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
everyone seems to respect other people’ space.
you see now there is a good amount of space between everybody on the beach.
you feel ?
i feel fine.
but local officials say with the numbers they have seen outside in recent days, the message about the rules still isn’ clear.
i think people are completely confused now by the rules.
they’re so inconsistent.
they don’ make any sense to people.
you ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’ know
and frankly they don’ care any more.
what now are the rules for gathering?
in england from today, groups of up to six can meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
in wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more than five miles from home to meet.
in scotland, up to eight people from a maximum of two households are able to meet outside.
whilst in northern ireland, groups of up to six can now also gather outside.
but everywhere, social distancing rules apply.
all these changes in england, wales, northern ireland and scotland are dividing opinion.
it’ making some people nervous, but others say they welcome the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
the one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation, and it’ the one we have heard throughout this crisis, is that science must lead the way.
and the following of that science was again the government message today.