you’re watching newsday on the .
i’ sharanjit leyl in singapore.
the headlines: possible murder charges for the head of a south korean religious sect over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
in the , there are concerns the virus could have been circulating for weeks — up to 1,500 people may be infected.
i’ samantha simmonds in london.
also in the programme.
in the election campaign, mayor pete buttigieg pulls out — it could be a boost forjoe biden’ campaign.
after the —taliban agreement, the qatari mediator tells us that outside countries could still wreck the chances for peace in afghanistan.
live live from our studios in the army has been deployed to deal with south korea’ latest threat.
they’re battling this virus with disinfectant, but as more cases are confirmed, it appears this is a war they’re not winning.
a lot of public anger has been aimed at this secretive religious sect.
the infection has spread rapidly among the followers of shincheonji church ofjesus.
and as officials raced to trace the outbreak, it’ claimed leaders hid the names of members.
now they’re being accused of murder.
in a rare interview, the church denied all charges.
: we feel very sorry for causing concern and worry to the people of korea and the world.
i understand if people criticise us.
but rather than point fingers, we think what’ more important is to end this situation and to make sure no more confirmed cases come out.
meanwhile, hospitals in daegu have been overwhelmed.
at least three people have died while waiting for a bed.
doctors believe it’ time to free up space for the most serious patients.
: we can’ quarantine and treat all patients.
those who have mild should stay at home and get treated.
we should change our end goal strategy to lower death rates.
thousands fear they have the virus and are lining up to be tested.
these drive—through clinics speed up the process.
south korea is using every resource it has and still this infection continues to spread.
laura bicker, news, seoul.
the coronavirus has now infected more than 88,000 people and spread to more than 60 countries around the world, rattling global markets and prompting unprecedented measures from governments.
in europe, italy has been the worst hit.
the number of cases has spiked and 3a have now died.
courtney bembridge reports.
fears over the virus have pushed italy’ economy to the a recession, and brink of a recession, and looking at these quiet canals enice, ’ not hard to see in venice, it’ not hard to see why.
nine days ago, italy knew three seemingly of just three seemingly isolated cases.
there are no more than 1700 nationwide.
in the north, italian soldiers olled checkpoints outside 1 towns, home to 50,000 ople.
no one is allowed in or out.
the regions under lockdown, generate around a of italy’ economic third of italrs economic output, , home to everything from houses to cheese and dairy rocessing centres.
even parts he country not affected by virus are taking a hit.
talrs ’ tourism agency says 90% tel and travel agency but still enough bookings for march cancelled in rome and up up and ancellad in rome and up to 801: in sicily.
tourists did up to lure museum in paris, but they were left ting outside, after staff refused to go to work.
on twitter that people a have een waiting for three urs, so, yeah, we are not ing to do that.
if it takes long, we will go too long, we willjust go somewhere else.
eventually, the tors all left, with the visitors all left, with the promise of a refund.
the sure came after the closure came after the government cancelled all herings of more than 5000 eopla in confined spaces.
aff argue that’ a normal day he museum.
as fears sweeps continents, facemasks are a premium, he health minister in france and tzerland have urged citizens to go to the forgo the greeting of a kiss on each ek, as well as the customary dshake.
this video is being ared online showing an lternate greeting, but still isease spreads, and the ‘zech the disease spreads, and the czech republic has no istered its first three cases.
there was some good news ourists locked down at a for tourists locked down at a hotel on the spanish island of beef.
they are now free leave if they test negative the virus and promised to ontinue their period of olation in their home ountries.
the state of shington has declared a state mergency after its first tep from the virus.
there are ears virus has been in no fears the virus has been in the community undetected for , after scientists found imilarities between new ronavirus samples and those rom an diagnosed patient six eeks ago.
that could mean up 00 500 people have been infected.
courtney bainbridge, ews.
also making news today.
an australian investigation has found evidence that detained chinese uighurs are being used as forced labour in factories that produce global brands.
it said this was part of what china calls the re—education of muslim uighurs.
the report added that the uighurs were not able to refuse the work placements.
greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants crossing over the and border from turkey, which is struggling to deal with the number of people fleeing syria’ civil war.
the turkish president has said he will break his country’ unless he gets greater support for his intervention in syria.
new research suggests that australian summers are now twice as long as winters — due to climate change.
the policy group, the australia institute, says raised temperatures mean that summers are a month longer than half a century ago, while winters have contracted by three weeks.
a warm winter in 2019 has, for the first time, caused the failure of germany’ harvest of ice wine grapes.
the drink is a dessert wine produced from grapes that have frozen while still on the vine.
none of germany’ 13 wine—growing regions reached the required low temperatures to produce the rare wine.
let’ bring you some breaking news.
114.
media has been reporting that pete buttigieg, the former ana mayor, is pulling out indiana mayor, is pulling out of the race to become the ocratic party’ presidential ndidate.
the 38—year—old ame the first openly gay contender when he announced he was running for the democratic nomination.
he narrowly one the iowa caucuses last onth and came in a earty last month and fame in a strong second place in the new shire primary but faltered adly and saturday’ south rolina vote.
that was won by former vice presidentjoe biden.
his resounding victory dramatically revived his bid to win nomination.
our north america editor jon sopel reports.
so it would seem reports ofjoe biden’ imminent demise were much exaggerated.
the former vice president’ southern firewall proved to be rock solid and flame retardant.
his first victory tasted sweet.
now, thanks to all of you, the heart of the democratic party, we just won, and we won big because of you.
and we are very much alive.
what made the difference was that this was the first state to vote with a significant african—american population.
their support for him was almost as enormous as the food portions in this spartanburg diner.
joe biden.
you’re biden?
yeah,
i like biden.
because he’ an honest man.
biden is probably my top choice.
bernie sanders is the standard bearer for the left in this gruelling contest.
he came in second last night, but is expected to return to frontrunner status on super tuesday, in a couple of days’ time, when states vote.
you cannot win them all.
there’ a lot of states out there, and tonight we did not win in south carolina.
at this college, they are getting ready for the new baseball season.
and among young people, bernie sanders is the runaway favourite.
for all that, there is a clear majority supporting a centrist like joe biden.
the trouble is, that vote is being split by another of other candidates who are also moderates.
or to put it in baseball terms, there seems no—one capable of knocking it out of the park.
jon sopel, news, spartanburg, south carolina.
and we are expecting to hear from pete buttigieg in the next or so.
of course we will bring you that live on world news.
the afghan government has started picking over the details of the deal signed by the taliban and the on saturday.
the historic deal will see thousands of american troops leave afghanistan in return for commitments from the taliban — the focus is now on how the deal will be implemented and if promises will be kept.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet has this report.
the first win for afghans, a week of relative calm.
what was called a reduction in violence before the signing of a deal.
what happens now?
at least not in the public document, but in doha and kabul, they will keep monitoring it, so i asked qatar’ special envoy, will this partial truce continue?
we hope it will contine.
the parties and the peoples of afghanistan, so the result in the reduction of violence, how many lives we saved, they saved, and i think they have more religious us and legal obligations.
and if they don’ respect them?
well, again, we hope they hope is not a strategy, as the pentagon likes to say.
we hope they respect their obligation in accordance with their agreement, but i’ sure if there’ a violation from one side, the other side have the right to self—defense, to act accordingly, but, again, this is not the solution.
what the taliban want to see next is the prisoner release, they say up to 5000 men will be freed.
but in kabul, the president made it clear that’ up to his government — the taliban had been refusing to talk to them.
we need to engage the parties to have a proper discussion about the way forward, and they think they should compromise
and i hope the parties move forward.
this is the beginning of the talks, should start today, and i hope we can do something in the coming days.
if you had to choose one thing that worries you, that could cause this deal to unravel, what would it be?
the spoilers.
i think.
the spoilers is a major obstacle in the past, and i’ afraid it might be this obstacle might you know, remain.
but i hope with this momentum and with the pressure from certain major powers, the spoilers should back off.
the spoilers are in afghanistan or in neighbouring countries?
mostly i would say in neighbouring countries.
pakistan, iran?
i’ not going to comment on this.
i willjust you can ask the taliban, and they will tell you.
a lasting cease—fire, a peace deal are on the agenda for afghan talks.
they are expected to start this month, if all goes as planned.
lyse doucet, news, doha.
you’re watching newsday on the .
still to come on the programme: we’ll hearfrom asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who spent years sentenced to death for alleged blasphemy.
she reveals how her faith helped her through her ordeal.
first, the plate slipped gently off the restaurant tables.
then enly, the tables, the suddenly, the tables, the chairs and the people crashed ways and downwards.
it was a matter of seconds as the lurched onto her side.
hydrogen bomb.
on a remote cific atoll, the americans successfully tested a weapon force dwarfed that the bomb dropped on roshima.
i saw it went back, ck, backstopping the rights ese mergers are their rights as citizens of the ted states, and they should protected even in the right est them out so that they on’ get their heads and sent ospital.
this religious ontroversy, i don’ want to say too much about it.
it worries me, yes, but i hope erything be all right in everything will be all right in the end of the day.
this is newsday on the .
thanks for staying with us.
i’ sharanjit leyl in singapore.
i’ samantha simmons in london.
our top stories: the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
american media are reporting that the democratic party presidential contender pete buttigieg is pulling out of the white house race.
let’ take a look at some front pages from around the world.
the japan times is leading with a story criticising the prime minister handling of the coronavirus outbreak.
the paper says that critics are slamming shinzo abe for being "invisible" on the issue over the last month.
singapore’ straits times leads with analysis of the political situation in malaysia after the country’ new prime minister — muhyiddin yassin — was sworn in on sunday.
the paper says the turmoil is far from over, with former prime minister mahathir mohamed claiming that his successor does not have majority support in the house.
and finally, the philippines star is predicting that injust 10 years’ time, china’ navy will be the world’ largest.
they cite a retired navy admiral who claims that while the still dominates the seas, china is fast catching up.
the star says that beijing’ rapid naval growth is 3 concerning sign for the phillipines in the south china see.
and that brings you up—to—date with some of those papers.
samantha, what stories are sparking discussions online?
: not surprisingly, it’ a lot about the coronavirus.
and its impact of the coronavirus outbreak on sporting events is attracting a lot of interest.
on sunday, we saw the tokyo marathon crowds reduced from 38,000 runners to just 200 overfears of contagion.
the sumo spring tournament which opens next sunday injapan will be held behind closed doors.
the athletics world indoor championships, scheduled to take place in china next month, are already off and many are nervously waiting to see what will happen to the olympic games this summer.
indeed.
let’ get more on the coronavirus outbreak.
sarah borwein is a family doctor in hong kong.
she told me how it compared to the sars outbreak, way back in 2003.
in beijing, for a long time, there is denial that there was an epidemic, and it was really the scariest thing at ime.
i think there is some ilarities.
i even wrote at time that china was a radox because freedom of eech was still a work in rogress and yet their ability ake effective action had to mmand respect, and to some ent that is still the case now.
really have to respect the effective action borwein you’re saying china is ing some rides.
let’ look at the outbreak of it happen it ilar ime of ear, winter a similar time of year, winter session, so do you see the same with ?
did it thing with ?
did it dissipate or did we manage to rol it through very intensive public health sures?
i do that is mething we don’ know.
while is empting speculative it is tempting to speculative mice go away in the summer ths, i don’ thing we can afford to that assumption.
ight.
and at what is your ofessional opinion on how the is coping with this articular outbreak?
are you ing asia has learned some essons from and is erefore dealing with this omewhat better than europe for ance?
i think it remains to instance?
i think it remains to be seen exactly how europe will with this, but i do think hat there is a sense of pared.
and at will happen in europe is till to be seen.
it is ested.
you of course are eeing a lot of patients rried about this particular tbreak.
tell us about the ntal health of some of the tients you have encountered.
’ interesting.
i am sure, like ngapore in a way but ven more in hong kong, the ople who are here in 2003, population is a bit raumatised what happened .
i really thought that that would play out and people would be very nxious about the disease.
tually, most people take a sible middle ground here.
understand that public risk is very large.
111: but we do see is the mental health aspect of the isolation ures that have been going measures that have been going on since january.
the schools been out since then, the have been out since then, the home—schooling, many people are king from , many people working from home, many peopla working -- so it is not much fun.
sarah borwein earlier.
asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who spent years on death row after being convicted of blasphemy, has said she hopes to be able to return to pakistan one day.
she was in paris for the release of her memoir, finally free, in which she recounts her time in jail and her brutal treatment by guards.
in the second part of an interview with the ’ mishal husain, bibi says herfaith helped her through the ordeal.
nearly ten yea ago, a christian woman from pakistan’ ect province was sentenced to death for blasphemy.
it was that spark international tention and outrage.
and even asia bibi was finally acquitted by pakistan’ highest , huge protests prevented her immediate release.
she now new life and here has a new life and here in paris, she has been telling me tory.
her story.
: i suffered a lot the jail.
i cannot even tell you what happens to me.
i lived through all this misery, but god gave me patience and i got a lot of strength.
you not magine, but i have witnessed miracles.
is difficult for you to talk about use you write in the book about how you were held by the and how difficult that time was for you.
what was it gave you ope in this eriod?
: my strength fame my faith, and i learned hat you should be courageous you should be strong in your faith, you should never lose your faith.
after ything you have been hrough, how would you describe emotions today?
do you feel bitterness?
do you feel ?
anger?
: no.
i am not angry ll.
iforgiven eryone at all.
i forgiven everyone from my heart and there is no feeling for me.
there is hard feeling for me.
there is patience.
i learned how to be ent after having to leave surprises me even.
how have i learned to be so patient?
how mother he patient after ran any mother be patient after leaving her children?
but god me patient
and i survive the hardships turn my way ough my patients.
there are eople today in jail facing asphemy charges.
what would say to hem?
you say to them?
: i can give them .
lam now free.
hope.
i am now free.
i am outside.
i want to request all a that they should work so media that they should work so she is also freed
and i can her at there will be a tell her that there will be a day when she will also be free.
bibi’ long ordeal is now asia bibi’ long ordeal is now over, but the issue of sphemy in pakistan is not full sub there are still stions and muslims being targeted by the lot today —— are still christians and there are still christians and muslims.
the question is ther the country will take action to prevent abuses and to ect its citizens, whatever heir religion.
we put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to the authorities in pakistan.
they said pakistan has taken considerable steps to prevent its possible misuse and constantly reviews its implementation.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
the acquittal of asia bibi is a testimony of pakistan’ resolve to protect its citizens as per its constitution.
about the allegations of abuse in prison, they responded you have been watching newsday.
thanks very much for being with us.
i’ samantha simmonds in london.
and i’ sharanjit leyl in singapore.
stay with us.
we will be looking at the impact the coronavirus outbreak is having on india’ manufacturing industries as disruptions to the supply chain from china continue.
just before we go, we’ like to leave you with pictures of russians bidding farewell to winter and welcoming spring.
this is russia’ pre—lent festival known as maslenitsa — better known as pancake week.
:
notjust a day there, they have a whole week of it!
it has its roots in pagan traditions, when people marked the end of winter and the beginning of spring with massive bonfires.
the festival eventually became part of russian orthodox christian tradition and it is now a week of folk celebration and plenty of feasting on blini, the traditional russian pancake that symbolizes the sun.
: we certainly had lots of pancakes here last tuesday.
know about you.
that’ all for now.
stay with us on world news.
hello.
with rivers running high many fields still derwater, we could do with a ttle bit of better weather and to a certain degree, ’ll get that this week.
it’ ely to be completely but rtainly compared with recent eks, it won’ be anywhere as wet or is wendy.
the stream is taking a re southerty track but all that mean is we are into does mean is we are into cooler air.
it will ainly be chillier certainly be chillier particular by night, with frost ly.
and that is how we likely.
and that is how we start the monday morning mute.
more in the way of frost and ice around.
not quite osty toward southern as frosty toward southern counties of england.
outbreak ring here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing morning, clearing away east anglia and southeast ite smartly but than rightening up.
showers in the .
in mixer of rain hail, leet and snow.
more of you spend the day complete the , with one or two showers assing away.
winds will erall be latest.
not could be ite as cold during the fternoon, but the breeze will icking up across the northwest later.
we could see for a time during monday gills for a time during monday night into tuesday.
more in the showers starting to way of showers starting to develop through the night and will push their way eastwards.
in the hills in thern ireland in northern gland’.
emperatures will be close to freezing in many areas.
frost and ice, the test risk.
cultus of the weather first thing on tuesday ing towards the east.
this morning towards the east.
this is a set up for tuesday —— ultist the weather.
more occultist of the weather.
more rain bearing weather fronts the to down towards france and road to down towards france and iberia things to that southern .
it could be close enough produce some rain.
more ecially in the channel slands.
more showers around by large to start tuesday rning.
a wintry mix.
those ill clear away and it is back unshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
wers mainly across some estern areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
as we head into the middle part of eek, it looks like many will still stay largely dry.
some showers around here still some showers around here and there.
chance of some rain to to the south coast on close to the south coast on wednesday but overall, ontinue with that largely ry.
it changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
sday night into friday, thursday night into friday, we’ll see a weather pushing .
this will bring us only east.
this will bring us only spell of rain briefly.
the ains some more wet and windy weather towards the end week and into next week of the week and into next week and.
by and large, still the responding to the rain, with the forecast towards of the week, never to the end of the week, never to stay too far from our flood rnings, re for you online.
i’ samantha simmonds with world news.
our top story.
the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over some of the country’ coronavirus deaths.
the infection has spread rapidly among the sect’ followers, and the authorities say its leaders concealed the names of members.
after saturday’ deal signed between the united states and the taliban, the qatari mediator has told the that what he called outside spoilers will to wreck it.
and this story is trending on .
com australia’ summers have become twice as long as its winters with increasing temperatures driven by climate change, according to new weather analysis.
the australia institute found that summer across most of the country over the past 20 years was about a month longer than in the mid—20th century while winters had become shorter.
stay with world news.
now on news it’ time for hard talk.
welcome to hardtalk with me.
we are in cape town.
the cape is the stronghold of south africa’ main opposition party, the democratic alliance, the .
and when it elected its first black leader five years ago, many believed it was the start of a new era, my guest is mmusi maimane, and this is his first interview to an international broadcaster since he stepped down as democratic alliance leader in october.
what does his resignation tell us about race and politics in south africa today?
mmusi maimane in cape town, welcome to hardtalk.
thank you very much for having me.
did you step down as leader of the democratic alliance in october?
well, i thought, at that point, that the and i did not share a common vision.
at first, i pursued the vision of a nonracial south africa, i believe the needed to govern in more places, that the needed to grow in the majority of south africans who are black, and there were a few people inside the who thought it would be important for them to create an organisation that served a particular race, and i felt that at that time, there were divisions of which direction we should take and that was important for me not to serve in that kind of context.
when you became leader in 2015, may, you said you wanted to take the race out of south african politics, so are you basically saying now that you failed to do that?
no, i think it was important.
when i took over as leader of the in 2015, i made it very clear, i said, "if you don’ see that i’ black, you don’ see me.
" i became very deliberate about saying to him actually, the needed to be an organisation for all races.
that, in fact, the only way to deal with race in south africa is when you can bring black people and white people to work together, and
then but you failed to do that.
no.
you did.
let me just tell you what a well—known commentator respected here in south africa said, "unfortunately, many "people see "mmusi maimane as something as a puppet, "that there are powers behind the operation that are not black.
" so, basically, you arejust a symbol, and there were the white members of the pulling the strings.
fundamentally not true.
i fought hard that we govern injohannesburg.
and when you think about governing injohannesburg, that requires that actually black people, white people, people voted for the , and they are working together.
i produce the most diverse caucus of the democratic alliance of those different races.
we fought hard for that.
the only failure that i would look at, when you pursue nine racialism, it doesn’ always get rewarded at the polls, and so when we lost 1.
5% of the vote in the national elections in 2019, there were few people who started to attack this idea of non—racialism.
it is what is the future of south africa, and if we start to regress away from that, south africa will become even further polarised.
let me just explain commentators like that do say that you were, sorry to put it crudely, a puppet on a string, you have your predecessor as leader of the democratic alliance, the , she was in power from 2007—2015, she is a veteran south african politician, a former mayor of cape town here, premier of the western cape, you name it, and she’ now been appointed as the chair of the federal council of the .
she really was calling the shots, wasn’ she, in the ?
absolutely not.
when i took on the , you will remember, that in my tunure, helen and i, in fact, had an open confrontation, where i said to her, some of the statements that she was making or not the things that she could say.
she didn’ resign though is premier for the western cape, when you said that to her.
she said, for example, that south africa’ legacy had made a positive contribution, what you objected to.
i objected strongly, and, actually, insisted that she didn’ serve in the council in the federal executive, and she agreed to that, if you will understand it.
but she didn’ resign as premier of western cape.
i didn’ ask her to resign from that, i asked her to resign from all the structures of the , that is the federal executive and the federal council.
when she then got elected, it then became very clear that, of course, both of us in that context could not pursue the same vision, because i was pursuing a vision that is particularly different to hers.
so i’ very comfortable, i think that that statement suggests but that’ the point i’ making, that she is now, an analyst, he says, the return of hell into one of the parties top three leadership posts was essentially confirmation that mmusi maimane’ on colleagues within the federal council had lost faith in his leadership.
completely wrong.
she’ in a position of power, you are out to.
completely not.
it was a symbolic response to what happened in the elections in 2019.
it had nothing to do and the projects that i pursued, ill remember, that in fact, we were looking at governments injohannesburg, we were looking at the complexities of that.
i’ comfortable that it wasn’ even a vote of no—confidence against my own leadership, it was in fact, the position that she plays is not one of leader, it’ one of chairman of the party.
and, frankly, at my own behest, had i stayed in the party, i would’ve continued to pursue the vision that i had.
what i wasn’ willing to do is to force south africa into this very debate that we are having, where people say, well, 'berause there are white people in the party, "they must be the ones that are in charge and not a black "south african in place.
you said in your resignation speech in october that there has been, for several months, consistent and coordinated attempt to undermine your my leadership, and ensure that either this project failed or i failed.
you said this extended to the smear campaign that was run on the front pages of an african weekly paper in attempt to destroy my name and my integrity.
completely.
what kind of smears are we talking about?
it happens in a political party where sometimes, actually didn’ do the job they were supposed to do.
started to leak false information about me, but my own leadership, started to infect publicly, run these campaigns, —— in —— infect.
because all they wanted it was a that represents a particular race, a minority race.
and because they knew themselves that had they gone to a ’ congress, they wouldn’ be able to muster the numbers.
they started to attack me personally.
what kind of things did they say that really upset you?
suddenly, they started to raise questions about my own home, which were not true.
they started to raise issues about the vehicle i was driving, which were not true, and so all of this, to sort of create a sort of sense of doubt was the sort of lack of moral fortitude that those people demonstrate that ultimately led to a point where i felt that the environment within which we were working was toxic, it was not right.
was toxic and not right, was it basically racism towards you?
i felt that some elements of it were, because there were some elements that sought to say, because these were a group to go backwards rather than go forwards, and they are willing to pay any price to do that.
and so, i put it to you again, that, really, you’re four years of stewardship with the democratic alliance have failed, because prince, again, a well—known writer here in south africa says i have no doubt that now that mmusi maimane has gone, we will see an exodus of black leaders and members who will leave the democratic alliance party.
that’ not a failure of a project.
but it will go back to being dominantly white again this.
timately it still is, to be ir.
you may have increased the of black supporters, but it’ ill predominantly nonblack.
the re i had as a , to me, he as the direction that uth africa is to on and i fought hard for that.
’ we could govern in more es, we could move out of the western “ape to be a party that central to south african itic.
that’ come to me, is a uccess of a roject.
now, when you at the elections of 2019, there also an exodus of a number of ite south africans who went back a failing minority weight party.
never want to lose votes, ultimately come at the end he day, when you focus on the ure of an organisation, you’ve to bring everybody together.
so, for me come at this point of time, dicates there is a nonracial vement in south africa.
50 ijust want to it clear here that you, an i basically raphrase what you ave een saying, is you have left democratic alliance can he stood as leader, because it was basically two weights, and there strong and powerful elements hin it that made your life too fficult as a black south african, at essentially it —— to white?
that speech that is that when i resigned as they do not believe that is the best vehicle suited advance my vision.
because?
because amentally believe that there are some within the that i believe it are to be a minority to.
and they were so powerful hat you felt you had no choice to step down?
it wasn’ a fight having.
i mean, having said hat, iwant be clear, that not verybody in the was racist.
re were a few number of people wanted to debate with us this sion of non—racialism, they wanted the istory of south africa, hey wanted us to not focus on ressing historical injustices, he equally so were not committed ury to a project of building erybody together.
and that’ came a consistent point of riction all the way throughout my rship tenure, and as a black leadership tenure, and as a black south african, i could not in my own betray the fact that i felt it self, betray the fact that i felt it was important to build a one south but you must address those injustices.
it wasn’ a comfortable ion for you to be in, you position for you to be in, you brought up the situation, the tion in may of 2019, and under our the party its lost votes or the first time in its history.
lost five seats in the ational assembly.
use these to be the cial opposition in south official opposition in south africa’ biggest province, as you me lost votes to the freedom fighters, the economic freedom ters on the left, and also the freedom front plus afrikaans party.
’ do well.
it didn’ do well.
know.
firstly, let me clarify that went on to govern in when we went on to govern in johannesburg, the had never seen to that evel.
frankly, there growth to that level.
frankly, there were more black south africans that oting for the than it’ were voting for the than it’ ever had.
50, loss of five seats, ’ place it in ext in a let’ place it in context in a global situation, where populists isen on either end, where have risen on either end, where elements of nationalism are starting on board, and people are in to come on board, and peopla are in a climate of fear with economic itions in south africa is such peopla losing their bs, that peopla are losing theirjobs, there is fear.
it was going to be ral that parties who sit in centre, that includes the and the re going to suffer losses, so lost more votes than i ever did der the leadership, ct, fact, it was the biggest drop they ver seen.
recisely, have hould’ve benefited from that drop well.
the benefit was we fighting against elements populism, racial divisions, and i think i’ actually coming to have at the level that we did some the losses were only five seats, ctually come in my view, very ortant stake in the ground for he future of the .
i consider it, ually, the right foundation for to be able to go forward.
ter the election, you commissioned mission because he wanted to xplore the had performed so , and this is what the report found.
it’ worth quoting, it’ a ong, the overwhelming view of ose who made submissions or whom we have discussions is that the hader, ader, you, mmusi maimane, party leader, you, mmusi maimane, whilst immensely talented, committed cause, hard—working, widely ked, ran be ndecisive inconsistent, and conflict averse, ’ -- ’ our carefully how it’ —— it’ our carefully considered review that the most important factor in shaping the circumstances is a failure of ctive leadership.
they put the ame at your door.
i argued trongly that i disagreed with that rt.
because he didn’ like the result?
no, the report had a nosis that was seeking problems.
diagnosis this, they wanted the diagnosis was this, they wanted to go back to the , if you like, egress -- to gress the the regress -- to regress the organisation.
a precursor of the cratic alliance, as it were.
orrect.
just cause you disagree ith the irection does not make it indecision, just means you agree.
they disagree but the fact the rest of the report makes it to connect —— quite clear, they didn’ us to govern in ohannesburg partnership with the alition of south africans of fferent parties, they didn’ want they wanted us to remain in the estern cape, and because you agree does not make it in decision, it means that it’ the ecision you would’ve taken.
don’ thank you were basically out of your depth, as of the democratic alliance, his party that has been the ficial opposition in south africa the 19605, the party i mean it you leadership is a hard job, will make the —— mistakes, i’ saying my cord was perfect.
it can’ be.
leaders make mistakes.
learn from your mistakes and you build.
i believe in the project i was working towards, and i certainly believe that the was ing in the right direction, and indicated even more so since my departure that the is out of rnment, the is regressing ackwards command more public resentatives can other different sectors rting to want to find sectors are starting to want to find other places.
which to me is a edy, because ultimately, we want ave a south africa that works all the people.
if the had iled to come the vehicle, it is failed to become the vehida, it is important to set up another vehicle.
say that want to move you say that you now want to move on.
correct.
and you have set up movement for one south africa, a political party yet, and there lready those of you who are ead of the game, julius, for mple, the conomic freedom example, the economic freedom fighter set up this party a few ago, 111% in the elections in may of 2019, are already may of 2019, they are already parties occupying the space that you occupy.
to occupy.
the is just another version of .
julius uld vigorously the .
julius would vigorously reject that.
you’re making to reject but how they disrupted that that, but how they dismpted that mike on what basis?
cause all they wanted to argue was personal issues of all party atters.
it wasn’ about the ological direction of this untry, south africans are starved alternative.
if the is an alternative, it’ basically a alist leftist organisation, which is fundamentally a militant version of the .
but tapping into a mood that is he’ tapping into a mood that is popular with many particularly young fricans, for example, the tudent protests about fees must in 2015, he fall in 2015, he they are not orchestrated.
no, ren’, but he has captured the they aren’, but he has captured the mood there, where as you tried tober of 2015 to go to the niversity in cape town to show your olidarity with udents, what solidarity with the students, what happened, there were booze and ce, you were told to leave.
this a bunch of people from one of the unions he university.
they were arguing a different use.
i want to reiterate what the rvation in south africa is for a sion of a nonracial south africa ich
the and has long orgotten that view, it’ a view says there needs to be a social rket system that allows and lusive economy, it’ a view that 75 there must be an government, but the of the are facing serious allegations of ption against them, which they must answer for.
it requires a re focused orientation, south africans are asking and calling out ifferent alternative.
the biggest party that grew in the tions in 2019 works of africans didn’ turn out to vote.
18 lion did not turn out to vote.
are you going to appeal to them we are not sure what your tform or your vision is?
the latform is to fight in a movement says we need to build south ricans who can coalesce together round values i’ articulating, onracial future ing inclusive conomy, and accountable government, re focused, and ultimately, to be able to say they must be just as he things that happen in the ast in this country.
we build on values and bring society into silent voices in this country.
i believe that will create an audience able to disrupt the current institutional politics that we are .
easy to say.
i have this ision.
but when you look at the ty-gritty of icies, it is nitty-gritty of policies, it is quite hard to implement this vision, example, let’ take one -catching licy of the .
the lack conomic empowerment rogramme.
this is all about trying dress the injustice to address the injustice economically of apartheid, and the to encourage black economic mpowerment through ownership, and ay that you are opposed to you say that you are opposed to targets for black ownership, yet, are saying to them i think there should be an inclusive economy for all black south africans.
so make it clear, are you for black omic empowerment are not?
i’ nclusive economy.
i’ in for an omy that recognises that black uth africans are left out, that face of poverty is still black a largely young, and therefore, but that doesn’ nullify the fact weight south africans have a .
triple has simply benefited the elite in this country, africa’ economic south africa’ economic infrastructure actually puts 49% of ens as the underclass, the citizens as the underdass, the poor, where epending on welfare.
so if we are going to address the they failed willfully to that.
you oppose that policy.
what i want posed up equipment so to opposed up my equipment so you are opposed to that pogrom?
that’ ing opposed to black inclusion into the economy.
but you just said hat doesn’ mean —— also that doesn’ mean -- excluding the rola of white south africans.
do play a role of the they do play a role of the social injustices.
they are 9% about —— make up of high net worth they make up of 70% high net worth individuals.
it’ blatantly obvious re playing a key part in the they are playing a key part in the economy.
and they must contribute to ing inclusion.
that’ the oint!
they must continue to be the eficiaries of inequalities in the omy.
let me propose a different odel.
should they continue to be eficiaries of this inequality in conomy that 9% account for?
the economy that 996 account for?
they must ontinue to address the ustices of the past.
they must ontinue to do that.
in my proposal his, let’ take one industry, insurance industry in this ntry.
it’ only got four big ompanies that still control the urance company.
yes, i agree, the ajority of them hite, but majority of them are white, but isn’ it about time that rather than saying let’ talk about simply saying let’ talk about tripla that we establish a jobs fund will ultimately find entrants, with the majority of which ack, of course, to set up more are black, of course, to set up more insurance companies.
all right, so ill that you said afflicting another ill that you said afﬂicting the , , which by and large ple except corruption.
look, he has only in power for years been in power for two years as president, sure, he was vice ident, but he himself is talked bout the extensive looting by the to the tune of about $38 billion under the presidency of .
you ave to get —— give him ime to talk bout.
how much time?
will never do it.
he’ only in power for two ars.
frankly, he ows very early he will not knows very dearty he will not arrest any members of his own party.
be having exactly the same conversation five years to come.
if you want to eradicate corruption, have to dicate the .
he’ you have to eradicate the .
he’ appointed the commission to look at the allegations of state rapture.
he is a point -- appointed a former ster of inance as minister of pub“: lic enterprises, and also kind of corruption ar, so he’ taken anti-corruption tsar, so he’ taken the right steps, you can just go and est peopla lly—nilly, the pub“: arrest people willy—nilly, the public prosecution says there will —profile arrests.
it’ his be high-profit; arrests.
it’ his colleagues who are sitting in iament with him who key parliament with him who key benefactors of state capture.
he, self, allowed them to himself, has allowed them to continue to function in parliament.
is a very ucial role that the this is a very crucial role that the president has.
his hands are tied as you well know, by the factions in the , supporters of issued a statement recently him and issued a statement recently this year saying "elements engaged long term project of state apture egard the presidency is a cessary terboro before they are once more in power.
" powerful statements, he poses the , so should the rest south africa be an audience to ’ politics while people aren’ doing their as what you have doing theirjobs was what you have to got to give him time to ean up south africa.
i completely sagree.
if you want to fight rmption, disagree.
if you want to fight corruption, don’ you think her mechanisms to make it up about other mechanisms to make it up by today introduce some form of nology that would allow us to move away from corruption.
he would been ing today, narrowed on have been coming today, narrowed on his cabinet
so it’ much more ctive, but he’ not doing any of those, because he is in am: president emma continue to drive in agenda.
all right, so we do go from here, mmusi maimane?
the want to now are you going to set up new political party that’ to contest the elections in 2024?
are you just going to content to have this movement?
no.
we believe the movement will contest ections, but here is the for elections, but here is the first nationwide elections in will you stand in those 202a?
will you stand in those elections?
we have to bring electoral reform, because i introduce that because it’ rtant that this movement is lear.
we want fight to change he way people are elected in this ountry.
if you a country.
if you just keep a one-party state, you end up with rapture.
want be able to state rapture.
we want to be able to stand in the elections with the view hese are directly elected that these are directly eluted peopla in the community.
it’ not a arty state.
won the one-party state.
won the elaction parents wear, you will not them to say we have won the election, but we don’ want to be a party state, are going stand down.
on’ make its one—party inance, lam aying writes, because of the parties cannot appeal black majority vote.
at this point in time, the liberation ments all end up with the same vision of capturing the state.
it was in the ‘ documents that sed on saying we will go out and rapture the lements of the state.
’ not my issue.
another party rieﬂy, fly, finally, a0 political or brieﬂy, finally, 40 political parties already in south africa, the ition is splintered, you have opposition is splintered, you have julius and the freedom fighters as , so for example, would you into alliance with the former or of ohannesburg, herman, who lso left democratic alliance ike you ?
’ build a movement of south africans that will come ther, let’ bring a number of litical entities, civil society to together to be able to wrestle his big monolithic animal called a , let’ agree on values, the a and , let’ agree on values, which are non—racialism, future , that talked about issues of climate and technology, that mately we bring justice, we eform the electoral, the way that ple are elected come elected peopla are eluted come eluted directly, , and when we do that, mately, it’ not addition ultimately, it’ not just addition of another party, but building a ment of south africans that can ran bring change to is country.
for ample, who has a ome and have chat with me over whiskey, don’ be uraged, my big brother, you are discouraged, my big brother, you are a good human being, he said.
if he lling to build a state of justice in this country, jobs and on the future of this country, i will work with him, but i’ not to work with people who want to vance any other view outside that.
so we are building this ment for south africans to go together.
would he be the kingmaker and you the king?
let’ cross that bridge when we get to it.
my focus right now is this movement.
are responding positively.
the silent vote in this country is at are not voting.
the those that are not voting.
the silant voice are the citizens who excluded from this economy.
this ement must be able to say, let’ ork with those people, fight for lusive economy, build a nonracial ture, and i believe that parties different aspects of my tors, will come together.
i want bring people together, so we one future for south africa.
musi maimane, thank you very much eed for coming onto hard talk.
reat to see you.
thank you.
hello.
with rivers running high and many fields still underwater, we could do with a little bit of better weather news.
and to a certain degree, we will get that this week.
no, it’ not going to be completely dry, but certainly compared with recent weeks, it won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jet stream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we are into cooler air.
it will certainly be chillier, particularly by night, with frost more likely.
and that is how we start the monday morning commute, with more in the way of frost and even some ice around where showers continue in the north and west through the night.
not quite as frosty toward southern counties of england.
outbreaks of rain here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning, clearing away from east anglia and the southeast quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west.
a mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw through the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely dry, with just one or two showers passing your way.
temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be lighter.
not going to feel quite as cold during the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the northwest later.
we could see gales for a time during monday night into tuesday.
more in the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
now, temperatures will still be close to freezing in many areas.
frost and ice, the greatest risk.
coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
this is the set up for tuesday.
that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weatherfronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southern track in jet stream, but they could be close enough to produce some rain across southern most counties of england and more especially the channel islands.
more showers around, by and large, to start tuesday morning.
a wintry mix.
those will clear away.
then it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay largely dry.
still some showers around here and there.
chance of some rain close to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we continue with that largely story.
it changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
thursday night into friday, we’ll see a weather front push its way eastwards, bringing us all a spell of rain briefly.
showers follow in its wake.
and then the chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
but by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw for the last few days.
and with some rain forecasted towards the end of the week, never to stay too far away from our flood warnings.
they’re there for you online.
you’re watching newsday on the .
i’ sharanjit leyl in singapore.
the headlines: possible murder charges for the head of a south korean religious sect over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
in the , there are concerns the virus could have been circulating for weeks — up to 1,500 people may be infected.
i’ samantha simmonds in london.
also in the programme: in the election campaign, mayor pete buttigieg pulls out.
it could be a boost forjoe biden’ campaign.
after the —taliban agreement, the qatari mediator tells us that outside countries could still wreck the chances for peace in afghanistan.
life from our studios in singapore and london, this is orld news.
this is world news.
this is newsday.
good morning.
it’ 9am in singapore, 1am in the morning in london and 103 in the morning in south korea, where the founder of a secretive religious sect is facing possible charges of murder over some of the country’ coronavirus deaths.
seoul city government has filed a legal complaint with prosecutors against lee man—hee and other leaders of the shincheonji church of jesus.
they’ve been accused of failing to hand over a full list of followers, impeding the authorities’ attempts to control the outbreak.
our seoul correspondent laura bicker reports.
the army has been deployed to deal with south korea’ latest threat.
they’re battling this virus with disinfectant, but as more cases are confirmed, it appears this is a war they’re not winning.
a lot of public anger has been aimed at this secretive religious sect.
the infection has spread rapidly among the followers of shincheonji church ofjesus.
and as officials raced to trace the outbreak, it’ claimed leaders hid the names of members.
now they’re being accused of murder.
in a rare interview, the church denied all charges.
: we feel very sorry for causing concern and worry to the people of korea and the world.
i understand if people criticise us.
but rather than point fingers, we think what’ more important is to end this situation and to make sure no more confirmed cases come out.
meanwhile, hospitals in daegu have been overwhelmed.
at least three people have died while waiting for a bed.
doctors believe it’ time to free up space for the most serious patients.
: we can’ quarantine and treat all patients.
those who have mild should stay at home and get treated.
we should change our end goal strategy to lower death rates.
thousands fear they have the virus and are lining up to be tested.
these drive—through clinics speed up the process.
south korea is using every resource it has and still this infection continues to spread.
laura bicker, news, seoul.
the coronavirus has now infected more than 88,000 people and spread to more than 60 countries around the world, rattling global markets and prompting unprecedented measures from governments.
in europe, italy has been the worst hit.
the number of cases has spiked and 3a people have now died.
courtney bembridge reports.
fears over the virus have pushed italy’ economy to the brink of a recession.
and looking at these quiet canals in venice, it’ not hard to see why.
nine days ago, italy knew of just three seemingly isolated cases.
there are now more than 1,700 nationwide.
in the north, italian soldiers patrol checkpoints outside 11 towns, home to 50,000 people.
no one is allowed in or out.
the two regions under lockdown generate around a third of italy’ economic output, home to everything from warehouses to cheese and dairy processing centres.
even parts of the country not affected by the virus are taking a hit.
bookings for march have been cancelled in rome and up to 80% in sicily.
tourists did show up to the louvre museum in paris, but they were left waiting outside, after staff refused to go to work.
we saw on twitter people have been waiting for three hours, so,
yeah, we are not going to do that.
if it takes too long, we willjust go somewhere else.
eventually, the visitors all left, with the promise of a refund.
the closure came after the government cancelled all gatherings of more than 5,000 people in confined spaces.
staff argue that’ a normal day at the museum.
as fear sweeps the continent, facemasks are at a premium, and the health ministers in france and switzerland have urged citizens to forgo the usual greeting of a kiss on each cheek, as well as the customary handshake.
this video is being shared online showing an alternate greeting, but still, the disease spreads, and the czech republic has now registered its first three cases.
there was some good news for tourists locked down at a hotel on the spanish island of tenerife.
they are now free to leave if they test negative for the virus and promise to continue their period of isolation in their home countries.
the state of washington has declared a state of emergency after its first death from the virus.
there are now fears the virus has been in the community undetected for weeks, after scientists found similarities between new coronavirus samples and those from an undiagnosed patient six weeks ago.
that could mean up to 1,500 people have been infected.
courtney bembridge, news.
also making news today: an australian investigation has found evidence that detained chinese uighurs are being used as forced labour in factories that produce global brands.
it said this was part of what china calls the re—education of muslim uighurs.
the report added that the uighurs were not able to refuse the work placements.
greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants crossing over the and border from turkey, which is struggling to deal with the number of people fleeing syria’ civil war.
the turkish president has said he will break his country’ unless he gets greater support for his intervention in syria.
new research suggests that australian summers are now twice as long as winters — due to climate change.
the policy group the australia institute says raised temperatures mean that summers are a—month longer than half a century ago, while winters have contracted by three weeks.
a warm winter in 2019 has, for the first time, caused the failure of germany’ harvest of ice wine grapes.
the drink is produced from grapes that have frozen while still on the vine.
none of germany’ 13 wine—growing regions reached the required low temperatures to produce the rare wine.
the afghan government has started picking over the details of the deal signed by the taliban and the on saturday.
the historic deal will see thousands of american troops leave afghanistan in return for commitments from the taliban.
the focus is now on how the deal will be implemented and if promises will be kept.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet has this report.
the first win for afghans, a week of relative calm.
what was called a reduction in violence before the signing of a deal.
what happens now?
the agreement initialed on saturday isn’ clear on this, at least not in the public document, but in doha and kabul, they will keep monitoring it.
so i asked qatar’ special envoy, will this partial truce continue?
we hope it will contine.
the parties and the people of afghanistan, so the result of the reduction of violence, how many lives we saved, they saved, and i think they have moral, religious and legal obligations.
and if they don’ respect them?
well, again, we hope they hope is not a strategy, as the pentagon likes to say.
we hope they respect their obligation in accordance with their agreement, but i’ sure if there’ a violation from one side, the other side have the right in self—defense to act accordingly, but, again, this is not the solution.
what the taliban want to see next is a prisoner release.
the deal says up to 5,000 of their men will be freed.
but in kabul, the president made it clear that’ up to his government — the taliban had been refusing to talk to them.
we need to engage the parties to have a proper discussion about the way forward, and i think they should compromise
and i hope the parties move forward.
this is the beginning of the talks, should start today, and i hope we can do something in the coming days.
if you had to choose one thing that worries you, that could cause this deal to unravel, what would it be?
the spoilers.
i think.
the spoilers is a major obstacle in the past, and i’ afraid it might be, this obstacle might you know, remain.
but i hope with this momentum and with the pressure from certain major powers, the spoilers should back off.
the spoilers are in afghanistan or in neighbouring countries?
mostly i would say in neighbouring countries.
pakistan, iran?
i’ not going to comment on this.
i willjust you can ask the taliban, and they will tell you.
a lasting cease—fire, a peace deal are on the agenda for afghan talks.
they are expected to start this month, if all goes as planned.
lyse doucet, news, doha.
let’ just bring you some breaking news now.
within the last hours, media has been reporting that pete buttigieg — the former indiana mayor — is pulling out of the race to become the democratic party’ presidential candidate.
the 38—year—old became the first openly gay contender when he announced he was running for the democratic nomination.
he narrowly won the iowa caucuses early last month and came in a strong second place in the new hampshire primary, but faltered badly in saturday’ south carolina vote, which was won by former vice president, joe biden.
our north america correspondent peter bowesjoins me now.
peter, welcome to you.
he has not formally announced that he anding down yet we are checking to hear from shortly, ren’ we?
yes, he is to make a speech.
he has one back to his home area, uth bend, indiana, where he expected to speak within the ur.
we assume to make this cision formal and to pursue ley explain the background what has happened.
—— esumably xplain.
what people ssume is going on is he and peopla have been looking at he numbers closely before tuesday, when states super tuesday, when 14 states around he country go to the lls, and what it seems is it recognition of the fact at it going to be very ifficult for him to win rhaps in any of the states really pose a major llenge to the front runners, rtainly bernie sanders and joe biden, the former vice esident did so well in south carolina.
interestingly, iden pete buttigieg joe biden and pete buttigieg occupy roughly the same ground party, in the centre, and the speculation is those therefore who may have voted for mayor pete may well to joe iden in the turn to joe biden in the future.
yeah, he did garner a support and surprise a lot of support and surprise a lot of people, not least by the unt money he raised amount of money he raised duﬂng this campaign.
how vital his new for another candidate possibly be?
it would ually important if indeed comes forward immediately says he is backing another the candidates.
he may be eave it a while before he does .
what is clear, he is heading to hink things at some in the future, and he may have his eye on a strategy erms of his own political areer.
hat he says at this onference could have quite a significant bearing decides to put himself behind one candidate or ther.
it could have percussions in the future.
ching his strategy moving rward i think is going to be interesting.
meanwhile, a cial few days ahead for the democratic presidential efuls.
super tuesday coming .
now really ought to play .
joe iden has had a good david rnie sanders still opeful he can push through.
signs are bernie sanders is still set to do remely well on tuesday.
i am angeles, california at moment.
california is the populous state, the iggest prize of the night.
out a quarter of all the elegates the candidates need.
nie sanders seems to be well ead in the big state two tates, texas, around the untry.
crucially important for all candidates but especially for biden muh ernie sanders to perhaps tablish a clear front runner.
0, acro two in los angelas.
for -- 0, —— 0, peter bowes in los angeles.
you’re watching newsday on the .
still to come on the programme, we’ll hearfrom asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who spent years on death row.
she reveals how her faith helped her through her ordeal.
first, the plate slipped gently off the restaurant tables.
then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and the people crashed sideways and downwards.
it was just a matter of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
the hydrogen bomb.
on a remote pacific atoll, the americans had successfully tested a weapon whose force dwarfed that of the bomb dropped on hiroshima.
i had heard the news earlier.
i saw it went back, back, back the rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out so that they don’ get their heads and sent to hospital.
this religious controversy, i know you don’ want to say too much about it.
worry you?
it worries me, yes, but i hope everything will be all right in the end of the day.
welcome back.
you’re watching newsday on the .
and thanks taying with us.
lam i am samantha simmonds in london.
our top stories the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
american media are reporting that the democratic party presidential contender, pete buttigieg, is pulling out of the white house race.
let’ get more on the coronavirus outbreak.
sarah borwein is a family doctor in hong kong.
she told me how it compared to the sars outbreak, way back in 2003.
in beijing, for a long time, there was denial that there was even an epidemic, and it was really the scariest thing at the time.
i think there is some similarities.
i even wrote at the time that china was a paradox because freedom of speech was still a work in progress and yet their ability to take effective action had to command respect, and to some extent, that is still the case now.
we really have to respect the effective action borwein, you’re saying china is taking some strides.
let’ look at the outbreak.
it happened at a similar time of year, during the winter sessions, so do you see the same timeline with ?
\ 115 dissipated in the summer months.
did it dissipate or did we manage to control it through very intensive public health measures?
i do think that is something we don’ know.
while it is tempting to speculate it might go away in the summer months, i don’ think we can afford to make that assumption.
right.
and what is your professional opinion on how the world is coping with this particular outbreak?
and is therefore dealing with this somewhat better than europe for instance?
i think it remains to be seen exactly how europe will deal with this, but i do think that there is a sense of prepared, mental preparedness, in asia, that people have been through this before, that the public knows how to react.
and what will happen in europe is still to be seen.
it is untested.
you of course are seeing a lot of patients worried about this particular outbreak.
tell us about the mental health of some of the patients you have encountered.
it’ interesting.
i am sure, like singapore in a way but even more in hong kong, the people who were here in 2003, the population is a bit traumatised by what happened during .
i really thought that that would play out and that people would be very anxious about the disease.
actually, most people take a sensible middle ground here.
they understand for them personally, the risk is not .
they also understand that the public health risk is very large.
lam seeing less anxiety as the weeks go on about the disease.
but we do see is the mental health aspect of the social isolation measures that have been going on since january.
the schools have been out since then, people are home—schooling, many people are working from home.
eve have been cancelled.
so it is not much fun.
that was sarah borwein in hong kong.
and those fears continue about the impact of the global coronavirus outbreak on markets around the world.
let’ a look at how they are performing.
asian markets here
and we take a look at japan’ ikkei.
it is down near it continues to lurk around six lows.
know the, all of his, has been dennis are in a second we now from the oronavirus concerns.
we saw he pact of latest figures on he weekend on manufacturing in will stub bets on a lunge in activity as the untry deals of the —— that a plunge activity.
that is impacting sentiment here in .
let’ take a look at last week.
last week, we saw some $5 lion wiped off global trillion wiped off global markets.
this was really the performance in a lot of worst performance in a lot of global markets since 2008, the height of the global crisis.
we saw really dramatic declines course, investors taking of these worries around the navirus.
thank you.
nearly ten years ago, a christian woman from pakistan’ punjabi province was sentenced to death for blasphemy.
it was a case that sparked international asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who spent years on death row after being convicted of blasphemy, has said she hopes to be able to return to pakistan one day.
she was in paris for the release of her memoir, finally free, in which she recounts her time in jail — and her brutal treatment by guards.
in the second part of an interview with the ’ mishal husain, bibi says herfaith helped her through the ordeal.
nearly ten years ago, a christian woman from pakistan’ punjabi province was sentenced to death for blasphemy.
it was a case that sparked international attention and outrage.
and even after asia bibi was finally acquitted by pakistan’ highest court, huge protests prevented her immediate release.
she now has a new life — and here in paris, she has been telling me her story.
: i suffered a lot inside the jail.
i cannot even tell you what happened to me.
i lived through all of this misery, but god gave me patience and i got a lot of strength.
you cannot imagine, but i have witnessed miracles.
it’ difficult for you to talk about because you write in the book about how you were held by the neck and how difficult that time was for you.
what was it that gave you hope in this period?
: my strength came from my faith, and i learned that you should be courageous, and you should be strong in your faith and you should never lose your faith.
after everything you have been through, how would you describe your emotions today?
do you feel bitterness?
do you feel anger?
: no.
i am not angry at all.
i have forgiven everyone from my heart and there is no hardness for me.
there is patience.
i learned how to be patient after having to leave my children behind.
it surprises me even.
how have i learned to be so patient?
how can any mother be patient after leaving her children?
but god made me patient
and i survived the hardships thrown my way through my patience.
there are people today in jail facing blasphemy charges.
what would you say to them?
: i can give them hope.
i am now free.
i am outside.
i want to request all media that they should work so she is also freed and i can tell her that there will be a day when she will also be free.
asia bibi’ long ordeal is now over, but the issue of blasphemy in pakistan is not.
there are still christians and muslims being targeted by the law today.
the question is whether the country will take action to prevent abuses and to protect its citizens, whatever their religion.
we put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to the authorities in pakistan.
they said pakistan has taken considerable steps to prevent its possible misuse and constantly reviews its implementation.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
the acquittal of asia bibi is a testimony of pakistan’ resolve to protect its citizens as per its constitution.
about the allegations of abuse in prison, they responded thanks very much for being with us.
you have been watching newsday.
i’ samantha simmonds in london.
and i’ sharanjit leyl in singapore.
stay with us.
we will be looking at the impact the coronavirus outbreak is having on india’ manufacturing industries as disruptions to the supply chain from china continue.
and before we go, we’ like to leave you with pictures of russians bidding farewell to winter and welcoming spring.
this is russia’ pre—lent festival known as maslenitsa — better known as pancake week.
it has its roots in pagan traditions, when people marked the end of winter and the beginning of spring with massive bonfires.
the festival eventually became part of russian orthodox christian tradition and it is now a week of folk celebration and plenty of feasting on blini, the traditional russian pancake that symbolizes the sun.
that’ all for now.
stay with us on world news.
hello.
with rivers running high and many fields still underwater, we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
no, it’ not going to be completely dry, but certainly compared with recent weeks, it won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jet stream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we are into cooler air.
it will certainly be chillier, particularly by night, with frost more likely.
and that is how we start the monday morning commute, with more in the way of frost and even some ice around where showers continue in the north and west through the night.
not quite as frosty toward southern counties of england.
outbreaks of rain here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning, clearing away from east anglia and the southeast quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west.
a mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw through the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely dry, with just one or two showers passing your way.
temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be lighter.
not going to feel quite as cold during the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the northwest later.
we could see gales for a time during monday night into tuesday.
more in the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
now, temperatures will still be close to freezing in many areas.
frost and ice, the greatest risk.
coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
this is the set up for tuesday.
that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weather fronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southern track in jet stream, but they could be close enough to produce some rain across southern most counties of england and more especially the channel islands.
more showers around, by and large, to start tuesday morning.
a wintry mix.
those will clear away.
then it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay largely dry.
still some showers around here and there.
chance of some rain close to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we continue with that largely story.
it changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
thursday night into friday, we’ll see a weather front push its way eastwards, bringing us all a spell of rain briefly.
showers follow in its wake.
and then the chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
but by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw for the last few days.
and with some rain forecasted towards the end of the week, never to stay too far away from our flood warnings.
they’re there for you online.
i’ samantha with world news.
our top story.
the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over some of the country’ coronavirus deaths.
the infection has spread rapidly among the sect’ followers, and the authorities say its leaders concealed the names of members.
the democratic party presidential contender pete buttigieg is to end his bid for the white house.
despite a promising start, he polled badly in the latest primaries in south carolina.
and this story is trending on .
com australia’ summers have become twice as long as its winters with increasing temperatures driven by climate change, according to new weather analysis.
the australia institute found that summer across most of the country over the past 20 years was about a month longer than in the mid—20th century, while winters had become shorter.
more on our websites, the new of course.
now on news live to apore for asia’ business eport.
markets in japan kicked off the new trading week lower, continuing the sell—off, which started last week in sia, europe and the .
we look at how india’ supply chain is ted by the corona outbreak.
ello, and welcome to this monday’
a course, we know it’ a brand—new week, and asian markets are in the extending the sell—off from ast over in apan, we take a look at hich has been open for the hour or so, down about half percent, it’ actually scaling some deeper declines just a little eartier, ill lurking near six onth lows though, and of course, taking its cues from wall eet last week, which saw its iggest sell—off since the financial is in 008.
the 500 index or instance lost about 11 and of rse, really taking its cues from street last week, which saw its ggest sell—off since the financial is in 008.
the 500 index or instance lost about 11 and a percent all of last week, at’ really a huge amount, and of urse, we saw some $5 trillion can sentially off global essentially wiped off global markets, and that is as more navirus cases came to light in urope in the also dampening sentiments, fresh data over the end from china, which showed ctory activity slumping to a cord low, essentially, in ebmary, ary, of course, that was the ble whammy of the new —— lunar year closures the shutdowns to coronavirus.
no market expects the market sell—off ontinue this weekend he explains .
ithink hat momentum will why.
i think that momentum will continue over the next matter of days, that news comes forward, and i will only from the chinese numbers but of course from coronavirus.
as a gains momentum, i think this ably further sell—off and probably further sell—off and contraction across many of those ets.
now, you mentioned the damaging chinese factory numbers, certainly the worst on record.
we have seen the chinese government ously throwing money at their problem of stimulus measures, are xpecting them to do more?
elcome i feel as though it will be ncerted effort across many of he developing countries, and, of rse, the major markets.
i’ sure at you will look at the chinese epared to do whatever is needed to tually get that growth going rward, and you are looking at the or ones like the with numbers ming out of the end of the week, far as nonfarm payrolls, and you see the also looking at ran see the fed also looking at cuts.
australia ever seen, canada, ill be a hectic week for the so it will be a hectic week for the markets.
china isn’ the only putting in place stimulus asures, throwing money at their blem, hong kong, singapore mongst hers have done the same.
are you expecting most central in the region then to cut rates in coming months?
welcome i wouldn’ be surprised.
you know, , as everyone knows, we are at record lows, but hink that will ntinue.
this coronavirus is really something that think the something that i don’ think the markets were ready on, and certainly ow, as far as the push you know, as far as the push forward and what the impact has been, and ’ no sense at the moment that we have actually got this matter control.
so banks will have to timulate under control.
50 banks will have to stimulate and that all comes down to rates.
all rights, all the uncertainty you mentioned, and of , where you are, australia, the most china dependent development my in the world, expecting some figures out this week.
do you going forward, australia will be particularty hard hit?
welcome i think so.
that’ been demonstrated value of our dollar now when he 64 club.
6&50, and our lers the 64 club.
6450, and our feelers are there is further softness there.
stralia eally feels that, and so, australia really feels that, and it’ not uncommon for a commodity currency really be —based currency to really be hemorrhaged.
tim speaking to me ier.
come over to india, which is hina’ and second largest ing partner with billions of ollars with a bilateral trade every .
now come from you like tronics electronic pharmaceuticals, hey are all eavily dependent on cheap raw materials coming from a.
but with coronavirus outbreak he supply chain has been impacted.
we went to an industrial northern india and sent us this report.
or the past two years this has vided tele— dozens across india, hey make ,000 sets every onth.
the glass panel and electronic trips use for it or not available in a, so they are heavily dependent hina to import them.
but with coronavirus outbreak, factories are shot.
these are made in ina.
that has put 23—year—old, who ages this lant, in a tough spot.
already, 60—70% of the components are using are dependent on are using are highly dependent on china, so the glass which opens has been increased to 12%, so already been increased to 1296, so for the ext quarter, if there is a rtage in supply, at least 5% 0-1596 of prices will increase for the tailers.
they expert over $50 ion worth of goods to india, while most of it is ready made duct, ere are crucial raw product, there are crucial raw materials that are used by pharma uto industries to name a few ere will be a source of orry, while big traders do have some tight over next 2—3 months too tight over the next 2-3 months is a small trade, struggling to the pending ers.
many businesses re having to look for suppliers side china.
outside china.
: uth korea and japan have ectronic tip dealers that can help , but navirus is spreading us, but coronavirus is spreading thereto, so it’ better to get from there as soon as supply from there as soon as possible.
but not everyone can ord it, some like this pharma factory have cut production by half, out run out of key chemical as they out of key chemical ingredients imported from china.
: : clement we are paying twice for the terial, but because of the price rap on medicines, we cannot the cost for the consumers, so have cut our production, and he coming time, it will hurt the our orce as ell.
losses in labour force as well.
job losses in these small enterprises will further he indian economy, and facing lowdown.
china is trying to get factories back to work, but for stomers like this, the shortage of rials will take weeks to clear.
back to school on a sunday, well, that’ what these students in japan hat was really to pick up did, that was really to pick up assignments for the coming weeks, last week, of course, we reported that the government made a ise announcement that all surprise announcement that all elementary middle and high schools an would close for a month in japan would close for a month from today, that’ really to to in the spread of coronavirus, contain the spread of coronavims, not the only place in the region to school closure, because we students in the hong kong have ready missed around five weeks of ses since january.
city government said schools will remain until at least the end of closed until at least the end of april.
parents are really starting it challenging, balancing rking from home while their ildren are also home.
over in where the virus was first scovered, there has been no word on when schools there will reopen.
earlier, i spoke with a ultant emily nes and for consultant emily jones and for advice on how companies can mmodate parents working from ome in these unprecedented uations.
it was a surprise to erybody, and so the community kinda been rallying around, lots pandemic policy sharing, and orting each other in it, you know, what is working and what is orking.
you know, my heart goes to all of those front—line ers who are out there trying to support, control the virus that enly you have childcare issues.
hat’ rates, what can be done then, cause quite from the because quite aside from the front—line workers, some other can ally be from home, but we actually be done from home, but we know that agent doesn’ have a work ome culture, so what needs to change?
well i think what is going interesting is what employees forward start asking their loyers for.
i think people will a taste from working from home, ste of flexibility, my concern comes that then meaning that we ’ have the same level of ontrols over where people are and at they are ng, i think what they are doing, i think companies are going to have to look they monitor and control roductivity going forward.
i think, now, there has got to be a lot ore ﬂexibility going forward, and ctation more flexibility going forward, and expectation on both sides.
50, the rategy to schools in the strategy to shut schools in the first place, obviously a mention , china ina, singapore has japan, china china, singapore has not, is it a good strategy, what you advise governments to do?
ersonally, my children are in ool here in singapore, they are a oral cal government school, i’ that the school is still open.
gives me flexibility to still well as my husband.
and it’ controlled environment.
they have great around keeping parents formed, they are temperature cking regularly.
they have ntrolled, you know, group ctivities, staggered recesses, you , in the classroom rather than he assembly hall, know, it’ a ontrolled environment, and if we do to see social spread, we are going to know it’ coming from.
joins peaking to me earlier, emily joins speaking to me eartier, let’ take a look at the market.
entioned, this is scaling back me of its much steeper losses at open, down only .
4% right the open, down only right now, hong kong has also opened fairly , and hat’ really possibly due some argain—hunting from vestors, xpectations as well here might be some stimulus sures to to counter the pact of coronavirus, which has bsolutely meled markets last eek.
that’ it for this show.
for watching.
this is news — our main headline.
the founder of a religious sect in south korea could face murder charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
a woman taking legal action against an gender clinic says she should have been challenged by medical staff when she told them, aged 16, that she wanted to transition from female to male.
alison holt reports.
keira bell is 23 years old and her adult life so far has been defined by the decision she made when she was much younger.
at 16, she was prescribed drugs to delay the signs of female puberty.
she later took male hormones, so her voice deepened and facial hair grew.
initially, i felt very relieved and very happy about things, but i think, as the years go on, you start to feel less and less enthusiastic or even happy about it.
keira was treated here at the ’ only gender identity clinic, run by the tavistock trust.
she’ taking legal action against them because she believes, when she started taking puberty blockers and cross—sex hormones, she was too young to understand the implications.
she says, as a child, she felt isolated and different and, as a teenager, she was desperate to change her gender.
but she now believes she should have been challenged more and had more support.
i feel angry that i was allowed to run with this idea that i had, you know, almost like a fantasy, as a teenager, i was allowed to run with that
and it has affected me in the long run.
i’ve onlyjust kind of stepped into adulthood
and i had to kind of, you know, deal with this burden.
what would you tell your 16—year—old self now?
that’ kind of the point of this case, is that when you are that young, you don’ really want to listen to anyone and a lot of things won’ get through, so i think it is up to these, you know, institutions, like the tavistock, to step in and make children reconsider what they are saying, because it is, you know, a life—altering path that you are going down.
it’ a difficult area and the head of the gender identity clinic says they are always cautious, working closely with children and families to help them make their decisions.
so this is a really complex area with strong feelings on all sides, and, for young people, they come to us in often really great distress around their sense of themselves.
we are talking about identity here, their identity and a feeling that their gender identity does not match that body.
and what goes along with that is huge distress.
the clinic says it welcomes keira’ case, as it will allow a considered review of the evidence about the most appropriate way to support young people.
alison holt, news.
hello, i’ chetan pathak and this is sport today, live from the sport centre.
coming up on the programme: viniciuer makes history as real madrid beat barcelona in classico.
manchester city win their third english league cup in a row after beating aston villa at wembley.
england thrash the west indies to reach the semi—finals of the 20 world cup — along with south africa, who see off pakistan.
welcome to the programme.
thanks forjoining us.
real madrid are a point clear at the top of liga after a 2—0 win over barcelona at the bernabeu on sunday.
viniciusjunior got the opener 20 minutes from the end, becoming the youngst clasico goalscorer this century at 19.
mariano then got the second in stoppage time with his first touch of the season in liga.
this was the first time barcelona failed to score away at real in the league since october 2006.
sevilla threw away a 2—0 lead against ten—man osasuna before scoring a stoppage time winner that takes them third in liga.
atletico madrid remain two points behind in fifth after a 1—1 draw at espanyol.
manchester city may soon be displaced by liverpool as premier league champions, but they have won the english league cup for a third year in row.
taking on an aston villa side playing their first final for 10 years, pep guardiola’ team were too strong in the end winning 2—1.
our correspondent natalie pirks was watching at wembley.
agony for these hands leaving wembley tonight, because they really he came to city, no one give took the fame to city, no one give them a prayer, they had one this icular trophy for 2 years, they were coming this match after osing three premier league match is spin, fighting the relegation attle, so, ourse, manchester city, this was their 16 time at ley in the last ten seasons, hey pretty much set up camp in the me dressing , but didn’ start that way.
villa, very much the side, almost scored in the econd minute, and the better side he first 20 minutes, then of ourse, city are always going to inate possession, and they began ominate.
aguero with the first ll, who else?
because that was tenth goal gainst a villa in six starts, then ten minutes ter, city doubled their lead, some defending from a corner, for ton villa, and it was a ontentious issue, because dean from aston villa’ manager elieve the ball had gone on for a kick, replay show that he was bably right, but are, even hough we have that here, doesn’ that kind of thing, so they re 2-0 up.
ust before half—time, pulled mself back in with xcellent diving headers, and almost lised at the death, and it was claudia bravo with a fantastic save, tip onto the post from bjorn they could of equalised incentive tra time, but in truth, city ooked better side in the second half.
a little testy, but i think they were good for the win in the
but you know, villa fans here an leave ith their heads high, they eally did take the game anchester city.
in the premier league, everton’ manager carlo ancelotti was sent off as his side drew 1—1 with manchester united at goodison park.
he wasn’ happy after disallowed a 91st minute harry maguire own goal, which would have won the match for everton.
ancelotti confronted the officials at full time.
whatever he said, the referee was not impressed and he was shown a red card.
everton had taken the lead afterjust 3 minutes when united keeper david gea’ clearance rebounded off dominic calvert—lewin and went straight into the goal.
bruno fernandez did equalise for united, who stay in 5th, three points behind chelsea.
i asked for an explanation, they send me off, i had a conversation him, i think i want to keep this conversation privates, and act that they are going to take with it, but when you have to ake it, sometimes you can be right, imes it can be run, any sometimes it can be run, any complaint, ijust fight for them, hey gave us more confidence hat we can compete with these ams.
jose mourinho’ tottenham are seventh and five points off the top four after being beaten at home by wolves, who move above spurs in the table with that win.
rauljimenez scored the winner as they twice came from behind to win 3—2 in north london and move level on points with manchester united in fifth.
you have to be ruthless against eams like them that play fantastically well in contact.
i think we deserve much more than results.
in germany, leipzig are three points behind the leaders bayern after a 1—1 draw at home to bayer leverkusen.
leon bailey gave leverkusen the lead.
their advantage lasted only three minutes, though, with patrik shick heading in from a free kick.
in italy, atalanta players and fans were checked for coronavirus as they arrived at lecce for sunday’ serie a match.
they won it in the end 7—2 to move up to fourth.
duvan zapata getting a hat trick.
matches this weekend in northern italy were postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak.
in the day’ other game, roma won a— at cagliari.
match with a1—0 defeat to los angeles .
the former england captain is the co—owner of the 25th franchise.
former arsenal and real sociedad forward carlos vela, on his sist birthday, produced a piece of individual brilliance to get the win.
inter miami play away to united next week before their first home match against beckham’ former team — galaxy — on march 1a.
time now for some of the other sports stories making the headlines.
denmark won gold in the men’ madison at the track cycling world championships in berlin.
rider michael morkov — seen here on the left — was initally quarantined ahead of the event after taking part in the tour, but was approved to compete after they were satisfied he didn’ have the coronavirus.
well, the tokyo marathon went ahead, but only as an event for a few hundred elite athletes due to the coronavirus.
the race usually attracts around 38,000 runners.
ethiopia’ birhanu legese won the men’ race for the second year in a row, while israel’ lonah chemtai salpeter broke the course record as she won the women’ race.
and he started the week having never won a european tour title and was ranked 372 in the world — but sami valimaki will end the week as the oman open champion.
the amateur from finland won a dramatic play off against south african brandon stone.
cricket now — and england are through to the semi—finals of the women’ 20 world cup after beating the 2016 champions west indies by 46 runs.
natalie sciver once again starred with the bat.
currie was watching in sydney.
so we now know three of the four semifinalists in this 20 world cup.
india were already through, and we can add england and south africa to the last four.
england came through against the west indies, they won the toss and put themselves into bat.
danny wyatt made 29, amyjones 23, but it was nat sciver who once again shone, making another half—century.
she is now very much cementing her place as one of the top players, and she is now that top run scorer so far in this world cup.
50 net sciver helped england to win, not bad on a slow wicket.
the west indies innings got off to a difficult start after they lost taylor to an injury.
she had to be stretchered off with what looked to be a groin problem, but to be fair the west indies but is didn’ put up much resistance as england bowled them all out for 97 to get themselves through to the semifinals.
what we do know, the 2016 champions are now out, the 2018 runners—up are through, largely thanks to a net sciver innings.
i felt pretty good.
world number two rafa nadal won his third mexican open title with a straight sets win over 22—year—old taylor fritz.
the spaniard — at the bottom of the screen — didn’ drop a set all week in acapulco and took the first 6—3 against the unseeded american.
and he sealed his first title of the season by taking the next 6—2.
it’ the 85th singles title of his career — and a rather odd one, a pear shapped trophy to go along with the sombrero.
all smiles.
heather watson — in yellow — won the womens title by beating canada’
leylah fernandez two sets to one.
the british number two took the first set 6—4, she had five championship points in the second set but ended up losing it.
finally battling back to win the decider 6—1 and seal her first title since 2016.
a great win for her.
just reminder before we go, you can get all the latest sports news at our website — that’ bbc.
com/sport.
but from me chetan pathak and the rest of the sport today team, goodbye.
hello.
with rivers running high and many fields still underwater, we could do with a little bit of better weather news.
and to a certain degree, we will get that this week.
no, it’ not going to be completely dry, but certainly compared with recent weeks, it won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jet stream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we are into cooler air.
it will certainly be chillier, particularly by night, with frost more likely.
and that is how we start the monday morning commute, with more in the way of frost and even some ice around where showers continue in the north and west through the night.
not quite as frosty toward southern counties of england.
outbreaks of rain here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning, clearing away from east anglia and the southeast quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west.
a mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw through the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely dry, with just one or two showers passing your way.
temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be lighter.
not going to feel quite as cold during the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the northwest later.
we could see gales for a time during monday night into tuesday.
more in the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
now, temperatures will still be close to freezing in many areas.
frost and ice, the greatest risk.
coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
this is the set up for tuesday.
that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weatherfronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southern track in jet stream, but they could be close enough to produce some rain across southern most counties of england and more especially the channel islands.
more showers around, by and large, to start tuesday morning.
a wintry mix.
those will clear away.
then it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay largely dry.
still some showers around here and there.
chance of some rain close to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we continue with that largely story.
it changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
thursday night into friday, we’ll see a weather front push its way eastwards, bringing us all a spell of rain briefly.
showers follow in its wake.
and then the chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
but by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw for the last few days.
and with some rain forecasted towards the end of the week, never to stay too far away from our flood warnings.
they’re there for you online.
welcome to news.
i’ maryam moshiri.
our top stories: in the election campaign, mayor pete buttigieg pulls out.
it could be a boost forjoe biden’ campaign.
there are concerns the virus could have been circulating in the for weeks.
up to 1,500 people may be infected.
turkey sends refugees to europe to to force backing for its campaign in syria.
and asia bibi, the pakistani christian sentenced to death for blasphemy, tells the how she found faith in jail.
pete buttigieg has dropped out of the race to be the democratic candidate to take on president trump for the presidency.
the 38—year—old former mayor enjoyed a successful start to his campaign but it lost momentum in recent weeks.
he narrowly won the iowa caucuses early last month and came in a strong second place in the new hampshire primary, but faltered badly in saturday’ south carolina vote.
he spoke to supporters a few minutes ago in south bend, indiana.
—— south end.
today todayis a moment of truth.
after a year of going rywhere, meeting everyone, efying every expectation, king every vote, the truth is the path has narrowed to a , for , for our candidacy if not our cause top the and another hose values is of those values is responsibility, and we have a onsibility to consider the ffect of remaining in this any further.
our goal has race any further.
our goal has always been to help unify ricans to defeat donald and americans to defeat donald trump and to win the era for lues.
north america correspondent peter bowesjoins me now.
peter, 3 surprise here really.
ahead of super tuesday, that’ unusual.
it’ unusual
but i think he is simply being ctical.
looking at the numbers, he did not do well in carolina.
1a states south carolina.
14 states across the country go to the on tuesday, two of the big ones, california and texas, and his people have and he and his peopla have dearty figured out it’ perhaps unlikely that he will ver bernie sanders or biden in any those states.
for all he did well in the caucuses, for all he did iowa caucuses, for all he did well in new hampshire, he sn’ path ultimately to ing the nominee for the emocratic party.
that’ sentially what he indicated is speech, that the path to victory doesn’ seem to be hin his grasp.
so what does mean for the race now to ake on donald trump?
erestingly he said one of he phrases he used was there too much at stake to stick to the sidelines, suggesting he is still going to play a rola in american politics.
erestingly he did not say he supporting any of the other ndidates.
may be that will ome at a later stage.
what it probably in terms of otes is joe den is likely to gain ecause he and pete ttigieg essentially occupy same political ground in he centre of the democratic ty, the great swathes of the who believe in terms of olicy similar things to joe and pete beaded edge, especially when it applies to ssues like healthcare —— big issues like healthrare -- pete buttigieg.
die biden could big winner over bony be the big winner over bony sanders, who looks like he will on super tuesday —— bernie anders —— joe den.
looks ike it is building quite to a race between two or three of the key characters.
lue is in the name, it is uper tuesday.
what does that for the democratic race for the presidency?
it is led super tuesday for a good eason, there are many, many egates at stake.
california as in itself a quarter of all he delegates necessary for of these candidates to meet threshold to be the nominee the democrats, so it’ all down to the maths on tuesday.
not a winner takes all it’ not a winner takes all system, it’ a proportional em, so those democrats in system, so those democrats in the big states like texas and fornia will be divided between the continuing didates and the race is imply onto ghana as many as ibla -- —— simply on to garner many as ossible.
peter, thank you very much.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
over the weekend, a man in his 505 from the north—western state became the first confirmed fatality from the virus in the .
in the last few minutes, we’ve heard from south korea that 500 new coronavirus ases have said the total mber of those affected by the rus in south korea has gone ast 4000.
professor peter hotez is dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college of medicine.
hejoins me now from houston, texas.
thank you so much for joining us, peter hotez.
let me start king you about the virus itself because the key thing is of the public are getting infected but health workers ming infected has become a uge worry for people like you?
one of the hings we noticed it coming out han, the chinese reported at in the epidemic in wuhan re were more than 1000 ealthcare workers infected, deaths, and about 16%, 96, about a.
8%, were seriously ill and many ired admission so that was a wake—up call that ealthcare workforce is our healthrare workforce is highly to this virus and ection.
it occurred to us ere in the united states, and ourse locally, that things ood full down quickly if large ers of the healthcare numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and ldn’ fight this infection, the snowball effect of it oming both demoralising and healthcare workers feel herre not being adequately protected we are worried could break down and collapsed very quickly, and been writing and speaking about this for the last couple and then, of course, of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2a hours his, ’ve had two of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in ifornia now infected according to reports.
this is to be an area of extreme vulnerability here in the ted states and i would magine globally, you can magine the middle east or africa, where healthcare kers don’
have adequate ersonal protective equipment, we call , i think this is going to come a major ssue going forward.
’ve ’ve personally been working towards cine, what are your views on the vaccine?
do you think we 8 months away from one or is it more complicated than ?
that?
i think it’ really hard to dict.
there’ a lot of new, citing technologies out there vaccines, a vaccines, for vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, where using a more entional protein approach a number of these ategies are being supported a new international global vaccines partly based in ndon called , that’ the london rallad , that’ the exciting part, but the news is to do a lot of safety testing.
ypically this can equire a or two at least require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective.
we also know with coronavirus ines and other respiratory accines, there’ this radoxical what we call immune hancement where the vaccine actually make things worse.
was a phenomenon this was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory vaccine in the 605, and we saw in laboratory animals experimental vaccines with experimental vaccines after the original sars came 2003, that’ a long way out in 2003, that’ a long way off saying this is not going to and safety testing an’ compromised, it’ very to ompress imeline, so hard to compress timeline, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs id—sized biotechnology and mid—sized biotechnology pharmaceutical companies ising we’ll have a vaccine promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
you can forget it, cause the immune because of the immune enhancement phenomenon on we ooking at a least a year away before we have a vaccine, ’ guessing probably longer.
let me know honestly, orried are you about the how worried are you about the new coronavirus?
it’ clearly isome.
we saw the worrisome.
we saw the devastation this virus caused han, particularly amongst elected age groups, ividuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable, igh mortality rates, ose with high, chronic nditions like diabetes and ertension, and obviously our ealthcare workforce.
we are eing use fatality rates of 21: overall.
many saying that’ obably the case, there’ probably not the case, there’ probably a lot of people with grade fection is that we low grade infection is that we are missing.
then the world organization gave us a chilling statement last saying we think the 2% 96 fatality ate is real.
the ason that significant is it is so highly contagious.
on average a single individual nfect three or four eople, so it’ two or three mes more contain just than sonal flu times more contain just than seasonalﬂu and as many as ten mes more serious in terms of alities than seasonal flu, so ’ll have our hands full.
his is quite a serious thogen and that’ the orld health organization and director—general, doctor etros, ppropriately declared mergency of international cern 3 few weeks ago, specially worried about the ntries that don’ have the acity to manage complex epidemics or public health ses.
many respects the crises.
in many respects the pub“: health emergency was not clared so much for the or he , although we’re rtainly concerned, but you imagine as this virus goes into ub—saharan africa, we’ve 1-3 million inese living got 1-3 million chinese living there now, the belt and road iative in the middle east, initiative in the middle east, you get the idea.
thanks for on the programme.
thank for having me.
greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants crossing over its and border from turkey, which is struggling to deal with the number of people fleeing syria’ civil war.
turkey’ president has said he will break his country’ unless he gets greater support for his intervention in syria.
orla guerin reports from pazarkule on the border between turkey and greece.
at first light, theyjoined the migrant trail from turkey.
heading for the river meric, all that separates them from europe.
this group manages to cross, leaping onto greek soil.
just a trickle here, not a flood.
and greece wants to keep it that way.
greece doesn’ want a repeat of 2015.
caught up in the chaos afternoon, reza, an this afternoon, ran, an iranian we met who hopes to london.
there pushing us water.
teargas —— they are.
’ not fair.
it’ not fair.
and the young have been in the line, like 1—year—old firing line, like 1-year-old yeshar, whose family is from anistan.
the greeks a shot us and threw tear gas at , says his father, ziman, he uld have died.
but for turkey, which has been tering almost 4 million yrians, the refugees are now an man bargaining chips being to put pressure on europe.
ll, families are still riving here and there not oming by accident, there being ouraged to travel by the rkish authorities led to lieve they can enter europe.
stead are stuck here instead they are stuck here with no way to cross into ece and they and their children are having to camp out he old.
and this is what awaits them now at the border, tleground.
greece says it a battleground.
greece says it won’ allow a referral.
turkey it is overwhelmed by refugees.
it is now battling the assad regime and it is determined that europe will share the fallout.
stay with us on news, still to come: after the —taliban agreement, the qatari mediator tells us that outside countries could still wreck the chances for peace in afghanistan.
first, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
the hydrogen bomb.
on a remote pacific atoll, the americans had successfully tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb dropped on hiroshima.
i had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went bang, bang, bang!
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’ get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
this religious controversy — i know you don’ want to say too much about it — but does it worry you that it’ going to boil up when you get to the states?
well, it worries me, yes, but i hope everything will be all right in the end, as they say.
this is news, the latest headlines: the democratic party presidential contender, pete buttigieg, is pulling out of the white house race.
it should boost joe biden’ chances.
the afghan government has started picking over the details of the deal signed by the taliban and the on saturday.
the historic deal will see thousands of american troops leave afghanistan in return for commitments from the taliban — the focus is now on how the agreement will be implemented and if promises will be kept.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet has this report.
the first win for afghans, a week of relative calm.
what was led a duction in violence rallad a reduction in violance before the signing of a deal.
happens now?
the agreement nitialled on saturday isn’ on this, at least not in the public document.
but in ard, in cobble, they will keep monitoring it.
i asked the special envoy, will this artial truths continue?
i hope will ntinue.
the parties it will continue.
the parties and the people of afghanistan he result of the reduction violence, how many lives we , they saved.
and i think have oral, religious and obligations.
and if they on’ respect them?
again, we that hope is not a strategy as the pentagon likes .
we hope that they respect there, their igations in accordance with he agreement.
but, i’ sure if is a violation of there is a violation of one—sided, the other side has ight to elf defence to the right to self defence to act accordingly but again, this a dissolution.
what the liban want to see next is a isoner release.
it also is up 5000 of them and will be reed.
but in kabul made it ear, present a clear that ’ up—to—date government and taliban are refusing to alk to them.
we need to engage them to have proper with them to have proper discussions about the way ward.
and i think they should compromise
and i hope arties will move forward.
is is the beginning of the alks.
they should start today.
hope we can do something
and i hope we ran do something in the coming days.
if you had oose one thing that orries you that could cause deal to unravel, what would it be?
the spoilers.
the ilars is he major obstacle the past.
i’ afraid it may this obstacle may remain
but i hope with this momentum ith the pressure from a certain major powers, these lers should back off.
the spoilars should back off.
the spoilars are in afghanistan or ighbouring countries?
i would say in neighbouring countries.
istan, iran.
i’ not going to comment on this.
you can ask taliban, you ask the the taliban, you ran ask the afghans and they will tell you.
ting ceasefire, a peace a lasting ceasefire, a peace deal, around the agenda for an talks.
they expected to art this month if all goes to .
-- they re.
israelis go to the polls on monday for the third election in less than a year, to to break the country’ political deadlock.
a key stumbling block to forming a governing coalition has been corruption charges against prime minister benjamin netanyahu who’ due to stand trial this month.
our middle east editor jeremy bowen sent this report.
on the sea of galilee, the bible says jewish fishermen who followed jesus used to debate the future.
modern israeli fishermen at election time still do.
on this boat, prime minister binyamin netanyahu’ supporters, led by the skipper menachim lev.
he values the bounty from the lake and the strength he sees in netanyahu.
he thinks his father, who survived auschwitz, would have approved.
he is from here, he is from the holocaust.
and my father tell me one thing — don’ trust nobody in your life, trust only yourself and do everything that is good for you.
the crew unites around fish, not politics.
this man is voting for the centre—left opposition, worried that the cost—of—living is pricing young israelis out of their future.
a lot of young people want to move from israel.
it is something that is happening.
but hopefully something will be better, i don’ know.
amid the electoral pyrotechnics, retired general benny gantz, the opposition leader, has had to deny claims from the netanyahu camp that he made sex videos.
netanyahu, he says, is trying to lie and cheat his way to victory.
the prime minister is claiming credit for donald trump’ so—called deal of century — an attempt to end the conflict on israel’ terms.
it allows israel, in defiance of international law, to annex settlements on and palestinians want for a state.
this is shilo, where they’re building a new school.
the settlers went two election victories this year — binyamin netanyahu and trump.
it is very important for us, both elections, and we are engaged in all sorts of personalities and organisations and groups to assure both here and there that as much as possible, we get the people in office that we want.
nearby, palestinians were on a hilltop they believe settlers might grab.
the old issues don’ go away.
and, as ever, it’ come down to control of the land — that’ always been at the centre of the conflict, a century ago and today.
by morning, israeli forces were driving palestinians off the hill.
the last real chance of a negotiated peace was collapsing when these young men were babies.
the big changes — political and diplomatic and especially president trump’ out and out support for the israeli government — is sharpening the conflict on the ground and you can see it in places like this.
conflict is normal for yet another generation — the election won’ change that.
jeremy bowen, news, on the west bank.
asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who spent years on death row after being convicted of blasphemy, has said she hopes to be able to return to pakistan one day.
she was in paris for the release of her memoir, finally free, in which she recounts her time injail and her brutal treatment by guards.
in the second part of an interview with the ’ mishal husain, bibi says herfaith helped her through the ordeal.
nearly ten yea ago, a christian woman from pakistan’ province was sentenced death for blasphemy.
it was that sparked international attention and age.
even after asia bibi outrage.
even after asia bibi was finally acquitted by istan’ highest court, huge rotests prevented her mediate release.
she now has life and here in paris, has been telling me her ory.
: isuffered inside the jail.
i cannot tell you what happened to .
i lived through all of this ery but god gave me patience i got a lot of strength.
cannot imagine but i have nessed miracles.
it is difficult for you to talk about use you write in the book about how you were held by the and how difficult that time was for you.
what was it gave you ope in this period?
: my strength came from my faith and that you should be courageous and you should be in your faith.
you strong in your faith.
and you should never lose your faith.
everything you have been rough, how would you describe emotions today?
do you eel bitterness, anger?
: are not angry at .
iforgiven everyone rom my heart.
and there is no dness in me, there is patience in me because i learned how to be patient after to leave my children having to leave my children behind.
it surprises me even.
ver i learnt to be so patient?
how can any mother he tient after ving her patient after leaving her children?
but god may be ient
and i commented two —— nquered the ardships faced way.
there are people in jail facing sphemy harges jail facing blasphemy charges today, people like this couple.
ould you say to them?
what would you say to them?
: i can give them .
lam now free, hope.
lam now free, i’ outside stop i want to request edia that they should work all media that they should work for these people as well so at is also free
and i can that she is also free
and i ran tell her that there will be a hen she will also be free.
asia bibi’ long ordeal is now but the issue of blasphemy pakistan is not.
there are christians and muslims being targeted by the law ay.
the question is, whether he country will take action to ent abuses and to protect prevent abuses and to protect its citizens whatever the igion.
we put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to the authorities in pakistan.
they said pakistan has taken considerable steps to prevent its possible misuse and constantly reviews its implementation.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
the acquittal of asia bibi is a testimony of pakistan’ resolve to protect its citizens as per its constitution.
about the allegations of abuse in prison, they responded: torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment to any prisoner is not allowed in the prisons of pakistan.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @bbcmaryam.
thank you so much for your company.
goodbye.
with rivers running high and any a afield still under water, ould do with a little bit better revenues and to a rtain degree, will get that is week.
no, not going be pletely but certainly compared with recent weeks, be anywhere near a wet won’ be anywhere near a wet and windy.
the jetstream is a more southerly trapper hat does mean is most what that does mean is most likely, 50 suddenly chill and with us more likely.
that’ how we start the monday ing commute with more in way of frost and some ice round with showers within ten wet overnight not quite costly to southern counties england.
outbreaks of rain a bit of sleet and snow in orning.
clearing away from east anglia and the south is quickly but then rightening up.
showers in the , this agreement,
how and eet and snow.
if you’re umber two began but more ming out other member not as as we saw for the weekend.
view on monday will spend he day completely or if , just one or two showers ssing away.
the damages round seven to 10 degrees at highest.
winds will overwhelm a light going to feel as cold in the afternoon quite as cold in the afternoon as it has done but the breeze be picking up across the will be picking up across the north—west later.
gail’ free for onday night into time for monday night into tuesday.
more on the way of wers starting to develop hrough the night and they will their way eastwards.
a bit snow across parts of otla hat even the hills of rthern ireland and northern land later on.
damages will lose to freezing in many areas so frost and ice the atest risk.
the converse of weather first thing on uesday morning in the west.
set up for tuesday, that eather front taking showers is initially.
more rain earing weather fronts diverted towards france and iberia inks about southerly tracking etstream.
re could be close enough to produce some rain the southernmost counties ngland and over the channel lands.
more showers around morning.
a wintry mix.
sil clear away and is back to nshine and showers for many to the afternoon.
showers across and western areas.
that which is similar to on monday.
then, as we ead into the middle part of week, it looks like many still say mostly with owers around here and there.
chance of rain closer to outh coast on wednesday but overall, were continuing that largely story.
changes a little and the way, thursday night to friday, see a weather front put we will see a weather front put its way across.
bringing a of brieﬂy.
fly.
showers following on its and then a chance some more wet and windy ather towards the end of the and into the next weekend.
and large, still the rivers sponding to the rain we saw ast few days and was some rain forecast towards the of eek, never to date too far from the flood warnings
and they there for you online.
this is news, the headlines pete buttigieg, the first openly gay presidential candidate, is to end his bid for the white house.
his decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’ known as super tuesday, when states hold primaries.
his withdrawal is likely to benefit the campaign ofjoe biden.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
a state of emergency has been declared.
one man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the .
several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross into greece after turkey announced it would no longer stop people trying to enter the european union.
turkey is seeking western support for its operations in syria.
an extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers has been called at athens’ request.
now on news, the week in parliament.
hello, and welcome to the week in parliament, as the prime minister is accused of going after two weeks of flooding, speaker, there are now even memes being produced not asking where’ wally, saying where’ boris?
since the flooding began there has been a constant stream of ministerial activity led by my right honourable friends.
can a new drive for kinder, gentler politics succeed where others have failed?
he went like this to me, shhh, sit down.
like that, which is incredibly patronising, so i turned around to him and i said, "mate, you’re not my dad!
".
and 100 years on, the enduring legacy of the first woman to speak in the house of commons.
she introduces the intoxicating liquor bill and that of course is the reason we all have to wait until we are 18 to drink today.
all that to come and more.
but first, it was a week when borisjohnson was accused of hiding rather than face up to the flooding crisis across england and wales.
jeremy corbyn accused him of being a, "part—time prime minister" who goes missing during emergencies.
borisjohnson told him the government was working "flat out" to help people.
the angry exchanges during prime minister’ questions came after days of heavy rain.
an emergency evacuation took place when rising waters on the river severn "overwhelmed" flood defences at ironbridge in shropshire.
residents were also evacuated from their homes in bewdley, worcestershire.
jeremy corbyn suggested the prime minister should visit flood—hit areas, as he himself had done.
when i visited last week, i saw at first hand the damage and destruction these floods have caused to people’ lives, homes and businesses.
but the prime minister was silent, sulking in his grace and favour mansion at chevening.
after two weeks of flooding, speaker, there are now even memes being produced, asking not "where’ wally?
" saying, "where’ boris?
" when is the government going to stop hiding and show people that it actually cares?
speaker, i am very proud of the response that the government has mounted over the past few days.
we convened the national flood response centre on the 14th.
since the flooding began, there has been a constant stream of ministerial activity, led by my right honourable friends the secretary of state for environment, for communities and local government.
and never forget that in spite of the flooding, and no one should underestimate the anguish that flooding causes, and of course it is an absolute shock to the households that are affected, but it is thanks to the measures that this government has put in that 200,000 households have been protected from flooding.
and we don’ hear that from the honourable member.
the prime minister was keen to pose for cameras when there’ a crisis on during the election, but he often goes .
he was late to respond to the london riots because he was on holiday.
he was on a private island when the iranian general was assassinated, and last week he had his head in the sands in a mansion in kent.
the for calder valley, another of his colleagues, said, "it is not good enough.
" how can the country trust 3 prime minister, a part—time prime minister?
last night schmoozing tory party donors at a very expensive black—tie ball, instead of getting out there and supporting the people who are suffering because of the floods?
this government needs to step up to the plate and invest in defences and ensure there is real insurance for people whose homes are being ruined by these floods as we speak.
speaker, the right honourable gentleman asks what this government has been doing in the past few days, so let me tell him, not only have we been investing massively in flood defences and compensating those who have suffered from flooding, but we have been stopping the early release of terrorists, we have restored the nurses’ bursary, we’re beginning work on a0 new hospitals, we are recruiting 20,000 more police officers.
and we can do that, speaker, because we have a strong and dynamic economy.
the labour leader said the labour—run welsh government had done its best to step up to the crisis, despite under—funding from westminster.
but in the senedd, in cardiff, the roles were reversed, with opposition conservatives attacking labour ministers over their response to the flooding.
we were flooded out december 2015, march last year, storm ciara, more effects from storm dennis.
your welsh government, you have said in your question and response to me, no further reviews.
people in feel you are not interested, minister.
you have to have a mechanism to be able to deliver that funding.
do you want to listen or not?
i am listening.
so, every house that’ had internalﬂooding you can smirk, janet finch—saunders, i’ not even going to look at you because you’re justin fact, deputy presiding officer, i don’ think she’ worthy of an answer.
lively exchanges in the welsh assembly.
although flooding dominated prime minister’ questions at westminster, borisjohnson also faced questions about his advisers, in particular andrew sabisky, who resigned after his past comments about eugenics and race came to light.
an took personal offence.
graham was born with cerebral palsy, unable to talk, walk or feed himself.
he broughtjoy and love to all who knew him.
and last week one of the prime minister’ advisers resigned when a basic check of their internet history revealed they had promoted eugenicist policies of the sort that would have ended my brother, graham doherty’ life before it began.
so can i ask the prime minister of the united kingdom to advise the house and every disabled person on this island andrew sabisky remained at the heart of his government and was not removed from the position immediately when their abhorrent views became apparent?
speaker, let us be absolutely clear that i certainly do not share those views, and nor are they the views of anybody in this government.
that individual no longer works for the government.
borisjohnson.
now for another potential crisis in the prime minister’ in—tray.
the coronavirus outbreak has led to plunging stock markets, the closure of some schools and the cancellation of international sports fixtures.
the health secretary has warned the public against overreacting.
matt hancock acknowledged that the government expects more cases in the , but he said that schools should stay open unless there are specific reasons for them not to.
about 700 people at a hotel on the island of tenerife were confined to their rooms and will remain in isolation for days.
the hotel was placed in lockdown on tuesday after an italian doctor staying there tested positive for the virus.
in his statement, matt hancock said the government had published guidance for schools, employers and the travel industry.
speaker, we have a clear four—part plan to respond to the outbreak of this disease.
contain, delay, research and mitigate.
we are taking all necessary measures to minimise the risk to the public.
we have put in place enhanced monitoring measures at airports, and health information is available at all international airports, ports and international train stations.
i can tell the house that in the coming days we will roll out a wider public information campaign.
while the government and the have plans in place for all eventualities, everyone can play their part.
to reiterate, our advice is for everyone to take sensible precautions like using tissues and washing hands more.
the world health organization has warned that countries are "simply not ready" for a pandemic.
there has now been significant spread of the virus across the european continent, italy in particular, but other cases have been identified in austria, croatia and switzerland.
this is clearly now very, very serious.
he moved on to the situation in schools.
we do have several schools in england and northern ireland shut completely at the moment for a deep clean, after students and teachers returned from skiing trips.
i understand his point that schools should check relevant websites and get local advice, but is he expecting any advice to be sent to schools from the department for education?
and if schools have to start shutting, will the government consider arrangements for alternative schooling provision for those affected?
we have issued, repeatedly issued advice to schools, which goes from the department for education.
i am glad to see the minister for schools in his place.
and we issued revised advice to schools this morning.
our goal here is to keep schools open wherever we can, as long as that protects the public.
our wider goal is to have minimum social and economic disruption, and indeed to the , subject to keeping the public safe.
matt hancock.
now you may have noticed it’ the awards season.
the baftas, the oscars, the parliamentary book awards.
this year there’ even a new set of awards celebrating politicians who behave with courtesy and decency to one another.
the civility in politics awards are designed to recognise those politicians who engage in thoughtful, reflective public debate.
those shortlisted include the former cabinet ministers andrea leadsom and kenneth clarke.
those who didn’ make the shortlist — spoiler alert — include these two known for their robust approach.
he put his policy to the british people, inasmuch as anyone could discern it, in a general election.
he was slaughtered.
what bit of that message does he not understand?
it’ a delight to see your children here watching today, because i know that while you have a responsibility to parliament, that you take your responsibilities as a parent incredibly seriously also, and now to the prime minister.
jess phillips and mark francois overcame their disappointment at not being shortlisted to join me to discuss civility in politics.
i think it’ good that they have got these awards and i can imagine someone like jacob rees—mogg doing well in that context.
we’ll have to wait and see who the winners are, but i wasn’ expecting to be up until the small hours worrying about it, to be honest.
and jess phillips, are you equally phlegmatic about this?
yeah,
i think that suppose it depends how onejudges civility, is it people working together for the common good, or is it those who understand that using a nice voice and saying please and thank you is the way to appear, at least, civil?
so i suppose we’ll have to wait and see, but again i shan’ be losing much sleep.
do you think it is effective or important in politics?
does civility get things done?
it does, it definitely does, and there has to be an amount of cross—party working.
it was vastly more important in the time of a hung parliament, and it had much more power in the time of a hung parliament in order to get things done — and i don’ mean about the substantive, the brexit issue, i mean about all the other things parliamentarians are working on, whether they get talked about or not.
but people will have seen you over the years being less than civil, challenging theresa may, and challenging john bercow when he was the speaker?
i suppose my style is combative.
but i hope not too uncivil, i have never sworn at anyone in the chamber or anything like that.
but there were great issues at stake and people felt passionately about them because if you’re not going to get passionate about the destiny of your country, what are you going to get passionate about?
and jess phillips, you occasionally have put your case very robustly, sometimes personally in the case of borisjohnson as prime minister?
less than civil?
perhaps it is less than civil, but to me the personal is political.
it feels very personal to me and as mark said, if you’re not going to get passionate about children not being able to go to school or poverty on our streets, what will you get passionate about?
it’ very, very personal to me that the decisions made by borisjohnson don’ affect him, but they do affect me and my family.
it’ very personal
and so i will absolutely bring my personal to work
and i will expect him to have to answer to that.
but can’ you make that point in a civil way?
of course, i’ very civil.
i won’ be civil when faced with incivility, and people can criticise me, when you’re faced with a marauding crowd, or people on social media having a pop at you, i don’ feel the need to always be completely civil with people.
i wouldn’ ever be abusive, but i will fight for what i believe in and fight to be heard.
i think people want their to have character about them.
they don’ want the idea of 650 sheep.
the question is where you draw the line?
in my case, i learnt a fairly combative debating style when i served on basildon borough council in the ‘905, where at council meetings the council is actively heckled by the public gallery, so it was a lively forum in which to learn.
one important change you will see, now we have a change of speaker i think that has materially affected the atmosphere in the house.
lindsay is very good at controlling the house with a bit of humour in a gentle way and i think now we have had that change you will see a lot of the tension go out of it.
you said you weren’ civil when people were uncivil to you.
what’ the most uncivil thing someone has said to you in the commons?
oh, gosh.
erm, you get quite a lot of it’ not necessarily people walking up directly, that rarely happens, argy—bargy in the corridors, that doesn’ happen.
but when you stand and speak, one minister who is now a minister again, i was stood talking about something
and he went like this to me, shush!
sit down!
like that, which is incredibly patronising, so i turned around and said, "mate, you’re not my dad, i earned my seat here, i will carry on exactly as i like.
" modern technology allows people to be rude to you anonymously and some people take advantage of that.
at least in the commons if you disagree with someone in the other party they can look you in the eye while you are doing it, online you can be a coward and some people unfortunately are.
jess phillips is nodding.
that’ a good note of agreement, a civil note of agreement to end.
thank you both very much.
mark francois and jess phillips, trying their best to get themselves nominated for next year’ civility in politics awards.
this year’ winners will be announced later in march.
time for a look now at what else has been happening around westminster.
the former chancellor, sajid javid, delivered a measured but pointed attack on borisjohnson and his style of government that surprised many tory mps.
mrjavid resigned after mrjohnson told him to sack his advisers to make way for a joint team of advisers for the prime minister and the chancellor.
advisers advise, ministers decide, and ministers decide on their advisers.
i couldn’ see the treasury, with the vital role that it plays, should be the exception to that.
a chancellor, like all cabinet ministers, has to be able to give candid advice to 3 prime minister so he is speaking truth to power.
i believe that the arrangement proposed would significantly inhibit that and it would not have been in the national interest.
an emergency bill to block the automatic early release of people convicted of terrorist offences became law after being rushed through parliament.
the terrorist offenders restriction of early release act was introduced after an attack in streatham, south london earlier in february.
the attacker, sudesh amman, had recently been freed from prison.
convicted terrorists will serve at least two thirds of their sentence before being considered for release.
now, introducing emergency legislation is not a step the government would ever take lightly, but the law was not working and we had a responsibility to act.
i am pleased that this house agreed with that assessment and we were able to get the new law on the statute book as a matter of urgency.
there was widespread criticism of the government’ policy towards war widows’ pensions.
last year, the ministry of defence ruled that from april 2015, those who "remarry, cohabit or form a civil partnership" would be entitled to keep the pension for life.
but this rule doesn’ apply retrospectively.
we are talking about 200—300 war widows whose former partners served in the falklands, northern ireland, the first gulf war, among other theatres.
and whose only course of action, my lords, today if they want their pension reinstated is to divorce and remarry their present partners.
how bonkers is that, my lords?
i want to make clear, my lords, that in no way does the government seek to diminish or disregard the support and contribution made by the ladies to whom the noble lady refers.
my problem is that i have got a very hard nut
and i don’ have a hammer to crack it.
the first woman to take her seat in parliament made her maiden speech a century ago this week.
the conservative nancy astor had won the plymouth seat vacated by her husband, viscount astor, after he’ moved to the house of lords.
her speech had a lasting impact, as gabrielle ’neill reports.
spluttering over the dover sole.
nancy astor is back in westminster as part of a drive to display more artworks depicting female politicians.
and if new are nervous about making their maiden speeches in 2020, what must it have been like for the first woman to do so?
this is the hansard parliamentary debates volume for february 1920 which includes the maiden speech of nancy astor, the first woman to take her seat in parliament.
and so her first words are, "i shall not begin by craving the indulgence of the house "i am only too conscious of the indulgence and the courtesy of the house.
i know that it is very difficult for some honourable members to receive the first lady into the house.
it is almost as difficult for some of them as it was for the lady herself to come in.
" i think it must’ve been incredibly daunting.
she was the first woman to ever enter, with 500 plus men in there, and i think it probably took a lot of courage.
she said so herself.
the commons was less welcoming than this portrait suggests.
the original larger version was gifted to parliament by her husband, but was sent back, and astor was to prove a controversialfigure.
who faced accusations of appeasement, anti—semitism and anti—catholicism in her lifetime.
she did make statements that are extremely unpalatable at any time.
but she was a woman of her time.
there were other people at that time who held similar views.
that’ not to condone them in any way, but it has been a challenge to actually present nancy astor as a real person or as a whole person.
maiden speeches are often on fairly innocuous topics, but actually astor chose a really controversial one.
but that’ because the topic was so important to her.
"it does take a bit of courage to address the house on the vexed question of drink.
" and that really is one of nancy’ objectives.
she really is motivated, as much by the letters from women and children who complained to her about the impact of drink on their lives that come into her mailbox, as she often is by her own party.
so, when other mp5, all different parties, trickle in to the house of commons throughout the 19205, they work together and there’ a new agenda, and it’ a new agenda about women and the protections of women and children.
but in particular, two years, three years later, she introduces the intoxicating liquor bill and that, of course, is the reason we all have to wait until we’re 18 to drink today.
drjacqui turner there.
time for a look at the wider world of politics now.
george debby has our countdown.
the long—awaited blue passports have arrived.
priti patel is the first to take a look at a new piece of brexit memorabilia.
so much for power.
that 296 majority in favour of a third runway counted for nothing when the court of appeal tore into the heathrow expansion plans, ruling that they were unlawful.
much sniggering at the back as welsh secretary simon hart accidentally revealed the filming location for the hit comedy series sex education.
ilmed in my ministerial colleagues’ constituency .
president trump visits a famous indian palace.
it’ not the first time he has visited a taj mahal, but the last one had a different feel.
did you win the jackpot, donald?
from trump to toasties.
£840 of lords questions have revealed that lord naseby’ world had fallen apart with the crunchy comestible taken off the bishop’ bar menu for health and safety reasons.
not a problem here, i am glad to say.
bon appetit, your lordship!
george debby — a man at peace with his toastie!
george debby giving lord naseby hunger pangs there.
now to the political revelation of the week — a long forgotten passageway used by prime ministers and closed up by victorian labourers.
historians working on the renovation of the house of commons found the lost 360—year—old passageway, hidden in a secret chamber.
this is the way charles came on the way to his coronation and also james , and it was the main way to the house of commons, which was where stephen’ hall now is.
over the centuries, so it is a very historic route.
the chamber was a passageway to the house of commons.
and the contents of this rather unassuming looking space are fascinating, for example there was graffiti on the wall, which was put there by charles barry’ masons when they were walling it up in 1851, which showed therd had a party with old ale and gives all their names and declares them to be true democrats.
history was lost and now it’ found, and the fact we found it is amazing, we talk about graffiti but here it is going back to 183, the builders have come in with a jug of ale and we had a bit of beer and a bit of history about themselves, and the fact they left their mark is the mark of history.
sir lindsay hoyle discovering that the palace of westminster still has a secret of two to give up.
that was the week in parliament.
thank you for watching.
i’ll be back on parliament at 11pm on monday evening with the latest from the commons and the lords.
until then, from me, david cornock, bye for now.
hello.
with rivers running high and many afield still under water, we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
no, not going be completely but certainly compared with recent weeks, won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we’re into cooler air, so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
that’ how we start the monday morning commute with more in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers continuing through the north and west overnight.
not quite as frosty towards southern counties of england.
outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning.
clearing away from east anglia and the south—east quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw for the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely or if not, just one or two showers passing your way.
the temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the north—west later.
gail’ for a time for monday night into tuesday.
more on the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
a bit of snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas so frost and ice the greatest risk.
the coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
the set up for tuesday, that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weather fronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southerly tracking jetstream.
they could be close enough to produce some rain over the southernmost counties of england and over the channel islands.
more showers around tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
those will clear away and it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay mostly with showers around here and there.
the chance of rain closer to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we’re continuing with that largely story.
changes 3 little bit towards the end of the week, thursday night to friday, we will see a weather front push its way across — bringing a spell of rain briefly.
showers following on its wake and then a chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw over the last few days and with some rain forecast towards the end of the week, never stay too far away from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
welcome to news.
i’ maryam moshiri.
our top stories: in the election campaign, mayor pete buttigieg pulls out.
it could be a boost forjoe biden’ campaign.
there are concerns the new coronavirus could have been circulating in the for weekss.
up to 1,500 people may be infected.
turkey sends refugees to europe to to force backing for its campaign in syria.
we’ll hearfrom asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who spent years on death row.
she reveals how her faith helped her through the ordeal.
pete buttigieg has dropped out of the race to be the democratic candidate to take on president trump for the presidency.
the 38—year—old former mayor enjoyed a successful start to his campaign, but it lost momentum in recent weeks.
he narrowly won the iowa caucuses early last month and came in a strong second place in the new hampshire primary, but faltered badly in saturday’ south carolina vote.
he made the announcement a short time ago at a rally in his hometown of south bend, indiana.
today is a moment of truth.
after a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone, defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy if not our cause.
and another of those values is responsibility, and we have a responsibility to consider the effect of remaining in this race any further.
our goal has always been to help unify americans, to defeat donald trump and to win the era for our values.
robert kraymer is a democratic strategist.
hejoins me now from chicago.
robert, thanks for joining us here on news.
are you prised by this move?
i think ere’ some inevitability to ran a remarkable it.
he ran a remarkabla campaign and, as he said, he ake the improbable ossible, but the path to his tory seemed to narrow.
i do ink that there is some uestion as to the exact impact his withdrawal.
there was a rning console poll 3 uple morning console poll a couple of days ago that second choices ttigieg, his own to buttigieg, his own supporters’ second choices, 61% ere for and 21% for were for biden and 2196 for sanders, 9% for biden, 19% for zabeth warren and another 1795 for bloomberg.
there’ not finitive break to biden in that respect, but the one thing would be helpful to biden by narrowing the field, this reases the odds a number of ese candidates may reach the % of viability level in some 1596 of viability level in some of the pcoming primaries and, consequence, peel off some egates intentionally away bernie.
do you think his appened before super uesday?
i think there was obably a good of discussion some of the other candidates with respect to that question.
if he oesn’ think he can make it, arrow number of people in the field so the 15% viability shold can be reached and sanders doesn’ run away with idon’ that will be the actual outcome, but i suspect that was the principal onale for the move before super tuesday.
do you think buttigieg’ upporters, those really keen orters, feel right now supporters, feel right now about the fact he’ pulled out?
use he came from virtually because he came from virtually nothing, didn’ he, do ething quite impressive.
and in any mpaign when the candidate ’ve invested your heart and oul in withdrawals, that’ a appointing development and sure a number of them will disappointed.
the effect of withdrawal on the immediate uper tuesday election is tigated by the fact huge mbers of people will vote in election on tuesday will already voted in early voting, rticularly in alifornia.
i might add in ssachusetts, for instance, he sharing a lot of the vote with elizabeth warren and that help boost elizabeth there.
the exact final impact not going to see luckily, we’re not going to see luckily, pretty quickly, til three days from now.
i know it’ days
but who is your money on, robert?
the odds are still.
think bernie best still i think bernie sanders is the likely nominee.
big fan personally of i’ a big fan personally of elizabeth warren if you are to continue to hang on and ild her support.
den as a build her support.
biden has a head of steam coming out of carolina, but he’ going ave to do a lot to broaden is base include particularly hispanic voters.
big oblem in the general election we have is not so much voters might swing voters who might otherwise vote for trump, it’ suring the people who mostly assuring the peopla who voted for obama on the one hand hen didn’ vote or voted third—party, those people ave got to ack with us in have got to be back with us in the fall, and that’ what biden show that he can do.
has to show that he can do.
bernie i think can do that.
bert aymer, good to talk robert kraymer, good to talk to 7°“- thank you very much for you, thank you very much for your analysis stop eager to to you.
——.
good to be be with you.
--.
good to be with you.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
over the weekend, a man in his fifties from the northwestern state became the first confirmed fatality from the virus in the .
a short while ago i spoke with professor peter hotez, dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college of medicine.
i put it to him that the safety of health care workers is becoming a major issue.
one of the things we noticed it coming out of wuhan, the chinese reported that in the epidemic in wuhan there were more than 1,000 healthcare workers infected, with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1a.
8%, were seriously ill and many required admission so that was a wake—up call that our healthcare workforce is highly to this virus and infection.
it occurred to us here in the united states, and of course locally, that things good full down quickly if large numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and couldn’ fight this infection, and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising and if healthcare workers feel they’re not being adequately protected we are worried things could break down and collapsed very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking about this for the last couple of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2a hours of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in california now infected according to reports.
this is going to be an area of extreme vulnerability here in the united states and i would imagine globally, you can imagine in the middle east or africa, where healthcare workers don’ have adequate personal protective equipment, what we call , i think this is going to become a major issue going forward.
you’ve personally been working on a vaccine, towards a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine?
do you think we are 18 months away from one, or is it more complicated than that?
i think it’ really hard to predict.
there’ a lot of new, exciting technologies out there for advancing vaccines — vaccines, vaccines, we’re using a more conventional recombanent protein approach and a number of these strategies are being supported by a new international global fund vaccines partly headquartered in london called , coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations, that’ the exciting part, but the bad news is we still have to do a lot of safety testing.
typically this can require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective.
we also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory vaccines, there’ this paradoxical what we call immune enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
this was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory virus vaccine in the ‘605, and we saw in laboratory animals with experimental vaccines after the original sars came out in 2003.
that’ a long way of saying this is not going to go fast.
that safety testing can’ be compromised, it’ very hard to compress timelines, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
you can forget it — because of the immune enhancement phenomenon, we’re looking at at least a year away before we have a vaccine, and i’ guessing probably longer.
let me know honestly, how worried are you about the new coronavirus?
it’ clearly worrisome.
we saw the devastation this virus caused in wuhan, particularly amongst selected age groups, individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable, pretty high fatality rates, those with underlying chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and obviously our healthcare workforce.
we’re seeing case fatality rates of 2% overall.
many were saying that’ probably not the case, there’ probably a lot of people with low—grade infectionis that we’re missing, but then the world health organization gave us a very chilling statement last week saying we think the 2% fatality rate is real.
the reason that significant is it is so highly contagious.
on average a single individual will infect three or four people, so it’ two or three times more contain just than seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll have our hands full.
this is quite a serious pathogen, and that’ the world health organization and the director—general, doctor tedros, appropriately declared an emergency of international concern a few weeks ago, especially worried about the countries that don’ have the capacity to manage complex epidemics or public health crises.
in many respects the public health emergency was not declared so much for the or the , although we’re certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this virus goes into sub—saharan africa, we’ve got 1—3 million chinese living there now, the belt and road initiative in the middle east, you get the idea.
let’ get some of the day’ other news: iraq’ prime minister—designate, mohammed allawi, has withdrawn his nomination, hours after parliament again failed to approve his proposed cabinet.
in a damning tweet, allawi accused iraqi politicalforces, without naming them, of not being serious about reform and protesters’ demands.
several thousand people have rallied in central prague against the czech republic’ billionaire prime minister and the way his government treats public institutions.
prime minister andrej babis is facing police charges over an subsidy fraud.
the has also launched a probe into his dual role as a politician distributing subsidies and entrepreneur receiving them.
the greek government has announced it’ suspending the processing of asylum applications and will immediately return anyone who enters the country illegally.
it comes after days of clashes at its and border with turkey.
several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross, after turkey announced it would no longer stop migrants who wanted to go to the european union.
orla guerin reports from pazarkule on the border between turkey and greece.
at first light, theyjoined the migrant trail from turkey.
heading for the river meric, all that separates them from europe.
this small group manages to cross, reaches the shores of greece, which fears a new flood of refugees.
at border crossings with turkey, it’ been pushing them back.
greece doesn’ want a repeat of 2015.
caught up in the chaos this afternoon, reza, an iranian we met who hopes to meet london.
they’re pushing us by water, teargas it’ not fair.
and the young have been in the firing line, like 1—year—old yeshar, whose family is from afghanistan.
"the greeks a shot at us and threw tear gas at him," says his father, ziman, "he could have died.
"
but for turkey, which has been sheltering almost 4 million syrians, the refugees are new human bargaining chips being used to put pressure on europe.
well, families are still arriving here and they’re not coming by accident, they’re being encouraged to travel by the turkish authorities led to believe they can enter europe.
instead they are stuck here with no way to cross into greece and they and their children are having to camp out in the cold.
and this is what awaits them now at the border, a battleground.
greece says it won’ allow a free—for—all.
turkey says it’ overwhelmed by refugees.
it’ determined that europe will share the fallout from syria’ long and brutal war.
orla guerin, news, on the turkey—greece border.
stay with us on news, still to come: the 220—year—old piano that’ seen war and peace in paris, the north african desert and new york, and could fetch more than $1 million at auction.
first, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
the hydrogen bomb.
on a remote pacific atoll, the americans had successfully tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb dropped on hiroshima.
i had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went bang, bang, bang!
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’ get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
this religious controversy — i know you don’ want to say too much about it — but does it worry you that it’ going to boil up when you get to the states?
well, it worries me, yes, but i hope everything will be all right in the end, as they say.
this is news, the latest headlines: the democratic party presidential contender, pete buttigieg, is pulling out of the white house race.
it’ expected to boost joe biden’ chances.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
asia bibi, a pakistani christian woman who spent years on death row after being convicted of blasphemy, has said she hopes to be able to return to pakistan one day.
she’ been in paris for the release of her memoir, finally free, in which she recounts her time injail — and her brutal treatment by guards.
in the second part of an interview with the ’ mishal husain, bibi says herfaith helped her through the ordeal.
nearly ten years ago, a christian woman from pakistan’ punjab province was sentenced to death for blasphemy.
it was a case that sparked international attention and outrage.
and even after asia bibi was finally acquitted by pakistan’ highest court, huge protests prevented her immediate release.
she now has a new life and here in paris, she has been telling me her story.
: i suffered a lot inside the jail.
i cannot even tell you what happened to me.
i lived through all of this misery but god gave me patience
and i got a lot of strength.
you cannot imagine but i have witnessed miracles.
it is difficult for you to talk about because you write in the book about how you were held by the neck and how difficult that time was for you.
what was it that gave you hope in this period?
: my strength came from my faith and i learnt that you should be courageous and you should be strong in yourfaith.
and you should never lose your faith.
after everything you have been through, how would you describe your emotions today?
do you feel bitterness, anger?
:
no, i’ not angry at all.
i’ve forgiven everyone from my heart.
and there is no hardness in me, there is patience in me because i learned how to be patient after having to leave my children behind.
it surprises me even, how have i learnt to be so patient?
how can any mother be patient after leaving her children?
but god made me patient
and i conquered the hardships thrown my way through patience.
there are people injailfacing blasphemy charges today, people like shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel.
what would you say to them?
: i can give them hope.
i’ now free, i’ outside.
so i want to request all media that they should work for shagufta as well so that she is also freed
and i can tell her that there will be a day when she will also be free.
asia bibi’ long ordeal is now over but the issue of blasphemy in pakistan is not.
there are still christians and muslims being targeted by the law today.
the question is, whether the country will take action to prevent abuses and to protect its citizens whatever the religion.
we put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to the authorities in pakistan.
they said pakistan has taken considerable steps to prevent its possible misuse and constantly reviews its implementation.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
about the allegations of abuse in prison, they responded: torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment to any prisoner is not allowed in the prisons of pakistan israelis go to the polls on monday for the third election in less than a year, to to break the country’ political deadlock.
a key stumbling block to forming a governing coalition has been corruption charges against prime minister benjamin netanyahu, who’ due to stand trial this month.
here’ our middle east editorjeremy bowen.
on the sea of galilee, the bible says jewish fishermen who followed jesus used to debate the future.
modern israeli fishermen at election time still do.
on this boat, prime minister binyamin netanyahu’ supporters, led by the skipper menachim lev.
he values the bounty from the lake and the strength he sees in netanyahu.
he thinks his father, who survived auschwitz, would have approved.
he is from here, he is from the holocaust.
and my father tell me one thing — don’ trust nobody in your life, trust only yourself and do everything that is good for you.
the crew unites around fish, not politics.
this man is voting for the centre—left opposition, worried that the cost—of—living is pricing young israelis out of their future.
a lot of young people want to move from israel.
it is something that is happening.
but hopefully something will be better, i don’ know.
amid the electoral pyrotechnics, retired general benny gantz, the opposition leader, has had to deny claims from the netanyahu camp that he made sex videos.
netanyahu, he says, is trying to lie and cheat his way to victory.
the prime minister is claiming credit for donald trump’ so—called deal of century — an attempt to end the conflict on israel’ terms.
it allows israel, in defiance of international law, to annex settlements on and palestinians want for a state.
this is shilo, where they’re building a new school.
the settlers went two election victories this year — binyamin netanyahu and trump.
it is very important for us, both elections, and we are engaged in all sorts of personalities and organisations and groups to assure both here and there that as much as possible, we get the people in office that we want.
nearby, palestinians were on a hilltop they believe settlers might grab.
the old issues don’ go away.
and, as ever, it’ come down to control of the land — that’ always been at the centre of the conflict, a century ago and today.
by morning, israeli forces were driving palestinians off the hill.
the last real chance of a negotiated peace was collapsing when these young men were babies.
the big changes — political and diplomatic and especially president trump’ out and out support for the israeli government — is sharpening the conflict on the ground and you can see it in places like this.
conflict is normal for yet another generation — the election won’ change that.
jeremy bowen, news, on the west bank.
a very different story involving israel now.
a rare piano that’ been described as immortal goes up for auction in israel next week.
the piano of sienna — which is more than 220 years old — has spent its life at the world’ fair in paris, in a second world war african battlefield, and has travelled from new york to tel aviv — and is expected to fetch more than a million dollars.
stay tuned for this story from rich preston.
with an unusually ornate design, the instrument has had a life.
it was made in quite a life.
it was made in 1799 according to the winners ion house in rusalem by auction house in jemsalem by the children in based harper at maker sebastian much asier and has been described as a visual masterpiece.
he died before he could finish it is descendents finished or him endeavour to his anddaughter a wedding granddaughter for a wedding gift.
it appeared at the ld’ fair in paris in 1867 before being given to italy’ rints and future king, then prints and future king, humberto the first before ling into nazi hands.
the iano surfaced again after the 2 battle of alamein in 1942 battla of alamein in egypt in a crate with a mind at : when the british forces opened it, they astonished to see a piano inside buried in the desert .
from there, it ended up with an israeli piano merchant xed it up and took it to new york where it was displayed einway hall.
: it was displayed as a kind of a in the most well—known ano shop in york and became a pilgrimage for nists and enthusiasts.
now, owner says it is time to go of this beautiful eation and for the next hapter in its life to begin.
oes under the hammer on tuesday.
rich preston, news.
what a wonderful story.
you so uch for your thank you so much for your company.
plenty of more to .
goodbye.
hello.
with rivers running high and many afield still under water, we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
no, not going be completely but certainly compared with recent weeks, won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we’re into cooler air, so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
that’ how we start the monday morning commute with more in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers continuing through the north and west overnight.
not quite as frosty towards southern counties of england.
outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning.
clearing away from east anglia and the south—east quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw for the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely or if not, just one or two showers passing your way.
the temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the north—west later.
gail’ for a time for monday night into tuesday.
more on the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
a bit of snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas so frost and ice the greatest risk.
the coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
the set up for tuesday, that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weather fronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southerly tracking jetstream.
they could be close enough to produce some rain over the southernmost counties of england and over the channel islands.
more showers around tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
those will clear away and it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay mostly with showers around here and there.
the chance of rain closer to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we’re continuing with that largely story.
changes 3 little bit towards the end of the week, thursday night to friday, we will see a weather front push its way across - bringing a spell of rain briefly.
showers following on its wake and then a chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw over the last few days and with some rain forecast towards the end of the week, never stay too far away from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
this is news, the headlines: pete buttigieg — the first openly gay presidential candidate — is to end his bid for the white house.
his decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’ known as super tuesday, when states hold primaries.
his withdrawal is likely to benefit the campaign ofjoe biden.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1500 people.
a state of emergency has been declared.
one man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the .
several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross into greece, after turkey announced it would no longer stop people trying to enter the european union.
turkey is seeking western support for its operations in syria.
an extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers has been called at athens’ request.
now on news, it’ time for dateline london.
hello, and welcome to dateline london.
i’ carrie gracie.
this week: wake up, get ready, coronavirus is coming — the message from the world health organization to governments everywhere.
hopes of stopping the new virus at national borders all but vanished over the past week — and global financial markets reacted accordingly.
but if we can’ stop this coronavirus, can we slow it down?
my guests today: stefanie bolzen of die welt.
american journalist, henry chu.
iain martin of the london times.
mina al—oraibi, editor of the national — a news service for the middle east.
i want to start by looking at how different countries and different regions are handling it so far.
let’ start with iran and the middle east.
iran, marks out of ten?
two at best.
it’ really concerning that the government has not been straight with how far the cases there has spread.
cases have come to iraq and lebanon through iran because people were not tested.
this kind of hiding the scale of the problem.
persian, for example, has been able to verify deaths of about 210 people, whereas, the government until recently has been insisting it is only 3a and dismissing media reports that say otherwise.
it’ not so much about the number of deaths, but much more being indicative of a country not playing it straight, therefore, the ability to spread to other countries.
cases have cropped up in afghanistan, also originated from iran.
these are vulnerable countries iraq, syria, afghanistan — huge numbers of displaced people.
if it catches on there, it will be incredibly difficult to and help these people, save these people but also stop the spread.
unfortunately, the iranian government, which leads on from what we saw at the beginning of the year with the ukrainian jetliner, also not being straight about how that jetliner was struck down.
they have to be transparentand working with governments in the region and also globally.
you can’ hide these important figures.
we’ll come back to china in a moment on transparency.
let’ deal with south korea, now the country with the largest number of growing infections after china.
how well are they doing?
i think they are trying to take the steps that they can as a democratic society, for example, closing schools.
which japan is doing as well.
with transparency, i feel there is a government where we can have more confidence in the figures being put out and the measures put in place.
moreso than, say, china.
although, they had a difficulty with a secretive christian sect, slowing things up initially.
correct, transparency of the people on the ground is perhaps a different issue from what the government is trying to do.
also, in the region, indonesia, another largely and densely populated country has denied that it has infections.
a little hard to believe at this point.
a mixed picture in that region.
europe — italy currently the centre of the problem in europe?
northern italy, venice.
you can see almost day by day how it is creeping up northwards, also to germany.
i was just in germany, cologne, at a regionalfestival, there were millions of people on the street and parties.
actually, there is a very small town between cologne and the dutch border, there they have 37 people already infected, two persons i think are really seriously ill.
they got ill at a carnival party.
i attended those.
of course, you have to make a personal choice.
but it’ these kind of mass gatherings which are now something that we all look at and get very worried about.
yet you weren’ wary enough to not go?
it was five days ago.
today, i probably wouldn’ go.
five days ago, it was only in northern italy, but it’ spreading very quickly.
the are somewhat in the european camp.
i want you to look at the for us, that is a country with unexplained cases, they can’ trace the contact.
also, the political leadership, donald trump talking at odds with his public health officials?
that makes the in this story possibly one of the most troubling areas to look at because it appears as though the administration is going to a rather dangerous experiment, which is for the president and the senior leadership to be at odds with the healthcare establishment and the scientific establishment.
now, you saw last week the president’ tweets and statements from the administration that appear to suggest that they see this in terms of various television networks trying to do down the president’ ratings, and i don’ really think that is what this crisis is about.
of course, the trump’ re—election rests on on a booming stock market, we will talk later what has happened to the markets, but he is desperately worried.
you would hope — traditionally it’ been the case with previous american presidents — that when you get a crisis like this, that america is a country that has leaders that want to show leadership, rather than picking fights with scientists.
if i can interject something about that.
it is true that trump is trying to minimise this crisis.
even on friday, he was already saying this is all a bit of a hoax perpetrated by the democrats.
that confidence is surging in the economy, when we saw wall street have it’ biggest weekly loss in more than decade.
but because the is a federal system, you do have states tackling the problem with their own health department.
i’ from california, it has about half the reported infections, i think it is doing a betterjob than the federal government as a whole in terms of trying to walk the line between overreacting and under reacting to a public health crisis.
there are now some unexplained infections, but that means california is now monitoring more people than it did before, it is expanding its testing regime.
a bit of a mixed picture, but what is coming out of washington is definitely troubling.
henry, can you take us to possibly another glimmer of hope, that the number of new infections is going down in china?
do you think there is a sense of china beginning to turn a corner?
i think there has been a sense like that over the past few days already, that the lockdown on hubei province, the epicentre, has been effective.
now we see that this is china beginning to pat itself on its back for the measures it’ taking.
while, to some degree, that’ true — to another degree, it is also containing a fire that it helped start and fan in the first place by not learning the lessons of in 2003, and covering up these infections in the beginning.
i think you have to weigh those two against each other to determine how china has performed.
in terms of raising awareness, taking necessary precautions but also not raising the alarm.
i think is a difficult decision for officials, but it’ also been difficult for us as journalist.
absolutely, coronavirus is the most read topic on our websites since the beginning of the year.
in some way, we have to keep informing people, but at the same time, you don’ want to alarm people.
the decision about schools, in the , the first arab country that declared it had coronavirus patients, then five people have actually recovered.
they have been really good about briefing us about who is recovering, because i think it’ a really important to get the information out.
yes, there is about a 2.
2% death rate, it is concerning but not at the rate of 10—15% where people would lose control.
at the same time, talking about people who do recover.
they think that alarmism rattles markets, people are scared, at the same time, it really important to say, these are the people precautions you can take, but you can also claim some semblance of control over your life.
it brings us of the questions about relating to the public — trust, transparency, conviction in communicating effectively in messaging.
henry alluded to the way the chinese system is beginning to take credit and deliver a message about their superior system in dealing in this top—down effective way, but the liberal democracies will take a different view of some of their strengths?
i must say, lam highly critical of china.
did it become so big in the first place?
apparently, the chinese officials were not very keen to be transparent about it.
i would think, in europe, governments in general are trying to be very transparent.
at the same time, you get the sense they are cautious to not overreact because they do not want to cause panic, also very difficult.
they can be blamed afterwards for not being strict enough with the measures.
then again, it’ a question of whether you live in a centralised country, or like germany, one which is highly federalised so decisions can be taken at a very local level.
one village will close the school, another one will not.
one town will stop a train, another will not.
it is a very complex situation and it depends on your institutional framework.
it is also about truth telling.
if the chinese government now wants us to believe it is on top of this — i certainly hope that is the case, and a lot of indications suggest they have turned a corner — but does that mean they were telling the truth two months ago, or telling the truth now?
we know better than any one it is an autocratic system, it is a culture in which people are not encouraged to speak the truth if it conflicts with what the powerful centre commands.
i think people are right to be sceptical about what china is saying now, because what the government was saying a few weeks ago turns out to be wrong.
speaking to iain’ point, it has been very interesting in china that there has been a cover—up and denial until the point where it can no longer be denied?
i think what is dangerous about this narrative of congratulating china — it has taken very strong measures recently, that is incontestable — is the core area that a liberal, democratic state could not mount an effective response in quite the same way.
but in the , we have emergency protocols, there can be declarations of emergency, use of greater powers sparingly — which is they are called emergency protocols.
that can help contain and mitigate the effects of coronavirus.
whereas in china, this is a system that arrogates to itself these powers all the time.
i think that is a big difference to point out between the two institutional frameworks.
let’ talk about the science.
i know none of you are virologists or epidemiologists, but on the other hand, we all have to, as journalists and citizens, get on top of our understanding of the science up to a point.
i want to ask you about the point of the measures we have been talking, to slow infection rates.
two months in, do we know enough about this virus itself to choose the best weapons with which to deal that?
it is very difficult for western governments because the chinese have done something which is clearly within frame of reference, complete lockdown.
i think if you were to that in a major european city like paris, london or berlin, it would be very difficult.
we do know that we have become, since , in the last 20 years or so, even more mobile globally.
if you look at how this could be spread, in terms of europe, whether it has really taken hold, it is the case the number of flights globally has doubled since 17 years ago.
the pace of technical change, the amount of travel that we do, the opportunities for this to spread at speed and mutate, has increased in the last 20 years.
we should remember this is not new.
this is the story of the last 100 years or so since the great flu pandemic after the first world war.
this is something which lots of scientists have warned about, and have seen and in the context of other global outbreaks.
it is one of the major downsides of globalisation, and it is very, very difficult to deal with.
and yet, mina, there is also mobility of information.
is the public health messaging, in so far as we understand the virus — how to beat it with barriers, masks, hygiene, social distancing and so on — are those messages getting out effectively to communities in your part of the world?
i think globally they are getting out effectively.
in our part of the world, absolutely.
again, it depends on the country, but you get much more regular public briefings than you would have had five years ago.
public officials are more used to speaking to their constituents.
again, you get countries like iran where the information is not necessarily accurate.
the incredible thing, of course, is social media.
the world health organization has messages going out on facebook, twitter, and they are actually paying and promoting for these ads to come out.
google has been great in terms of, if you look up coronavirus, the first thing that comes up is the world health organization.
i think five, six years ago, someone would have tweaked the algorithm and search engine optimisation to get the clicks.
you’re actually getting much more sensible technological advances of how do we mobilise in global emergencies like this.
one thing to keep in context as well, it was pointed out to me, at this point, we don’ really know the number of infections around the world, it could be vastly more than we are relies.
while that is not a good thing in terms of absolute number, it actually can be a hopeful sign in that we would know about it if the mortality rate was much greater.
if these are not actually causing deaths, it shows the mortality rate is much lower than we have so far seen.
that could be a piece of good news.
one of the things that we wait to see.
it is complicated by more good news, all the early indications suggest that 80% of those who catch this will suffer really mild symptoms.
even to the extent that they don’ know that they carry it.
the concern is that if they are right, if about 50% of the population of the that can be infected, if the death rate is 1%, maybe even 2% — those are still huge numbers of potential deaths.
henry, coming back to china, one of the things that we will see over time in that giant petri dish, as it were, is that when people do start going a back to normality — how much infection there is then when the quarantine is over.
in china, you have some of the most densely populated cities on warth, where there is a lot of social mixing, running up against each other all the time.
but i think will be the further test of where we see this virus going.
there can be plenty of infections that we just don’ know anything about, they willjust disappear.
one thing about the science that concerns me is people thinking that these surgical mass will keep you safe for the longest time.
some doctors say they will only last for about 20 minutes, at best, six hours, because they are quite loose—fitting.
you can understand people are buying them to make sure they are covered, but in some ways, it can gather more germs, you knw, taken on and off.
i think that is one of those scientific issues not clearly stated for people.
there are others that we just don’ have time to list all of now.
let’ move on to the economic impact, and the political, cultural impact.
stefanie, saw a massive sell—off on global markets over the past week as they corrected enormously.
factories possibly closing down, transport links suspended around the world, and the unpredictability that we will be talking about?
absolutely, we don’ even know how things will be tomorrow, next week.
you see currencies going down.
germany is highly dependent on trade with china, for example, i think there was a calculation that even if the chinese dopped by 1%, that will be a drop in germany of 0.
2%.
it will have a knock—on effect on everything, it feels like we are back in the 2008 financial crash times, but somehow, even more unpredictable as to what is going to happen next.
notable that its those shares most vulnerable to cross—border travel, cross—border trade, events where people come together in densely—packed spaces — these are all suffering the biggest hits?
yes.
sports, travel, retail.
also, look at what is happening with the financial system, because it depends on those businesses still bringing money for their revenues.
if people are no longer buying and travelling in at the same way, that is the thing that concerns the authorities the most at the end of last week.
that is what is happening underneath the surface.
they are stress testing and looking at how solid the banking system is, because it wouldn’ take that much.
for example, in the euro zone, where there are already existing banking problems, if you see a collapse in economic activity — which hopefully will not happen.
hopefully, this dissipates, the weather warms up and things improve.
there are some indications china is starting getting back to work, starting to see production tip up.
people should not think it is the apocalypse, but the authorities are deeply concerned.
i think also it goes beyond what we might think of as regular consumer products, let say from china, an iphone or nike shoes.
a friend of mine who works in a hospital in california says because the drug manufacturing in china is so big, they are witnessing shortages now in the .
not necessarily because of the coronavirus, just in general, because china is such a big workshop for the world in so many different ways.
perhaps a silver lining that may come out of this, economically speaking, maybe governments and economists will stop obsessing about growth and consumption in quite the same way we have in the past, given the environmental questions looming over us and other issues that come from purely looking at growth as the measure of the health of the global economy.
there is the beginnings of a trend with government starting to talk about a re—shoring.
we have become very dependent, particularly in europe, on that trade with emerging giants like china.
so a country like china, it used to be britain’ 29th biggest for exports, it is now fourth.
for all sorts of reasons, i think you will start to see, after this pandemic if that is what it is, people becoming much more fashionable to and re—shore some manufacturing back to europe.
i am worried about that because it comes after such tensions between the and china, this trade war, more protectionism, a decoupling from china.
this almost becomes an excuse in certain politcal circles, where it becomes politicised, and therefore, an excuse for saying, "actually, look, things from china, had.
"we don’ want it, let’ decouple even more.
" because of the political climate we have been in for the past couple of years.
interestingly, donald trump, in the last week or so, it seems to have dawned on him.
looking at some of his tweets, he’ actually saying, "i didn’ mean to completely cancel globalisation — global trade really matters.
" it’ almost like it’ an election year!
stefanie, everyone is trying to stay positive about the economy and open minded about the prospects of damage limitation in relation to coronavirus.
are you agreeing with iain and henry on that?
do you think we are bound for a limitation of growth, as we are hearing from bankers and economists, or do you think it is potentially worse?
i’ no economist, but before coronavirus, there was already a recession looming in germany, growth was going down.
what happens germany then affects what happens in the rest of euro zone and .
on top of that, the uncertainties of brexit, it was going to happen this year, how frictionless trade will continue in europe or not.
somehow feeding into a situation that was already volatile, and could make it worse.
i’ pretty pessimistic, to be honest.
the potential upside, the good news, is that if this is relatively brief and the weather warms up and things improve and it does not turn into a pandemic, all the historical evidence is that you then get a very rapid bounce back, and you get a huge surge in demand as people get back to work and life returns to normal.
we also have quite a few events on the calendar that people need to peer down the months and see.
is there going to be the hajj?
is there going to be tokyo olympics, the normal campaigning you see around the elections?
mina, the hajj?
well, saudi arabia has stopped the umrah, which is the mini pilgrimage.
i can’ remember a time when that’ actually happened, so that a big indicator that the saudis are like, "we have to close the doors.
" the problem during the hajj is that most people get meningitis shots anyway, because you have problems with meningitis and other diseases that are transmitted.
i imagine that if this is not under control by april, may, they will have to be reconside, and they may very well really limit the numbers.
saying, from each country, we can only have amount.
50 really limit them and put people into quarantine almost.
so, your hajj journey, instead of taking a week out, do you take a month?
i can’ imagine them cancelling it altogether, they can’.
but i think they will really limit it.
they have to make those decisions soon.
you were mentioning going to the carnival.
churches, mosques, sports events, we look through april and may, are they all going to start unfolding in front of our eyes?
the news from europe and germany last night, one event after the other is being cancelled.
the international tourism fair in germany was cancelled last night.
things like the olympics, of course, a massive question.
there have been talks for a long time whether you can actually have it.
it is a really big question, is it foing to become a pandemic or not?
it is the responsibility of the governments to take those decisions.
henry, i want to ask you about something more broader and cultural.
xenophobia, we have seen a big problem in relation to ethnic chinese citizens abroad.
have you felt it?
funny that you ask, i was just back in the and flying.
i was very conscious of the fact that i was trying to remain looking healthy at all times and not coughing or sniffling on the flight.
they were already people with surgical masks on, people taking precautions.
i think there has been a reported drop in, for example, people going to chinese restaurants, just feeling that this is somehow so connected with china that all chinese people of any heritage, stripe or background are somehow infected.
that was also exarcebated in some ways in the by trump’ travel restrictions on people entering from china.
by that measure now, we should be talking about travel restrictions on people from italy, south korea.
time for one last point.
iain, picking up from what henry just said, it is not some weird them and is thing any more, it is us and us.
this is a virus potentially anywhere?
this is globalisation in action, the world has been speeding up, we travel more, human being are social animals.
globalisation, a positive thing, comes with a downside.
you now hopefully, hopefully, will see coordinated global action to deal with it now.
let’ end on a high note.
thank you all very much, a fascinating discussion, i hope you felt the same.
thanks forjoining us.
we’re back next week at the same time.
goodbye.
good morning.
overall, nowhere near as wet or as windy through this week as we’ve seen over the ast few weeks.
not completely dry, ver, we’ve showers through the night and that will lead to icy itions through the morning with emperatures close to freezing.
rain ven snow mixed into parts of east anglia and the south ting before that clears and the unshine returns.
showers in the and west, mixture of rain, il, sleet and snow and snow in ces in scotland in particular, on he hills in the west and showers in the afternoon compared with the morning but that not as many as recent days.
the winds will be lighter, so fewer in eastern parts.
many will but for all, reasonably cool
but with winds lighter, not feeling for the time of year with too bad for the time of year with temperatures anywhere between five .
through into tuesday and ednesday, continuing with the shine and showers story.
perhaps ore showers around on tuesday stop esday, watch out for some rain in the south.
but, overall, better has been.
this is news — welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’ maryam moshiri.
our top stories: in the election campaign, ‘mayor’ pete buttigieg pulls out — it could be a boost forjoe biden’ campaign.
there are concerns the new coronavirus could have been circulating in the for weeks — up to 1500 people may be infected.
turkey sends refugees to europe to to force backing for its campaign in syria.
after the —taliban agreement, the qatari mediator tells us that outside countries could still wreck the chances for peace in afghanistan.
pete buttigieg has dropped out of the race to be the democratic candidate to take on president trump for the presidency.
the 38—year—old former mayor enjoyed a successful start to his campaign, but it lost momentum in recent weeks.
he narrowly won the iowa caucuses early last month and came in a strong second place in the new hampshire primary, but faltered badly in saturday’ south carolina vote.
he made the announcement a short time ago at a rally in his hometown of south bend, indiana.
today is a moment of truth.
after a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone, defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy if not for our cause.
and another of those values is responsibility, and we have a responsibility to consider the effect of remaining in this race any further.
our goal has always been to help unify americans, to defeat donald trump and to win the era for our values.
i asked our correspondent peter bowes if pete buttigieg’ withdrawal is unusual ahead of super tuesday.
it’ unusual
but i think he is simply being practical.
looking at the numbers, he did not do well in south carolina.
1a states across the country go to the polls on tuesday, two of the big ones, california and texas, and he and his people have clearly figured out it’ perhaps unlikely that he will win over bernie sanders orjoe biden in any of those states.
and for all he did well in the iowa caucuses, for all he did well in new hampshire, he doesn’ see path ultimately to being the nominee for the democratic party.
that’ essentially what he indicated in his speech, that the path to victory doesn’ seem to be within his grasp.
so what does it mean for the race now to take on president trump?
interestingly he said one of the phrases he used was there was too much at stake to stick to the sidelines, suggesting that he is still going to play a role in american politics.
interestingly he did not say he was supporting any of the other candidates.
maybe that will come at a later stage.
what it means probably in terms of votes isjoe biden is likely to gain because he and pete buttigieg essentially occupy the same political ground in the centre of the democratic party, the great swathes of the party who believe in terms of policy similar things tojoe biden and pete buttigieg, especially when it applies to big issues like healthcare.
joe biden could be the big winner over bernie sanders, who looks like he will do well on super tuesday.
looks like it is building quite slowly to a race between two or three of the key characters.
the clue is in the name, it is super tuesday.
what does that mean for the democratic race for the presidency?
it is called super tuesday for a good reason, there are many, many delegates at stake.
california has in itself a quarter of all of the delegates necessary for any of these candidates to meet the threshold to be the nominee for the democrats, so it’ all down to the maths on tuesday.
it’ not a winner takes all system, it’ a proportional system, so those democrats in the big states like texas and california will be divided between the continuing candidates and the race is simply on to garner as many as possible.
scientists in the united states say the —19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1500 people.
over the weekend, a man in his fifties from the northwestern state became the first confirmed fatality from the virus in the .
a short while ago i spoke to professor peter hotez, dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college of medicine.
i put it to him that the safety of healthcare workers is becoming a major issue.
one of the things we noticed it coming out of wuhan, the chinese reported that in the epidemic in wuhan there were more than 1,000 healthcare workers infected, with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1a.
8%, were seriously ill and many required admission so that was a wake—up call that our healthcare workforce is highly to this virus and infection.
it occurred to us here in the united states, and of course locally, that things good full down quickly if large numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and couldn’ fight this infection, and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising and if healthcare workers feel they’re not being adequately protected we are worried things could break down and collapsed very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking about this for the last couple of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2a hours of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in california now infected according to reports.
this is going to be an area of extreme vulnerability here in the united states and i would imagine globally, you can imagine in the middle east or africa, where healthcare workers don’ have adequate personal protective equipment, what we call , i think this is going to become a major issue going forward.
you’ve personally been working on a vaccine, towards a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine?
do you think we are 18 months away from one, or is it more complicated than that?
i think it’ really hard to predict.
there’ a lot of new, exciting technologies out there for advancing vaccines — vaccines, vaccines, we’re using a more conventional recombinant protein protein approach and a number of these strategies are being supported by a new international global fund vaccines partly headquartered in london called , coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations, that’ the exciting part, but the bad news is we still have to do a lot of safety testing.
typically this can require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective.
we also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory vaccines, there’ this paradoxical what we call immune enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
this was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory virus vaccine in the ‘605, and we saw in laboratory animals with experimental vaccines after the original sars came out in 2003.
that’ a long way of saying this is not going to go fast.
that safety testing can’ be compromised, it’ very hard to compress timelines, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
you can forget it — because of the immune enhancement phenomenon, we’re looking at at least a year away before we have a vaccine, and i’ guessing probably longer.
professor hotez, tell me honestly, how worried are you about the new coronavirus?
it’ clearly worrisome.
we saw the devastation this virus caused in wuhan, particularly amongst selected age groups, individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable, pretty high fatality rates, those with underlying chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and obviously our healthcare workforce.
we’re seeing case fatality rates of 2% overall.
many were saying that’ probably not the case, there’ probably a lot of people with low—grade infectionis that we’re missing, but then the world health organization gave us a very chilling statement last week saying we think the 2% fatality rate is real.
the reason that significant is it is so highly contagious.
on average a single individual will infect three or four people, so it’ two or three times more contageous than seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll have our hands full.
this is quite a serious pathogen, and that’ the world health organization and the director—general, doctor tedros, appropriately declared an emergency of international concern a few weeks ago, especially worried about the countries that don’ have the capacity to manage complex epidemics or public health crises.
in many respects the public health emergency was not declared so much for the or the , although we’re certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this virus goes into sub—saharan africa, we’ve got 1—3 million chinese living there now through the belt and road initiative in the middle east, you get the idea.
let’ get some of the day’ other news: iraq’ prime minister—designate, mohammed allawi, has withdrawn his nomination, hours after parliament again failed to approve his proposed cabinet.
in a damning tweet, allawi accused iraqi politicalforces, without naming them, of not being serious about reform and protesters’ demands.
several thousand people have rallied in central prague against the czech republic’ billionaire prime minister and the way his government treats public institutions.
prime minister andrej babis is facing police charges over an subsidy fraud.
the has also launched a probe into his dual role as a politician distributing subsidies — and an entrepreneur receiving them.
actors and musicians from france’ most prestigious theatre troupe have protested against president macron’ pension reforms with a special production on the steps of the comedie francaise.
performers at the state—owned theatre currently have a separate pension system, and many hung from the windows of the theatre to perform a selection of scenes from moliere’ play ‘the miser’.
greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants crossing over the land borderfrom turkey, which is struggling to deal with the number of people fleeing syria’ civil the growing crisis comes after an airstrike in syria killed at least 33 turkish soldiers deployed to support the syrian opposition.
turkey’ president has said he will break his country’ deal with brussels — to prevent migrants entering the — unless he gets greater support for his intervention in syria.
orla guerin reports from the turkey and greece border.
at first light, theyjoined the migrant trail from turkey.
heading for the river meric, all that separates them from europe.
this small group manages to cross, reaches the shores of greece, which fears a new flood of refugees.
at border crossings with turkey, it’ been pushing them back.
greece doesn’ want a repeat of 2015.
caught up in the chaos this afternoon, reza, an iranian we met who hopes to meet london.
they’re pushing us by water teargas.
it’ not fair.
and the young have been in the firing line, like 1—year—old yeshar, whose family is from afghanistan.
"the greeks a shot at us and threw tear gas at him," says his father, ziman, "he could have died.
"
but for turkey, which has been sheltering almost 4 million syrians, the refugees are new human bargaining chips being used to put pressure on europe.
well, families are still arriving here and they’re not coming by accident, they’re being encouraged to travel by the turkish authorities led to believe they can enter europe.
instead they are stuck here with no way to cross into greece and they and their children are having to camp out in the cold.
and this is what awaits them now at the border, a battleground.
greece says it won’ allow a free—for—all.
turkey says it’ overwhelmed by refugees.
it’ determined that europe will share the fallout from syria’ long and brutal war.
orla guerin, news, on the turkey—greece border.
stay with us on news, still to come: the 220—year—old piano that’ seen war and peace in paris, the north african desert and new york — and could fetch more than $1 million at auction.
first, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
the hydrogen bomb.
on a remote pacific atoll, the americans had successfully tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb dropped on hiroshima.
i had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went bang, bang, bang!
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’ get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
this religious controversy — i know you don’ want to say too much about it — but does it worry you that it’ going to boil up when you get to the states?
well, it worries me, yes, but i hope everything will be all right in the end, as they say.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: democratic party presidential contender pete buttigieg is pulling out of the white house race.
it’ expected to boost joe biden’ chances.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
the afghan government has started picking over the details of the deal signed by the taliban and the on saturday.
the historic deal will see thousands of american troops leave afghanistan in return for commitments from the taliban, the focus is now on how the agreement will be implemented and if promises will be kept.
chief international correspondent lyse doucet has this report.
the first win for afghans — a week of relative calm.
what was called a reduction in violence before the signing of a deal.
what happens now?
the agreement initialled on saturday isn’ clear on this, at least not in the public document.
but in doha, in kabul, they will keep monitoring it.
i asked the qatar special envoy, will this partial truce continue?
we hope it will continue.
the parties and the people of afghanistan saw the result of the reduction in violence — how many lives we saved, they saved.
and i think they have moral, religious and legal obligations.
and if they don’ respect them?
again, we hope that hope is not a strategy as the pentagon likes to say.
we hope that they respect their their obligation in accordance with the agreement.
but, i’ sure if there is a violation from one side, the other side willl have the right in self defence to act accordingly, but again, this is not a solution.
what the taliban want to see next is a prisoner release.
the deal says up to 5,000 of their men will be freed.
but in kabul, president ghani made it clear that it’ up to their government and the taliban are refusing to talk to them.
we need to engage the parties to have proper discussions about the way forward.
and i think they should compromise
and i hope the parties will move forward.
this is the beginning of the talks.
it should start today.
and i hope we can do something in the coming days.
if you had to choose one thing that worries you that could cause this deal to unravel, what would it be?
the spoilers.
the major obstacle in the past.
i’ afraid it might be, this obstacle might remain, but i hope with this momentum and with the pressure from certain major powers, these spoilers should back off.
the spoilers are in afghanistan or in neighbouring countries?
mostly i would say in neighbouring countries.
pakistan, iran i’ not going to comment on this.
you can ask the taliban, you can ask the afghans and they will tell you.
a lasting ceasefire, a peace deal, around the agenda for afghan talks.
—— are on the agenda.
they’re expected to start this month if all goes to plan.
lyse doucet, news, doha.
israelis go to the polls on monday for the third election in less than a year to to break the country’ political deadlock.
a key stumbling block to forming a governing coalition has been corruption charges against prime minister benjamin netanyahu, who’ due to stand trial this month.
here’ our middle east editorjeremy bowen.
on the sea of galilee, the bible says jewish fishermen who followed jesus used to debate the future.
modern israeli fishermen at election time still do.
on this boat, prime minister binyamin netanyahu’ supporters, led by the skipper menachim lev.
he values the bounty from the lake and the strength he sees in netanyahu.
menachim thinks his father, who survived auschwitz, would have approved.
he is from here, he is from the holocaust.
and my father tell me one thing — don’ trust nobody in your life, trust only yourself and do everything that is good for you.
the crew unites around fish, not politics.
this man is voting for the centre—left opposition, worried that the cost—of—living is pricing young israelis out of their future.
a lot of young people want to move from israel.
it is something that is happening.
but hopefully something will be ebetter, i don’ know.
amid the electoral pyrotechnics, retired general benny gantz, the opposition leader, has had to deny claims from the netanyahu camp that he made sex videos.
netanyahu, he says, is trying to lie and cheat his way to victory.
the prime minister is claiming credit for donald trump’ so—called deal of century — an attempt to end the conflict on israel’ terms.
it allows israel, in defiance of international law, to annex settlements on and palestinians want for a state.
this is shilo, where they’re building a new school.
the settlers went two election victories this year — netanyahu and trump.
it is very important for us, both elections, and we are engaged in all sorts of personalities and organisations and groups to assure both here and there that, as much as possible, we get the people in office that we want.
nearby, palestinians were on a hilltop they believe settlers might grab.
the old issues don’ go away.
and, as ever, it’ come down to control of the land — that’ always been at the centre of the conflict, a century ago and today.
by morning, israeli forces were driving pammians palestinians off the hill.
the last real chance of a negotiated peace was collapsing when these young men were babies.
the big changes, political and diplomatic and especially president trump’ out—and—out support for the israeli government, is sharpening the conflict on the ground and you can see it in places like this.
conflict is normal for yet another generation — the election won’ change that.
jeremy bowen, news, on the west bank.
a rare piano that’ been described as immortal goes up for auction in israel this week.
the piano of sienna, which is more than 220 years old, has spent its life at the world’ fair in paris, in a second world war african battlefield, and has travelled from new york to tel aviv.
stay ‘tuned’ for this story from rich preston.
with an unusually ornate design, the instrument has had quite a life.
it was made in 1799 according to the winner’ auction house injerusalem by the turin—based harpsichord maker sebastian marchisio, and has been described as a visual masterpiece.
he died before he could finish it, but his descendents finished for him and gave it to his granddaughter as a wedding gift.
it appeared at the world’ fair in paris in 1867 before being given to italy’ then—prince and future king umberto the first, before falling into nazi hands.
the piano surfaced again after the 1942 battle of alamein in egypt in a crate with a mine detector.
: when the british forces opened it, they were astonished to see a piano inside buried in the desert sand.
from there, it ended up with an israeli piano merchant who fixed it up and took it to new york where it was displayed in steinway hall.
: it was displayed as a kind of eighth wonder in the most well—known piano shop in new york, and became a pilgrimage for pianists and enthusiasts.
now its owner says it’ time to let go of this beautiful creation and for the next chapter in its life to begin.
it goes under the hammer on tuesday.
rich preston, news.
before we go, some bits of information we’re getting at regarding the new coronavirus.
thailand reporting new of coronavirus, so one new use of coronavims, so infected in thailand is 43 and off the back of news the this off the back of news the moto in thailand, due to place on the 22nd of arch, has been cancelled due coronavirus.
also news from south korea, for more pla have died in south korea ter fter contracting coronavirus ur.
came from the -- four.
all came from the worst hit area, daegu.
more on breaking news on our that breaking news on our website, .
com/news.
website, “loom/news.
thank website, .
com/news.
thank you so much for watching.
bye.
hello.
with rivers running high and many afield still under water, we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
no, not going be completely but certainly compared with recent weeks, won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we’re into cooler air, so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
that’ how we start the monday morning commute with more in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers continuing through the north and west overnight.
clearing away from east anglia and the south—east quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw for the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely or if not, just one or two showers passing your way.
the temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the north—west later.
gail’ for a time for monday night into tuesday.
more on the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
a bit of snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas so frost and ice the greatest risk.
the coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
the set up for tuesday, that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weather fronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southerly tracking jetstream.
they could be close enough to produce some rain over the southernmost counties of england and over the channel islands.
more showers around tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
those will clear away and it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay mostly with showers around here and there.
the chance of rain closer to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we’re continuing with that largely story.
changes 3 little bit towards the end of the week, thursday night to friday, we will see a weather front push its way across — bringing a spell of rain briefly.
showers following on its wake and then a chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw over the last few days and with some rain forecast towards the end of the week, never stay too far away from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
this is news, the headlines: pete buttigieg — the first openly gay presidential candidate — is to end his bid for the white house.
his decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’ known as super tuesday, when states hold primaries.
his withdrawal is likely to benefit the campaign ofjoe biden.
four more people have died in south korea after catching coronavirus.
them come from the worst hit all of them come from the worst hit city of daegu.
one new case of navirus has been announced in thailand.
several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross into greece, after turkey announced it would no longer stop people trying to enter the european union.
turkey is seeking western support for its operations in syria.
an extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers has been called at athens’ request.
no new on ’ it’ time for hardtalk.
no, welcome to hardtalk with me.
no, we are in cape town.
the cape is the stronghold of south africa’ main opposition party, the democratic alliance, the .
and when it elected its first black leader five years ago, many believed it was the start of a new era, my guest is mmusi maimane, and this is his first interview to an international broadcaster since he stepped down as democratic alliance leader in october.
what does his resignation tell us about race and politics in south africa today?
mmusi maimane in cape town, welcome to hardtalk.
thank you very much for having me.
did you step down as leader of the democratic alliance in october?
well, i thought, at that point, that the and i did not share a common vision.
at first, i pursued the vision of a nonracial south africa, i believe the needed to govern in more places, that the needed to grow in the majority of south africans who are black, and there were a few people inside the who thought it would be important for them to create an organisation that served a particular race, and i felt that at that time, there were divisions of which direction we should take and that was important for me not to serve in that kind of context.
when you became leader in 2015, may, you said you wanted to take the race out of south african politics, so are you basically saying now that you failed to do that?
no, i think it was important.
when i took over as leader of the in 2015, i made it very clear, i said, "if you don’ see that i’ black, you don’ see me.
" i became very deliberate about saying to him actually, the needed to be an organisation for all races.
that, in fact, the only way to deal with race in south africa is when you can bring black people and white people to work together, and
then but you failed to do that.
no.
you did.
let me just tell you what a well—known commentator respected here in south africa said, "unfortunately, many "people see "mmusi maimane as something as a puppet, "that there are powers behind the operation that are not black.
" so, basically, you arejust a symbol, and there were the white members of the pulling the strings.
fundamentally not true.
i fought hard that we govern injohannesburg.
and when you think about governing injohannesburg, that requires that actually black people, white people, people voted for the , and they are working together.
i produce the most diverse caucus of the democratic alliance of those different races.
we fought hard for that.
the only failure that i would look at, when you pursue non—racialism, it doesn’ always get rewarded at the polls, and so when we lost 1.
5% of the vote in the national elections in 2019, there were few people who started to attack this idea of non—racialism.
it is what is the future of south africa, and if we start to regress away from that, south africa will become even further polarised.
let me just explain commentators like that do say that you were, sorry to put it crudely, a puppet on a string, you have your predecessor as leader of the democratic alliance, the , she was in power from 2007—2015, she is a veteran south african politician, a former mayor of cape town here, premier of the western cape, you name it, and she’ now been appointed as the chair of the federal council of the .
she really was calling the shots, wasn’ she, in the ?
absolutely not.
when i took on the , you will remember, that in my tenure, helen and i, in fact, had an open confrontation, where i said to her, some of the statements that she was making or not the things that she could say.
she didn’ resign though as premier for the western cape, when you said that to her.
she said, for example, that south africa’ legacy had made a positive contribution, which you objected to.
i objected strongly, and, actually, insisted that she didn’ serve in the council in the federal executive, and she agreed to that, if you will understand it.
but she didn’ resign as premier of western cape.
i didn’ ask her to resign from that, i asked her to resign from all the structures of the , that is the federal executive and the federal council.
when she then got elected, it then became very clear that, of course, both of us in that context could not pursue the same vision, because i was pursuing a vision that is particularly different to hers.
so i’ very comfortable, i think that that statement suggests but that’ the point i’ making, that she is now, an analyst, he says, the return of helen into one of the party’ top three leadership posts was essentially confirmation that mmusi maimane’ own colleagues within the federal council had lost faith in his leadership.
completely wrong.
she’ in a position of power, you are out to.
completely not.
it was a symbolic response to what happened in the elections in 2019.
it had nothing to do and the projects that i pursued, you will remember, that in fact, we were looking at governments injohannesburg, we were looking at the complexities of that.
i’ comfortable that it wasn’ even a vote of no—confidence against my own leadership, it was in fact, the position that she plays is not one of leader, it’ one of chairman of the party.
and, frankly, at my own behest, had i stayed in the party, i would’ve continued to pursue the vision that i had.
what i wasn’ willing to do is to force south africa into this very debate that we are having, where people say, well, 'berause there are white people in the party, "they must be the ones that are in charge and not a black "south african in place.
you said in your resignation speech in october that there has been, for several months, a consistent and coordinated attempt to undermine my leadership, and ensure that either this project failed or i failed.
you said this extended to the smear campaign that was run on the front pages of an afrikaans weekly paper "in attempt destroy my name and my integrity.
" completely.
what kind of smears are we talking about?
it happens in a political party where sometimes, actually didn’ do the job they were supposed to do.
about my own leadership, started to in fact, publicly, run these campaigns, because all they wanted it was a that represents a particular race, a minority race.
and because they knew themselves that had they gone to a ’ congress, they wouldn’ be able to master the numbers they started to attack me personally.
what kind of things did they say that really upset you?
suddenly, they started to raise questions about my own home, which were not true.
they started to raise issues about the vehicle i was driving, which were not true, and so all of this, to sort of create a sort of sense of doubt was the sort of lack of moral fortitude that those people demonstrate that ultimately led to a point where i felt that the environment within which we were working was toxic, it was not right.
was toxic and not right.
was it basically racism towards you?
i felt that some elements of it were, because there were some elements that sought to say, because these were a group to go backwards rather than go forwards, and they are willing to pay any price to do that.
and so, i put it to you again, that, really, yourfour years of stewardship with the democratic alliance have failed, because a well—known writer here in south africa says "i have no doubt that now that mmusi maimane has gone, we will see an exodus of black leaders and members who will leave the democratic alliance party.
" that’ not a failure of a project.
but it will go back to being predominantly white again this.
ultimately it still is, to be fair.
you may have increased the vote of black supporters, but it’ still predominantly nonblack.
the tenure i had as 3 , to me, was the direction that south africa needs to move on and ifought hard for that.
that’ we could govern in more places, we could move out of the western cape and to be a party that was central to south african politics.
that’ come to me, is a success of a project.
now, when you look at the elections of 2019, there was also an exodus of a number of white south africans who went back to a fairly minority white party.
now you never want to lose votes, but ultimately come at the end of the day, when you focus on the future of an organisation, you’ve got to bring everybody together.
so, for me at this point of time, it indicates there hunger for a nonracial movement in south africa.
so ijust want to make it clear here that you, can i basically paraphrase what you have been saying, is you have left the democratic alliance and stood down as leader, because it was basically too white and there were strong and powerful elements within it that made your life too difficult as a black south african, is that essentially it?
in that speech that is that when i resigned as they do not believe that the is the best vehicle suited to advance my vision.
because?
fundamentally believe that there are some within the that i believe are to be a minority front.
and they were so powerful that you felt you had no choice but to step down?
it wasn’ a fight worth having.
i mean, having said that, i want to be clear, that not everybody in the was racist.
there were a few number of people who wanted to debate with us this vision of non—racialism, they wanted to deny the history of south africa, they wanted us to not focus on addressing historical injustices, they equally so were not committed in truth to a project of building everybody together.
and that’ became a consistent point of friction all the way throughout my leadership tenure, and as a black south african, i could not in my own self, betray the fact that i felt it was important to build a one south africa but you must address those injustices.
it wasn’ a comfortable position for you to be in, you brought up the situation, the election in may of 2019, and under your the party had lost votes for the first time in its history.
you lost five seats in the national assembly.
you used to be the official opposition in south africa’ biggest province, as you said to me, lost votes to the freedom fighters, the economic freedom fighters on the left, and also the freedom front plus afrikaans party.
it didn’ do well.
no.
firstly, let me clarify that when we went on to govern in johannesburg, the had never seen growth to that level.
frankly, there were more black south africans that were voting for the than it’ ever had.
so, a loss of five seats, let’ place it in context in a global situation, where populists have risen on either end, where elements of nationalism are starting to come on board, and peopla are in a climate of fear with economic conditions in south africa, such that peopla are losing theirjobs, there is fear.
it was going to be natural that parties who sit in the centre, that includes the and the were going to suffer losses, so cyril ramaphosa lost more votes than i ever did under the leadership, in fact, it was the biggest drop they had ever seen.
precisely, you have should’ve benefited from that drop to do well.
the benefit was we were fighting against elements of populism, racial divisions, and i think i’ actually,to have stood at the level that we did some of the losses were only five seats, is actually come in my view, very important stake in the ground for the future of the .
i consider it, actually, the right foundation for the to be able to go forward.
after the election, you commissioned a commission because he wanted to explore the had performed so badly, and this is what the report found.
it’ worth quoting, it’ a bit long, "the overwhelming view of those who made submissions or with whom we have discussions is that the party leader, you, mmusi maimane, whilst immensely talented, committed to the cause, hard—working, widely liked, can be indecisive inconsistent, and conflict averse.
it’ our carefully circumstances is a failure of effective leadership.
" they put the blame at your door.
i argued strongly that i disagreed with that report.
because he didn’ like the result?
no, the report had a diagnosis that was seeking problems.
the diagnosis was this, they wanted to go back to the , if you like, to regress the organisation.
a precursor of the democratic alliance, as it were.
correct.
just because you disagree with the direction does not make it an indecision, itjust means you disagree.
they disagree but the fact that the rest of the report makes it quite clear — they didn’ want us to govern in johannesburg in partnership with the coalition of south africans of different parties, they didn’ want us, they wanted us to remain in the western cape, and because you disagree does not make it in decision, itjust means that it’ not the decision you would’ve taken.
so you don’
thank you were basically out of your depth, as leader of the democratic alliance, this party that has been the official opposition in south africa since the 19605.
the party, i mean.
leadership is a hard job, you will make mistakes, i’ not saying my record was perfect.
it can’ be.
leaders make mistakes.
you would learn from your mistakes and you build.
certainly believe that the was heading in the right direction, and is out of government, the is regressing backwards command more public representatives can other different sectors are starting to want to find other places.
which to me is a tragedy, because ultimately, we want to have a south africa that works for all the people.
if the had failed to become the vehicle, it is important to set up another vehicle.
you say that you now want to move on.
correct.
and you have set up this movement for one south africa, not a political party yet, and there are already those of you who are ahead of the game, julius malemma, for example, the economic freedom fighter set up this party a few years ago, won 11% in the elections in may of 2019, they are already parties occupying the space that you want to occupy.
the is just another version of the .
julius would vigorously reject that.
he can reject that, but how they disrupted ramaphosa?
on what basis?
because all they wanted to argue was about personal issues of all party matters.
it wasn’ about the ideological direction of this country, south africans are starved for an alternative.
if the is not an alternative, it’ basically a socialist leftist organisation, which is fundamentally just a militant version of the .
but he’ tapping into a mood that is popular with many particularly young south africans, for example, the student protests about fees must fall in 2015, he they are not orchestrated.
no, they aren’, but he has captured the mood there, where as you tried in october of 2015 to go to the university in cape town to show your solidarity with the students, what happened, there were boos and chants, you were told to leave.
this was a bunch of people from one of the unions in the university.
they were arguing a different case.
i want to reiterate what the starvation in south africa is for a vision of a nonracial south africa, which the has not and the has long forgotten that view, it’ a view that says there needs to be a social market system that allows and inclusive economy, it’ a view that says there must be an accountable government, both the of the are facing serious allegations of corruption against them, which they must answer for.
it requires a future—focused orientation.
south africans are asking and calling out for a different alternative.
the biggest party that grew in the elections in 2019 was south africans who didn’ turn out to vote.
18 million did not turn out to vote.
how are you going to appeal to them when we’re not sure what your platform or your vision is?
the platform is to fight in a movement that says, "we need to build south africans who can coalesce together around the values i’ articulating, nonracialfuture, an inclusive economy, an accountable government, a future focused, and ultimately, to be able to say they must be just as for the things that happen in the past in this country.
we build on those values and bring society into silent voices in this country.
i believe that will create an audience that is able to disrupt the current institutional politics that we are seeing.
easy to say, "i have this vision", but when you look at the nitty—gritty of policies, it is quite hard to implement this vision, so, for example, let’ take one eye—catching policy of the , the black economic empowerment programme.
this is all about trying to address the injustices economically of apartheid, and the idea is to encourage black economic empowerment through ownership, and you say that you are opposed to targets for black ownership, yet here you are saying i think there should be an inclusive economy for all black south africans.
so make it clear, are you for black economic empowerment are not?
i’ for an inclusive economy.
i’ for an economy that recognises that black south africans are left out, that the face of poverty is still black from a largely young, and therefore, but that doesn’ nullify the fact that weight south africans have a role.
has simply benefited the elite in this country, south africa’ economic infrastructure actually puts 49% of citizens as the underclass, the poor, who are depending on welfare.
so if we are going to address that, have failed willfully to that.
you must oppose that policy.
what i want to opposed up my equipment so you are opposed to that programme?
that’ not being opposed to black inclusion into the economy.
but you just said also that doesn’ mean excluding the role of white south africans.
they do play a role of the social injustices.
they make up of 70% high net worth individuals.
correct.
it’ blatantly obvious they are playing a key part in the economy.
and they must contribute to building inclusion.
that’ the point!
and continue to be the beneficiaries of inequalities in the economy?
let me propose a different model.
should they continue to be beneficiaries of this inequality in the economy that 9% account for 70% they must continue to address the injustices of the past.
they must continue to do that.
in my proposal is this, let’ take one industry, the insurance industry in this country.
it’ only got four big companies that still control the insurance company.
yes, i agree, the majority of them are white, but isn’ it about time that rather than simply saying let’ talk about , we establish 3 jobs and justice fund will ultimately find new entrants, with the majority of which are black, of course, to set up more insurance companies.
all right, so another ill that you said affecting the , which, by and large, people except corruption.
look, he has only been in power for two years as president, sure, he was vice president, but he himself is talked about the extensive looting by the state to the tune of about $38 billion under the presidency ofjacob zuma.
you have to give him time to to tackla that kind of corruption?
how much time?
he will never do it.
he’ only been in power for two years.
frankly, he knows very clearly he will not arrest any members of his own party.
we will be having exactly the same conversation five years to come.
if you want to eradicate corruption, you have to eradicate the .
he’ appointed the zondo commission to look at the allegations of state capture.
he has appointed a highly respected former minister of finance as minister of public enterprises, and also kind of anti—corruption tsar, so he’ taken the right steps, you can just go and arrest people willy—nilly, the public prosecution says there will be high—profile arrests.
it’ his colleagues who are sitting in parliament with him who key benefactors of state capture.
he, himself, has allowed them to continue to function in parliament.
this is a very crucial role that the president has.
his hands are tied come as you well know, by the pro—zuma factions in the , supporters of cyril ramaphosa issued a statement recently this year saying, "elements engaged in the long term project of state capture regard the ramaphosa presidency is necessary before they are once more in power.
" a very powerful statements, he opposes the , so should the rest of south africa be an audience to ’ politics while people aren’ doing theirjobs was what you have to got to give him time to to clean up south africa.
i completely disagree.
if you want to fight corruption, don’ you think about other mechanisms to make it up by today introduce some form of technology that would allow us to move away from corruption.
he would have been today able to nail down his cabinet so it’ much more effective, but he’ not doing any of those, because he is in president emma continue to drive in and see agenda.
all right, so we do go from here, mmusi maimane?
the people want to know are you going to set up new political party that’ going to contest the elections in 202a?
are you just going to content to have this movement?
no.
we believe the movement will eventually contest for elections, but here is the first nationwide elections in 202a?
will you stand in 2024 elections?
the next challenge is we have to bring electoral reform, because i introduce that because it’ important that this movement is clear.
we want to fight to change the way people are elected in this country.
if you just keep a one—party state, you end up with state capture.
we want to be able to stand in the elections with the view that these are directly elected people in the community.
it’ not a one—party state.
the win the elections fair and square wear, you will not expect them to say we have won the election, but we don’ want to be a one—party state, we are going stand down.
it’ 1—party dominance
and i’ simply saying yes, because the parties cannot appeal to the black majority vote.
at this point in time, the liberation movements all end up with the same vision of capturing the state.
it was in the ’ documents that focused on saying we will go out and capture the elements of the state.
that’ not my issue.
another party or briefly, finally, 48 political parties already in south africa, the opposition is splintered, you have and the freedom fighters, as we said, so for example, would you go into alliance with the former mayor ofjohannesburg, herman, who also left the democratic alliance like you?
let’ build a movement of south africans that will come together, let’ bring a number of political entities, civil society to work together to be able to wrestle this big monolithic animal called the , let’ agree on values, which are non—racialism, future focus, that we talk about issues of climate and technology, that ultimately we bring justice, we reform the electoral act so people are elected directly, the way that people are elected come elected directly, and when we do that, ultimately, it’ notjust addition of another party, but building a movement of south africans that can bring change to this country.
and that’ going to happen.
for example, julius malema, who has 3 come and have a chat with me over whiskey, don’ be discouraged, my big brother, you are a good human being, he said.
if he is willing to build a state ofjustice in this country, jobs and focus on the future of this country, i will work with him, but i’ not going to work with people who want to advance any other view outside of that.
so we are building this movement for south africans to go together.
would he be the kingmaker and you the king?
let’ cross that bridge when we get to it.
my focus now is building this movement of all south africans, and people are responding positively.
the silent vote in this country is those that are not voting.
the silent voice are the citizens who are excluded from this economy.
this movement must be able to say, "let’ work with those people, fight for an inclusive economy, build a nonracialfuture, and i believe that parties from different sectors will come together.
ifi if i was an strategist, i would start more parties.
i want to bring people together so we build one future for south africa.
mmusi maimane, thank you very much indeed for coming onto hardtalk.
great to see you.
thank you.
hello.
with rivers running high and many afield still under water, we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
no, not going be completely but certainly compared with recent weeks, won’ be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
the jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that does mean is we’re into cooler air, so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
that’ how we start the monday morning commute with more in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers continuing through the north and west overnight.
not quite as frosty towards southern counties of england.
outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning.
clearing away from east anglia and the south—east quite smartly but then brightening up.
showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw for the weekend.
more of you on monday will spend the day completely or if not, just one or two showers passing your way.
the temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up across the north—west later.
gail’ for a time for monday night into tuesday.
more on the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
a bit of snow across parts of scotland, even in the hills of northern ireland and northern england later on.
temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas so frost and ice the greatest risk.
the coldest of the weather first thing on tuesday morning towards the east.
this is set—up for tuesday, that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
more rain bearing weatherfronts diverted down towards france and iberia thanks to that southerly—tracking jetstream.
they could be close enough to produce some rain over the southernmost counties of england, more especially over the channel islands.
more showers around by and large to start tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
those will clear away and it’ back to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
showers mainly across some western areas.
temperatures similar to those on monday.
then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many will still stay mostly dry.
there will still be some showers around here and there.
the chance of rain closer to the south coast on wednesday but overall, we’re continuing with that largely story.
it changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
thursday night to friday, we will see a weather front push its way across, bringing a spell of rain briefly.
showers follow on its wake and then a chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
but by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw over the last few days, and with some rain forecast towards the end of the week, never stay too far away from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
this is the briefing.
i’ sally bundock.
our top story: new results suggest the coronavirus could have been circulating in the for weeks.
up to 1,500 people may be infected.
in the election campaign, mayor pete buttigieg pulls out.
it could be a boost forjoe biden’ campaign.
pawns in a geopolitical crisis: turkey sends thousands of migrants to the border.
greece calls an urgent meeting of ministers.
counting the cost of coronavirus — could the growing outbreak now lead to a global recession?
we take a look.
a warm welcome to the programme, briefing you on all you need to know in global news, business and sport.
and we’ like to hear from you.
today we’re asking have you changed your behaviour, routine or way you work due to coronavirus?
do get in touch and tell us your story.
just use the hashtag: we start with the latest on the coronavirus outbreak.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 strain of the coronavirus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks.
the has two confirmed deaths caused by the virus — both of them in washington state.
the number of confirmed cases around the world continues to rise.
rich preston has this report.
1 new cases are being confirmed on a daily basis.
countries do not currently have the that do not currently have the virus are preparing themselves almost inevitable arrival.
officials in the state of washington say up to people may have veered 1500 people may have veered infected and the virus may have present in the state for six weeks.
on the east coast, tate of new york has reported its first case.
the tal mber of confirmed cases ationwide is more than 80.
the ber of corona don’ virus deaths worldwide has now eeded 3000.
—— coronavirus.
he country side of china the country outside of china with the most infections in korea, with a76 cases on south korea, with 476 cases on monday, bringing the total to than 4000.
south korea has rged peopla to stay at home scientist are continuing to and find a vaccine and some being trialed on animals.
that safety cannot be that safety testing cannot be compromised.
it is a very hard ressed highline so we have compressed highline so we have seen via text and mid—sized echnology and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies ising we will have a promising we will have a vaccine in weeks.
you can rget it.
cause of this forget it.
because of this phenomena, we are looking at one year away before we may have a vaccine and i’ ssing longer.
italy still has the highest number of onavirus cases in europe.
head of the civil protection for says the number fections had doubled in of infections had doublad in more than 148 hour period and a ity in rome was closed on monday after one of the priests positive.
the british me minister, boris son prime minister, boris johnson is to chair a meeting of the rgency committee after a ump in infection rates in the it comes as around 150 awaiting repatriation from rife where they have been tenerife where they have been in repatriation for a week.
will only be allowed home if they have tested negative he virus.
—19 is not for the vims.
-19 is not as deadly as other strange such , but what worries officials is the speed at which irus spreads, often with mild symptoms.
robin brant is our asia correspondent.
he’ in hong kong for us.
what is the latest from where you are?
the latest is yet more ific figures, really, on ina ‘ economy revealed today rivate survey today revealed production and new orders factories in china on the ainland, remember world ‘ second biggest economy falling cliff in january and off a cliff injanuary
and this confirms what we saw from icial government statistics saturday.
the economy here already slowing to growth at 1%, the slowest china has 6.
196, the slowest china has seen in hree decades with this ealed the extent to which the outbreak of coronavirus have, a very, very will have, a very, very significant effect on the nomy.
their work — their orkers till not back in workers are still not back in factories and offices at the the government wanted to a few weeks ago and so what re seeing now is the market actually surging in certain ctors, real estate and nfrastructure because they ieve some sort of enhanced hanced stimulus from the ntral bank on the mainland is but certain but yet again, nfirmation today in a second rvey of purchasing managers at the economy here, articularly at the factory ates, is ing a significant gates, is taking a significant knot from the whole thing.
pite that, markets in asia seeing a little bit of upside, ainly in apan where as you certainly in japan where as you say, the action on the part of ral banks in pan and the central banks in japan and the central bank governor saying are ready to take action if necessary, and that has ught some relief?
yes, that certainly the case.
shinzo be, the me minister of abe, the prime minister of japan, also talking about new slation eing rushed legislation being rushed through so they could, if need eclare a national mergency, so what everyone is king for, the normal person turning to work in hong kong, re civil servants have gone ack to the office, if you are more significant nvestor with a lot of money, assurance that we are seeing a sense of that from tral bankers, as you said, in japan but so on the hinese mainland.
it looks most certain now that chinese tral bankers beyond those cuts and efforts to help mall if it to perhaps mething — that will move on ond the maller efforts to something more substantial.
we will have a lot more on that in ness briefing and we want to hear from you as i already ioned.
many have been in touch already to say how it is cting you.
i now over to the united states.
on tuesday 1a, american states will decide who they want to be the democratic candidate to take on donald trump in november’
presidential candidate but that field will no longer include pete buttigieg.
the 38—year—old former mayor from indiana has ended his bid for the white house.
he’ enjoyed a meteoric rise from virtual unknown to a leading contender, winning the first caucus in iowa but a poor showing in south carolina at the weekend brought his campaign to an end.
today is a moment of truth.
after a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone, defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy if not for our cause.
and another of those values is responsibility, and we have a responsibility to consider the effect of remaining in this race any further.
our goal has always been to help unify americans, to defeat donald trump and to win the era for our values.
little was known about the former indiana mayor before the start of the nomination process.
our north america correspondent, peter bowes, looks now at the future for him and for his supporters.
pete buttigieg had built up a tremendous amount of support he started this campaign since he started this campaign as a virtual unknown, as a town mayor, working in a office without a huge ank account behind him but he aged to garner all of that support by occupying largely entre politically, similar joe iden, and of course biden beginning to be one he leading candidates, longside bernie sanders and that biden will likely thatjoe biden will actually benefit from pete igieg dropping out of the campaign, in terms of votes forward because the next challenge is super tuesday, four states around the country go to the polls, two of iggest including the biggest including california and texas.
there is at stake.
pete buttigieg a lot at stake.
pete buttigieg leaving at this stage nowledging that perhaps it the of the role in terms he mathematics, that he and his pporters could not see hat road to victory, so he is ping aside.
interestingly, did not, certainly at the eeting he had with his pporters, he did not support of the other candidates but aybe that will come at some int soon.
what he did dicate is that is certainly not getting out of politic.
he said there is too much at stake ick to the sidelines.
this earty a to stick to the sidelines.
this is clearly a man with a lot of upport in emocratic party support in the democratic party and many are saying he has a ong future ahead of him.
let’ brief you on some of the other stories making the news: several thousand people have rallied in central prague against the czech republic’ billionaire prime minister and the way his government treats public institutions.
prime minister andrej babis is facing police charges over an subsidy fraud.
the has also launched a probe into his dual role as a politician distributing subsidies and entrepreneur receiving them.
iraq’ prime minister—designate, mohammed allawi, has withdrawn his nomination, hours after parliament again failed to approve his proposed cabinet.
in a damning tweet, allawi accused iraqi politicalforces, without naming them, of not being serious about reform and protesters’ demands.
the ’ brexit negotiator michel barnier and the ’ negotiator, david frost, are due to meet in brussels for a first round of talks on future relations.
the talks will be held again every two to three weeks, alternating between brussels and london.
eighteen days of talks have been scheduled until mid—may.
today in asia we have seen some recovery in markets in asia, in japan ere early notably injapan where early losses were reversed, and the ral bank supporting markets last week coronavirus wiped $5 trillion from global tocks.
we have the brief of eed group for a briefing.
ovely to see you.
many are acing themselves with what will happen on stock markets.
i know it is hard to predict but ast we have seen some sort of support today.
yes, and the markets have rallied a little it after the sell—off week which some would say high time to have a ll—off.
we have had a very bull for a while but good bull run for a while but sentiment is everything.
this tory not only of supply demand challenges for rkets, people are not buying hings and at is disrupting those all—important supply ns.
now, step back, chains.
now, step back, sentiment is everything in ets, everything for markets, everything for investors.
and all of the dictions that people have made, cluding lots of usiness group, we’re just out produce survey results his week, all of those things done, all of those surveys were done, all of those surveys were done before all the dictions were done before is.
it shows you how fickle sensitive markets are.
and always have been but last was a significant drop, he west we have seen for more than ten years ago and i think we will see volatility ome time now depending on for some time now depending on headlines and from where.
ficult to see that not being he use, case, absolutely, sally.
when you at the purchasing when you look at the purchasing managers index in china, oriously difficult to read, china, it is at 35, the owest it has been and oil down 50 a barrel and commodities being hit.
people are not uying and purchasing, buying own.
i am asking viewers hether they are changing aviour, argue?
lam not at the moment, no, but oing ing to watch what the british ernment ‘ going to say and the countries i’ going to it as well.
that will be the rase for many people but ready eople are not making essential travel plans.
dare i say, people are not booking lidays .
that will all holidays yet.
that will all have an impact and come back to ll—important sentiment, ally.
ank you for now.
some strong coffee in the green room lot to take in between and a lot to take in between now and then news briefing.
live now to erusalem because polls have just opened .
want to take you live to tel aviv briefly because polls have just opened there in the third election in a year to to break the country’ political deadlock.
a key stumbling block to forming a governing coalition has been corruption charges against prime minister benjamin netanyahu, israel’ longest serving leader, who’ due to stand trial later this month.
president donald trump and a recent controversial pledge to expand israeli settlements.
you can see that polling has now opened and we will keep you that it develops.
stay with us on news, still to come: all the sport, including a setback for leipzig in the bundesliga — losing ground in the race for the title.
won’ come out first, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
the hydrogen bomb.
on a remote pacific atoll, the americans had successfully tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb dropped on hiroshima.
i had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went bang, bang, bang!
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’ get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
this religious controversy — i know you don’ want to say too much about it — but does it worry you that it’ going to boil up when you get to the states?
well, it worries me, yes, but i hope everything will be all right in the end, as they say.
you’re watching the briefing.
our headlines: the democratic party presidential contender, pete buttigieg, has pulled out of the white house race.
it’ expected to boost joe biden’ chances.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to fifteen hundred people.
greece says it’ stopped nearly 10,000 migrants crossing the border into the from turkey over the weekend.
turkey says it cannot deal with the amount of people fleeing syria’ war.
now greek officials have announced they’ll block any new asylum applications and turn illegal immigrants away.
from kastanies on the greek side of the border here is our correspondent jonah fisher.
the route overland to europe is being given new life by keys president.
this road very turkey’ president.
this road runs very close to the border een greece and turkey.
there are a couple of official sing points which are now closed and heavily protected here are, we have been told, plenty ther places told, planty of other places along this stretch where people get rough.
as the icy ran get through.
as the icy rain falls, we come across a group from afghanistan.
awns in a geopolitical crisis now shivering and alone.
they tell us they have been bust to the border by turkish orities and then crossed to greece by cutting the arbed wire on the border nce.
further down the road we a group of west africans.
they say they walk along a dirt to get here.
evading teary-as and border guns.
we want to go germany, we don’ want to stay here in greece.
we want a better life for us and amilies.
then, as the our families.
then, as the dock approached midnight we me across four young migrants the middle east.
you’ve come from iraq and syria as we started to talk, men with faces covered and no nsignia arrived.
the migrants put in the back of a van that had no numberplates.
use me, where are they being ken?
to the police station.
at will happen?
i am not in fficer, 0, not officer, 0, lam nota sergeant.
greece says fewer 200 migrants have managed than 200 migrants have managed to get through since friday and they have all been detained.
at one of the closed border ssings we caught up with the fence minister.
we saw people taken away in a vehicle esterday with no numberplates men with their faces overed.
is that normal cedure here?
in my mind, ormal procedure for one ntry, that is all i have to ay.
but they are getting rough the fence.
a med is one he few migrants we have met comes from syria.
i don’
ave money water or food.
on’ ave anything.
number rants crossing is still mall but the daughter europe from losed.
is no is far from closed.
it is no good.
very tiring.
we will be ussing that story and more etail later on in our news iefing.
but let’ head over to the sports centre.
hello i’ chetan pathak with monday’ sport briefing.
real madrid are a point clear at the top of liga after a 2—0 win over barcelona at the bernabeu.
viniciusjunior got the opener twenty minutes from the end, becoming the youngst clasico goalscorer this century at 19.
mariano then got the second in stoppage time with his first touch of the season in liga.
it’ the first time barcelona failed to score away at real in the league since october 2006.
in germany leipzig are three points behind the leaders bayern munich after a 1—1 draw at home to bayer leverkusen.
leon bailey gave leverkusen the lead.
their advantage lasted only three minutes though, with patrik shick heading in from a free kick.
world number two rafa nadal won his third mexican open title with a straight sets win over 22—year—old taylor fritz.
the spaniard — at the bottom of the screen — didn’ drop a set all week in acapulco and took the first 6—3 against the unseeded american.
and he sealed his first title of the season by taking the next 6—2.
it’ the 85th singles title of his career — and a rather unique one — a pear shapped trophy to go along with the sombrero.
nadal all smiles at the end.
winning a title is always pecial and here in latin rica and acapulco, it has een the first big title i want career so am able to tay here, after 15 years, it mazing.
i can’ think enough all the people here.
it makes me feel at home every gle time.
arsenal will look to bounce back from their defeat to olympiakos when they travel to portsmouth in the fifth round of the cup on monday.
arsenal have won the cup 3 record 13 times — and it’ the only trophy mikel arteta can possibly win this season following their exit from the europe league.
but after a little over two months in thejob, he admits it’ a work in progress: : we are still far from the debt to _ — dejected.
and we have to fighting ame by game.
there is no point us making big .
the most important thing that we have to lift up now have to keep going and eact.
and finally — plenty of celebratory reaction on social media to manchester city’ 2—1 win over aston villa in the league cup final.
here’ our favourite video from the dressing room — manchester city defender benjamin mendy decided to celebrate with one of city’ most famous fans — noel gallagher from oasis.
the rest of the city players were able to provide great backing vocals as a rendition of the song wonderwall broke out.
noel no match for mendy’ dance moves.
managed to escape to the back in the end!
you can get all the latest sports news at our website — that’ bbc.
com/sport.
but from me chetan pathak and the rest of the sport team, that’ your monday sport briefing.
a rare piano that’ been described as ‘immortal’ goes up that is a great song at karaoke, people always seem to know the words.
a rare piano that’ been described as ‘immortal’ goes up for auction in israel next week.
the piano of sienna — which is more than 220 years old — has spent its life at 3 world’ fair, in a second world war battlefield, has travelled the world — and is expected to fetch more than a million dollars.
stay tuned for this story, from gail maclellan.
with an unusually ornate design, the instrument has had quite a life.
it was made in 1799 according to the winner’ auction house injerusalem by the turin—based harpsichord maker sebastian marchisio, and has been described as a visual masterpiece.
he died before he could finish it but his descendents finished for him and gave it to his granddaughter as a wedding gift.
it appeared at the world’ fair in paris in 1867 before being given to italy’ then prince and future king, umberto the first before falling into nazi hands.
the piano surfaced again after the 1942 battle of alamein in egypt in a crate with a mine detector.
: when the british forces opened it, they were astonished to see a piano inside buried in the desert sand.
from there, it ended up with an israeli piano merchant who fixed it up and took it to new york where it was displayed in steinway hall.
: it was displayed as a kind of eighth wonder in the most well—known piano shop in new york and became a pilgrimage for pianists and enthusiasts.
now, its owner says it’ time to let go of this beautiful creation and for the next chapter in its life to begin.
it goes under the hammer on tuesday.
stay with me on news, i’ll be back with the business briefing in just a few moments.
: we have been asking you about our top story today.
we do have rime minister during a cobra meeting here in the today is the virus spreads in and elsewhere outside the and elsewhere outside china full
so we have been ing you, are you changing your behaviour or your routine onsequence?
tell us your as a consequence?
tell us your story.
many people have been in ch.
says that in touch.
eric says that in addition to washing hands he is poning travel and postponing travel and restricting attending crowded and observing personal pace.
he is doing a lot to revent spread.
another and prevent spread.
another twitter user says they do not door handles with their bare hands anymore.
haley, a i river says she disinfects taxi after every passenger provide free hand and provide free hand sanitiser.
thank you for the ents, we will see you comments, we will see you shortly.
hello.
with rivers running high and many afield still under water, we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
ear as wet nor as windy.
nowhere near as wet nor as windy.
completely later in eek but the jetstream is a more southerly track at he ment taking wet weather france and liberia but —— ance and iberian france and the iberian peninsula.
and we start monday ing with a frosty and in ace icy start.
temperatures or below sea —— freezing.
icy rain oss the north and the west egin with, sleet and snow, re showers developing through day but not as many as we through the weekend so more will spend the bulk, if all day, on monday with peratures where they should , the ind later as well.
the wind will pick up monday night ugh tuesday in gail’ across the north, more in the rain and sleet and snow way of rain and sleet and snow heading eastwards as we go through to tuesday morning.
an icy start and for some there be lying snow around in will be lying snow around in the north and west as we start ay.
nothing significant at his stage
but it could be a start to tuesday is this rea of low pressure pushes weather fronts eastwards.
as i said, the jetstream is therly the bulk of the southerty so the bulk of the rain will be over france.
close to produce wet weather near devon and cornwall and the channel islands through tuesday.
elsewhere, on the way of showers round on tuesday compared to day, they were clear through afternoon, looking and once again and we do see showers and extra of hail leet and snow, the emperatures are similar to ay.
as we go into wednesday thursday looks like a wery mix across the country ith more of you spending time .
watching for rain close to dry.
watching for rain dose to the south of england and wales.
hen as we see the weekend, and then as we see the weekend, thursday into friday, one with push eastwards and then nother one will start to push ult turn wet and windy again we go into next weekend.
erall, a promising scene but ’ forget the river is still sponding to recent wet eather and that rain later in eek.
steak oscillators ood warnings, they are you on weather website.
—— tay across flood warnings.
this is the business briefing.
i’ sally bundock.
counting the cost of coronavirus — could the growing outbreak now lead to a global recession?
we take a look.
and china’ efforts to contain the virus hit manufacturing in the workshop of the world.
indian firms begin to run low on key imports.
and, thanks to promises of support from japan’ central bank, asian financial markets have seen some relief but more than $5 trillion was wiped off global stocks just last week.
share prices in asia have reversed early losses after japan’ central bank promised to support markets in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.
the virus is continuing to spread across the world, with the total number of cases now close to 90,000 and the economic impact is growing.
factory activity in china fell at a record rate in february, as manufacturers closed their operations to contain the virus.
china’ official measure of manufacturing activity the purchasing manager’ index, dropped to 35.
7 from 50 injanuary — that’ their worst on record.
china makes up more than a quarter of world manufacturing and is the world’ largest exporter, so this drop will have a knock—on effect on well—known brands including apple, diageo and volkswagen.
and that’ got markets spooked.
last friday, the three main indexes ended the week down 10% — their worst week since the global financial crisis.
the ’ 100 index meanwhile dropped 13% over the week, wiping a combined £210 billion, or $269 billion, off the value of some of the world’ biggest companies.
and here’ how the asian markets have been performing today.
: we have seen some relief, as i mentioned but it is not across oard.
let’ now go to the the board.
let’ now go to the asia business hub to get the st.
and sharon is a cross for all of us, give us more tail how this is able to ost sentiment, the comments japan?
bsolutely sally from japan?
absolutely sally and you summed it all up.
what ference a week and makes!
we saw the asian market rting off reflecting a assive sell—off last week in and europe which are llustrated as well but by —morning it all started to ange here, he hong kong index and chinese markets were at to hire and the nikkei all ﬂat to hire and the nikkei reversing some of the steeper ines and despite the awful ews that you mentioned of the tory output in china, which a key gauge of activity, lling at its masters pace on cord in february, essentially owing at chinese economy is really suffering.
this is the ‘ second largest of world ‘ second largest of course and it is dealing a ere blow to factories across sia, including japan, south ea, taiwan, really showing idence yet of the damaging ffects of the epidemic on the bal business and yet markets rebounding.
why, you may because there are hopes that central banks around the may come to the rescue world may come to the rescue and stabilise the global —off and this is after the of japan ved to take bank ofjapan moved to take efforts to and stabilise arket
and we saw the central bank making a rare tement, something it often not do, think they would ive to provide ample strive to provide ampla liquidity and ensure stability nancial markets and that course after the massive ell—off that you were just ing us about.
the federal reserve on friday said ething similar.
they hinted a fresh interest rate cuts he ranks next meeting but urse all of this is still of course all of this is still up in the air.
we are seeing kets reversing that re still warning of further moil on trading floors as ernments struggle to contain coronavirus, which is now killed than 3000 and killed more than 3000 and infected am almost 19,000.
0, you.
joining me now is markus kuger, chief economist at dun & bradstreet.
you are listening to that in watching markets and watching omic data closely, what do think?
there are obviously transmission channels and it can impact, and the company analysed that and 5 llion companies around the obe sourced directly from hina and currently trying to lude data from south korea, saw some falls last weekend as well is italy so is a severe risk for the economy but that is the roeconomic component, china ccounts for 20% of and the uld be ere knock—on could be severe knock—on effects for those economies.
you say severe, do you think we ould see a global cession, how severe are we alking about?
certainly some nomies more exposed than thers.
we have to remember at the crisis comes at a time global growth has lready been week in an, italy, fell in the last rter and that has nothing to with coronavirus so without monetary stimulus or iscal stimulus, there is a set risk hat some countries uthentic recession.
italy ounced on sunday that 3.
6 illion euros in stimulus for companies in the areas affected in northern italy.
we are hearing from japan’ tral bank that the fed is mplying it is ready to help.
ome of these countries how some of these countries going to afford to pay for ?
big question, italy’ government deficit has really very high and the proposed easures are very small in ze, so questionable whether at ill be enough help those nomies in the north of the ountry.
from a monetary point iew, we also have to keep mind that interest rates are rock bottom and have rock bottom so this ansmission channel is estionable.
i went about the ear actor, veryone is talking bout it everywhere in world.
for this impact ecisions on holidaying
and they may do, some people are ockpiling all sorts of hings are going on depending ere
you are and how on where you are and how exposed you.
what impact could have?
on economic that have?
on economic activity?
sentiment is a key driver and we’ve seen the from china and waiting on data north america but if from north america but if sentiment is hit by the crisis expect this hit, then private consumption could fall hat would impact on the economy.
thank you for your , we appreciate it, and time, we appreciate it, and lots more detail and advice on ebsite.
take a look.
china is india’ second largest trading partner and, with billions of dollars’ worth of trade every year, india has become heavily dependent on its asian partner.
however, as we’ve been hearing, the coronavirus outbreak is beginning to cause major disruption to supply chains and nowhere more so than in india as the ’ devina gupta has been finding out.
for the past two years, this television factory in a western has applied new state has applied new generation televisions to brands across india.
they make 80,000 sets month.
the glass panel electronic chips used for not available in india, so they are heavily dependent ina to import them.
but with the coronavirus outbreak, ories there are shot.
that as put 23—year—old who manages lant in a ugh spot.
the plant in a tough spot.
already, 60— 70% components we using we ighly are using we are highly dependent on china
so the glass lready been increased so the next quarter, they are finitely short in supply and east 15% will stop for etailers.
china exports over illion worth of goods to $50 billion worth of goods to india and while most of it is ady made duct, there are ready made product, there are cmcial, raw materials used by ing and crucial, raw materials used by farming and auto industries will be a source of worry.
that will be a source of worry.
while big traders do have some entory to over, the next inventory to tie over, the next two to three months is a small as small traders are struggling to meet the orders.
now, businesses are for now, many businesses are having to look for suppliers ide of china.
taiwan, south orea and japan have some ectronic chip dealers who can us but ronavirus is help us but coronavirus is spreading there also so it is to get supply from there soon as possible.
but not eryone can afford it and some, this factory have production by half as they of key chemical run out of key chemical ingredients imported from a.
we are paying twice for china.
we are paying twice for the raw material but because of rice on medicines we cannot raise the cost for the umers that we have cut consumers that we have cut production and in the coming it will hurt the labour force as well.
job losses in small enterprises will rther hurt the internet conomy, facing a slowdown.
a is getting its factories ack to work but for customers this, the shortage of materials will take weeks to .
now let’ brief you on some other business stories: a hundred british negotiators are travelling to brussels to begin talks about a new trade deal with the .
the first phase of discussions, due to last four days, will be led by the prime minister’ europe advisor, david frost.
they’ll also cover areas such as co—operation on security and transport.
elsewhere, the ’ prime minister borisjohnson has promised to "drive a hard bargain" as he set out the ’ negotiating position for a post—brexit free trade deal with the .
talks on a deal are expected to begin later this month with healthcare and food standards set to be among the key issues discussed.
that’ it for the business briefing this hour.
: we will stay with more of those stories such as coronavirus in ent.
the south wales valleys could see as much as 50% more rainfall in the next ten years, with weather experts warning that the devastation caused by storm dennis is a "taste of things to come".
wyre davies reports.
the floods that tore through hese communities have left astation in their wake and residence driven from homes.
a man in his 905 rescued by stretcher on his birthday.
a young woman almost drowned in by rising water levels.
eople are shellshocked.
i’ prised that everybody survived.
the water came in so and ople were surprised to quickly, people could have ned.
lives and livelihoods ere completely overwhelmed as river taff burst its banks rising waters at this car room meant that hundreds of ehidas showroom meant that hundreds of vehicles were written off.
nesses like this furniture store were cleaned out.
this cost thousands to replace unlike some big stores, are not covered.
the council is giving flooded inesses £1000 each to get them back on their feet and the government has promised 10 million towards emergency but it is nowhere near nough.
lives have been turned down in communities like his.
the human cost is clear it could cost hundreds of millions of pounds to clear up epair the damage to homes, sinesses and communities.
but ere were warnings that this not going to be a off and was not going to be a 1-off and this is the shape of things to .
as a cleanup continues, the welsh government says ressing the issues around imate change is a priority.
warning signs are there.
rainfall and flooding is evitable.
how will we deal it when the next deluge with it when the next deluge comes?
coming up at six ’clock on breakfast, dan walker and louise minchin will have all the day’ news, business and sport.
this is the briefing from news.
the latest headlines: scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for six weeks, infecting hundreds of people.
one man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the .
pete buttigieg — the first openly gay presidential candidate — has ended his bid for the white house.
his decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’ known as super tuesday, when states hold primaries.
several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross into greece, after turkey announced it would no longer stop people trying to enter the european union.
greece has called an extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers.
your people use now it’ time to look at the stories that are making the headlines in the media across the world.
we begin with the times looking ahead to the emergency coronavirus meeting being held by the government here in london later.
it quotes borisjohnson saying they’ll stop at nothing to stem the spread of the virus and reports that a lockdown on whole cities hasn’ been ruled out.
the financial times looks at italy and how it’ injecting $3.
6 billion dollars into its economy to mitigate the fallout from it becoming europe’ hotbed for the virus.
die welt now and like all the german media, its main story is the thousands of migrants gathering on turkey—greece border after turkey’
president said he’ open the gates to the .
pete buttigieg bowing out is a big story for business insider — it quotes the democrat who’ hoped to become his party’ pick to take on donald trump — saying he’ made history.
and finally, the i looks at wellbeing in the workplace, say more and more companies offering wellness packages.
50 within the job ad, it is oming more of a discussion point.
with me is oliver cornock who’ editor—in—chief, oxford business group.
front pages in the
and i imagine elsewhere in the world coronavirus front—end have coronavirus front-end centre.
they were looking at the cobra meeting today.
an interesting story in the times use it talks about because it talks about worst—case scenario and what might .
at the moment he government had put out essage that they are very much on a containment footing.
is containment and it is the worst case that 80% of the pulation be infected and population ran be infected and 5000 people could die.
we are here yet and that is the not there yet and that is the four message.
i get the ression that the message government wants to put out .
social distancing might important and the export of coming up.
and other peopla enclose contained vironments.
that may need to eviewed.
scales that make hools are already closing in rtain places on the question that we just don’ know how this is going to be spread.
and all the time, these awful ses about the super spreaders and patient zero, i think there is an awful and ficult balance to be made etween making the public aware washing your hands, all hose things we can do rselves but also the vernment level being prepared the political games that going on.
this is a big hallenge for the new prime nister.
the newly elected me minister.
all these headlines are coming and the a meeting is following, the biggest single rise in a single in .
one in scotland day in the .
one in scotland now
so every part of the has omeone with a corona’ virus infection.
as you say it ery difficult balancing between feeling fear and that may lead to and actually making sure they have on this situation.
what i thought quite interesting not covered in this story was covered in the over but was covered in the ’ over the eekend, having a state run national hills service here the is being highlighted a huge strength.
some places the where it is more iverse and has more private tor involvement is far more fficult to come up with ub“: lic policy.
and a nationwide ction, as it were, and haring of resources as well.
’ look at the financial imes and as you mention, as we eady discussed, italy are veiling a huge stimulus ackage for the areas affected.
are really practical and alks about companies who have reported a 25% drop in evenues, significant revenues, seeing significant tax breaks in that kind of ng.
so these tax credits that the italian government spoken about, this 3.
6 billion euros of stimulus ected into the economy actually only .
2% of is not at big and speaks to a that big and this speaks to a broader position where the ian economy is not in great hape.
it says in the that it was ost on the brink of recession before this started.
really, this is perhaps a llwether for other economies, ding to that the refugee tory we will talk about, not great position.
the urozone and level was the pump before the coronavirus.
all these things catalyst, perhaps, they are a catalyst, perhaps, they are not the sole source of this lem
but they are pushing problem but they are pushing decision—makers and icymakers.
and as each country releases data, economic data, it will be analysed.
i was reading a story about italy hinking about germany and he powerhouse of the european on.
we know that that conomy has been struggling for me ime
and there was a oncern it would tip into cession.
it the biggest xporters cars and a lot of supply chain come from sia, notably china.
and it be interesting watching week, governors of central and ministers of fine and, reasurers around the rld, how they will play olicy because there is not much softer policy to go.
historic rates are historically you mentioned that we would discuss the story about migration flowing from mass migration ﬂowing from turkey into greece with the tion of these poor refugees trying to reach places like any.
50 develop and many germany.
so develop and many papers in germany are focused is issue.
there are three on this issue.
there are three things here that struck me.
the nomic pact that we spoke economic impact that we spoke about the eurozone challenges, many, ’ a kind of me was quite impacted by opening the to syrian refugees.
what doors to syrian refugees.
what is going on in syria and then humid story, i looked at the weather forecast before i fame in the green room.
velling cold weather.
hundreds of thousands of people on border and we must sat on the border and we must not forget that humid element.
hat was brought through in at piece earlier in the ogramme from greece.
and it a tragic story when you hear individuals, what they have through just to reach that and greece saying that if have no official papers nor thing of that nature they ould just send you back.
and are pawns in this they are pawns in this political game going on, sadly, —torn syria, war going on or nine years they have for nine years and they have been told by turkey and russia, ey’ russia, all very turkeys russia, all very confusing over this last rebel enclave.
the turkish have owned a few planes and i don’ that change although we do understand that the presidents rkey and russia will meet so one hopes they may be a akthrough
but they have been ing that for nine years and all the time, this flow of fugees coming.
turkey have 4 million at the moment.
lions in turkey.
how is this solved?
it is such a resolved?
it is just such a huge humanitarian crisis in the in turkey.
it is one making in turkey.
it is one that governments and icymakers have ignored because remember, it is not syrians, it is the bulk of em.
we have afghans libyans africans.
are you appointed that buttigieg has ecided to pull out of the race the white house?
i am isappointed because i felt he offering a real challenge, was offering a real challange, not only to the consensus but a langing age range.
he is challenging age range.
he is 38.
the rest of them, all of , all of these people are quite elderly at the moment, aps i shouldn’ say that, they are quite senior, as you ay.
but i think this was nonetheless a brave
and i think he managed in that first us to get some really caucus to get some really interesting results but sadly did not play out on that did not play out on saturday in south carolina and lled up before super he pulled up before super tuesday.
and it is significant that he chose to do that.
it gives others a real chance, ’ it?
joe biden was expected be the front runner it as that first one in owa, pete ida wirth, this guy ver heard of, came out of we never heard of, came out of nowhere.
so maybe joe biden see some new momentum.
absolutely
and it could go to donald trump tweeted to him and donald tweeted to wait away that those votes go to biden and not bernie anders, his great val.
but buttigieg did say he ted new politics and that is at he is fighting for and so of him spoke of that.
gay, married to his husband, 38 old, a huge user of social media.
he will be back, ure.
ooking at the for sure.
looking now at the eye.
an interesting article mental health support about mental health support being used to recruit, in most 0 job ads last month almost 200 job ads last month mental health support and vice was part of the job offer.
what a change.
it speaks is environment we are in to this environment we are in where people are a lot more are mindfulness.
kids in aware of mindfulness.
kids in school or mindfulness.
our health is something that is still taboo in many areas.
is great strides being made in the what prince liam and prince harry have in terms of talking about but, sally, still young man, the highest killer of it is the highest killar of young men, suicide, to secular to mental health.
mental ealth isis
and it leads peopla to kill themselves.
that hat we we need to talk about.
in addition to a bership that may be a perk, get mental health support.
you say, let’ talk about .
thank you so much.
it has brilliant to have you on he programme and thank you for of your comments about coronavirus.
many of you have in touch to say that actually i am changing my aviour.
daniel, he says he has not changed a single thing.
not ncerning but it is it is not concerning
but it is not concerning the people are told to wash their hands.
urely this is basic hygiene.
is just one comment of that is just one comment of many.
with rivers running high and any fields still under water, ould do with a little bit better weather news and to a tain degree we will get that his week.
it is not meant to mpletely but compared recent weeks it won’ be nywhere near as wet and windy.
jetstream taking a the jetstream is taking a southerly track but that means we into that we are into cooler hour.
chillier, ecially at night with the rost more likely and that is we start the monday morning mmute with more in the way of ost and even ice around with wers continuing on the north west.
not quite as frosty ards southern counties of gland.
outbreaks of rain and and wet snow first thing in the morning, clearing away east anglia in the from east anglia in the south—east smartly but then htening up.
showers in the brightening up.
showers in the west with them mixture of rain sleet and snow coming a it more abundant during the ernoon but not as many as we in the afternoon.
many of on monday will spend the with a couple of owers passing away and emperatures around 7— 10 grees at he highest.
overall wind will be lighter so it ill not feel quite as cold in afternoon as it has been but the breeze will pick up across the north-west later.
we could see gales for a time rough nday night into tuesday, more on their way of ers starting to develop through the night and they will push their way eastwards.
a cover of snow across parts of and even in the hills northern ireland in northern gland later on.
the perature will still be close reezing in many areas so rost and ice are the greatest , coldest of the weather irst thing on tuesday morning he east.
this is a set up tuesday, that whether front take showers eastwards nitially and more rain bearing ther fronts diverting down ards france in iberia thanks hat’ a link tracking jetstream but there could be enough to produce rains across the southernmost of and and especially the england and especially the channel islands.
more showers to start tuesday morning, wintry mix.
those will away
and then it is back to sunshine and showers for , mainly across western many, mainly across western areas, temperatures similar to on monday.
and in the iddle of the week, many of ose will stay largely dry, till some showers around here there with the chance of someone to the south coast on esday
but overall we continue without likely .
it changes a little bit towards the end of the week, sday and friday we will see thursday and friday we will see whether front pushing through ings a solar spell of rain brieﬂy.
fly.
showers fall in its
and then the chance of wake and then the chance of some more and windy weather the end of the week and into next weekend.
by and ge, still the rivers are esponding to the rains over ast few days and with some rain forecast, don’ stay too way from the flood far away from the ﬂood warnings online.
we’re only interested in one thing here, and one thing only, and that’ bent coppers.
the hijack required a police insider.
someone’ still pulling the strings.
if you’ve ever asked yourself we do thisjob, this is it.
family means getting together and having a laugh.
making sure everyone’ all right, because sometimes, a smile isn’ what it seems.
family means making mistakes and having regrets.
it means keeping it together when you’re falling apart, and knowing some family, you choose and some, you don’.
family?
hello!
i’ just doing my bit for sport relief, to get the bottoms of britain moving and to help people in the and all around the world.
there’ loads of ideas in these fundraising packs.
even for you, darling!
0, right!
thank you.
that’ for you get your kit on!
sorry, i’ late.
i’ here for sporty relief!
you mean sport relief?
that’ the one.
you can be an absolute legend too and raise money for sport relief by ordering your fundraising pack for loads of wicked ideas.
just cos i eat toast doesn’ mean i need to know how a toaster works.
that’ the sort of arrogance that’ll get you killed on the motorway, mate.
this could be an exhilarating ride or we could just plummet to our deaths!
whoa!
here we go!
oh!
i’ve gone four days without changing my pants.
sounds very unsanitary.
we are in at the deepest of ends.
rule number one — don’ die.
what have we got ourselves into?
let’ go!
whoa!
this looks dangerous.
put the camera down.
get out there and restore some sanity!
this is mental.
fast, fast, fast.
go, go, go!
oh, my word!
what the?
good morning, welcome to breakfast with dan walker and louise minchin.
our headlines today.
borisjohnson will today chair an emergency cobra meeting, as the number of cases of coronavirus in the ukjumps to 36.
the worldwide death toll is now more than 3,000, as fears grow of a major outbreak in the united sates as a second person dies there.
lam in i am in manchester victoria where the vessel commuters will be on operated by the operator of last resort.
we want a better life for our families, that’ we cross.
making it across the border.
as europe faces afresh migrant crisis, we have a special report from greece.
three in a row for manchester city.
pep guardiola’ men see off aston villa to win the league cup for the third successive year.
after the wettest february on record, march is a starting off on a note.
still showers around quieter note.
still showers around but not the relentless heavy rains strong we have seen and strong winds we have seen recently.
i will keep you to—date.
it’ monday, march 2nd.
our top story.
the prime minister will chair his first meeting of the government’ emergency cobra committee this morning, as the number of cases of coronavirus in the rises to 36.
13 of those were diagnosed yesterday - the biggestjump in a single day.
overnight, the united states reported its second death.
more than 3,000 people are now known to have died worldwide.
andy moore has the latest.
ahead of chairing a cobra emergency meeting, borisjohnson went to visit the health professionals in the front line of the fight against coronavirus.
at the laboratories of public health england in london, he expressed every confidence in the people around him.
coronavirus is a concern.
it is a novel illness, but it’ something that this country really amply has the resources to deal with.
we have state of the art testing facilities, we have a fantastic .
we will have to get through this, but believe me, we are going to beat it.
the jump in cases announced yesterday includes a family cluster of three adults related to a man in hazlemere, who was confirmed as testing positive on friday.
it’ still not known how he got the virus.
there are now 36 confirmed infections across the , with the first case in scotland, on tayside, announced yesterday evening.
this is a serious situation, but we have well established procedures in place and there’ no need for the public to be unduly concerned.
but the public can help, because we are still very firmly in the containment phases of this infection.
last night, some of the first britons released from several days’ in the in washington state, a nursing home is still under lockdown ears dozens might have the vims.
amid fears dozens might have the virus.
local scientist thought he ught the number of thought the true number of infections could run into their 100 ause the virus had been is because the virus had been mnning undetected for many weeks.
and at the source of the infection in china, the daily toll of new infections continues to fall.
but, with another 42 fatalities, the global death toll from covid—19 has now passed 3,000.
andy moore, news.
in a moment we’ll get an update on the british holiday—makers staying at a quarantined hotel in tenerife from our correspondent, fiona trott.
but first, let’ get more now on the government’ response from our political correspondent, chris mason, who is in downing street for us.
priority at the moment, is it?
it is, yes.
it’ really striking seeing nguage that is being used the language that is being used within government ahead of this a emergency contingency meeting ing chaired by the prime minister morning, it gives you some nse of the scale of the concern is now within government.
they this meeting this morning is out coordinating their battle an, as they describe it, to put in the necessary countermeasures eal with coronavirus and and ontain its spread.
they emphasised containment is the state they are at now, they talk about the need government to do all they for the government to do all they ran but is well individuals, in of of self isolating if you have if you have spoken to 111, and basic things like washing to minimise the likelihood of pread of infection.
when you hear language use, you get a ense of the scale