this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
setting a challenging target was the right thing to do because it galvanised government and got thejob done but there’s a lot more to be done.
ryanair announces it plans to cut 3,000 jobs, as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
south africa starts easing its coronavirus restrictions after five weeks of lockdown.
f5 you are the champions, you are the hampions!
and a musical tribute for the champions of the pandemic — queen say the proceeds will go to global health charities.
hello and welcome to viewers on news in the and around the world.
nita mcveigh.
the government says they are confident that they have hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline — was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests — to be met by the end of april — had been set by the ’s health secretary, matt hancock.
over 81,000 tests were carried out on wednesday — according to figures from the department of health and social care.
budget airline ryanair has announced they are cutting up to 3,000 jobs — mainly pilots and cabin crew — as they restructure to cope with the coronavirus pandemic.
meanwhile in the — president trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
the national intelligence director’s office say covid—19 "was not manmade or genetically modified" and china rejects the theory.
south africa has started easing coronavirus restrictions — after five weeks of lockdown.
some businesses are reopening, restaurants can deliver food and families will be allowed to leave home to exercise.
we’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly — but first this report from our news correspondent - dan johnson.
for a nation cut off, closed down, hurting .
this is notjust about gratitude.
it has become a regular act of communion, in the name of the carer, the medic, and the vital key worker, kind, helping hands that have kept the country on its feet and saved lives.
and here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus, heroes can be patients too.
you saved my life.
west midlands police chief superintendent, phil dolby, spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
see ya, bye!
now, the next generation training for the front line are being named after the miracle workers of our .
also bouncing back, the prime minister, with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope i can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease.
we are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
that may be but hundreds are still dying every day.
674 in the last 2a hours.
across the , the virus has taken someone special from 26,771 families.
more than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
so it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
the infection rate and the number of people each of us passes the virus to must stay below one.
more detail on that next week, but here is a hint of what our future may hold face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons but also for giving confidence to people that they can go back to work.
testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
and we’ll find out later today whether the 100,000 target was met.
wednesday’s latest figures were still 18,000 short.
at the beginning of the week, we only had 5000 home tests available, this is new 20,000 available and it is the reason we are quite likely to get very close to or meet the 100,000 target.
: the bare necessities.
our worries and our strife are shared in this new expression of community.
thursday, eight o’clock, is about togetherness, through torrid times.
humanity’s challenge means more pain, more suffering and more fear but as nature inflicts its worst, it can reflect our very best, and there are signs of better days ahead.
dan johnson, news.
the transport secretary, grant shapps, has said the government is "quite likely" to have either reached — or come close to meeting — the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests.
official figures are expected later.
ministers had said they wanted to achieve the aim by yesterday.
we can speak to professor sian griffiths who chaired the inquiry into the hong kong government’s response to the outbreak.
very good to have you with this, professor.
whether or not the rnment ere in the has reach hat 100,000 target for the daily ber of tests yesterday, it’s ery, very quickly going to have to ocus and talk about increasing at capacity much further, isn’t ?
exactly.
testing is going to be the release of lockdown and need to continue to push to have tests, i think 100,000 was a rget.
but the real question is tests are using, when are we sing it and we have enough test to ontact tracing we need to in the mmunity once we start to lift ckdown.
because what we are going to know is whether or not sporadic outbreaks of the ection occur, to make sure that ran very quickly act on that information and stop the spread further.
absolutely, we have already heard that today as well, much testing alongside that ontact tracing to make both parts hat approach effective.
we have idea what sort of number of we are talking about?
you ow, we heard the providers re in the yesterday say that , other ront line rkers, ould , other front line workers, would need to be tested every single week?
right we don’t really know that’s
right
we don’t really know how many tests we are going to need, going to have to ramp up the esting because if, for example, we ingle case that was had a single case that was identified through testing, you then need to contact trace and would depend on the number of ople that person had been in tact with, it would depend on a ola set of factors so you need to producing the testing come up a monitoring system which tells s, a lot of the information we need now.
this is a dynamic situation, testing as part of the onse and the creating of the ight conditions for releasing kdown.
what are the absolute gold tandard examples then, of this put into practice, if we look the responses of various ountries around the world and what learn from those?
well, if we ok to the east, taiwan and look to the far east, taiwan and south korea usually held up as the examples of work testing has one of the key arms of keeping numbers low.
both time and and uth korea, time and in particular, managed to keep the numbers very w, the numbers of cases and deaths ery low, south a has shown that very low, south korea has shown that by using testing, they’ve been able dentify clusters and then to identify the clusters and then focus huge effort on testing and you get a positive test, you ake sure you isolate that case and some ses, that means going to a overnment cility but if you go home isolation, that also means are monitored for being at home
and so the other arm of the side of contact tracing, ctually contact races themselves, where cases had dispersed to finding where rases had dispersed to come at the other arm of this is the apps and so in south korea, example, there is a riangulation between your mobile e, your credit card details and lso some implication of involving ameras.
in taiwan, there is also a triangulation of data and use app.
50 both those countries of the app.
so both those countries that have managed to keep both the ers down and both the deaths and rases, have been very rigorous in contact tracing of both using he human side and using the velopment of apps and i think this mething that is being looked across europe, the development you use apps along with of how you use apps along with contact tracing.
sorry to interrupt stop i was about to say, full stop i was just about to say, presumably, the use of an app as a in this way is only going to be as effective as the number of le, the percentage of the pulation that actually downloads pp.
exactly.
and in singapore, hey found the penetration of the they use there was only about 0%.
which isn’t actually high nough to you the security that you need.
what percentage of people need to ave downloading it do you need to have downloading it to be effective?
i’m not sure of the absolute figure here in the because it will depend on the type you use, it will depend, the use of apps is a very new science in contact tracing and so what are going to be seeing is velopment of apps, because it’s ing to be a question of what ethod you use.
so, for example, last week germany are going to a centralised system and then decided they were going to ntralise to federal level to collect the information so this is a ssion in progress at the moment, it will depend on the types available, how they fit best of apps availabla, how they fit best with our society and our systems.
we agree to share data, how data ran be safely shared, how long be kept for and all those orts of issues.
50 this is work in ogress, very i understand.
progress, very rapid i understand.
but it will be the development of pp, along with a robust testing trategy, which from my point of , needs to have very strong oral ocal engagement because i think you ocal knowledge to make sure need oral knowledge to make sure you ran make this system work.
given xperience in working in hong kong in terms of the response to the utbreak there, i’d be really interested to get your take on how overnment builds confidence in population after an outbreak, a demic.
we heard boris nson, pandemic.
we heard borisjohnson, the prime minister mentioning erday that masks might be yesterday that masks might be useful, even though the government that the science around the of masks, the effectiveness, is modest.
hey are talking fairty modest.
they are talking about the use of masks might be to build confidence in the opulation because clearly people and seen surveys about this, people are nervous about the idea of a lockdown?
what experience do you have that from hong kong and ?
in 2003, the outbreak was similar timing as we oing through new and in the mmer, i was part of the inquiry, -chair of inquiry team that looked at hat lessons could we arn so we were very rapidly ught in to look back, because all the way through the first outbreak in 2003, there was a sort nse about, because people don’t now and because it was new, people going, that could have been better, lots of uncertainty.
at the inquiry team did was look what as done.
point out where it ould have been done better and say, he future, these are the things you need to do.
so the inquiry hen used for example, to build up the public health system which een rather neglected, particularly the infectious disease of so hong kong now has a side of it so hong kong now has a very robust infectious disease em, the centre for health otection, which enables them to spond extremely quickly when they any other outbreaks.
in terms the wearing of masks, wearing of is and has grown culturally llowing and as soon as this ronavirus outbreak was announced, eopla in hong immediately people in hong kong immediately queued to go and buy masks so that had their own supply of masks cause wearing a mask has become, you say, not necessarily the ience, it’s the reassurance, assurance issue.
because we don’t take masks away from the opla who really need them in inical situations, other forms of covering, face cloth covering, face covering as the centre or disease control concert, are recommended which gives both person who wears it confidence so contributes in some way to but also contributes in some way to diminishing the spread of the ction, as long as they are used rrectly.
0k, professor, thank you much for your thoughts on all those questions today.
president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory.
he provided no details.
his own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating how the virus began, but have determined covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
david willis reports.
the pathogen lab at wuhan’s institute of virology.
did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
china strenuously denies such suggestions.
the president of the united states believes otherwise.
trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab, although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
he told reporters either china couldn’t stop the virus from spreading, or it didn’t to.
this is something that could have been contained at the original location, and i think it could have been contained relatively easily.
china is a very sophisticated country and they could have contained it.
they were either unable to or they chose not to and the world is suffering greatly.
whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed as a biological weapon, the intelligence community didn’t contradict the president’s theory, saying: this country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more than 60,000 deaths.
the virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy, leading to long lines in cities such as houston, as people queue for free food.
although he’s avoided direct criticism of china’s president xi, with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, president trump has talked of making china pay for the harm the virus has caused to the american economy and, by extension, to his chances of re—election.
relations between the world’s two largest economies could get very frosty indeed.
david willis, news.
let’s get some reaction from beijing now.
with me is emily feng — the beijing correspondent for .
that is an independent, nonprofit media organisation.
emily, good ing, let’s begin with chinese eaction to those latest comments president trump.
unsurprisingly ere’s been anger and this led ina to be able to give credence to alternative conspiracy theory of own, the was the one that originated the virus, the foreign saying politicians are ccusing the wuhan lab of entionally licking the virus is a lie, it’s fabricated for lie, it’s been fabricated for american political ambitions.
erday on the main evening broadcast, they broadcast footage of cretary of state mike pompeo had the words lie written all his face.
—— licking the virus.
that being said, chinese state diplomats have put out their own ry, the military brought the to china and it’s a conspiracy virus to china and it’s a conspiracy theory that there is no evidence for people in china believe.
but many people in china believe.
effectively both the and china ung down on these conspiracy doubling down on these conspiracy theories?
you’ve seen this diversion ratives of what happens and hat’s very dangerous because we are a global pandemic but we have hese different camps are people who ieve different, what they believe wholly different, what they think are facts.
do you think people jing, rdinary people in in beijing, ordinary peopla in beijing and around china, are ied about the suggestions of the irus originating from a lab in wuhan?
they are not and actually, i was in wuhan two weeks ago, i mean quarantine now, which is a pulation from coming back to ijing from wuhan.
people were rried about a second wave of ections but not the fact they re so close to this bio lab at the ad accused of leaking the virus.
hey very much ieve, many people i talk to, the was the one that the virus to china.
emily, thank you very much for that.
king news coming to us on coronavirus from northern ireland.
atistics show around 40% of new statistis show around 4096 of deaths linked to 19 in hern ireland have occurred in are omes.
the weekly figures lished by the northern ireland atistics and research agency cords all debts in which 19 isted on the death certificate, it provides a fuller picture of ronavirus mortality rate.
that is statistic coming out of this atest weekly publication, new tistics showing around 40% of eaths linked to 19 in rthern ireland have occurred in omes.
and of course, more oadly around , there is a ery big concern about how many are happening in care homes that they properly recorded and that they are property recorded and acknowledged in figures.
50 that aking news coming to us from breaking news just coming to us from the northern ireland statistics and agency.
also just coming in rom the world health organisation in the last few seconds.
the 5575 it’s hoping that china will invite it to take part in its stigations into the animal origins of the new coronavims.
a spokesman saying you a choke would to work with international be keen to work with international partners and at the invitation of hinese government, to the chinese government, to participate in investigations around imal origins, the so—called the animal origins, the so-ralled zoonotic diseases, diseases that rom other animals to humans.
jump from other animals to humans.
so the saying it is hoping china nvite it to take part in its investigations.
in another sign of impact of coronavirus on the huge impact of coronavirus on heathrow airport.
normally the busiest in europe, has said it expects passenger numbers to have fallen 97% in april.
meanwhile european budget airline ryanair has said it may shed up to 3,000 jobs as it restructures to cope with the pandemic.
it said the posts under threat were mainly pilot and cabin crewjobs, and that remaining staff boss michael o’leary spoke to the earlier.
the situation we face new is we’ve carried almost no passengers for the last three months.
we carried less than 140,000 passengers in april, may and june against originally, the budget of 42 million passengers.
for the full year we will carry less than 100 million passengers, the budget was originally 155 million, we will carry only about a third less passengers than we planned for this year and while we expect to be back flying some services injuly and august, we think the buildup will be slow, passengers will be wearing face masks, temperature checks at airports, there will be those kind of controls.
we are cutting, we announced this morning we are cutting 15% of our staff, we think that’s the minimum we need just to survive the next 12 months.
if a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
we feel we have no choice this morning but to announce 3000 job cuts, that’s about 15% of our workforce.
we will be closing some bases in the and spain and other places across europe.
because by the time we get out of this, we will be into the winter schedule anyway.
and it’s going to be very difficult.
oliver richardson is national officer for unite the union who represents some sectors of the airline industry.
good to have you with us to get some reaction to all of this, oliver.
day when it comes to aviation and many airlines talking about the icament find themselves in.
predicament they find themselves in.
your chief concern, of course, will the jobs of employees.
let’s be for the jobs of employees.
let’s talk about ryanair first of all.
ael o’leary talking about michael o’leary talking about possibly 3000 jobs going.
do you it’s going to come to that or ran some of these he saved?
well, we it’s a very premature think it’s a very premature announcement.
we don’t know the ils yet, he’s talked about 3000 obs across europe, he’s talked basis closing and mention the gié’; tit fifi :: :i 17 j; i : i’ j?
--- =--- _ have any detail yet.
but we don’t have any detail yet.
again, we think this is premature, a job retention scheme up and mnning in we have a job retention scheme up and running in the , many european ntries a number of countries have a number ofjob retention schemes as well.
so the etention scheme is that, job retention scheme is just that, to retain jobs, not to shed jobs.
air is not in financial ryanair is not in financial difficulty, is one of the wealthiest nes ithin europe, it should be able to out the storm
and it hould be able to take a more asured view and we should be ecting jobs, most protecting jobs, but most importantly, protecting the aviation sector and that’s the union has called for a government age which has been promised to make sure we retain the expertise in the sector, that we retain he functioning of the sector, we island, after all, so we need be connected and we should be cusing on that, not on trying to jobs but on ing to support cut jobs but on trying to support the sector.
we will come back to point in just a second.
but the anair employees, are they urrently protected under the job ention scheme?
yes, ryanair in the , all of the employees that i represent, the cabin crew, or under ugh, claiming retention furlough, claiming job retention scheme, obviously that’s now been ded until une.
we don’t know hether hat will be extended ther, we’ve sought support from he government particularly with gards to ain sectors including regards to certain sectors including aviation, to continue that because ill be slow at coming out of any lockdown measures than any other so we think there’s a sector so we think there’s a possibility that it will be nded, hence we think it’s a very remature announcement.
do you think given the ukpos macro position re broadly, ultimately there will ate aid coming forward to be state aid coming forward to ensure as we eventually move out of ockdown, and as we eventually get back to something resembling air traffic, that there are nough providers, that there is etition, more than one airline, competition, more than one airtine, for example, flying to certain tes?
solutely, that’s what needs to happen, there needs to be a government package of support.
we are not saying this won’t be repaid future or it is throwing good money after bad.
this is absolutely mental to ensure that air fundamental to ensure that air traffic management services survived ran be up and running
and and they ran be up and mnning and support aviation and as we say, got enough airlines and routes we’ve got enough airtines and routes that are open to keep us connected.
not force monopolies such as ryanair or british airways, to take ertain airports and routes and ype the prices up for their own efit.
aviation is for the benefit erybody, not for a few of everybody, not just for a few companies.
we’ve been talking today whether the public might feel nervous about emerging from down, about starting to travel gain.
what out the people that epresent, the cabin crew and so ?
they must feel nervous about as well.
we’ve heard the boss heathrow today saying there has a global standard in place to ive peopla confidence, that nfidence has got to apply to ployees in the airline industry as l, doesn’t it?
absolutely fundamentally and at the moment we eal concerns about some of the measures, we are still flying and erating.
there are still operating.
there are repatriation flights that are ers in different companies are perating.
and it’s a very anxious and very nervous time for them.
do you think people can safely you think peopla ran safely though and how long might it take eopla to think that they can for peopla to think that they ran safely if, , as we heard today, cial distancing simply isn’t a actical prospect on airlines?
ell, ere are some measures that ran take in erms of airlines, ocial istancing is more oblematic and that’s there uld to be support because she wouldn’t be filling our craft up.
e’s also questions about protective equipment, so whether face masks, gloves etc, these re all sorts of different measures we need to sit down, the that we need to sit down, the government and the industry and uss and look at the impact on he industry and what support is to be needed to build that nfidence back up.
it’s going to be lower industry coming out of ckdown than any other.
it needs support and most importantly, as “- say, it needs to build the confidence and therefore we need to these measures about social distancing, , the people who work industry how it will in the industry and how it will affect them, as well as the sengers travelling.
oliver hardson, from the union, ank you for your time.
the united nations secretary general antonio guterres has expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
in an interview with the , he said there was a failure to combine leadership and power — comments which appeared to be directed at washington and beijing.
secretary general in new york.
you have described covid—19 as the biggest challenge facing the world since the second world war.
have you been surprised and shocked by the immense scale of death and the immense scale of economic disruption?
shocked, obviously, yes.
i mean, it’s dramatic to see so many people dying and it’s dramatic to see this devastating impact on economies and societies, especially on the most vulnerable people.
but not surprised.
unfortunately what is true is that the world was not able to come together and to face covid—19 in an articulated, coordinated way.
each country went with its own policy, different countries with different perspectives, different strategies.
and this has allowed the virus to spread.
who do you blame for that?
are you talking about the great power rivalry between the united states and china, this propaganda war that has erupted since covid—19 became a pandemic?
i think it’s obvious we lack leadership, that can only be possible if the key countries in the world, the key powers in the world, are able to come together.
when you say about the lack of global leadership are you talking about washington, are you talking about president trump, are you talking about beijing?
i think there is a dysfunctionality in today’s world.
leadership and power are not associated.
there are examples of leadership, there are of course powers, what we have not yet been able to combine in the world, power and leadership in a way that could move the whole of the international community to solve our dramatic problems.
and to do it effectively.
there have been criticisms of the world health organisation for ing to sound the alarm early enough.
you been satisfied with performance of the ?
it’s a remarkable organisation.
an organisation that in my opinion is utely crucial at the present moment and needs to be supported.
it is also tme that when all this , in my is also true that when all this ends, in my opinion, we need to look usly, as an international community, how this pandemic ged, how it spread so quickly, all the different actors that re involved, behaved.
in order to arn our lessons and to be able in future not to have the same stakes.
do you think the trump inistration was wrong to suspend funding of the ?
i believe it essential to keep as maximum as possible resources within the because in the present situation, reasons i invoked, it’s for the reasons i invoked, it’s impossible to replace it in iding support especially to developing countries and today, my oncern is in the developing world.
hello, this is news with annita mcveigh.
the headlines: the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
setting a challenging target was the right thing to do, because it galvanised government and got thejob done, but there’s a lot more to be done.
budget airline ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory but gives no details.
and south africa starts easing its coronavirus restrictions after five weeks of lockdown.
india has had more than 35,000 cases of coronavirus so far, and more than 1,100 people have died of the infection.
the country has been in lockdown for nearly six weeks now.
and while doctors say it has slowed the spread of covid—19, it’s also meant that millions who depend on daily wages are facing extreme difficulty.
from mumbai, the ’s india correspondent yogita limaye reports.
small triumphs are celebrated.
this man has recovered from covid in the southern state of kerala.
thanks for everything!
more populous than canada, the region had the first coronavirus infections in march, but it curbed the spread, and its strategy is giving hope to the rest of the country.
our idea was to trace as many people as possible in the shortest amount possible, and in the intial a—s days, we were able to trace 1,254 persons.
once we identified all of them, the next strategy was to ensure home quarantine in the strictest possible sense.
but each grave is a reminder that, for many parts of india, the threat is far from being contained.
and it doesn’t even allow goodbyes.
a four—month—old baby girl laid to rest from the arms of strangers.
dozens are losing their lives every day.
and while the real scale is hard to assess, doctors say covid would have spread a lot more quickly if india had not imposed a lockdown relatively early.
checkpoints like these have been set up in cities around the country.
people are only allowed to go out to buy essential items, and you could even get arrested for violating the lockdown, which is perhaps one of the most stringent in the world.
for the first time in the history of india, the government halted trains.
flights, interstate buses, public transport have all been stopped as well.
that’s left millions of daily wage earners without money for food or shelter.
this is a queue for lunch in delhi nearly 3km long, a common sight now in many parts of india.
shaik mufazul worked as a labourer.
now he’s living on the streets of his family.
"on the days they distribute food, we eat.
"
"otherwise, we go hungry.
"
"they’ve taken away our life line.
"
"it feels like we’re dying slowly," he says.
calls to ease the restrictions are growing louder.
i asked the ’s chief scientist how it should be done.
as you go out of lockdown, it has to be first of all a phased release after lockdown, and many countries are now putting in place systems of how they will do that, and the monitoring testing is going to be extremely important
so at any time if there is an alert or a red flag that things are not looking so good, again, more strict measures may have to be put in place.
the nationwide lockdown is due to end soon.
india is waiting to hear what lies ahead.
yogita limaye, news, mumbai.
breaking news from the courts, the lady in the later case, the thumous appeal brought by relatives of gordon parker was icted in 1976 of the murder of his wife, whose remains were found iston water in cumbria.
now, hree senior dges have rejected a osthumous peal brought by his elatives, saying, we have no doubt the safety of the conviction.
ordon park killed himself in in 2010, and it is all to do with, came to be known, the lady in lake rase, here gordon park was convicted the murder in 1976 of wife carol, whose remains were und in coniston water in cumbria years later, judges saying they no doubt as to the safety of original conviction.
from today residents in the state of illinois must cover theirfaces in public spaces when social distancing is not possible.
to encourage people to observe safety measures, some iconic landmarks in chicago have been given face masks.
the ions at the art institute have had their noses and mouths covered with the chicago flag, and the famed picasso sculpture in a central plaza has also had a masked makeover.
south africa has begun to ease what was one of the world’s most severe coronovirus lockdowns.
president ramaphosa drew international praise for his swift action, which was announced before a single death had been recorded.
in the early stages of the pandemic, both britain and south africa followed a near identical path of infections.
but with just over 100 so far dead, and
no more than a few hundred patients infected in hospital, its death rate has been staggeringly low in comparison to the .
injohannesburg, the ’s africa correspondent andrew harding has been finding out why.
it seemed inevitable.
in a land of furious inequality and habitual la, e, the virus was always going to cause here in south africa.
could it possibly be otherwise?
overcrowded townships around ohannesburg, of covid—19’s johannesburg, news of covid-19’s rival, the first confirmed case was he 5th, prompted dread.
there was were, are understandable — was fears were, are understandable - neighbourhoods sharing taps and ets, people already weakened by malnutrition and illness.
but south a had an advantage, it had africa had an advantage, it had time, weeks to watch the virus ad around the rest of the world, to watch other countries’ takes.
now, the government here hard earned reputation for ithering, for being talk, but last it took a firm decision to act arty and aggressively.
and so, just ays after that first case, ten days after that first use, south africa declared a state of ster.
schools and restaurants ould be closed, foreign travel restricted.
at this stage in africa, the virus was spreading slowly.
but soon south did start to see an africa did start to see an exponential rise, just like britain, ugh here the government was already reacting much quicker, sing a lockdown eight days imposing a lockdown just eight days after recording the 100th infection.
uth africa’s lockdown was far stricter too.
forced soldiers.
but soon more tests confirmed the down was genuine.
the department of health is here is the reason, y, was that early clearly, was that early interventions were now paying off next stage was equally and the next stage was equally impressive - because it spent years with and , this dealing with and , this country already has an army of some 0 community health workers.
30,000 community health workers.
therve now screened more than 3 ion people for the new virus.
million peopla for the new vims.
tomorrow, , south africa will start to lockdown.
and so a five ease its lockdown.
and so a five stage strategy has now been ished, explaining how, in heory, the nation can be nudged wards rmality, perhaps by year’s end.
so, yes, south africa has a blinder so far, particularly the president, but the ranks, the key lower down the ranks, the key institutions that are going to have waging this battle against virus for months to come have weakened by years of corruption ronyism.
in other words, south frica is not out of the woods yet.
lanty of uncertainty ahead here - just look at massive queue or food and—outs near pretoria.
as the ockdown softens, the certainty that the infection ill start to climb.
andrew harding, news, south africa.
more than seven million children are at risk of hunger in afghanistan, says the international charity save the children, as food prices soar during a coronavirus lockdown.
the charity says a third of all afghans will face food shortages this month due to the pandemic.
afghanistan has so far recorded nearly 2,200 cases of covid—19 and 64 deaths.
but in a war—torn country with a weak health system and little testing, it’s feared the real numbers may be much higher.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucetjoins me now.
she was last in afghanistan in january.
even before covid—19, anistan deemed to be one of afghanistan was deemed to be one of the most dangerous places in the to be a child — with this world to be a child - with this pandemic, what is it like now?
yes, everywhere in the world, i mean everywhere in the world, including in the , we all feel we are in the midst, and we are in the midst of a global health is of unprecedented proportions.
countries like afghanistan have on a permanent state of crisis or decades, besieged by war that gone on for decades, extreme nutrition, and even before the ronavirus struck, the united ations was predicting that million afghans would face what they ood insecurity this winter.
and call food insecurity this winter.
and then when the virus struck, and you have a kdown in a place when you have a lockdown in a place like afghanistan, with so much of opulation, including working treet children, they depend on wages, $1 ay, and when they don’t get that, no means no ood to eat, and so therefore that this warning is being sounded hat a third of the population, luding 7 million children, could and could die of tarvation.
i mean, that is the rmity of it.
as we reflected in our eport from ia, a lot of our report from india, a lot of peopla, including children, ending on daily labour wages, jobs, at employment is not those jobs, that employment is not there any more, and combined with ome of the world food programme 575 ays the prices of basic foods are up and up, so what help is there to to, you know, deal with save the children certainly ant a lot of international aid to these people in serious threat hunger.
yes, in countries like hanistan, and you mentioned ndia, the majority of the pulation is not going to upermarkets and stocking up on the urite foods.
they basically rely bread that they eat, a bit of and cooking oil, and when, in use, the price of cooking oil and wheat flow has rocketed up by , 6, and your have gone from 2396, and your wages have gone from $2 per day to 1 3 day, i mean, that the detail hat it comes down is the detail of what it comes down to, so it is such a precarious tence.
the government has arted to distribute free bread and ries in capitol, and it has said will expand this, but on thursday were angry crowds saying, i am poor, how come you didn’t include his is not enough, i cannot ive on bread alone, but for many it be bread alone, and for some even bread.
so if aid comes in, ther within the country or from tside, is there an effective tribution system for that, and concerned are international arities like save the children at, in this time of pandemic, when peopla are orried about where ages will be oming from, whether pla are willing to donate?
there a a question of willing to donate, irports are closed, and fghanistan’s case, the borders with iran, and afghanistan is still in the midst of war, there eadership crisis in kabul, so they are all converging at the same and as always, when they do, is the most vulnerable, the ildren, who suffer the most.
that the children report out, our hief international correspondent, doucet, thank you very much.
the headlines on news: the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated we may find out more today about whether the football season can restart in britain.
the government is hosting a video call with the football association and premier league, along with medical experts from rugby union, cricket and racing, to discuss when and how to return to sporting action.
it’s the biggest dilemma facing the premier league in its history, as austin halewood reports.
it has been seven weeks since a premier league ground looked like this.
now organisers are keen to get the season back up and running behind closed doors on the 8th ofjune, but are the players on board?
the manchester city striker sergio aguero told argentinian media that the majority of players are scared to return because they have children and families.
and he is not the only one who is worried.
it would be hindering ourselves with certain things, like face masks and things, it’s going to be off—putting.
it’s not going to be natural.
it’s quite farcical.
i understand people are desperate to get football on, i am one of those people, i’m desperate, but i think it’s got to be done in a sensible way.
there is also concern about the availability of testing and whether a return will place unnecessary extra pressure on public services.
with liverpool on the brink of a first title in 30 years, even the city’s own mayor is not keen on a restart.
i would guess that a lot people would turn up outside anfield to celebrate, and i can understand the police’s concerns around that, even if it was at a neutral venue.
it would be really difficult for the police to keep people apart and maintain social distancing, so i think it is a nonstarter.
the club, though, have distanced themselves from that point of view, and the government thinks a restart would give the country a much—needed boost, while the league’s organisers know the huge financial implications of not restarting.
they’d have to pay three £750 million back to rights holders.
with other competitions around europe already cancelled, the government and the premier league know whatever move they make next, they will have to get it right.
since the lockdown began nearly six weeks ago.
and while bringing a child into the world should be a moment ofjoy, the shadow of covid—19 has loomed large.
keeley donovan has been speaking to new parents about their experiences.
born into a changed world.
babies bria, nelly and hope.
the happiest of moments at the most difficult of times.
are allowed one birthing partner in the labour suite with them, provided they are not showing any symptoms.
we first met clare on breakfast a month ago.
she is part of the mums and bumps club we are following for the next few months.
she had planned for her mum to be her birthing partner, but because her mum is vulnerable, she has had to self—isolate.
claire was induced earlier than planned and gave birth to little eliana by emergency c—section.
she was without her family but in good hands.
it was scary, but also i think there was a sense of everyone is trying to do their best, and you kind of want to be in and out as quick as possible.
everything really i was focusing on was about whatever is the safest for me and her.
i feel more for my parents, because i think they struggle more than i do, because i get to hold her at the end of the day.
these are special moments that families everywhere are missing out on.
this is how matt’s parents met baby oshen for the first time.
it has been really difficult, we both have big families.
it has been really hard.
we’ve got lots of friends as well we have not been able to see.
it has been really difficult.
it is obviously a really emotional time for new parents, and nothing is going to replace face—to—face contact, but there are lots of virtual alternatives.
this morning i am joining a new bumps and babies class, set up by midwife louise.
is it important to have sessions online like this when new parents cannot meet face to face at the moment?
what is really important both before and after you have had your baby is some sort of continuity and a feeling that you are not necessarily going through this alone.
all these electronic things have just been a godsend.
while critical checks on newborns in the are continuing, maternity services are offering a combination of face to face and remote postnatal follow—ups, according to the woman and baby’s needs.
it is nice that not everything about lockdown has been negative for these new parents.
i went into hospital, and i had the most amazing experience in hospital.
they just went above and beyond.
it has been lovely because andy has been off work.
we have been together six weeks now, having a nice family unit, because we will never get this time all together again.
babies will continue to be born in lockdown, and while for now they must wait to see grandparents, extended family and friends, we will have stories too to tell our little ones about their moment in history.
most people in the would not want to go out, even if the government officially ends the lockdown in a month’s time, according to a new survey.
60% of those asked said they would be uncomfortable about going to bars and restaurants or using public transport.
and more than 40% would still be reluctant to go shopping or send their children to school, according to the poll by ipsos mori.
victims of domestic abuse can seek help at all boots pharmacies across the from today.
consultation rooms will be used as safe spaces where victims will be put in touch with specialist services.
tributes have been paid to the nigerian drummer tony allen, who’s died suddenly at the age of 79.
allen teamed up with fela kuti in the ‘605 to create a new musical style, afrobeat.
the rock bassist flea from the red hot chili peppers called him one of the greatest drummers ever to walk the earth.
scientists in the have identified the highest levels of microplastics ever recorded on the seafloor, after studying sediment pulled from the bottom of the mediterranean sea.
the analysis, led by the university of manchester, found nearly two million plastic pieces per square metre of sea bed.
our science correspondent victoria gill reports.
a simulation of the deep ocean.
this experiment in a large tank in a lab in the netherlands shows how ocean currents and push mounds of sediment across the seafloor.
mixed into those mounds are millions of tiny pieces of plastic, and scientists have now measured the extent of this sea—bed pollution.
we are all worried about the plastic that is floating in the ocean, but this only represents 1% of it.
the rest is somewhere in the deep sea.
we’ve found in this area the highest accumulations ever recorded in the global oceans, and they are 1.
9 million particles — pieces, small pieces — per square metre.
so we are going to scoop up those fine sediments that were all brought into suspension.
studies in 2018 by some of the same researchers revealed just how much plastic pollution was locked in riverbeds then flushed out to during floods.
these latest experiments in the mediterranean extracted chunks of sea floor from depths of up to one kilometre.
that enable scientists to track how the currents carry plastic waste out to sea, where it breaks down.
the deep currents then accumulate these millions of fragments into what researchers call microplastic hotspots.
the majority of the particles they found were tiny fibres from textiles and clothing that simply slip through the filtration systems in waste—water treatment plants.
we’re filling in part of the gaps of our understanding of this 99% of the plastic.
the fragile ecosystems on the seafloor depend on the nutrients and oxygen flushed in through the ocean currents.
these currents transport microplastics to the same places where these fragile ecosystems exist.
scientist from the british antarctic survey, in another study published this week, reveal plastic pollution was reaching the shores of some of the most remote islands.
in recent years, we’ve finally started to the impact our plastic waste has on the oceans.
this research has started to uncover the invisible long—term consequences.
victoria gill, news.
the rock band queen has released a new charity single to honour the world’s health care workers.
it resembles the classic hit we are the champions but with a slight change in the lyrics.
the ’s freya cole has more.
we’ll keep on fighting to the end it’s an anthem known around the world, and now, with the one word changed, the song has taken on a new meaning.
you are the champions, my friends.
and you’ll keep on fighting to the end its focused to all those on the front line all around the world.
all the people risking their lives to save us and save our loved ones.
the tribute song will aid the world health organization’s solidarity fund to fight covid—19.
queen and their front man, adam lambert, each filmed their parts in isolation — a far from the recording studios they are all used to.
my wife recorded it on her iphone.
taking the shift a lyric is a bold move for queen, because they are so iconic, but this is the type of event that warranted such a change.
no time for losers the original 1977 hit song, written by freddie mercury, celebrated worldwide success.
because you are the champions it’s hoped the remake will help inspire front line workers as they lead the struggle against this pandemic.
freya cole, news.
martine croxall will be here in a minutes, but now time for a look he weather with sarah keith—lucas.
it’s another day of sunshine and showers out there today, the recipe for lots of rainbows.
some of the showers through the day are going to be heavy and thundery.
some hail and gusty winds mixed in with some of the downpours as well.
but we won’t all see them, a bit of weather with some sunshine around, too.
but low pressure is still driving the weather at the moment.
it’s gradually going to be easing away towards the east over the next 2a hours or so.
so the showers will slowly start to fade away as we head on into the weekend.
but for the here and now, the most frequent heavy showers today will be across parts of the midlands, northern england, central and southern scotland as well.
it’s here that we’re likely to see some of those thunderstorms, hail and squally winds.
showers fewer and further between elsewhere, and temperatures for most of us in the mid—teens, a little bit warmer than it was yesterday.
now, through into this evening and overnight, the showers will start to ease and fade, but some heavy ones will continue overnight across parts of eastern england and northern and eastern scotland as well.
clear skies and lighter winds further south.
so although it will be a largely frost—free start to saturday, it’ll be quite chilly first thing with temperatures around five to eight degrees.
still one or two showers on the cards for the weekend, but we won’t all see them.
the areas most likely to see the showers on saturday are across northern and eastern scotland and the far north east of england as well.
elsewhere, a lot of weather with some blue and spells of sunshine.
but the cloud will increase from the southwest, perhaps the odd spot of light rain down towards the channel isles, for instance.
but most of us in the sunshine and lighter winds, it’ll feel quite pleasant out there with temperatures around 1a to 18 degrees through the day on saturday and sunday set to be a pretty similar day.
once again, a lot of weather with light winds and some sunshine, cloud amounts increasing, i think, through the course of the day on sunday and a few showers typically for eastern scotland, northeast england, perhaps one or two for the far southwest as well.
but temperatures between about ten to 18 degrees or so on sunday.
and then things continue to turn a little bit warmer and drier as we look towards the new week as well.
50 high pressure starts to build its way in across the united kingdom through the course of sunday night and into monday as well.
so a largely outlook into next week, and things will be turning brighter and warmer than they have been in recent days.
bye for now.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
setting a challenging target was the right thing to do, because it galvanised government and got thejob done, but there is a lot more to be done.
the pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
european budget carrier ryanair announces 3,000 job losses.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
the secretary general criticises the world’s major powers for failing to provide leadership during the crisis.
f5 you are the champions you are the champions!
and a musical tribute for the champions of the pandemic — queen say the proceeds will go to global health charities.
the government says they are confident that they have hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus the government says they are confident that they have hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline — was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests — to be met by the end of april — had been set by the the ’s health secretary, matt hancock.
over 81,000 tests were carried out on wednesday — according to figures from the department of health and social care.
worldwide — the aviation industry has been hugely affected by the global lockdown — with budget airline ryanair announcing they are cutting up to three thousand pilot and cabin crewjobs — as they restructure to cope with the coronavirus pandemic.
meanwhile in the — president trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
the national intelligence director’s office say covid—19 "was not manmade or genetically modified" and china rejects the theory.
in other developments — the united nations secretary general antonio guterres has expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
in an interview with the , he said there was a failure to combine leadership and power — comments which appeared to be directed at washington and beijing.
we’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly — but first this report from our news correspondent - dan johnson.
for a nation cut off, closed down, hurting .
this is notjust about gratitude.
it has become a regular act of communion, in the name of the carer, the medic, and the vital key worker, kind, helping hands that have kept the country on its feet and saved lives.
and here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus, heroes can be patients too.
you saved my life.
west midlands police chief superintendent, phil dolby, spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
see ya, bye!
now, the next generation training for the front line are being named after the miracle workers of our .
also bouncing back, the prime minister, with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope i can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease.
we are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
that may be but hundreds are still dying every day.
674 in the last 2a hours.
across the , the virus has taken someone special from 26,771 families.
more than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
so it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
the infection rate and the number of people each of us passes the virus to must stay below one.
more detail on that next week, but here is a hint of what our future may hold face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons but also for giving confidence to people that they can go back to work.
testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
and we’ll find out later today whether the 100,000 target was met.
wednesday’s latest figures were still 18,000 short.
at the beginning of the week, we only had 5000 home tests available, this is new 20,000 available and it is the reason we are quite likely to get very close to or meet the 100,000 target.
our worries and our strife are shared in this new expression of community.
thursday, eight o’clock, is about togetherness, through torrid times.
humanity’s challenge means more pain, more suffering and more fear but as nature inflicts its worst, it can reflect our very best, and there are signs of better days ahead.
dan johnson, news.
our political correspondent leila nathoo joins us from westminster.
the government is confident they may have reached this target, but it’s do with those numbers and results?
a change of tone early in week.
looked unlikely the the week.
it looked unlikely the government would meet that 100,000 t.
remember ere this all target.
remember where this all started, it was matt hancock wanting testing up because at the tart it was about patients, ff, etc, so that people could go ack to rk.
then it was about getting the capacity broadened.
now bility for testing has expanded eligibility for testing has expanded quite widely to key workers.
the figures were about 80,000.
had always been talk of the mbers going up quite significantly he final days.
but now the of testing sort of changes as go into the next phase.
this is having a mass testing infrastructure in place so that when rrent lockdown measures ease testing can be used eventually stop tbreaks spreading rapidly and widely from communities.
50 vidual patients with coronavirus be olated, their context aste, and esting can then be put to place.
is this is into place.
that is this is important.
the government will say he target was all about that the target was all about getting the machine rolling and ing the testing capacity up.
ere is what robert rick had to say about this rget early this orning.
-- ert jenrick.
it looks like we’ll either meet the target or come close, and so we will have very significantly increased it looks like we’ll either meet the target or come close, and so we will have very significantly increased the amount of testing in this country i think from 2000 tests a day at the end of february to 10,000 tests a day at the end of march to either 100,000 at the end of april or quite close to it.
that’s an important stepping stone.
i don’t want to overstate this, because this is just a stepping stone to more.
we’ve got the prime minister back in post after he recovered from navirus.
a lot of questions cing him about how, if not one, lockdown will be lifted.
what is ying?
he message from the rime minister yesterday was that week was going to be the point here we hear more detail about a ategy for how we get out of ockdown.
now remember that icially the measures have to be eviewed every three weeks by law.
next decision point, the next eview point, is next thursday, and is when we are promised we will hear more about this road map.
he said it was a menu of options to get conomy moving again, to get ople back to work, how get ildren back to school stop we dn’t get any detail on what we can xpect from t, but we have the xample of other countries.
we have ottish and welsh government ere has published their own meworks and their own thinking in own lines.
boris hnson their own lines.
boris johnson mentioned yesterday that face masks ing to be a useful way out, are going to be a useful way out, and a useful tool in the next stage ckdown, because he said they could give people the confidence to to work.
i think that will be an interesting aspect of how to ince people that even if the ata says the virus isn’t ansmitting widely, and that it is ally safe to go out again, will opla obey people obey those instructions?
we are getting hints of what could .
talk of quarantine measures ing introduced at airports.
talk schools and businesses will have to follow social distancing in the same way as essential ervices and schools, schools are open for key workers, at the ment.
little noises about what’s come
but certainly i don’t think tailed plan until next week.
hank you.
the president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory.
he provided no details.
his own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating how the virus began, but have determined covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
david willis reports.
the pathogen lab at wuhan’s institute of virology.
did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
china strenuously denies such suggestions.
the president of the united states believes otherwise.
trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab, although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
he told reporters either china couldn’t stop the virus from spreading, or it didn’t to.
this is something that could have been contained at the original location, and i think it could have been contained relatively easily.
china is a very sophisticated country and they could have contained it.
they were either unable to or they chose not to and the world is suffering greatly.
whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed as a biological weapon, the intelligence community didn’t contradict the president’s theory, saying: this country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more than 60,000 deaths.
the virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy, leading to long lines in cities such as houston, as people queue for free food.
although he’s avoided direct criticism of china’s president xi, with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, president trump has talked of making china pay for the harm the virus has caused to the american economy and, by extension, to his chances of re—election.
relations between the world’s two largest economies could get very frosty indeed.
david willis, news.
let’s hear more now on theories as to how the coronavirus originated in the chinese city of wuhan.
the institute of virology there studies infectious diseases linked to bats and china says any allegations of a leak are unfounded.
but it is notjust president trump who says the possibility should be investigated.
here’s the australian prime minister.
there’s nothing that we have that would indicate that was the likely source.
you can’t rule anything out in these environments.
we know it started in china.
the most likely scenario that has been canvassed relates to wildlife wet markets, but that’s a matter that would have to be thoroughly assessed.
this is one of the reasons it is important that we just have an objective, independent assessment of how this originated, and learn the lessons from how this occurred.
i think it is an entirely sensible suggestion.
monitoring speculation about the laboratory is the ’s security corrrespondent, gordon corera.
just how big is the gap, gordon, between what president trump is ing and at his intelligence community think?
well it was very esting yesterday, because we statement early in the day had a statement earty in the day from the intelligence community, said they were investigating this.
they ruled out that this was a -made us, that it was some man-made virus, that it was some sort of bio weapon that had been ashed or escaped, but they arefully said that they were still ing at other possibilities, ncluding that it was an entirely ral outbreak, in other words from a market or it was a leak from .
a lab which had been a lab.
a lab which had been studying, if you like, the natural .
later donald trump asked, do vims.
later donald asked, do you think it could have been —— donald trump was asked, do you later donald was asked, do you think it could have been leaked from he said yes
but did not a lab
and he said yes
but did not produce evidence even though he said seen evidence.
white house icials ave been pushing intelligence officials to look at heory that it was escaped from a lab.
there is a reason they want that because there is a lot of ressure from the white house to ect blame and to turn attention nto hina and what it may have done ng.
and that may well be a big litical issue this year, an ection issue, and donald trump is etraying elf as tough on china.
betraying himself as tough on china.
and trying to say that joe biden is .
he intelligence community is saying, simply we are looking at the nce and being very careful about it.
and the president wants to eople towards a particular conclusion.
now, the question is, eopla take donald trump’s statement at face value?
will they to see ore evidence?
we will expect to see more evidence?
we will have to wait and see but there is ainly potential for more real nsion between donald trump iniscent of that story about iraq he weapons of mass destruction 8 years ago when the white house a clear conclusion that there were pons of mass destruction and intelligence community was being ved in that direction but some re cautious about it.
you can nse ome of the same potential train, ithink this issue.
talk us about the story there could be nage on the way, regarding the research into a vaccine for coronavirus.
well, that’s right, i spoke to a intelligence official rday, the head of a national yesterday, the head of a national counter intelligence and security e.
his is to protect centre.
his job is to protect america gainst foreign spies.
he said they had seen a reconnaissance, empt to get into some of the esearch labs, which were working on ines and other treatments by foreign agents.
basically, there going on internationally to and make this vaccine and rstand what might be able to use treat the coronavirus.
and there ifferent attempts by different ntries.
in some cases they are collaborating, there is a competition here.
some states see it heir advantage to be first to able to get hold of the detail information.
and it seems elligence agencies have, if you , unleash this to get like, unleash this to get information.
they are seeing this as espionage.
they are trying to cyber espionage.
they are trying to strengthen the defences of some of centres.
security sources in he say they have seen similar ivity.
there is a lot of ntelligence going on behind the scenes.
we talked about the intelligence community trying to stand what’s going on in china.
no doubt china understand what data inese leadership have about this.
china and other states perhaps rying to understand what the and what other countries are in terms of research on vaccines.
a lot of that is going on the scenes.
and that’s from he intelligence agencies.
thank .
the headlines on news the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
the pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
in another sign of the huge impact of corornavirus on the world’s airline industry, london’s heathrow airport, normally the busiest in europe, has said it expects passenger numbers to have fallen 97% in april.
meanwhile european budget airline ryanair has said it may shed up to 3,000 jobs as it restructures to cope with the pandemic.
it said the posts under threat were mainly pilot and cabin crewjobs, and that remaining staff would all take a 20% pay cut.
boss michael o’leary spoke to the earlier the situation we face new is we’ve carried almost no passengers for the last three months.
we carried less than 140,000 passengers in april, may and june against originally, the budget of 42 million passengers.
for the full year we will carry less than 100 million passengers, the budget was originally 155 million, we will carry only about a third less passengers than we planned for this year and while we expect to be back flying some services injuly and august, we think the buildup will be slow, passengers will be wearing face masks, temperature checks at airports, there will be those kind of controls.
we are cutting, we announced this morning we are cutting 15% of our staff, we think that’s the minimum we need just to survive the next 12 months.
if a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
we feel we have no choice this morning but to announce 3000 job cuts, that’s about 15% of our workforce.
we will be closing some bases in the and spain and other places across europe.
because by the time we get out of this, we will be into the winter schedule anyway.
and it’s going to be very difficult.
let’s speak to the independent’s travel editor, simon calder.
good to see you.
ryanair are not alone in this by any means.
no, 15% staff at air face losing of staff at ryanair face losing their jobs.
the rest of them can pay cuts to 20%.
michael face pay cuts of up to 2096.
michael o’leary imself is going to be ing half pay for the rest of the nancial year, although he will be rather better paid than the erage ryanair employee.
however, british airways, their pilots, their cabin crew, their ground staff really suffering right now.
the airline wants to cut 29% of its force.
that amounts to 12,000 eopla.
and it ppeared in a letter last night hat british airways had sent to the trade unions he base at gatwick airport that the base at gatwick airport which has been served by british ays since the airline was founded in 1974, well, it closed at ment and it may never reopen.
and for the many thousands of tion professionals that is just absolutely shocking news.
what sort our overnments around the of help our governments around the world offering to the aviation stry?
in europe, and this is mething michael o’leary of ryanair exercised about, they are ctually, well he calls them mous bungs to aviation companies.
there are billions of going towards european airtines, hich ryanair says they be subsidising airfares with axpayers“ oney for the next few rs.
but, of ourse, other aidines years.
but, of course, other airlines here are taking advantage job tention cheme.
that is of the job retention scheme.
that is certainly helping easyjet and ish airways at the moment, lthough very sadly a number of british airways staff who are rrently being furloughed may find are made permanently redundant.
the industry is really ust wanting arity more than anything on what happens when we start ain.
i have spoken the again.
i have just spoken to the boss of heathrow airport, as you ioned passenger numbers down 97% 96 in april.
they are keen to start up, but they also realise engers are going to be very ort of confidence, and how on do you enforce social istancing at an airport, and on a plane?
it is a really, eally tricky time.
are the airlines truggling, so our passengers, they, trying to get their money back, being offered vouchers than cash which is not what they are ntiﬂad to?
know, the aidines airtines have said, well, the department of transportation, has airlines you have got to told its aidines you have got to give back cash.
—— no.
that is ost certainly same rule in almost certainly the same mle in the .
the civil aviation authority ning airlines they have to is warning aidines they have to adhere to the rules.
and in europe, european mission has told the european commission has told aidines they cannot offer vouchers tead.
he rules for ights are instead.
the mles for ﬂights are absolutely clear, if your flight n’t take off you are entitled to doesn’t take off you are entiﬂad to your rash back within a week.
the nes airlines tell me that is completely ossibla.
have gone from impossible.
they have gone from organisations which said millions of end illions of us away on us -- send millions of us away on holidays to businesses whose ations are almost closed down.
chael o’leary said if you were oked in may on a ryanair flight could be ing up to six you could be waiting up to six months for a refund.
of course, the aviation authority will be civil aviation authority will be watching that, as will other orities around the world, but entitlement to cash hasn’t sappeared.
you just won’t be able expect it back in your bank ccount a week after the flight led depart.
how likely is it, you think, simon, that the tine ine industry will return to what was efore the pandemic?
that a ally good question.
it’s not going eturn to what it was before.
—— t’s a really question.
that’s a really good question.
passenger numbers may build up again whole shape of the industry but the whole shape of the industry is going to change.
business travel, ample, may simply halve or almost completely because, of rse, the sort of in executives have bankrolled european airtines, ying big amounts for usiness class travel, well they’ve scovered that you can hold just discovered that you ran hold meaningful meetings via online forms.
their companies will be ooking to save money because they skint.
leisure travellers will be skint.
leisure travellers will want to be reassured that it’s ravel, that not only will hey be safe while they are avelling, but the destination is going to welcome them in.
dier this morning i mentioned hat travellers might be keen to he republic of ireland initially.
and you should see the media messages i have been taking from people in ireland ing, tually, we don’t want you brits here, thanks.
but you are so ly, simon!
we can’t wait to see back in here you are allowed back in.
thank u.
india has more than 35,000 cases of coronavirus so far, and more than 1100 people have died of the infection.
the country has been in lockdown for nearly six weeks now.
and while doctors say it has slowed the spread of covid—19, it’s also meant that millions who depend on daily wages in the country are facing extremely difficult times.
from mumbai, the ’s india correspondent yogita limaye reports.
small triumphs are celebrated.
this man has recovered from covid in the southern state of kerala.
thanks for everything!
more populous than canada, the region had the first coronavirus infections in march, but it curbed the spread, and its strategy is giving hope to the rest of the country.
our idea was to trace as many people as possible in the shortest amount possible, and in the intial a—s days, we were able to trace 1,254 persons.
once we identified all of them, the next strategy was to ensure home quarantine in the strictest possible sense.
but each grave is a reminder that, for many parts of india, the threat is far from being contained.
and it doesn’t even allow goodbyes.
a four—month—old baby girl laid to rest from the arms of strangers.
dozens are losing their lives every day.
and while the real scale is hard to assess, doctors say covid would have spread a lot more quickly if india had not imposed a lockdown relatively early.
checkpoints like these have been set up in cities around the country.
people are only allowed to go out to buy essential items, and you could even get arrested for violating the lockdown, which is perhaps one of the most stringent in the world.
for the first time in the history of india, the government halted trains.
flights, interstate buses, public transport have all been stopped as well.
that’s left millions of daily wage earners without money for food or shelter.
this is a queue for lunch in delhi nearly 3km long, a common sight now in many parts of india.
shaik mufazul worked as a labourer.
now he’s living on the streets of his family.
: on the days they distribute food, we eat.
otherwise, we go hungry.
they’ve taken away our life line.
it feels like we’re dying slowly.
calls to ease the restrictions are growing louder.
i asked the ’s chief scientist how it should be done.
as you go out of lockdown, it has to be first of all a phased release after lockdown, and many countries are now putting in place systems of how they will do that, and the monitoring testing is going to be extremely important
so at any time if there is an alert or a red flag that things are not looking so good, again, more strict measures may have to be put in place.
the nationwide lockdown is due to end soon.
india is waiting to hear what lies ahead.
yogita limaye, news, mumbai.
south africa has begun to ease what was one of the world’s most severe coronovirus lockdowns.
president ramaphosa drew international praise for his swift action, which was announced before a single death had been recorded.
in the early stages of the pandemic, both britain and south africa followed a near identical path of infections.
but with just over 100 so far dead and no more than a few hundred patients infected in hospital, its death rate has been staggeringly low in comparison to the .
injohannesburg, the ’s africa correspondent andrew harding has been finding out why.
it seemed inevitable.
in a land of furious inequality and habitual misrule the virus was always going to cause chaos here in south africa.
how could it possibly be otherwise?
in the overcrowded townships around johannesburg, news of covid—19’s arrival, the first confirmed case was march the 5th, prompted dread.
those fears were, are, understandable.
neighbours sharing taps and toilets.
people already weakened by malnutrition and illness.
but south africa had an advantage.
it had time.
weeks to watch the virus spread around the rest of the world, and to watch other countries’ mistakes.
now, the government here has a hard earned reputation for dithering, for being all talk.
but last month it took a firm decision to act early and aggressively.
and so just ten days after that first case, south africa declared a state of disaster.
schools and restaurants would be closed, foreign travel restricted.
at this stage in south africa, the virus was spreading slowly.
but soon south africa did start to see an exponential rise, just like britain, although here the government was already reacting much quicker, imposing a lockdown just eight days after recording the hundredth infection.
and south africa’s lockdown was far stricter, too.
enforced by soldiers.
but soon more tests confirmed that the slowdown was genuine.
community, community, the department of health is here.
the reason clearly was that south africa’s early interventions were now paying off.
and the next stage was equally impressive.
because it spent years dealing with and this country already has an army of some 30,000 community health workers.
they’ve now screened more than 3 million people for the new virus.
tomorrow, south africa will start to ease its lockdown.
and so a five stage strategy has now been published explaining how, in theory, the nation can be nudged towards normality.
perhaps by year’s end.
so, yes, south africa has played a blinder, so far, particularly the president.
but lower down the ranks of the key institutions that are going to have to keep waging this battle against the virus for months to come have been weakened by years of corruption and cronyism.
in other words, south africa is not out of the woods yet.
so, plenty of uncertainty ahead here, just look at this massive queue for food hand—outs near pretoria.
and as the lockdown softens, the near certainty that the infection rate will start to climb.
andrew harding, news, south africa.
hello this is news.
i’m martine croxall.
the headlines.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
setting a challenging target was the right thing to do because it galvanised government and got thejob done but there’s a lot more to be done.
the european budget airline ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs, as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
and the secretary general criticises the world’s major powers forfailing to provide leadership during the crisis.
covid—19 is absolutely no laughing matter — but a group of doctors in germany has managed to raise a smile nevertheless, whilst making a deadly serious point covid—19 is absolutely no laughing matter — but a group of doctors in germany has managed to raise a smile nevertheless, whilst making a deadly serious point about the lack of personal protective equipment.
they posed naked to draw attention to how vulnerable they feel without sufficient .
joining me from schweigern in south—western germany where he runs a local surgery, is christian rechtenwald.
i’m pleased to say he is fully dressed.
so far anyway.
thank or joining us.
at was your protest riginally about?
no mark.
you for inviting me.
our process was for unnecessary regulations in germany and to see the patients don’t what the patients don’t actually need to see doctors.
all patients to sharpen surgery.
that might how up in surgery.
when did it ome about personal become about personal protective equipment?
very quickly because ously we should be with an obviously we should be with an expedited position.
and that we have the personal don’t have the personal protective appointment we need which is an rnational problem how has the vernment responded?
it is amusing umours
but you’re making a serious point of these photographs.
vernment responded because the problem was on the agenda.
it is getting better and germany there was a plan for providing a period of time because we don’t need competition, we need effort and a long—term plan.
much better provided for and anised on your surgeries now that now better what you are doing this?
it took some time but now we organised ourselves and the ederal system in germany, in the counties we establish a history only as much surgeries with ovid-19 atients.
we want only covid-19 patients.
we want to make sure that patients with chronic can still return to us.
how disease ran still return to us.
how keen were fellow doctors and other care practitioners to share their test photos with you?
it was sier than expected.
i got first shot from a colleague.
he showed me a colleague from france done a similar protest in france.
quickly afterwards i had some others join and then went viral i am here.
what will you and now i am here.
what will you do with the pictures?
are people still ing hem to you?
we are keeping on publishing the photos.
we also have nurses involved and we are a similar protest from the ntists in france which is maybe more stylish than our rman process.
we also seem processed in which was really affected by coronavirus especially in rare.
the ritish people tend to gard ermans as being a little re open to the idea of nudity that are traditionally so how many itish doctors and nurses have ntributed their own native otographs?
so far the protest is ing restricted to germany but tish colleagues are free to join cause the british health system is widely affected.
we have our conversations about rsonal protective equipment.
you make a important point but do it in a ery amusing way.
rechtenweld, you to ining us.
the united nations secretary general antonio guterres has expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
in an interview with the , he said there was a failure to combine leadership and power — comments which appeared to be directed at washington and beijing.
secretary general in new york.
you have described covid—19 as the biggest challenge facing the world since the second world war.
have you been surprised and shocked by the immense scale of deaths and the immense scale of the economic disruption?
shocked, obviously, and it is dramatic to see so many people dying and dramatic to see this devastating impact on economies and societies, especially on the most vulnerable people, but not surprised because, unfortunately, what is true is that the world was not able to come together and to face covid—19 in an articulated, co—ordinated way.
each country went with its own policy.
different countries with different perspectives, different strategies and this has allowed the virus to spread.
who do you blame for that?
are you talking about the great power rivalry between the united states and china, this propaganda war that has erupted since covid—19 became a pandemic?
i think it is obvious that we lack leadership.
that can only be possible if the key powers in the world are able to come together.
when you say about the lack of global leadership, are you talking about washington?
are you talking about president trump?
are you talking about beijing?
i think there is a dysfunctionality in today’s world.
i think leadership and power are not associated.
there are examples of leadership, there are, of course, powers, what we have not yet been able to combine in the world, power and leadership in a way that could move the whole of the international community to solve our dramatic problem and to do it effectively.
fred carver is head of policy at the united nations association.
it is an independent think tank which exists to push for an effective .
thank you for joining us.
i rebuke, but how much more soon united nations be doing in your view?
i think we are the united nations ally come into force will be the covid-19 covery.
the post covid-19 recovery.
the crisis has demonstrated problems of existing economy, with the agitimacy of our international titutions and of course without ure to combat climate change by the united nations will help ene and coordinate and enable that recovery.
it was notable ies spoke about the absence of eadership
and i think it is ally good to see that the ship ing from the secretary general.
one of ings we had to learn about the major powers step back from a leadership role as other powers to step up so it is axing secretary general taking a step that tion.
were those candidates, if direction.
were those candidates, if he is having a bit of a pop at the states and china, who steps into the vacuum?
i think we are into a situation where moving into a situation where rather than having big power rivalries we dozen or 20 or 30 different top-level owers as opposed to the raditional one are two major superpowers.
that leads to members security council not getting our needs very little is ieved these days that is not to say the nations cannot change things.
general secretary and acting tary general and the general assembly have shown leadership.
we are not looking for the sake from ountry or another, what we have do is share the burden responsibility and of leadership.
i would like to see hundred 98 country and not ust one or two.
step up and not just one or two.
some are much better place to be to do that.
is it not also to he richer countries that need quit the wheel in a more meaningful an many of the poor countries?
way than many of the poor countries?
we are in the 75th anniversary year united nations and it is a of the united nations and it is a time and the covid—19 crisis has entrated minds on what concentrated minds on what united nations is four and one of the to do is provide rovide burden sharing process where there re able to put the shoulders was more able to put the shoulders to the wheel can that should not here is a crisis of legitimacy hat comes with those more able to tribute the only ones seem to be to make decisions that ape the organisation.
yes, they will have most power and the united nations does not make things but it creates a forum equal but it creates a forum in which states are able to talk other in terms which are closer ality.
the criticism that the nited nations are somewhat thless at times will still stand, it not?
there’s no way of comparing those countries that are ble to help to actually do so.
ike the united nations as also sted to enable states to coordinate more closely and in times he covid sea and if that and hen different countries.
a province fferent ways.
when states fail nited nations cannot but reﬂect lect that failure.
there’s the us that blaming the united nations when massacres occur is like madison square gardens when he new york mets lose.
thank you much.
i note from france where resident macron has been talking the end of the lot which is due to take place on may the 11th.
saying that will not signal return to normality and sister mary that the crisis is over.
the pact on the thing the restrictions he infection rate of covid—19 ough the ench population —— through the french population -- might earty to say that the crisis er.
in china, the country where the global coronavirus crisis first hit, the authorities are now lifting restrictions on people’s movements at an ever more rapid rate.
stephen mcdonell reports from beijing.
for this may day break, the chinese transport ministry is predicting 170 million trips.
that sounds like a lot.
it is actually only a third of the movements you would normally expect for this holiday in china.
it shows that people are still worried about the possibility of contracting the coronavirus.
here in beijing we have been living under the virus for so long, more than three months, these changes now feel a little sudden.
for example, in the open now i don’t have to wear a mask.
i’ve still got mine in my pocket, though.
that’s because if i was to go into one of these buildings, a cafe or something like that, i would still have to put it on again.
traffic is also returning.
and the residents of beijing are having to get used to yet again something they haven’t seen for months, trafficjams.
in those buildings behind me, those apartment blocks, up until now, it’s only been residents that have been allowed in.
now people who live here can go and have a meal with their family members.
crucially, if somebody comes into beijing from another part of china, apart from these hotspots like wuhan where coronavirus started, they don’t have to do two weeks’ quarantine any more.
that is not to say that all instructions have gone.
for example, the forbidden city has opened again but the numbers are capped and you have to keep your distance.
it’s like tourism with social distancing.
the same with cafes, the same with restaurants, the same with offices.
numbers capped, keep your distance.
however, right now we do have a feeling here that china is hurtling at some speed back towards some sort of sense of normality, at least much more quickly than it has been in recent months.
what everybody is worried about, though, is the possibility of a second wave of the viruss coming along and swamping all of this freedom.
the headlines on news the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 the pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
yemen has recorded its first two deaths linked to coronavirus, raising fears of a devastating outbreak in the war—ravaged country.
according to local media, the victims were brothers who died in the same hospital in the separtist controlled port of aden.
the has warned there’s a high chance other cases are circulating undetected.
tim neilson reports.
silence in the centre of aden.
the southern port city has been put into a three—day lockdown, after the first reported deaths of covid—19.
markets are closed, the streets are near deserted, residents fear the worst.
: there is no state and there is no legitimate government, there is nobody you can seek help from.
if this epidemic spreads here, we will die like locusts.
the curfew will be enforced by the southern transitional council, a separatist group which took control of the city last weekend.
at major checkpoints, soldiers have been telling residents to wear face masks.
but aid agencies fear yemen is on the brink of catastrophe.
after six years of civil war, 20 million yemenis do not have access to adequate health care, famine is rife, and hospitals are ill—equipped to deal with a full—blown pandemic.
in the capital city, sana’a, the streets are being disinfected.
the has warned there is a high chance the virus is circulating in crowded areas undetected, but the rebel houthi movement which controls the city says all suspected cases have returned negative.
official cases are still low, but the saudi—backed government has issued a plea to all citizens, regardless of their political alliance, to take the outbreak seriously.
: we are calling on yemenis to take preventative measures and to stop gatherings in public markets and attending friday prayers during these exceptional circumstances.
meanwhile, the united nations has called for the coalition ceasefire to resume in a desperate attempt for unity.
tim neilson, news.
scientists have identified the highest levels of microplastics ever recorded on the seafloor.
the contamination was found in sediments pulled from the bottom of the mediterranean sea.
victoria gill reports.
a simulation of the deep ocean.
this experiment in a large tank in a lab in the netherlands shows how ocean currents and push mounds of sediment across the seafloor.
mixed into those mounds are millions of tiny pieces of plastic, and scientists have now measured the extent of this sea—bed pollution.
we are all worried about the plastic that is floating in the ocean, but this only represents 1% of it.
whole amount.
the rest is somewhere in the deep sea.
we’ve found in this area the highest accumulations ever recorded in the global oceans, and they are 1.
9 million particles — pieces, small pieces — per square metre.
so we are going to scoop up those fine sediments that were all brought into suspension.
studies in 2018 by some of the same researchers revealed just how much plastic pollution was locked in riverbeds then flushed out to sea during floods.
these latest experiments in the mediterranean extracted chunks of sea floor from depths of up to one kilometre.
that enabled scientists to track how the currents carry plastic waste out to sea, where it breaks down.
the deep currents then accumulate these millions of fragments into what researchers call microplastic hotspots.
the majority of the particles they found were tiny fibres from textiles and clothing that simply slip through the filtration systems in waste—water treatment plants.
we’re filling in part of the gaps in our understanding of this 99% of the plastic.
there are fragile ecosystems on the sea floor that depend on the nutrients and oxygen flushed in through the ocean currents.
these currents transport microplastics to the same places where these fragile ecosystems exist.
scientists from the british antarctic survey, in another study published this week, reveal plastic pollution was reaching the shores of some of the most remote islands.
in recent years, we’ve finally started to the impact our plastic waste has on the oceans.
this research has started to uncover the invisible long—term consequences.
victoria gill, news.
we may find out more today about whether the football season can restart.
and premier league along with medical experts from rugby union, cricket and racing to discuss the aspects of a return to sporting action.
it’s the biggest dilemma facing the premer league, in its history, as austin halewood reports.
it has been seven weeks since a premier league ground looked like this.
now organisers are keen to get the season back up and running behind closed doors on the 8th ofjune, but are the players on board?
the manchester city striker sergio aguero told argentinian media that the majority of players are scared to return because they have children and families.
and he is not the only one who is worried.
it would be hindering ourselves with certain things, like face masks and things, it’s going to be off—putting.
it’s not going to be natural.
it’s quite farcical.
i understand people are desperate to get football on, i am one of those people, i’m desperate, but i think it’s got to be done in a sensible way.
there is also concern about the availability of testing and whether a return will place unnecessary extra pressure on public services.
with liverpool on the brink of a first title in 30 years, even the city’s own mayor is not keen on a restart.
i would guess that a lot people would turn up outside anfield to celebrate, and i can understand the police’s concerns around that, even if it was at a neutral venue.
it would be really difficult for the police to keep people apart and maintain social distancing, so i think it is a nonstarter.
the club, though, have distanced themselves from that point of view, and the government thinks a restart would give the country a much—needed boost, while the league’s organisers know the huge financial implications of not restarting.
they’d have to pay three £750 million back to rights holders.
with other competitions around europe already cancelled, the government and the premier league know whatever move they make next, they will have to get it right.
the rock band queen has released a new charity single to honour the world’s healthcare workers.
it resembles the classic hit we are the champions but with a slight change in the lyrics.
the ’s freya cole has more.
we’ll keep on fighting till the end it’s an anthem known around the world, and now, with the one word changed, the song has taken on a new meaning.
you are the champions, my friends.
and you’ll keep on fighting to the end it’s focused to all those on the front line all around the world.
all the people risking their lives to save us and save our families.
the tribute song will aid the world health organization’s solidarity fund to fight covid—19.
queen and their front man, adam lambert, each filmed their parts in isolation — a far from the recording studios they are all used to.
my wife recorded it on her iphone.
taking the step to shift a lyric is a bold move for queen, because they are so iconic, but this is the type of event that warranted such a change.
no time for losers the original 1977 hit song, written by freddie mercury, celebrated worldwide success.
because you are the champions it’s hoped the remake will help inspire front line workers as they lead the struggle against this pandemic.
freya cole, news.
it was so catchy that my floor anager pauline was singing along.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with sarah keith—lucas.
hello.
it’s another day of sunshine and showers out there today, the recipe for lots of rainbows.
some of the showers through the day are going to be heavy and thundery.
some hail and gusty winds mixed in with some of the downpours as well.
but we won’t all see them, a bit of weather with some sunshine around, too.
but low pressure is still driving the weather at the moment.
it’s gradually going to be easing away towards the east over the next 2a hours or so.
so the showers will slowly start to fade away as we head on into the weekend.
but for the here and now, the most frequent heavy showers today will be across parts of the midlands, northern england, central and southern scotland as well.
it’s here that we’re likely to see some of those thunderstorms, hail and squally winds.
showers fewer and further between elsewhere, and temperatures for most of us in the mid—teens, a little bit warmer than it was yesterday.
now, through into this evening and overnight, the showers will start to ease and fade, but some heavy ones will continue overnight across parts of eastern england and northern and eastern scotland as well.
clear skies and lighter winds further south.
so although it will be a largely frost—free start to saturday, it’ll be quite chilly first thing with temperatures around five to eight degrees.
now, the weekend is going to be shaping up to be gradually turning drier and more settled with some spells of sunshine on offer, less windy than recent days.
still one or two showers on the cards for the weekend, but we won’t all see them.
the areas most likely to see the showers on saturday are across northern and eastern scotland and the far north east of england as well.
elsewhere, a lot of weather with some blue and spells of sunshine.
but the cloud will increase from the southwest, perhaps the odd spot of light rain down towards the channel isles, for instance.
but most of us in the sunshine and lighter winds, it’ll feel quite pleasant out there with temperatures around 1a to 18 degrees through the day on saturday and sunday set to be a pretty similar day.
through the day on saturday and sunday set to be a pretty similar day.
once again, a lot of weather with light winds and some sunshine, cloud amounts increasing, i think, through the course of the day on sunday and a few showers typically for eastern scotland, northeast england, perhaps one or two for the far southwest as well.
but temperatures between about ten to 18 degrees or so on sunday.
and then things continue to turn a little bit warmer and drier as we look towards the new week as well.
50 high pressure starts to build its way in across the united kingdom through the course of sunday night and into monday as well.
so a largely outlook into next week and things will be turning brighter and warmer than they have been in recent days.
bye for now.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
the coronavirus pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
m: we will be closing some bases in the and in spain and other places in pe, because by the time we get of this we will be into the ter schedule anyway, and it’s oing to be very difficult.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
you are the champions !
and a musical tribute for the champions of the pandemic — queen say the proceeds will go to global health charities.
hello and welcome to audiences in the and around the world.
we’re covering all the latest coronavirus developments here in britain and globally.
first the global lockdown is having a devastating on airlines around the world.
one of the world’s biggest carriers — ryanair — says it’s cutting 3,000 pilot and cabin crewjobs — as they restructure to cope with the impact of the pandemic.
it comes as the ’s busiest airport — heathrow — reveals that passenger numbers last month were down 97% compared with the same time last year.
meanwhile the government says it is confident that it has hit its own target for 10,000 daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline.
over 81,000 tests were carried out on wednesday — according to figures from the department of health and social care.
in the — president trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
the national intelligence director’s office say covid—19 "was not manmade or genetically modified" and china rejects the theory.
we’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly — but first ryanair boss — michael o’leary — spoke to the earlier — and told us he expects passenger numbers to be down a third this year.
the situation we face new is we’ve carried almost no passengers for the last three months.
we carried less than 140,000 passengers in april, may and june against originally, the budget of 42 million passengers.
for the full year we will carry less than 100 million passengers, the budget was originally 155 million, we will carry only about a third less passengers than we planned for this year and while we expect to be back flying some services injuly and august, we think the buildup will be slow, passengers will be wearing face masks, temperature checks at airports, there will be those kind of controls.
we are cutting, we announced this morning we are cutting 15% of our staff, we think that’s the minimum we need just to survive the next 12 months.
if a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
we feel we have no choice this morning but to announce 3000 job cuts, that’s about 15% of our workforce.
we will be closing some bases in the and spain and other places across europe.
because by the time we get out of this, we will be into the winter schedule anyway.
and it’s going to be very difficult.
london’s heathrow is the busiest airport in europe.
this morning it’s , john holland—kaye, has called on the govenrment to work internationally to ensure air travel could get back up and running as quickly as possible.
there are checks in place by public health england.
they are not as ble as they might be in other irports.
i think this lack of sistency creates uncertainty with engers, it creates a sense that they are not being as well looked as they should be.
that’s need to move from each country their own thing, and everybody king together.
unless we can get that place he next three, four months, we won’t get the economic engine firing on all nders as the prime minister has ailed for.
at the planning for that eds to be happening now, even in height of the health crisis, cause it’ll take some time to put place and to agree with other untries.
that’s we are calling he overnment today to work with ther governments to have an ernational standing on health reening.
earlier i spoke to the independent’s travel editor, simon calder.
he told me it’s notjust ryanair workers who will be worrying about their jobs.
i i-’ 15% of staff at ryanair face losing their jobs.
he rest of them can pay cuts to 20%.
michael face pay cuts of up to 2096.
michael o’leary imself is going to be ing half pay for the rest of the nancial year, although he will be rather better paid than the erage ryanair employee.
it is tish airways, their pilots, cabin w, and ground staff who are ally suffering right now.
the ine ants to cut 29% of its air airtine wants to cut 2996 of its air force, that mounts to 12,000 pla, and it appeared in a letter saw last night hat british irways had sent to the trade unions the base at gatwick airport, which has been served by british ays since the airline was founded in 1974, well, the bases at the moment and it will ever reopen.
and for the many usands of aviation professionals is just absolutely shocking ews.
what sort of help our ernments around the world fering to the aviation industry?
rope, and this is something michael o’leary of ryanair is cised about, they are actually andy, well he calls them enormous to air france, lufthansa of rmany, an italian airline is being ationalised, and there are lions of euros going towards uropean airlines, which ryanair 75 means will be subsidising affairs with taxpayers’ money for few years.
—— maggie the next few years.
-- maggie subsidising air fares.
others here king dvantage of the job are taking advantage of the job retention scheme, that’s helping and british rways at the easyjet and british airways at the moment, though there is sadly a of those british airways staff who are currently being oughed may find they are being made permanently redundant.
the is just wanting clarity more than anything else on what ens when we start again.
i’ve spoken to the boss of heathrow rport, as you mentioned passenger ers down 97% in april.
they are numbers down 9796 in april.
they are very keen to tart up, but they also lise passengers are going to be short of confidence, and how on do you enforce social istancing at an airport, and on a plane?
it’s a really, really icky time.
the government says it is confident that it will hit its own target for the number of daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline — as the prime minister told the nation that the the was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests — to be met by the end of april — had been set by the the ’s health secretary, matt hancock.
our correspondent, danjohnson has this report.
for a nation cut off, closed down, hurting .
this is notjust about gratitude.
it has become a regular act of communion, in the name of the carer, the medic, and the vital key worker, kind, helping hands that have kept the country on its feet and saved lives.
and here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus, heroes can be patients too.
you saved my life.
west midlands police chief superintendent, phil dolby, spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
see ya, bye!
now, the next generation training for the front line are being named after the miracle workers of our .
also bouncing back, the prime minister, with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope i can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease.
we are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
that may be but hundreds are still dying every day.
674 in the last 2a hours.
across the , the virus has taken someone special from 26,771 families.
more than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
so it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
the infection rate and the number of people each of us passes the virus to must stay below one.
more detail on that next week, but here is a hint of what our future may hold face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons but also for giving confidence to people that they can go back to work.
testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
and we’ll find out later today whether the 100,000 target was met.
wednesday’s latest figures were still 18,000 short.
at the beginning of the week, we only had 5000 home tests available, this is new 20,000 available and it is the reason we are quite likely to get very close to or meet the 100,000 target.
our worries and our strife are shared in this new expression of community.
thursday, eight o’clock, is about togetherness, through torrid times.
humanity’s challenge means more pain, more suffering and more fear but as nature inflicts its worst, it can reflect our very best, and there are signs of better days ahead.
dan johnson, news.
president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests the publisher of the mail on sunday newspaper has won its first round at court in the duchess of the high court in the duchess of sussex’s privacy claim.
she had them to court over their publication of a letter she had ten to her estranged father.
she had claimed that the newspaper had passages of her private letter to her father to portray her ively.
the mail on sunday said it would defend the case with gour.
they there is nothing in this document which changes that ion.
they have won that first ppearance at the high court, but re is more court proceedings to llow.
the ’s health and social care select committee of has this morning met to discuss how vital services are maintained during the coronavirus epidemic.
these include services for cancer, mental health and maternity.
we can speak now to the former health secretary — and new chair of the health select committee, jeremy hunt.
thank you for joining us on news.
good afternoon.
how well, rally speaking, are those ssential services managing to inue during the time of this ndemic which for many hospitals is ing to take priority?
i think what we heard was a mixed message.
a superhuman effort by staff to the show on the road because, of course, despite the coronavirus are still having babies, peopla are still having babies, peopla are still getting cancer, are are still having mental people are still having mental health problems.
and a strong sage ople should come forward message peopla should come forward if they worry if they have health itions other than covid—19 because all of these other things to be treated.
but, you know, have seen, because people are tating to come forward, a 30 to 01: 96 drop in cancer referrals, 30 to drop in young people coming forward help with mental health onditions.
that’s very worrying ause mental health conditions ike -- ecause health conditions ancer need to be caught early.
ty.
there strong age that people should come forward.
but also some ives.
i think i think think ideo consultations have worked very for a certain type of patient, they expect that to continue forward.
perhaps more than uld otherwise have happened.
there question here, it might be the health secretary who needs to answer but do you have any idea where the government hasn’t chosen to keep gular hospitals in place for ose essential services, and send covid—19 cases to the ightingale hospitals, which were remarkably quickly but haven’t been used?
it is a logical tion to ask, and actually the has followed a version of that tegy for cancer care where they re sentially trying to designate cancer centres completely lean, so you can go to your radiotherapy tment knowing it is a covid—19 free environment.
but ent safety now at the patient safety is now at the forefront of everybody’s mind, use to give you an obvious because to give you an obvious example, we don’t want to go back to a&e departments.
the crowded aae departments.
the president of the royal college of gency medicine point out would be a disastrous step ckwards because you could then go to “ and catch coronavirus.
we need to find a way of services ming to keep patients safe and is what a lot of work is appening for at the moment.
what of funding the going to sort offunding is the going to need after the lockdown ends to re that it isn’t going to take and years to catch up with ese other essential treatments, some doctors have warned will which some doctors have warned will be the case?
that’s a good question.
sked very directly to we asked that very directly to claire murdoch, the head of mental for england, because ntal health services were on track their annual budget rise by 2.
3 billion by 2023, 2024.
that mitment is there.
but coronavirus going to create additional sures on mental health services, so, pressures like social isolation, a being on their own for long periods of time.
staff on the front line who might have because of some of the trauma they been through.
50, we need to make sure progress that was eally starting to happen in mental continues despite ronavirus, and it doesn’t get set ack.
the ernment says it is back.
the government says it is pretty confident it will have hed the target of 100,000 covid—19 tests a day by the end of l, which yesterday, of april, which was yesterday, of course.
but what use is that if we have the contact tracing that, for example, south korea used to effect?
first of all, it is a big achievement if we hit it, even if we get near it, because biggest single thing that has opped us being like south korea, seems to be the country that as been the best in the world at ling coronavirus.
if the government decides it wants to set usands of people, they can do up thousands of peopla, they ran do that, takes a couple of weeks, but ran do that.
the testing capacity is ore complex, however.
the laboratories, you need the chemicals, you need the stic of getting the samples to those laboratories.
that is the key ocking the best practice that to unlocking the best practice that you see in countries like south a and germany, which i think we ill now be able to do here.
jeremy , chair of health and social hunt, chair of the health and social rare select committee, thank you for us.
the eadlines: the coronavirus pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces 3000 job losses.
the government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory.
he provided no details.
his own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating how the virus began, but have determined covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
david willis reports.
the pathogen lab at wuhan’s institute of virology.
did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
china strenuously denies such suggestions.
the president of the united states believes otherwise.
trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab, although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
he told reporters either china couldn’t stop the virus from spreading, or it didn’t to.
this is something that could have been contained at the original location, and i think it could have been contained relatively easily.
china is a very sophisticated country and they could have contained it.
they were either unable to or they chose not to and the world is suffering greatly.
whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed as a biological weapon, the intelligence community didn’t contradict the president’s theory, saying: this country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more than 60,000 deaths.
the virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy, leading to long lines in cities such as houston, as people queue for free food.
although he’s avoided direct criticism of china’s president xi, with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, president trump has talked of making china pay for the harm the virus has caused to the american economy and, by extension, to his chances of re—election.
relations between the world’s two largest economies could get very frosty indeed.
david willis, news.
in the global battle against coronavirus, personal protective equipment, or , is of course essential for frontline workers.
but there is growing concern that standard unisex designs don’t always fit women properly.
britain’s department of health says the kit is designed to protect "both genders".
however, healthcare workers are saying that even the smallest sizes are too big for some women — who make up well over two thirds of the national health service workforce.
caroline criado—perez, whose book invisible women addresses the issue of ill—fitting for women in one of its chapters, said she has been inundated with messages from healthcare workers who could not find protective equipment to fit them.
shejoins me now.
thank you for joining us.
just exactly what the problem with the omen are being issued with?
at the front line health care ers are telling me is that it ust doesn’t fit them properly.
the oblem with is in order for problem with that is in order for to protect you it needs to fit roperty.
-- .
i’ve often talked you properly.
—— .
i’ve often talked about stab vests not being to accommodate breast tissue, so they don’t fit women property.
i have seen reports of gloves being to a gown is being too big, ose are more about trip hazards, king it hard to move around, but real issue needs to be eyewear mega seems be eyewear and the masks.
the asks are too big to get and that the fundamental int of the mask.
you need a good in order to protect you from virus reaching your respiratory ways.
if it doesn’t have a good it isn’t doing any good at all.
hearing from a lot of women at they are not able to find any sks, or that there is only one of mask that fits them because is the only small one.
and with being in short supply, and the majority of workers being mala, and a lot of them needing smaller masks, they are articularty unning low on the only that fits them.
other stories eard have been from the people are doing the fit checks and the tests who are telling me that men are being much more likely to the fit tests and to fail for of the masks than men.
there is dearty an early an issue going on here as reported the front line.
the roblem that we have is that it is difficult to get hold of good ata on exactly what is going on in of who have the masks been terms of who have the masks been designed for, what are the size ifications, what are the tasets which were used to make ese designs.
i’ve got hold of some from the which suggests the data are very heavily male inated, but it isn’t clear ether their data are separated by nder and therefore was creating that would fit women and ones at would fit men, or whether they re mashing the data all together creating a unisex sizing.
and if hat is the case, then it is more kely that would fit more men than women.
i think you very much.
ank you very ch.
antibody tests could be a key weapon in the battle to conquer coronavirus, by showing whether someone has already had it — and developed signs of immunity.
they work by using a drop of blood on a device that works a bit like a pregnancy test.
but so far no home antibody test has proved reliable enough to be used.
joining me now is now elisabetta groppelli is a virologist and lecturer in global health at george’s university london.
thank you for joining us.
we were expecting that britain would have millions of antibody tests.
what’s happened to those?
that was claration and the hope that we were told many weeks ago.
the ity is that it was very much ased on lots of things going right, hen it comes to this rapid and when it comes to this rapid test, unfortunately, lots of things wrong.
herefore we had to readjust the ajectory in terms of tests which are available eding more work, and therefore rannot be used, not even in the abs, rtainly not by members of he public at home.
certainly not iable for any of us at the moment.
but are antibody tests to be so important, in your going to be so important, in your view, as we to get out of these down restrictions, and, lockdown restrictions, and, hopefully, get on top of the emic?
at the moment the pandemic?
at the moment the assumption is if you have the virus ody will have made antibodies, which are the molecules that allow body to recognise the your body to then recognise the virus if you come into contact with in and then fight it off very quickly and efficiently.
but his is, at the moment, an umption, and more data is equired to confirm this.
in terms hat we already know, if you had recent infection this antibody is ely to protect you, at least for the shorter term, for an ction.
if we can check, if we ran screen eople and see if they this protective immunity, then an put this ack into informing olicy, or ybe informing individual lives.
because if i have fection, i’ve had the antibodies, they are effective, we eliable test, that would lead had a reliable test, that would lead me to safely assume i was being ected and that i would not get the virus
and i would not contribute eading the virus further.
how important is it, then, that we have of approaches at the end of this pandemic, or to to bring about.
i’m thinking the the end about.
i’m thinking the antibodies test, yes, which isn’t bla, e, but also a vaccine and an reliabla, but also a vaccine and an antiviral which could bring about a a hastening of a recovery from covid—19.
absolutely.
it’s astic that as scientists and linicians we are tackling the virus of these different on all of these different directions.
because the reality is hey are all needed.
a vaccine is fantastic but it also needs time.
onest, we also know that some eopla might not able to be vaccinated because of underlying health conditions, immunity, etc.
we need to have something else.
so, virals, drugs that can be given antivirals, drugs that ran be given to peopla to either prevent fections or treat it are another ortant weapon in the arsenal we eed to develop.
so, all of these need to be done and they are ing developed.
and there is a sive effort which has been going scientifically and medically.
tunately, we need medications, unfortunately, we need meditations, because for this trial, for all of developments, that takes time.
--
unfortunately, we need time.
we need to maintain a physical distance hands while this work continues.
that information has gone he background, but that is still really important in the fight preventing the spread.
thanks very much.
reaction now from firm representing the the law firm representing the duchess of sussex about her high case against the mail on court rase against the mail on sunday.
the mail on sunday has won irst stage of the high court hearing in the duchess of sussex’s claim.
she put this claim privacy daim.
she put this claim against the publication because it to publish a letter she wrote her estranged father.
in a tement issued after the ruling, a kesperson from the law firm epresenting meghan markle said the lements of this case do not core elements of this use do not change and we will continue to move rd.
the duchess’s rights were violated.
the legal boundaries privacy were crossed.
as part his process, the extremes to ich the mail on sunday used istorted, manipulative, and onest tactics to target the uchess of sussex have been put on display.
that’s the reaction the duchess of’s law firm.
time a look at weather forecast.
the april showers arrived yesterday and they have continued into the start of may.
if you are heading out for exercise in the next couple of there will be showers around.
over the weekend, those showers re easing down.
the reason we have any showers today is low pressure.
low pressure with us in orth, towards the west, and eed down the east coast.
still ely showers there, hail and under, fewer than yesterday in the th, and longer spells of unshine.
temperature er, breeze last, but it is noticeable in the north-west.
it is not especially warm air over the ause it is coming from the because it is coming from the north.
showers tonight.
temperatures till fall close to freezing, particularly in scotland and hern ireland.
we have starry kies, clearer ies we start the skies, dearer skies as we start the day tomorrow, , fewer showers around, will see the chance of rain approaching the south later.
still a showers in the north and risk of showers in the north and north—west.
but longer spells of hine and temperatures will be p.
iwill more later.
hello, this is news with martine croxall.
the headlines.
the european budget airline ryanair announces it plans to cut 3,000 jobs, as part of restructuring because of the virus.
we will be closing some bases in the and in spain and other places across europe, because by the time we get out of this we will be into the winter schedule anyway, and it’s going to be very difficult.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
the publisher of the mail on sunday has won the first stage at the high court in the duchess of sussex’s privacy claim against it over publication of a letter to her estranged father.
we can talk to our legal correspondent, clive coleman.
the duchess of sussex is suing the publishers of the mail on sunday, ciated newspapers relation our letter she wrote to her father as markle published in part the news on sunday would you said invasion of privacy under pyright and a breach of ata protection.
m: we are five what may be described today as an early skirmish in gal battle.
is an early legal battle.
this is an early skirmish and released an application ociated newspapers to have part the claim of the duchess of ex struck out.
there were three lements they oncerned about elements they were concerned about what it struck out.
gations that they acted dishonestly and in bad faith, for ance in cutting out parts instance in cutting out parts of sentences from the letter.
ndly, they deliberately dug up lee mack red up conflict between the duchess and her father.
the uchess were disturbed by defendants obvious agenda by ishing intrusive and disturbing ories about the image of a train in a false and damaging light.
is is about associated newspapers exception to the way the case taking exception to the way the use with the boot in terms llegations of dishonesty and rring up.
today mrjustice warby, week there was a feeling we are -- hearing ere justice warby eld it emotely and associated wspapers make their arguments.
ay he has struck out those three ritical parts of laim.
let’s cross to cardiff now where the first minister of wales — mark drakeford — is making an announcement often not well paid providing invisible scaffolding of services rting the and our wider society.
without the small army opla large umbers of adults would be able to continue to live ependently at home or eceive everyday support of basic needs living in a residential care home.
it is the nature of the social ector ifferent pay scales rare sector different pay scales and terms and conditions in different s.
as i have said some of the social rare workforce are the lowest paid wheels.
—— in wales.
is ery ifficult to the that is very difficult to the national health service where pay the country is covered by uniform and establish pay bands.
and we been hearing the where we have been hearing the living wage in wales for many years.
in.
"paying.
nder normal —— pain.
——paying.
under normal circumstances such payments would be to tax and benefit eductions but i want every penny of £500 to be in the hands of these 500 to be in the hands of those those for whom it is intended so i am calling on the government today to make sure that this 0 is free of tax and free of national insurance.
we are ating in exceptional circumstances.
our care workers are providing an exceptional vice.
an exception hould be made to the payment of tax national insurance in this case.
he first ister of wales are no residential and care home workers going to a cash bonus of are going to get a rash bonus of £500 to five on their work ing the coronavirus pandemic and has called on the government not tax the bonus on reduce welfare payments they might receive sult.
£500 each of those care as a result.
£500 each of those rare workers.
the first minister of scotland, nicola sturgeon is holding the daily coronavirus briefing in edinburgh, let’s go to that now.
the capacity protesting in scotland is now 8350
and i expect that to be ast 10,500 by this time next and 12,000 by the middle of the th.
that is a significant increase in capacity and i pay ute to all those who have worked so hard to achieve it both in scotland loud and in the vernment testing network.
—— boratories.
what matters is the lume testing we do and the clinical objections —— objectives testing.
we are also working to increase the number of tests ied out but also to extend carried out but also to extend categories protesting in a way that equips us to the virus.
—— better equips us to the vims.
-- suppress the virus.
fluctuations aily demand ill never perfectly match the number of tests to apacity protesting at a very clinical reasons many people more than one test so the number of carried out will never equal he number of people tested.
ourse our aim on an ongoing basis use as much of our capacity as possible.
given that our acity is now
capacity is now expanded significantly that means we can ther tend eligibility for further extend eligibility for testing which i will come unto lotte.
let me report on the numbers released yesterday for actually carried out.
there tests actually carried out.
there are two categories uncovered here.
tests in hospitals and care homes the community i can confirm re were 2537 tests carried yesterday and in otal since the start of the outbreak to tests have been carried out.
in addition, 2124 tests were ied out yesterday with a regional drive through testing res.
these figures are not be eviously included in our aily figures that will be from now on because this is data coming to from the wide system it will few more days until we ran break it down into positive and tive tests.
in total i can confirm housand 661 tests were carried out across scotland.
—— 4661 equates to 87 people.
the which equates to 4187 peopla.
the final statistic relates to key ers.
22,a00 key workers and heir family bers have been their family members have now been tested within the system and 4000 of these are in the last eek alone.
given the increases in acity we have seen in the past eek and to ensure we are fully lising that capacity it is ear we are and are able to end eligibility for testing further so to know to turn to these next steps.
-- now to e.
it is important to ress this is not an exercise in driving up ers.
tests, particularly or frail der people can be evasive and leasant decisions about esting must always be clinically n.
as we know tackling the driven.
as we know tackling the spread of the virus is an urgent rity everywhere but particularly ight now in care homes.
currently of our care homes have currently 4096 of our rare homes have of he virus in them.
we already test those showing and rare home staff.
we now intend to undertake an enhanced eak investigation and all care outbreak investigation and all rare homes where there are any cases of virus ich will involve testing subject to the consent of ividuals all residents and staff ther or not they have symptoms.
addition aware care home without gours part of a on a chain rigours part of a group on a chain and staff may still move between erent homes will also carry out urgent testing in any linked homes.
also begin sampling we will also begin sampling testing and care homes where there are no s.
by definition there’s lots of testing residents and staff who not symptomatic.
—— this will an testing.
is mean testing.
this is that significant operational task and we underestimate the logistics and the orkforce required now we the increased testing capacity will make it happen as swiftly as ractical.
jill , who you will practical.
jill young, who you will recall as the chief executive of the a jordan ospital has agreed to louisa jordan hospital has agreed to ad the team.
the board and the rtners will put the into effect next week.
i’m also able onfirm an extension to igibility for testing through the wide ing ystem and the drive booking system and the drive through a mobile testing centres.
as of now expanding eligibility we are expanding eligibility to include all those over the age of 65 oms and their households and and their households and in addition to key workers were ady eligible through the system anyone, i have stressed should not be many peopla this group, who a key worker but is required to home to go to work.
we will steps over the coming days to crease public awareness of ability of eligible groups to book rough the system.
if there is test through the system.
if there is high demand may be a need for an queueing system and if government a further expansion.
we intend to work flexibly between the testing two testing systems, the wide system and our own system ion would make the most of total capacity we have.
over the month we have made significant strides in our testing capacity.
we have not just met the target of city for 500 tests per day capacity for 3500 tests per day within the but exceeded it.
that with our participation coupled with our participation in the wide system means that its ent capacity for more than 8000 tests per day in scotland that have with other work that set out with other work that will expand further on the.
over tests were carried out 4000 tests were carried out yesterday and now we have that ease and increasing capacity we are able to announce a further nsion of testing in care homes and ose within the general ublic you ran ccess a test.
this pansion of testing that i set out day is separate and distinct our move to establish a test trace ate system.
as part of our isolate system.
as part of our approach to changing and efully leave it in the long measures are continuing to suppress the vims.
we will set out will determine that week
but i should stress that roach will require us to ncrease our testing capacity even further he levels i have been able to eport today.
in a moment the health etary will set out one final iece of information about testing is very important and that is use of antibody testing.
before i want to end by stressing that testing is really important as part efforts to tackle this virus.
of our efforts to tackla this vims.
it’s important new and will important in ext phase and the time i have dedicated to matoday nstrates that.
it remains he rase demonstrates that.
it remains the case that right now most important we are doing is staying at thing we are all doing is staying at home and following the g—term rules.
as i said that is making a erence and is allowing us to tart to see some light at the of the tunnel.
but as i also suggested that progress is ile
and if we ease up no that lights be extinguished.
so please, especially as we head into another nt, please stick with it and thank you again for your compliance doing the right thing in he interests of the whole country.
you for hearing with me through what was a complex and nical update.
i will hand over the cabinet secretary o, antibody testing that three of us uding the chief medical officer will take as usual.
so much you’re ing about the antibody testing.
programme.
it is an important tool allows us to monitor the which allows us to monitor the proportion of people exposed to d—19 are spread across the opulation.
he population.
the test icates whether a person must add he infection by looking at the body is signed by people a produced esponse to the cited odies.
-- roduced by the ntibodies people produce in ponse.
the threshold of the tibody in the blood sample is tected and the results recorded.
results are analysed against ider population samples to ablish the incidence of covid—19.
been gathering samples in we have been gathering samples in anticipation of fully valid antibody eing available.
approximately 0 residual examples from bio emistry labs will be tested per at the scottish migrant biology rence library in inverness.
—— laboratory.
to achieve a fair esentation of the scottish pulation initial samples will be ributed across six participating alth boards and by age group and x.
the six participating orders are loving, greater glasgow and e, anarkshire, teesside, and grampian.
-- esside.
—— lothian, tayside.
health protection scotland are using only otest validation use but will the protest validation use but will look at other tests.
to ensure atibility with data we will be using a similar methodology at of public health england.
alth protection scotland anticipates this testing will start 6th of may which is next of the 6th of may which is next wednesday and will run for at least what this then gives us is information from testing over 16 week period started the middle of going forward.
the serology may and going forward.
the serology work provides statistically robust ates of the ship of the population that has developed bodies including those who have not been showing or have only experienced mild symptoms.
it is important to stress this is ulation level, we have some way go before we have an antibody in place which can be used on a widespread of the widespread basis of the clinical testing of individuals.
but this ing approach is suitable for rveillance purposes and has been verified.
it adds to the formation already being collected about more severe illnesses three community testing with who have mild—to—moderate ptoms.
inally i would like to record my thanks to all those who been working hard to get us eady to operationalise these as soon as they were validated and enables us to take another that emblas us to take another significant step forward in nderstanding of what is still very uyers.
thank you very much.
erhaps the simplest way to derstand this is what i reported you is diagnosing for the mebody has the virus in the an eye which supported for obvious ons.
the cabinet secretary has utlined in the form of antibody ting so that will hopefully uild a picture of the numbers who have had the virus in the past what extent they have immunity esult of that.
these things are parate
but there was really rtant as we go into future important as we go into future phases of trying to tackle this bias am going to open for and i am now going to open for questions.
the first is campbell from the .
i was asking are we passed the peak of coronavirus is boris johnson esting his news conference yesterday?
and when it comes to ing we have been talking to a killer today working whola killar today working double shifts and visiting more than a seven people per day recess she cannot get a desk but would one to and give her peace of she is not spreading the mind she is not spreading the disease that she has it.
—— cannot test.
hould she be eligible a for a test?
there are key workers ook a est and through the ran book a test and through the drive-through centres.
we are to engaged individual groups make sure there is an understanding of what the current position is.
i think we are seeing positive signs gress against the spires, of progress against the spires, principally in terms of the ction in the numbers of people see in intensive care and abilisation of the as you today is still got rates of hospital issions that tells us the ransmission of the virus of reduced estimates of the all-important our numbers.
-- numbers.
i’m always cautious about about being past week which does not mean there is a substantive rence between what i’m saying on the payment to said yesterday.
the effort is to flatten the when the effort is to ﬂatten the curve as we have been trying to is not necessarily a single or ven a couple of days, we have an vated path of this virus.
—— lagated.
-- ongated.
ithink it is delegated.
-- elongated.
ithink it is really important that the message esterday and repeated today i did yesterday and repeated today is not lost.
the progress we have is really fragile and it ould not take much know to send it into rse.
-- it uld not take much reverse.
-- it would not take much right now.
the most important thing do is sticking with the we ran do is sticking with the mles and particularly as we go to another the ssage
i want people began the message i want people to hear loudly and clearly so that we not our foot off the gas and do not take our foot off the gas and think we are past the danger starts to ease up and find we’re another peak that this may be a lot higher than the one we tired.
so stick with it is my message today.
in my view is that only know when we are past the was ripped through the other because the margins are so mall.
there are lots of signs couraging progress and i think in ata we have been reporting to you we should be encouraged by a lot signs as we go of those signs as we go along.
however i stressed this stressed erday that he before the margins very, very small.
subtle shifts in ay people are behaving could in the way peopla are behaving could cad us back into the exponential in cases resort beforehand and uld take us back to a new high infections that you create another peak within the system so i would be very cautious in saying uld be through the peak at the ment.
there are encouraging signs ecline in cases
but i would have seen more hat.
i stay home in our own house rules —— in our own seholds are breaking the chain transmission of the virus.
every me anyone of — to see one time anyone of us -- to see one or two people more than we are supposed ifferent households we are creating a bridge if you like that ran hop cross that is what virus ran hop across that is what we have to stay separate from each and stay with our household oups so those bridges are there the bias cannot hop from one nother that is what to another
and that is what is allowing us to suppress it
right
but the more we start to put now.
but the more we start to put these bridges together again, reater the risk that the virus runs out of control.
nicholson from .
it has been almost seven since the world health organization said test, test, test.
it aken so long to extent has it taken so long to extent testing capacity?
and how iable are these tests?
here are a number ports about false negatives and ome inconclusive tests.
other tests fective enough at this stage?
the first question, and then hand over to gregor.
world ganisation, which is rganisation i think this tremendous
and i have had huge respect for since i was health secretary in ling with the swine flu pandemic, but it gives to all
but it gives advice to all countries are very different stages of lopment and capacities and ub“: public health infrastructure.
what have is build an approach we have done is build an approach that is right for our cumstances and we have taken steps to build city of testing that then allows us to expand eligibility for testing rocess as you saw in the that process as you saw in the figures i give you today, the of progress we have made, i said eartier on at the start of their we we can process 350 per day and ran argue 4000 tests per ay.
that process is not finished we need to continue to build it ticularty as go into the particularly as we go into the next weekend.
nicola sturgeon announced another a0 peopla in scotland have died after been been confirmed as having been confirmed as having covid—19 taking the total to 1000 eopla who have died.
more questions bout the reliability he test.
“1515.
the air is particularly unstable at the moment which is no surprise because we have an area of pressure a cross the .
quite a chilly breeze across scotland and ern ireland.
some of these to give hail and thunder and lightning l.
i would not like to relate to shower just about anywhere.
as we go through the evening light they ease a little crossing in wales as and orthern ireland but with low ssure caused by lots more showers.
under starry skies emperatures still get within three ees of freezing.
cool start the eekend.
we should see fewer wers and more and sunny spells and breeze.
it will not altogether dried.
we have showers the low pressure in close to the low pressure in scotland coming to perhaps part of ern england and northern england and lincolnshire and for the south approach of her area of low pressure, other of perhaps recoded to the uth of england a little on the .
but in between drier with a bit also generally and lighter winds.
it will feel warmer in the strong may hine.
you can see sunshine.
you ran see showers continue through tomorrow night and unday morning
but it looks as if temperatures will stay just above ing despite clear skies.
freezing despite clear skies.
perhaps the glens of scotland we see a touch of ground frost and may across scotland have a showers and in the east of england diminishing st.
instead we but a diminishing rest.
instead we pick up more tired and turning hine hazy and perhaps even reatening rain later on in the uth and west.
the winds will not strong to have been with some may nshine will see 17 street in the uth and 1a to 15 in the north.
ntinued set of conditions ticularly across the northern half to next week but we pick up a and chilly when the uth perhaps rain returning by tuesday.
: voodoo boogaloo lemay when faced with time on your hands and a magnificent model not pick up a pencil and draw?
from a sensible distance, of course.
relax and be part of a live life drawing class and sketch a pose at home or online.
class starts at your place soon.
hiring a head chef can make or break a restaurant costing?
i don’t know.
when i point at a plate, i want you to tell me how much that plate cost me.
i’m out of my depth.
it’s a nightmare trying to find a chef.
but now, help is at hand.
good morning.
alex polizzi has 25 years of experience in the hospitality industry.
is the plate cold?
a schoolboy error.
she will work with four restaurants who desperately need her help this is a real interview process.
as they hire a new head chef.
i have one word to saywhich is ‘yummy!
’ it’s alex’s final day in the lake district helping the gilpin, a fine dining hotel in desperate need of a new executive head chef.
over the last 25 years, john and christine cunliffe have fulfilled their ambition of owning an award—winning country house hotel.
their son barney and daughter—in—law zoe have nowjoined ranks and they’ve set their sights on a michelin star.
we compete in 3 probably one of the most competitive areas, i reckon, outside of london, so we are constantly trying to make sure that we maintain ourselves at that top end we want the best chef.
we’ve been under a lot of stress and it would be lovely not to have to have the anxiety.
yeah, we’ve been searching now for almost a year, haven’t we?
yeah.
and it’s been a long search.
we’ve been i we’re very picky.
hiring the wrong chef could be disastrous for their reputation and business.
so the family are prepared to pay up to six figures.
i think we haven’t found the right chef yet because actually i’m asking for really tough challenge.
but with alex’s help, the search is almost over.
it’s a big day.
this is barney and christine’s chance of a new start.
after advertising the post, nine applicants were interviewed for this life—changing position.
he’s been at the ritz, he’s been at thejuniper, which are all good places.
during a fiery few days of cooking oh, my god, this is so hard!
six got the chop.
lee’s dishes didn’t reach expectations.
i’m not mad about that dish.
not in the environment that we would be serving in.
it’s a bit heavy.
nicola’sjob hopping was a concern.
he’s obviously good, it’s just whether he’s good
and he’s a stayer.
my suitcase, i’m fed up to see it.
michael’s style wasn’t fine dining.
well, we’ve been looking forward to this.
it’s not too delicate, michael.
ian’s first dish didn’t catch their eye.
i don’t like the plate with that dish.
no, i very good point.
i think if you’re going to use a dark plate, you need to have really vibrant colours.
simon’s longevity was questioned.
can we immediately address the elephant in the room, which is that you’ve never been anywhere very long.
and alan’s nerves got the better of him.
sorry, alan, we’ve distracted you.
can someone give us the time?
but three did make the grade and have been shortlisted for today’s final daylong interview.
simon szymanski simon, well done.
hrishikesh desai that last dish was superb.
and ben murphy.
we had very high expectations and you delivered.
0k, thank you, thank you very much.
only the best will win the position to be the hotel’s new executive head chef.
i mean, i think what is very interesting is we’ve got three such different candidates and actually, ultimately, they’re all good.
it’s just who suits you, as a family, best.
and i think that’s what we are trying to really work out today.
we are in a win—win today, i think, to be honest with you, cos we’ve got three great chefs competing today in interviews and you know, i’m looking forward with great interest to see how it pans out.
i mean, it’s they’re all very different.
they are they are very different.
and we need to find a little bit more about their weaknesses as well as their strengths.
mm—hm.
it’s an early start.
first to arrive is simon szymanski.
as time goes by, i’m definitely more emotional about thejob