give longer spells of rain.
these black circles indicating the trength wind gust.
temperatures nine to about 1 degrees.
we started this morning between 15 and 18 in the south, those temperatures dipping by quite a few degrees.
overnight, a band of rain pushes north eastwards across scotland and northern england and we’ve got another one coming in across southern counties.
that will clear to the east through tuesday, and then we are back into drier conditions with a few showers.
and around the world.
borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
the government’ intention to ease if you want to get in touch about the new restrictions coming in in england, or any of today’ other stories, do get in touch.
the hollywood actorjohnny depp will find out later today whether he’ won his libel case against the sun newspaper.
donald trump and joe biden head to crucial swing states to campaign, as the election campaign enters its final stage.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world — and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
for the latest news and analysis borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons today.
he’ expected to stress the government’ intention to ease the new restrictions after a month.
the prime minister announced on saturday that strict measures will be imposed across england from thursday.
people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
pubs, restaurants, gyms, non—essential shops and places of worship will close.
and meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
but you will be able to meet one other person from another household outside in a public place.
our political correspondent, jonathan blake, reports.
and so now is the time to take action because there is no alternative.
after addressing the nation, boris johnson will today attempt to get mp5 on board with his plan for a national lockdown in england.
the prime minister is expected to again point to stark warnings from scientists that unless the government acts, deaths over the winter could be twice as bad or more than during the first wave of the pandemic.
he’ll acknowledge labour’ view that he should have acted sooner, but defend the system of regional restrictions he has pursued until now.
labour’ support means the plan is likely to pass when vote on it later this week but some conservatives are taking a stand.
if these kind of measures were being taken in any totalitarian country around the world, we would be denouncing it as a form of evil.
and here, the removal of people’ fundamental liberties is going almost without comment.
the national lockdown will see non—essential retail closed along with pubs, bars and restaurants, except for takeaway and delivery.
gyms, hairdressers and beauty salons must also shut, and only two people from different households can meet outside.
after the cabinet office minister michael gove’ admission yesterday that the lockdown could continue beyond the beginning of december, the prime minister will to reassure that the end is in sight.
and there will be a return to the tiered system on the 2nd of december according to the latest data and trends.
just a reminder that we love to hear your thoughts on any of the stories doing, whether it is about ockdown is, at the restrictions, presidential elections and so do get in touch with me on witter
and you can use the hashtag pot.
-- yourquestions well, we’ve already been hearing about the new coronavirus restrictions on their way for people in england.
what’ the situation in other parts of the ?
i’ve been getting more details from chris page in belfast, tomos morgan in cardiff and — first — lorna gordon in glasgow.
as england moves into this national lockdown, scotland has moved to a more localised five tier system.
it is not the easiest system to follow, but there is a postcode checker where you can put your postcode.
i did that this morning
and it told me this area is level three, the second highest level of restrictions.
it is pretty tight, they are asking you not to travel outside your council area if you are in a level three area.
some areas have fewer restrictions.
orkney, shetland, the western isles, murray and the highlands are under level one restrictions.
the backdrop against all of this is that the scottish government is warning that they cannot rule out a full lockdown at some later point.
however, that said, there are early indications here that the prevalence of the virus is plateauing, meaning people are still going into hospital but the rate of increase has slowed right down in those figures.
ahem, excuse me.
there is a hope, but not a guarantee that the national lockdown can be avoided.
0, lorna, thank you very much.
let’ go now to tomos morgan in cardiff.
wales’ first minister, mark drakeford, will set out the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’ firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
mark drakeford concentrating on the exit strategy from all of this.
that thatis occupying a lot of our thoughts, how do we get out of these ictions once we are into them?
based on what has been going on so far with this firebreak, does wales think that it will be able to achieve that next monday?
well, i think mark drakeford said from the start, and this morning, that it will not be initially on monday the ninth when we will see whether or not the firebreak has had the desired effect which is of course to reduce the rate and reduce the strain on the .
it will be at least two weeks later because there is always a delay in the figures.
it will be at that point we will know whether it has worked.
they have done for this two—week approach, a stricter approach, because they thought a short sharp break like this would make more of a difference.
on the ninth, businesses that have been closed, hospitality, nonessential shops, leisure, will all re open and what we are hoping for today and what we will be getting today is a strategy up until christmas so the number of people that can now mix from now on until christmas and the rules on travel, what will happen in terms of people coming into wales from covid hotspots — of course england now going into a national lockdown — how will that affect wales?
will there be a travel ban coming into wales?
but what mark drakeford said this morning is there will be no going back to local restrictions in wales.
it will be a national approach.
there will be a basic set of national rules in wales that will be simpler and clearer, and it will allow for something beyond what we have had during the firebreak period.
but my top message to people in wales is, don’ make your first question to yourself, "how far can i stretch the rules?
" make the first question, "what should i do?
what contribution can i make to keeping myself and others safe?
" and tojudge your actions against that criteria.
if we do that, then there is a way out of coronavirus that will safeguard us all.
if we play it as a game in which yourjob is to think about what the rule is and see how much you can stretch it, then i’ afraid the weeks ahead will be very difficult indeed.
so, at the moment, people coming into wales from tier 2 and above from england, from northern ireland and from that central belt of scotland, they are actually banned by law from coming into wales and people will be fined and turned back.
it will be interesting to see logically, what one would expect today is potentially there will be a travel ban extending to the whole of england, other than for essential work reasons, childcare or some of the valid exceptional circumstances, of course.
people will be really looking forward to seeing how they will be able to mix again with friends and family.
mark drakeford has said there will be some easing of those restrictions and people will be able to meet up socially to some degree.
the hope is that this set of national restrictions today, national rules, will be able to take us all the way until christmas and the first minister here is hoping for a joint approach from the four different nations of the to agree upon something over the festive period, but potentially after that, if the numbers increase again, the government here have said all along that there is a likelihood that there would be another short, sharp firebreak again in the new year if the figures increase again after that.
0, thank you for that.
tomos morgan in cardiff.
let’ head to northern ireland, to belfast.
chris page is there.
good morning.
schools returning in northern ireland today after an extended half—term break
but that is just part of the jigsaw of restrictions.
other restrictions are still in place.
what sort of effect have they been having so far?
the infection rate in northern ireland has been coming down but it is still much higher than anybody would like.
just over a fortnight ago, the devolved government here brought in a series of measures designed to deal with what at that time : we are breaking away there from chris page to bring you news from igh court that the hollywood star johnny has lost his high ourt ibel action against the sun wspaper over an article published paper which had labelled him wife ater.
that news just coming on the last few seconds.
johnny has lost high court libel depp has lost his high court libel action.
: we can go to our correspondent who has been following the case and is the royal courts of justice.
what more can you tell us?
a highly anticipated judgment from the high , it has been handed down court, it has been handed down electronically.
johnny depp and eard, his former wife, they are not actually hear at the royal of ustice, but in the last couple of inutes we have had the gment handed down by mrjustice choll.
ohnny depp the hollywood tor as not succeeded in his libel ase against the publisher of the newspaper.
i will read you a ummary of what the judge has said.
judgment self is 28 pages the judgment itself is 128 pages long.
in his summary, the judge has he claimant, johnny depp, has not ucceeded in his action for el, although he has proved the ecessary elements of his cause of ion in libel, the defendants, hat is the publishers of the sun paper, have shown that what they published in the meaning which i have held the words to bear was tantially true.
the summary judgment on to say, i have judgment goes on to say, i have reached these conclusions having ned in detail the 1a incidents in which defendants rely as well the overarching considerations which the claimant submitted i should take into account.
50 in the couple of tes, that last couple of minutes, that judgment which has been highly cipated and will be watched round the world, in particular in wood, that’ news just in that johnny depp lost his libel case gainst the lisher of the sun ewspaper.
the case here at the high in summer, in uly, it court in the summer, in july, it heard some dramatic details about as a very difficult marriage etween ohnny depp and amber heard.
were arried for ust over a ear in 2015.
both actors gave vidence during the libel case that depp brought against the johnny depp had brought against the sun and during the hearing and the , his former wife, ade 14 allegations of mestic violence.
said her rmer usband ad been she said her former husband had been violent owards her on more than 14 occasions.
lso said, through her lawyers, that she alleged that controlling and verbally and hysirallv abusive towards her and articularty hen he was under the nfluence of drugs and alcohol.
ring the aring, johnny depp strenuously nied all of those legations that amber heard had against him in the courtroom.
aid had never been violent towards his former wife.
in fact, he he had never been violent owards any woman at all.
he had this case, his lawyers had brought this rase, his lawyers had said, to and rebuild his tation because his lawyers, reputation berause his lawyers, duﬂng the case, said that the during the use, said that the article, , and this all goes back to tida that was published in the sun an article that was published in the sun newspaper by its executive or dan wotton, the article eferred to johnny as a referred tojohnny depp as a wife—beater.
johnny depp’ barrister ad made defamatory said it had made defamatory allegations of the utmost iousness against him, and that is johnny epp had brought this to case to the high court.
what we also rd, part those very serious allegations made by amber heard, her rmer husband the against her former husband in at the hearing in july at the high court, here very difficult marriage.
is drug—taking, alcohol use, those all laid bare in a public court room for the whola world to hear.
i don’ know if you remember but amber came out on the steps of the igh court after that hearing shed, and she had said that this not something that she wanted to he had not wanted to come to court for her private life, her riage to depp to be laid bare in a ourtroom.
david sillito, lleague, sat through the my colleague, set through the three—week hearing and here is the round.
one time, johnny was hitting me and he was hitting me hard and eatedly.
the heart of this is a single word.
johnny depp, one of the most essful actors in the world, was accused of being a wife-beater at.
a man who assaulted his wife on more 14 occasions, who left her earing for her ife.
amber heard photographs.
she also had video.
appened?
but depp said what happened?
but johnny depp said it was all a hoax.
the couple had the set of a film.
six years ater they were married.
it lasted over a year and ended with ber heard appearing at the divorce ring the same depp ad hearing the same johnny depp had been verbally and physically abusive her.
in the years that towards her.
in the years that followed, she became an activist for ’ rights and wrote about women’ rights and wrote about enduring domestic violence.
and when newspaper it to the macro uestion ohnny depp’ casting in he ntastic beast movie, the star ade a decision.
he would go to rt.
and he had an army of fans nvinced hat he was the victim of omestic violence, not amber heard.
ice for onny!
all of the justice forjonny!
all of the allegations against him, i don’ eve.
he seems like a very gentle person.
ithink will change history.
if he winds it will change ry.
i really do think that history.
i really do think that because i feel it will give men age to come forward and speak out more.
this case was an attempt ave the utation.
fans cheered to save the reputation.
fans cheered him on as he arrived in court each challenge his ex wife’ claims.
of course this wasn’ amber ’ case.
the accusation had been in the sun he was pursuing group newspapers for libel.
but ything hinged on whether amber head was telling the truth about dents such as this.
i grew up in texas riding horses.
this was amber on james ording’ late late show in ecember 2015.
in court she imed that just ore
this
she claimed that just before this she had been hit repeatedly by johnny .
of these photographs, she says, showed the injuries that lay the make—up.
here, sitting on behind the make-up.
here, sitting on the sofa, she said she had two eyes and a broken nose.
but ost of the alleged incidents were to have taken place far away any public scrutiny.
this was here they , and penthouse where they lived, and penthouse apartments owned by johnny depp.
was a world of private planes, even a private island, and a tionship that both sides accepted was stormy, troubled.
but deos and recordings, what did they uly show?
was this evidence johnny epp was violent to his that johnny depp was violent to his partner was to let you drink this ing?
is this going?
ijust morning?
is this going?
ijust started it.
orjust angry at being etly filmed?
another recording alked about a punch, but not by depp.
and this was johnny depp in hospital after his finger was severed during row.
the question is, who do you believe about how it happened?
heard said this was her moment to tell.
truth.
it has been redibly painful to relive the eak-up my relationship, to have motives, my uth questioned.
and he most dramatic and intimate ails of my life with ohnny shared in court and broadcast to the world.
today’ judgment has entire world.
todars judgment has decided there was truth in what she leaving a shadow over the said.
leaving a shadow over the reputation of johnny depp.
david ito, news.
has there been any reaction from any of the parties in this case to the gment?
yes, we havejust had a statement from the sun newspaper.
that newspaper that that is that newspaper that johnny depp had brought his libel case here the blisher of the sun against the publisher of the sun newspaper, newsgroup.
the statement last couple of moments has ome in from the sun newspaper, ing the sun has stood up and mpaign for the victims of domestic for over 20 years.
domestic buse victims must never be silenced thank the judge for his areful consideration and thank heard for her courage in ving evidence to the court.
and we ctually come in the last couple of seconds, had a statement mber heard’ spokesperson, who has said in that statement, for of us present for the london court trial, this decision and dgment are not a surprise.
the atement goes on to say, very soon be presenting even more we will be presenting even more volume as evidence in the .
we are tted to obtaining justice for committed to obtaining justice for amber heard in the court and nding her right to free speech.
that is the statement from amber rd’ spokesperson.
she herself, will remember, came to the high court to give were very serious llegations, she made very serious gations against her former husband, who she was married to for ver a year in 2015.
she outlined during her evidence here at the high court more than 1a instances where she alleged that had been violent towards her.
she id in her witness tatement, during her evidence to urts, that’ depp had verbally and ysically bused her.
he described in court that there a screaming, swearing, punching, apping, kicking and, at times, , during her evidence, said that as in fear of her life when she as in the company of her former band.
50 that breaking news, the husband.
so that breaking news, the long-awaited judgment that’ ywood, of course, we’ll be atching very closely, that’ depp-
the ollywood actor who ought the case against the sun wspaper and clear his name, said his reputation and his ure reputation were damaged by an rticle that the sun newspaper had shed in 2018, where they published in 2018, where they referred to him as a wife—beater.
johnny depp has lost his libel ase against the sun spaper.
whether we hear the newspaper.
whether we hear from the actor at all, we are not clear at stage.
but he has today found he has lost his libel case, a gely ensive one, here at the hugely expensive one, here at the high court this morning.
thank you uch.
our news correspondent helena wilkinson at the royal courts tice ith that breaking news.
more new on the reaction from national lockdown announced in england.
our political correspondent, iain watson, is in westminster.
so, this is due to happen on thursday, or to begin on thursday.
everybody in the but not everybody in the conservative party is happy with the minster’ decision.
he is due speak to later, so what he to speak to later, so what is he going to do to to persuade those unhappy with the idea of nother lockdown that is, you know, the right way ahead?
he will this is the right way ahead?
he will be facing criticism on two fronts.
rily from some of his own primarily from some of his own backbenchers who are worried about onomic impact of a month long lockdown in england.
some i worried rse not that it is a month of course not that it is a month long but that it could be extended that because of some ambivalent comments made by cabinet ter at michael gove yesterday.
hey are concerned about what pens after the 2nd of december whether at least a large swathes england will still be in very ere restrictions.
there are also on the labour benches in particular are saying the vernment ought to have acted ner, so the prime minister’ essage will be come on two fronts, ill say, yes, he acknowledges he people pressing him to go for a tional ckdown sooner, including me of his own scientific advisers, he will defend the regional pproach, trying to do his best to his under control without osing a national lockdown in the irst place.
secondly he will be ing to some of his own restless ackbenchers that he had no choice to act.
it was interesting this orning that rishi sunak, the ncellor, who is seen as someone is really pushing behind the enes to to keep as much of the onomy open as possible, he said he the prime minister and the eason for doing so was the growing ssure on the .
there is a range of different models and different estimates and i agree with the prime minister that we have to be humble in the face of nature.
we’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared.
it’ the last thing we want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
we strove very hard to avoid being in this situation.
even the areas with currently low incidence now have some of the highest rates of increase and because of the way that the is constructed in some of those areas, actually the pressure on beds would manifest itself quite soon — in a matter of weeks — and i think when we heard all of that and saw all of that from all of our scientific medical advisers, it was clear — very regrettably — that, unless we took action now, and quite significant action, we would be in an unacceptable situation in just a matter of weeks.
at number ", at number 11, saying along with number 10 that there is no choice to hat is interesting is that ome conservative are saying, lly, let’ look at this in the actually, let’ look at this in the round and what they want the cellor to do is to come up with economic impact assessment of a long lockdown in england to at the potential economic cost, obs that may be lost, the human ost, and some are also saying they more information about how the service is going to be reating other illnesses, other than over the next month.
some very practical interventions, i think, this afternoon when the prime ter makes a statement to the house of commons, from asking pecific information.
but beyond at, ithink measure of some of he restlessness on the conservative benches can be seen in the backbenches can be seen in the comments from graham brady, the of the influential committee chair of the inﬂuential committee of backbench conservative and
he
he last night if some of these measures were introduced by a itarian country, we would be denouncing them as a form of evil.
shows you just the strength of feeling against some in boris son’ ranks.
he said johnson’ own ranks.
he said basically it is a fundamental breach an rights, the right to a of human rights, the right to a family life, the right to who you leep ith, even.
they will be ran sleep with, even.
they will be criticisms.
i don’ expect when the on wednesday that the government will lose because labour een criticising the tidiness the covenant and most of their are likely to support the lockdown in england —— criticising diness.
concerns from i’ve heard over the weekend, some are ctant to rebel this week but the ncern is that this may go on and and on so that when it comes to wing these restrictions, if that what the government decides to do cember the 2nd, we might be cing a much larger rebellion and more descent than.
0, thank very much, iain watson in estminster.
ryanair customers will not be refunded forﬂights in november, according to its boss, despite the government banning all but essential travel.
michael ’leary said if a flight was operating, passengers would not get their money back
but they could change to a later flight without paying a fee.
ryanair has reported an 80% slump in passenger numbers during the coronavirus crisis.
prince william was unwell with covid—19 earlier this year but it was not publicly announced.
palace sources have confirmed the duke of cambridge had the virus around the same time that his father prince charles was self—isolating.
jon donnison reports.
prince william appearing on ’ pride of britain awards last night.
you’ve had it in your own family, as well?
yeah, my father had it very early on.
it turns out it wasn’ just his father who was infected.
the prince made no mention that he had also fallen ill with covid—19lastspring, but paid tribute to workers.
the devastating impact of the coronavirus pandemic has workers who have gone far beyond the call of duty this year.
kensington palace is giving no official comment or confirmation but a palace source told the that a story in today’ sun newspaper that the prince had shown of covid—19 around a week into the national lockdown last spring is accurate.
i’ catherine and this is william next to me.
at the time, prince william continued to carry out a number of official engagements using video conferencing.
news of his father’ covid—19 infection was made public.
at the time he was photographed self—isolating in scotland.
but it may be that, given the national mood last spring, there was no desire to add further alarm by revealing prince william’ condition.
jon donnison, news.
the presidential election enters its final day of campaigning, with both president trump and joe biden appealing to voters in crucial battleground states.
the scale of early voting has been unprecedented with more than 93 million americans having cast their ballots already.
our correspondent nomia iqbal reports from florida.
this is the most important election of our lifetime.
it is crunch time.
president trump and joe biden have been making a push in the midwestern states and if those swing states are crucial, then florida is critical.
donald trump needs more than their love.
he needs their votes.
to become president it requires 270 points from the electoral college system and florida has 29 up for grabs.
without this state, the path back to the white house looks near impossible.
more than eight million residents here have already voted.
this is the last day of in—person early voting here in florida and at this polling station there are donald trump supporters on one side and joe biden supporters on the other, with no—one meeting in the middle.
and that sums up what it is like to be in a swing state.
people love the guy because they think he is like us, a regular person and not a politician.
he is a liar.
he wants power, that is it.
he does not care about the community.
and some say donald trump is trying to portray his rival, joe biden, in a way that plays on the fears of many latino voters.
the trump administration needs something to grab onto because their record is terrible.
so one of the biggest ways to scare cubans and venezuelans is by fear mongering them into talking about communism and socialism.
my entire family is voting for donald trump.
my entire family.
i am one of the few in my family who is not voting for trump, who is voting forjoe biden.
florida has been problematic in delivering election results.
officials tell us they are ready this time.
if that is true, then on election night florida will give us an early sense of which man is on track to become the next president.
the headlines on news actorjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife beater".
borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
donald trump and joe biden head to crucial swing states to campaign, as the election campaign enters its final stage.
in just a few days’ time, england’ second national lockdown will be brought in and the whole country will be facing much tighter restrictions.
the government says they must do this to halt the spread of coronavirus and save lives — but what’ the reaction in towns where infection rates have been relatively low?
duncan kennedy reports from winchester.
it’ home to 125,000 people.
and is one more place that has endured covid.
so when you ask people in winchester what they think of this week’ new lockdown, the first thing you hear is resigned weariness.
boring, boring.
to go through it again?
boring, yeah.
but places like winchester in the south of england haven’ seen the kinds of covid numbers areas in the north have experienced.
here in winchester, the figure is running at about 135 cases per 100,000 people.
but compare that to a town in the north of similar size, say, preston, and there, the figure is more like 464 cases per 100,000 people.
and that’ many here, it’ hard tojudge numbers, think an england wide lockdown isn’ right.
i still think it’ a bit unfair on the south, when the cases down here are quite low in comparison the north.
so the tiered system would have probably worked out better.
yeah,
i totally agree.
i think in the south, we are coping, it seems, anyway, people are sensible.
but up in the north, obviously, it doesn’ seem to be going as well.
in the shops and businesses here, the views are more mixed.
adrienne henry runs a hat making shop and store and believes when it comes to lockdowns, the south is different.
to lockdown the whole country, i don’ know that it’ a good idea.
if the numbers were very high here, then, yes, i agree that we should be locked down.
but as a whole country, i don’ know.
but her neighbour, susan woodman, isn’ so sure.
so, you know, we can do it for a month.
if it’ going to mean that we make a considerable, dramatic improvement to the situation.
all in it together?
yeah, absolutely.
from thursday, we’re all on the lockdown again.
nowhere wants to be locked down.
and although covid’ footprint does very widely across the country, it’ a collective response that will once again be the nation’ new direction of travel.
duncan kennedy, news, in winchester.
just looking through tweets she had been sending me on a similar theme report there from duncan, one ewer says we are furious in east ssex, the count is low, we have yed the rules.
ckdown is obeyed the mles.
lockdown is unnecessary in the south.
steve , have care homes been says, have rare homes been forgotten, my mother is locked away rare ome
and i haven’ seen in her rare home and i haven’ seen her since february, this is tbreaking, no one talks about .
she will die alone.
another wer says regarding school staying because of the mental health of he children, what about the hers?
trying to keep 30 children and teaching them, its training, my wife is mentally usted when she gets home every ay.
there was one on gymnasiums, if find it, how re not i can find it, how are not essential?
government has no idea portant they are too many ransmission rates are minimal here, lost.
and in fact we will i am so lost.
and in fact we will speak to someone who runs a nasium, i think it is a gymnasium or children, actually.
that is ing up in the next few minutes.
borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons today.
the prime minister is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month despite a suggestion by the cabinet office minister michael gove that it could last longer.
some conservative backbenchers are threatening to vote against the measures.
i’ve been speaking to professor sir mark walport, who’ a former chief scientific adviser to the government and is now a member of — the committee that advises ministers.
the first thing to say is of course it’ extraordinarily difficult for ymakers who are faced with some of the toughest decisions any ticians have to make but numbers are really speaking themselves.
we are at a quarter of the death rate, over 250, of the first wave of his and doubling times of about two each, that takes us up to the eak of eartier the year.
over ,000 peak of earlier in the year.
over 11,000 patients in our hospitals at ment.
the numbers there are very dear.
i’ not sure about the ment about a totalitarian state, hink if we were looking at that, oring those numbers, we would not hink much of that either.
i was to ask you about that, what id you think of author graham brady say and you outlined what you ink about.
the numbers, the dictions that cambridge data, re are other predictions but the of the matter is they are all high in terms of the number of ths, aren’ they?
yes, the swers are these are projections at the projections get more and reliable as more numbers come numbers have been very, very in.
the numbers have been very, very consistent over a number of weeks, mber of cases going up, the number of rases going up, spreading to older and the more erable generations, we know people of all generations are eptible to some of the non—disease—macro like ran can be very debilitating over which ran be very debilitating over long periods.
50 the evidence is ere, the way this can’ be there, the only way this can’ be stopped is by preventing the virus eaping from one person to from leaping from one person to another, that involves social ancing.
i’ sure you would agree much as the next person, a series kdown is is by no means ideal of lockdown is is by no means ideal
and you know, not the most effective rhaps to deal with peaks and troughs but the only way we have now.
the last lockdown was all bout flattening the curve, that was hrase we ard over and over the phrase we heard over and over again and certainly this lockdown about cutting the numbers of deaths and stopping the from overwhelmed but is this being overwhelmed but is this lockdown going to be able to achieve han that?
can it go beyond more than that?
“an it go beyond ﬂattening the curve?
what we need is get the number of cases to do is get the number of rases down so we need to get this roduction number below one.
and hat was achieved the first time and actually the cases came own very well but the brakes were off a bit too much, if you like, and so was able to come back.
need to get them down
and of we do need to get them down and of course, one of the reasons we are this very aggressively is because there is the prospect of treatments and we are already better position in that your ance of surviving if you end up in tensive care significantly better efore and there is the than before and there is the prospect of antibody treatments and nes.
so it’ worth that effort, we should be able to get on top of it with additional interventions.
is the 2nd of december december doable int exit this new lockdown and what needs to happen to actually hat work?
well, the answer is, the 2nd of december won’ yield is a situation where it’ all gone away.
we are not going to be to return to social life as it before coronavirus.
so there need to be measures after december, the 2nd of december and, ly, the only way we’re going to out is what the numbers of and see they change.
people to play their part, everyone to be careful about their own ehaviour.
but in terms of vernment policy, health policy, he test and trace system, what needs to happen there?
when the rnment is ked about this the government is asked about this the answer tends to focus on the testing arty, arly, even if testing is but dearty, even if testing is ramped up and there is mass testing ster testing, that doesn’ preclude the trace part of the needing to work as well stop i’ like to get your thoughts on .
you are absolutely right.
the ola point of esting is that you something with the test result.
so, obviously, it is important test peopla they can elf—isolate but it’ equally ortant hat we are then able to trace their contacts so they can be as well and also isolate for eriod of time.
sol ink that is a period of time.
so i think that is absolutely critical and it’ the reason for trying to get the bers down because we know when he numbers are very large it’ very icult for even the best test and trace systems in the world to stay of it.
they’ve had to ntroduce measures at a rather tier stage because they realise eir est and tracing capacity was verwhelmed.
do you think more needs done to make it easier for people to ay at home, if they are ound to positive, because there ave been a variety of figures, some not very encouraging, on the umber of people who even if they een told they are a contact of omeone positive or have tested itive, don’ isolate for a riety of reasons?
they’re bsolutely need to be support for people staying at home, it’ no being at if you have no good being at home if you have no food.
you need money to live on.
and government is extremely well aware of that.
that’ exactly right, needs to be a whole package of.
and to a cycle of ckdown?
yes, avoid a cycle of lockdown?
yes, indeed.
germany of course is another entering a four—week period ockdown.
just hearing in the few oments the german defence minister is self quarantining after ing she came into contact with he person who tested positive -19, hat has just been covid—19, that has just been announced by the german defence stry.
at test on herself has ome back negative
but she is self rantining after learning she came to contact with a person who sted positive for coronavirus.
more new on the election race as it enters its final hours, both donald trump and joe biden have been focusing on the swing—states on which their success orfailure depends.
in the last few days both have been in the upper midwest home to north america’ great lakes.
michigan and wisconsin were two of the three historically democratic industrial states, along with pennsylvania, that narrowly voted republican in 2016, delivering trump his victory.
our correspondent yalda hakim spent the weekend in milwaukee, in wisconsin, where both parties have been chasing down votes from communities they don’ usually target.
waukesha county.
the suburban dream.
when donald trump talks about saving the suburbs, this is where he means.
mostly white, affluent, the red heart of wisconsin.
we voted for trump.
we feel he loves his country, he loves his people, he loves america.
he mentions god.
god comes first.
i think he’ done a lot of major things in the united states and the world.
and he doesn’ fool around.
he is obnoxious at times.
i just feel like he’ been doing a lot of great things with the economy, trying to get it back to what it should be.
what about the last four years?
do you think it’ been quite a roller—coaster for americans?
i think it’ been more of a roller—coaster for president trump, that poor man, what he has been through.
but things could be shifting.
the democrats made big gains in suburbs like these in the 2018 midterms.
we are used to having a lot of folks who may support us or he first time ever, they are going to vote democrat but they are not necessarily super confident in saying it out loud because that changes the dynamics of friendships and parent teacher groups and things like that.
if biden can eat trump’ margins even it could help flip the state.
democrats know that the vast majority of people in this county will vote for donald trump and the republican party but they are trying to change as many minds as possible and they say there is growing signs of support.
patrick and barb have lived in this neighbourhood for decades.
we are seeing a little bit of a crack, at least in our city.
you didn’ used to see democratic signs very prominently in our city and now we are seeing more and more and more of them.
so, it’ a little bit encouraging, because like, a crack.
a 30 minute drive
and we are in a totally political landscape.
milwaukee is the most racially polarised metropolitan area in america.
and intensely democratic.
hey, how are you?
these african—americans are also campaigning.
but not for biden.
i do have quite a few friends who are christians like myself, who are kind of struggling with who to vote for and once i share, you know, i feel so strongly about, you know, voting in, the re—election of president trump, they kind of understood.
you know, that might be but i have a feeling one or two friends might be reconsidering their vote.
this is a community becoming more and more aware of the impact of their vote.
in wisconsin, it may come down to black and latinx voters and we know that we can be the margin of victory and it really kind of goes to show the power that we have.
with the ghost of 2016 hanging over this state, where trump’ majority was a narrow one, both sides are fighting as if every vote could be decisive.
yalda hakim, news, wisconsin.
hollywood starjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife beater".
the actor sued the paper’ publisher and its executive editor, dan wootton, over a 2018 article which claimed he had assaulted his ex—wife amber heard, which he denies.
our media correspondent david sillito is here now.
david, this is just breaking within the last hour.
take us through the we heard from the court and reaction so far.
we’ve got to go to what the allegations were.
14 allegations in court.
these were serious.
this was amber heard, former wife of depp, the former wife of johnny depp, saying she was at times in fear of ife, saying she had been facial uising, broken nose, black eyes, peated assaults against.
and the judge has said and i will read it, i have found that the great majority aged assaults on amber heard by lohnny depp have been proved to civil the civil standard, that is 12 or allegations.
he says to place.
so, atement in the sun newspaper, hat headline that depp is a wife eater, he says, to be bstantially true.
this is hattering for the reputation of epp.
and vindication for mber eard.
a statement, of course, is also facing further legal ion from johnny depp, seeking to her in erica and a statement from her council saying for those of sent in the high court, the ecision and judgment are not a prise, very soon we will be presenting even more voluminous ence in the , we are committed obtaining justice for amber .
that reference to voluminous dence is because of course amber ard was not the person who was sued here, it was news group ewspapers and so she was not ged iged to reveal all the documentation about their tionship.
statement, of course, from the sun newspaper, the sun stood up and campaign for the tims of domestic abuse for over 0 years, victims must never be enced and we thank the judge for is careful consideration
and we amber heard for her courage in giving evidence to the court.
i think one thing that is also worth ioning, amber heard has, since he got her divorce from johnny - , has oken up on behalf of the depp, has spoken up on behalf of the peopla who suffered domestic lence, she has been essentially, ambassador, to be questioned out what she was saying, told that was all a hoax, this is very, important to her reputation and to be believed about what she said over the course of their tionship and the judge said, a ecurring theme in the evidence from depp is hat amber heard had constructed a hoax and that she had this done this as an insurance policy.
he was not convinced by that argument.
more new on the new lockdown restrictions due to come into force across england on thursday.
everyone will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons, and pubs, restaurants, non—essential shops and will be told to close.
we can speak now to simon green, an instructor at the little — a children’ offering various activities and classes for children and parents.
simon, thank you very much for joining us today.
the impact on your ess of this lockdown will be good morning.
we are facing closure , we are still waiting for again, we are still waiting for confirmation across the different oups that we serve but it’ evastating, as always.
this is a plicated problem and obviously here is no easy solution to this at moment.
but as a small business er, we faced this before, we will sit again, we are adaptable.
i am to be part of our franchise roup with 11 other franchisees, dapted efore, created an online rvice and we have come through
so i think we are ready to face again and we are nervous, we don’ know where it will end
and i think that is our biggest problem.
think that your sector, the do you think that your sector, the gymnasium sector, should be subject same restrictions as many other sectors, like pubs, taurants
etc?
have you had any cases of transmission at any your 13 gymnasiums?
that’ a good estion.
in terms of transmission rases, we ave had one case at gymnasium the whole period which we went through the normal dures that we would need to do, outside of that, we have run the nasiums normal, we had all the gymnasiums as normal, we had all the normal precautions and, being covid an environment, we are save as an environment, we are dealing with children from four to 12 years old, we are in sector that is typically seen as low risk to start with.
but, as rything, we are more cautious bout our staff and customers more anything else, first of all.
ut, you know, we are also aware there are other needs, social, ntal, physical needs, especially children, facing and young rents are facing so we want to be ere to serve them
but we want to he right thing by what the overnment restrictions are as well.
finally, if i can put to you, just finally, if i ran put to you, are you going to be able to survive eep everyone in employment that you currently employ through this ?
with, obviously, the prime minister ping that the lockdown be xited on the 2nd of december was no absolute guarantees, i guess?
at the moment we are in it he long term rather than a ort—term blip so staffing wise, is fine.
the furlough that is all fine.
the furlough scheme really helps us make sure we keep those staff on and keep them employed and if we can viously a clear end date obviously see a clear and date insight that we are reopening back ember, hopefully, when erything should be good for us, we seen a good bounce back from he previous lockdown
and we hope to hat again, going forward, ecially in the youngest age group hat we have stop the four months, hree years, that has been tastic for us so far so we hope them coming back in numbers before.
simon, thank you so much your time.
just a couple more of your comments from twitter, steve saying the rictions are clear
, we are upposed to reduce contact with ers as much as possible so eachers being forced to work in nsafe conditions?
i guess lots of ools would say they have put fort into making sure the schools ings are as safe as possible.
from harry on twitter who says is the government expecting ersity students to do this time are there any guarantees we will lowed to travel home at hristmas even if lockdown is ended?
of course we are always rying to answer these questions for ere on news and we will endeavour to keep on doing that.
a group of nuns in the south of england has found unlikely success with a chart—topping debut album.
for these women who live a monastic life — seeing very few outsiders and only leaving the grounds for medical appointments — their new—found fame has come as quite a shock!
the ’ clare casey reports.
in tough times, music speaks louder than ever, and it seems the collective voices of the poor clares have unwittingly tapped into a market of people in need of spiritual healing.
back in a pre—covid existence, decca music executives approached the community of enclosed sisters with an idea for an album — blending their plainchant with a 21st—century chilled—out vibe, perfectly designed for headphone—wearing masses looking for a moment of escape.
the group of women took a vote and decided it could be fun.
when we received this request, about decca, for this album, we thought that it was a good adventure for all of us to live this together, as a community, and it brings a lot ofjoy and energy to the community.
liturgy is part of our life.
it’ part of our prayer, really.
fortunately, all but one of the recording sessions was completed before england’ first lockdown hit, and the composers had enough material to make the album.
we love singing, we love music.
and when it’ a good sound, it’ even better.
unlike most girl groups, it wasn’ fame and money these singers were hoping for, but to bring a touch of calm to people’ lives.
clare casey, news.
good music for meditation, i should think.
the singing nuns whose voices being heard by many more are now being heard by many more peopla than before.
you are watching ews.
rebecca is here in a news.
rebeca is here injust a few moments to take you through 1pm.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carol kirkwood.
hello again.
some parts of the southeast and eastern england this morning started off with temperatures between 15 and 18 degrees.
but as this cold front sinks south, the temperature will actually go down behind it.
and you can see another weather front coming in from the west, enhancing the showers.
and all those isobars are telling us that it’ going to be another windy day.
not as windy in the north as it was over the weekend, but still windy in the west and also the south.
so, some weather today, some sunshine to look forward to.
but, equally, we’ve got quite a lot of showers and some of those will merge to give some longer spells of rain at times.
these are the kind of wind gust that we’re expecting — so still gusty winds to watch out for.
temperatures, nine in the north to about 1 in parts of the southeast, so dropping for some by about four degrees or so.
now, through this evening and overnight, the rain in the northwest pushes across scotland.
we could see some wet snow in and bute, the south highlands, for example.
and we’ve got another band coming in across southern wales and also central parts of england.
behind that, on higher ground in wales, on the moors, we could also see some wet snow — butjust on higher ground.
now, that will bring rain into the southeast and then it turns cooler.
a ridge of high pressure starts to build in and you can see all that mild air indicated by the yellows and oranges pushed away and we see a return to blue — indicating that cooler weather.
so for tuesday, we eventually say goodbye to this weather front as it drifts off into the north sea — lot drier behind it.
there will still be some showers dotted around.
the winds will be a lot lighter, as well, than they have been in the last few days, and are going to be for some of us today.
and temperaturewise on tuesday — well, roughly between nine in lerwick and 12 as we sweep down towards london.
now, moving on from tuesday night into wednesday, we start to see this ridge of high pressure build in.
that’ going to settle things down, but it’ also going to turn much colder, so first thing wednesday morning, we could be looking at some frost and also some fog as we go through notjust wednesday, but the overnight period and the next couple of nights, as well.
so what can you expect?
well, on wednesday, thursday, friday and saturday, it will be drier.
there’ll still be one or two showers.
it’ not going to be as windy, but it’ going to be cooler by day and night.
this is news.
i’ rebecca jones.
the headlines at 11: borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
scotland’ new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force, with edinburgh, glasgow and the central belt facing controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
and new restrictions for wales — later today the first minister will set out his plans for when the country’ firebreak lockdown ends next monday.
business in england faces more restrictions, the describes a lockdown is a real blow for firms.
actorjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife beater".
donald trump and joe biden head to crucial swing states to campaign, as the election campaign enters its final stage.
hello and welcome to news.
borisjohnson will urge today to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
he’ expected to stress the government’ intention to ease the new restrictions after a month.
the prime minister announced on saturday that strict measures will be imposed across england from thursday.
people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
pubs, restaurants, gyms, nonessential shops and places of worship will close.
and meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
but you will be able to meet one other person from another household outside in a public place.
elsewhere, scotland has moved into its new five—tier system of restrictions this morning.
nowhere has yet been placed into the most severe, tier 4.
later today, the first minister of wales, mark drakeford, will outline an exit plan from the country’ national firebreak, which is due to end on the 9th november.
this afternoon, to to win over some tories who are threatening to vote against the lockdown in england.
he has though cancelled plans to speak to business leaders this morning.
conference as concerns mount over the impact of upcoming restrictions.
first, this report from jonathan blake.
and so now is the time to take action because there is no alternative.
after addressing the nation, boris johnson will today attempt to get mp5 on board with his plan for a national lockdown in england.
the prime minister is expected to again point to stark warnings from scientists that unless the government acts, deaths over the winter could be twice as bad or more than during the first wave of the pandemic.
he’ll acknowledge labour’ view that he should have acted sooner, but defend the system of regional restrictions he has pursued until now.
labour’ support means the plan is likely to pass when vote on it later this week but some conservatives are taking a stand.
if these kind of measures were being taken in any totalitarian country around the world, we would be denouncing it as a form of evil.
and here, the removal of people’ fundamental liberties is going almost without comment.
the national lockdown will see non—essential retail closed along with pubs, bars and restaurants, except for takeaway and delivery.
gyms, hairdressers and beauty salons must also shut, and only two people from different households can meet outside.
after the cabinet office minister michael gove’ admission yesterday that the lockdown could continue beyond the beginning of december, the prime minister will to reassure that the end is in sight.
and there will be a return to the tiered system on the 2nd of december according to the latest data and trends.
let’ speak to our political correspondent, iain watson.
good to have you with us.
as jonathan was saying, not everyone in nservative party is happy with this lockdown.
how much of a job has johnson to win over his own mps?
i think they will certainly prime audience at 3:30pm when gives his statement to the house mons.
he would have preferred to announce the lockdown this rnoon rather than saturday, but inks to newspapers and broadcasters his hand.
effectively, what will be saying as it is far too erous not to act, given the vidence that has been piling up and reats to life that would have the threats to life that would have happened otherwise across winter as been hearing.
i think the pecific demands he will be facing some of his own will be to ook at this problem, as they see , in , in the .
could there be for it, in the round.
could there be for example an economic assessment done impact of a months long lockdown in england?
how many would be lost?
what would be the all oss to the economy?
a whole range of conservative have been for this raising concerns railing for this or raising concerns about the economy, including former rvative leader iain duncan mith.
in addition to that, i think lso has to convince people that has some kind of plan that this not be either a continuing cle of lockdowns or that the isting lockdown on december the will be either extended or in eality facto extended by putting the whole country or almost perhaps the whola country or almost all of it in these tier 3 trictions for a longer period in mn-up to christmas.
at this age, we had the run—up to christmas.
at this stage, we had from sir graham brady raising concerns about who was raising concerns about fundamentally breaching human ts, but think it is rights, but i think it is interesting that certainly inside nment, the chancellor has been pressing to keep as much of the omy open it for as long as possible, but now he is weighing in dearty early behind the prime at very clearly behind the prime minister and saying the pressure on is forcing the government to ct.
there is a range of different models and different estimates and i agree with the prime minister that we have to be humble in the face of nature.
we’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared.
it’ the last thing we want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
we strove very hard to avoid being in this situation.
even the areas with currently low incidence now have some of the highest rates of increase and because of the way that the is constructed in some of those areas, actually the pressure on beds would manifest itself quite soon — in a matter of weeks — and i think when we heard all of that and saw all of that from all of our scientific medical advisers, it was clear — very regrettably — that, unless we took action now, and quite significant action, we would be in an unacceptable situation in just a matter of weeks.
so, united front from number ten and number 11 downing st, arguing that restrictions are absolute you ecessary.
what we hear from our this fternoon is that the vernment is doing perhaps too ttle too late and they should have a lockdown much earlier in land to incide with the october alf term, but none the less, they support the restrictions that re being introduced which means vote on this on wednesday, ill definitely go through.
there ill be because the conservative ellion
but i think it will be far re likely that greater numbers of nservative will express content if there is any extension beyond the month long lockdown.
at this stage, i think there will be concerns expressed by the overnment will get its measures ough.
thanks.
let’ speak to the epidemiologist tom jefferson from oxford university.
a very warm welcome to news.
i wonder what your reaction is to the ncement of this latest lockdown for doctor you understand where the nment is coming from?
as we xplain sometimes, the data which is red to as black—and—white as referred to as black-and-white as anything but black and white.
we do ally understand how cases are calculated and projections that we or forecasts that we have of cases and deaths are ctually quite exaggerated.
have shown that in our trackers he website.
anybody can go on and check edictions versus the tual evidence that is coming out.
ust say, however, that this is difficult to untangle, because re are quite a number of ifferent servings and data sources give different estimates and reports of methods and most often display the presumptions
ehind these models.
isn’ there assertion that a lockdown does educe the spread of infections and efore the number of deaths?
unfortunately, the patchwork of rictions that has been applied hroughout europe actually makes statement very problematic to eck, to assess.
because what you have to do, you would have to a state or a nation or an area some kind of restrictions and one without restrictions and then re them.
this has not happened.
compare them.
this has not happened.
the increasing number of trictions, all patchwork, ubung restrictions, all patchwork, doubling and sometimes very unclear, that kind of interpretation very difficult.
what is certain is estrictions have an impact, a uman toll, and they have an onomic toll.
a societal told and toll.
never modelled.
the orecasts that we see and that we shown are all about the ojected benefits or restrictions.
re may be some people listening say you are essentially putting lihoods ahead of lives.
isn’ death still too many deaths?
all are regrettable.
unfortunately, we are allowed to die end of our life.
the question ecomes wider, if you want to widen question, it becomes as follows, going to use restrictions very winter?
if we have a very bad infection this season, are we ing to start using restrictions ere?
because this is the logic is behind applying restrictions.
olk over 19?
restrictions.
just folk over 19?
not for the other bugs which start moving around very soon they have not already done so?
—— just for vid—19?
you said you have exchange position several mes, i know you presented a plan the private
what is your reaction from him?
what are you hearing government ideas and from government to the ideas and arguments you are putting forward?
ng.
nothing at all?
nothing at nothing.
nothing at all?
nothing at all.
do think that is?
i think that is a question for government.
i do not think does pear that they are open to not appear that they are open to debate.
any governments are open to .
and i personally think this regrettable, simply because the res that are taken impact on everybody.
unfortunately we must it there, but very good to leave it there, but very good to talk to you, thanks for joining us news.
thank you.
wales’ first minister, mark drakeford, will set out the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’ firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
people in wales have been told to stay at home except for exercise and essential journeys.
meetings between households are banned, and pubs, restaurants and nonessential shops are shut.
well, there will be a basic set of national rules in wales which will be simpler and clearer and it will allow for something beyond what we have had during the firebreak period.
but my top message to people in wales is do not make your first question to yourself, "how far can i stretch the rules?
" make the first question, "what should i do?
" "what contribution can i make to keeping myself and others safe?
" and tojudge your actions against that criteria.
if we do that, then there is a way out of coronavirus that will safeguard us all.
if we play it as a game, in which yourjob is to think about what the rules are and see how far you can stretch it, then i am afraid the weeks ahead will be very difficult indeed.
people in scotland are waking up to new restrictions today, as the country is split into a five—tiered system.
the new rules came into effect at six ’clock this morning.
glasgow, edinburgh and dundee are amongst the areas with strict restrictions in tier three — although no area in scotland is currently in the highest tier.
well, this afternoon on news we’ll be answering your questions on the national lockdown in england and restrictions in other parts of the .
at 2.
30pm we’ll be joined by two leading public health experts.
so, send your questions to your questions or email them to yourquestions@bbc.
co.
uk johnny depp has lost his libel case against the sun.
the hollywood star sued the newspaper’ publisher and its executive editor, dan wootton, over an article in 2018 which claimed he had assaulted his ex—wife amber heard, which he denies.
our news correspondent helena wilkinson is at the royal courts of justice.
what more detail do you have?
yes, it was a highly anticipated ruling.
as about three and a half months since the dramatic hearing the high court, which saw amber heard and johnny depp gave vidence in the hearing here amber heard said that there more than 1a occasions where former band, johnny depp, ad been ssaulted her.
she said at she had feared for her life.
judge anded his dgment and the judge handed his judgment and said that the claimant, that is depp, had not succeeded in is libel ase against the sun.
and publisher that article in the publisher of that artida in 2018 8 rich were referred to johnny as a ife in the hearing the depp as a wife in the hearing the burden of the proof was on the sun ove what they had published was tmthful.
ejudge and his dgment ad truthful.
bejudge and hisjudgment had said that the power words that published by the publisher of the sun news group newspapers were antially true.
so in the sun substantially tme.
so in the sun newspaper had managed to prove that ere truthful in what they had ublished.
but it was a ere published.
but it was a trial here in july, just have lockdown, which tails, evelations, about the had details, revelations, about the hollywood couple, the breakdown of marriage and a difficult their marriage and a difficult marriage that it was.
very serious ations come as i say, that allegations come as i say, that amber heard had made against her former husband, johnny depp.
my colleague sat through the whole case ere is his background to it.
one time, um, johnny was hitting me.
and he was hitting me .
ha and repeatedly.
the heart of this is a single word.
johnny depp, one of the most successful actors in the world, was accused of being a "wife—beater" — a man who assaulted his wife on more than 1a occasions, who left her fearing for her life.
amber heard had photographs.
she also had video.
what happened 7 butjohnny depp said it was all a hoax.
the couple had met on the set of a film — the rum diary.
six years later, they were married.
it lasted just over a year and ended with amber heard appearing at a divorce hearing saying johnny depp had been verbally and physically abusive towards her.
in the years that followed, she became an activist for women’ rights, and wrote about enduring domestic violence.
and when the sun questioned johnny depp’ casting in the fantastic beasts movie, the star made a decision — he would go to court.
and he had an army of fans convinced that was the victim of domestic violence — not amber heard.
: justice forjohnny!
all of the allegations againstjohnny, i don’ believe he’ that sort of person.
from what i’ve seen in the media, he seems like a very gentle person.
i think this will change history.
if he wins this, this will change history.
i really do think that.
because i feel it will give men courage to come forward and speak out more.
this case was an attempt to save a reputation.
fans cheered him on as he arrived in court each day to challenge his ex—wife’ claims.
of course, this wasn’ amber heard’ case — the accusation had been made in the sun, he was suing newsgroup newspapers for libel — but everything hinged on whether amber heard was telling the truth about incidents such as this.
i grew up in texas riding horses and this was amber heard onjames corden’ late late show in december 2015.
in court she claimed that, just before this, she had been hit repeatedly byjohnny depp.
these photographs, she says, show the injuries that lay behind the make—up.
here, sitting on the sofa, she said she had two black eyes and a broken nose.
but most of the alleged incidents were said to have taken place far away from any public scrutiny.
this was where they lived — in penthouse apartments owned byjohnny depp.
this was a world of private planes — even a private island — and a relationship that both sides accepted was stormy, troubled.
you wanna see crazy?
i’ll give you crazy.
but the videos and recordings — what did they truly show?
was this evidence thatjohnny depp was violent to his partner have you drunk this whole thing this morning?
0, have you got this going?
you’ve got this going?
i just started it.
orjust angry at being secretly filmed?
another recording talked about a punch — but not byjohnny depp.
you can’ deck me.
and this wasjohnny depp in hospital after his finger was severed during another row.
the question is, who do you believe about how it happened?
thank you.
amber heard said this was her moment to tell her truth.
it has been incredibly painful to relive the break—up of my relationship, to have my motives and my truth questioned, and the most traumatic and intimate details of my life withjohnny shared in court and broadcast to the entire world.
today’ judgment has decided there was truth in what she said, leaving a shadow over the reputation ofjohnny depp.
david sillito, news.
: we have had a statement from the sun newspaper who the actor had taken it and in that statement it had said that domestic abuse victims ever be silenced.
they also hanked the judge so amber thanked the judge and also amber heard for her courage in giving ence to the court.
the one rson we have not heard from yet ay following that gment is the today following that judgment is the actor himself, johnny depp.
who came to safeguard his reputation, but he has now lost his thank for that.
the business secretary, alok sharma, has this morning defended the government’ decision to implement a month—long lockdown in england, telling business leaders and media "the cost of inaction would be greater than the action".
business leaders today, with his place at the annual conference being taken by sharma.
our business correspondent, vivienne nunis, joins me now.
as asl as i said, the prime minister would normally address the first day of conference.
not happening this morning.
did it delegates this as a snob or is it accepted that has a lot on his ate?
ithink ere was a sense of disappointment among the business nity, do not forget this is community, do not forget this is just the second time in all the that the has been hosting his annual conference that the minister of the date was not able to speak at the event.
but the focus this morning was about how businesses are going to with this news that only came a ouple of days ago at this new onal lockdown starting in ngland on thursday.
the leader of said in some ways, usinesses are better placed than they were before lockdown one.
at that time it was a real shock, they ged to perhaps move their managed to perhaps move their businesses to online and more of ran stay open, but in other ays, them can stay open, but in other ways, businesses are really going to le.
they are in a week of stmggle.
they are in a week of financial position —— make a weaker cial osition because there financial position because there been dealing with the effects the emic for so long and the message from the government was let’ mise the economic damage was not let’ listen to what carolyn fab and say.
-- fairbairn.
we need to recognise the covid safety of so many workplaces and keep as much of the economy open as we ran.
financial support — it needs to be there, it needs to be strong, and it needs to be there for the duration.
the trouble is, the furlough scheme ending in four weeks is tomorrow for so many businesses.
we need more clarity on timing.
and more is going to be needed for some sectors.
i look at aviation — an enabler of our economy.
we are an open economy, we’re going to need to be able to again for our trade — for our global trade — for our recovery.
we cannot let our aviation sector die.
how did the business secretary respond to those calls?
i think rather predictably he talked a lot about what support government ering.
we saw the furlough is offering.
we saw the furlough scheme extended for another four from thursday.
however, he did say that there will be pain, it was ettable, that difficult regrettable, that difficult decisions have to be made and he did at not every can be saved.
let’ have a listen to what he said this morning.
we have always had to balance between supporting he economy and of course protecting .
that is absolutely vital.
we took a tiered approach, a ional report, and if you look at he world health organization, this mething people thought was entirely reasonable.
countries europe have taken the same pproach, but what we always said, prime minister always said, was we would keep all of this review and take further action if we needed to and the reality is you have seen the rate above ne, it has been increasing across untry and in the face of the evidence, you have to act.
of course, it is regrettable that we aving to take this particular tion, but this is about feguarding the and ultimately sure that we can come out of making sure that we ran come out of this the other side.
business etary alok sharma there.
be one topic that was raised at this ning as brexit.
business is rappling with the lockdown, but the picture, end of nuary the bigger picture, and of january the 1st nuary for the first is the the the transition period.
the really as the government to a deal to benefit businesses ecause it would be very hard to to cope with the pandemic, ckdown and a no deal on brexit.
ank you so much that.
well, let’ get reaction from one restaurant owner in bristol who is facing closing his doors again to sit—down customers, although he can do takeaways and deliveries.
sujith ’almeida is the owner of urban tandoor curry house and joins me now.
welcome to news.
hello, thank you.
iwant to know what went you ugh your mind on saturday when heard news of the second ockdown?
i mean, it would be olutely devastating for is not first thing that went to my mind is this the beginning of many ore lockdowns to come?
do we have a ite answer?
do we know where we stand?
as business owners, we do not due lue
and you just get three have a due
and you just get three or four days notice to close and estaurant, as we had to do your restaurant, as we had to do last time, and lost a lot of stock.
staff on furlough, so it is not good for their mental —being.
so it is tough.
lots of your nd.
as a rational things your mind.
as a rational owner.
because lots of stock goes ugh its expiry date and then you ave to transfer yourself to take more from the restaurant.
your tgoings may still be the same, but to take different measures to survive.
you said it would be stating.
tell me in what way actly this time round, because you be able to do take ways and deliveries.
how most help?
on an note, every businessman is oking forward to the period tween halloween and christmas, is where you make your main iness, that is where you survive when you balance your acts for rest of the year.
that seems to nonexistent.
when it comes to ivery and keaway, everybody thinks the restaurant cannot shift ears into keaway mode, but honestly speaking, there is such a mmission you need to pay for delivery and just eat.
—— everybody the estaurant can shift the thinks the restaurant ran shift the gears.
you might say buffalo and end a sheep, you are at the up with a sheep, you are at the mercy of the big boys and you have it till the end of the month to receive the money from them.
it helps to keep you afloat, but it help you to survive in the long mn.
what do you need?
what’ help long run.
what do you need?
what’ more help would help?
i mean, during ime, kids wait for santa claus and all the business owners are ing for rishi sunak and his ackage and how he is going to bail out businesses, because every time i lockdown put a dent on the business, you have to start all over again.
if the bailout deal is not as close as it was too much, or if not better, i think many businesses will not see the dawn of 2021.
will yours?
to start with, before the pandemic, we ree restaurants and now we had three restaurants and now we only have two fully functioning.
one sed and most likely i might lose another one as well.
really, i am sorry to hear that.
the iticians would argue that there no alternative and, you know, one is one death too many.
i do nderstand, all the citizens need to .
we are not all in the same boat, but we are all in the same , so we need to help each other, judge less and we need to after the vulnerable.
—— in the ame storm.
sinesses that do not need aid, they need to trade.
we need to do it in such a way that it not hamper anything and does not hamper anything and everybody comes out of it safe.
i do stand it is a requirement from the scientist’ point of view, we do a vaccine, i do understand all of that, but i do not think ing the economy or having a closing the economy or having a national lockdown is the answer, use if not the pandemic, it will ill us with other illnesses, mental esses, they do not have an answer of what the future holds.
luck to you and really good to to you, thank you for ning us from ristol.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carole.
hello again.
after quite a mild start to the day across central and eastern parts of england, the temperature is going down, as this weather front swoops down and clears the south—east.
and we’ve got another weather front coming in behind which is going to enhance the showers, one look at the isobars tells you it’ going to be another windy or blustery day, depending on where you are.
in between all those showers, there will be some conditions, some sunshine, the showers will merge across parts of northern ireland, south—west scotland, north—west england and north wales to give some longer spells of rain.
and these black circles indicate the strength of the wind gusts we are expecting through the course of the afternoon.
temperatures nine to about 1 degrees.
we started this morning between 15 and 18 in the south, those temperatures dipping by quite a few degrees.
overnight, a band of rain pushes north eastwards across scotland and northern england and we’ve got another one coming in across southern counties.
that will clear to the east through tuesday, and then we are back into drier conditions with a few showers.
hello, this is news with rebecca jones.
the headlines: borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
scotland’ new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force — with edinburgh, glasgow and the central belt facing controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
and new restrictions for wales — later today the first minister will set out his plans for when the country’ firebreak lockdown ends next monday.
as business in england faces more restrictions, the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
actorjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife—beater".
donald trump and joe biden head to crucial swing states to campaign as the election campaign enters its final day.
sport and for a full round up, from the sport centre, here’sjohn watson.
good morning.
manchester united manager ole gunnar solskjaer said his side "didn’ turn up", after their 1—0 defeat at home to arsenal.
paul pogba gave away a penalty, with a needless tackle on hector bellerin, and pierre emerik aubameyang scored from the spot to give arsenal their first victory at old trafford in the premier league for years.
united are yet to win at home in the league this season and they’re sixth from bottom.
former midfielder roy keane was watching in his role as a pundit and he said, "i don’ see guys you want to be in the trenches with, guys you can trust".
solskjaer couldn’ argue.
these games against arsenal was always fury and fears and tackles of .
we did not have the tempo and intensity today, i can agree with that absolutely.
-- tackla slang.
i was disappointed with our first—half rmance, econd hand i thought performance, second hand ithought we were better, but unfortunately, the penalty
and we just uld not produce a response.
yes, a ustrating afternoon for him.
after gareth bale scored tottenham’ winner in their 2—1 victory over brighton, managerjose mourinho said he’ be checking the real madrid website to see if there was any comment.
bale arrived back at spurs on a season—long loan from the spanish side in september after he fell out of favour with manager zinedine zidane and received heavy criticism from the fans.
the spurs fans will have enjoyed watching that one.
his first goal since he returned took tottenham up to second in the table.
of course i’ very pleased with him and pleased especially for him use he deserves a bat, he deserves that.
i’ going to, when i have five minutes, i’ going to look rid’ website to see what they at madrid’ website to see what they say.
manchester city beat everton 3—1 at wembley, to lift the women’ cup for the third time.
the pandemic forced last season’ competition to be finished this season, with city coming out on top at wembley 3—1, thanks to goals from georgia stanway and janine beckie in extra time, as they lifted the trophy for the third time.
manager gareth taylor wants to make that four by winning the tournament again in this campaign.
despite standing on the brink of a record—equalling seventh world title, lewis hamilton says there’ "no guarantee" he will race in formula one next season.
with team prinicpal toto wolf expected to step back from the day to day running at mercedes, hamilton said he understood wanting to pullback a little bit and give more time to family.
hamilton is out of contract next season but can equal michael schumacher’ record at the next race in turkey.
yet more super league matches have been cancelled, putting the rest of the regular season in further doubt.
and it’ castleford tigers involved again.
four more of their players have tested positive for covid—19, so their games against leeds rhinos on friday and salford red devils next monday are off.
the match scheduled for last friday against huddersfield was also cancelled after 13 castleford players were ruled out with coronavirus.
they’ll have two more rounds of testing this week.
english golfer callum shinkwin said he was in shock after winning his first title at the cyprus open.
it went to a play—off against finland’ kalle samoya — and shinkwin birdied the first extra hole.
it will have eased the pain of losing in a play—off for the scottish open three years ago.
and after some chilly conditions since the european tour resumed, he was glad to be in cyprus.
playing in the cold got me a bit.
i played four weeks in the cold and in ottish cold and ijust felt so the scottish cold and ijust felt so cold, had a massive headache and had out of there quickly.
had to to get out of there quickly.
had to protect myself more than anything, a a lovely bit of sunlight here and warm, i normally don’ like the ther.
ifelt reat all week, just tmsted one either.
i felt great all week, just trusted what i was doing with wing, usted myself on the my swing, tmsted myself on the greens and just felt great.
who ’ play better in better conditions?
that’ all the sport for now.
i’ll have more for you in the next hour.
speak speakfor yourself, john.
let’ return now to hollywood star johnny depp, who has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife—beater" — claims he denies.
our media correspondent david silito explained the case.
we’ve got to go to what the allegations were.
there were 1a allegations in court and these were very serious.
this was amber heard, the former wife ofjohnny depp, saying that she was, at times, in fear of her life, saying that she had facial bruising, a broken nose, black eyes, repeated assaults against her.
and thejudge has said i will read it here.
"i have found that the great majority of alleged assaults of heard by depp have been proved to the civil standard".
that is 12 of 1a allegations, he says, took place.
so the statement in the sun, that headline thatjohnny depp is a "wife—beater," he says to be substantially true.
this is shattering for the reputation ofjohnny depp and vindication for amber heard.
a statement, of course she is also facing further legal action from johnny depp.
he is seeking to sue her in america and a statement from her council said, "for those of us present at the high court, the decision and judgment are not a surprise.
very soon we will be presenting even more voluminous evidence in the .
we are committing to obtaining justice for amber heard".
now that reference to voluminous evidence" is because, of course, amber heard was not the person who was being sued here, it was newsgroup newspapers.
she was not obliged to reveal all of the documentation about the tionship.
a statment from the sun newspaper: "the sun has stood up and campaigned for the victims of domestic abuse for over 20 years.
domestic abuse victims must never be silenced and we thank the judge for his careful consideration and thank amber heard for her courage in giving evidence to the court".
and i think one thing that is also worth mentioning is that amber heard has, since she got her divorce from johnny depp, spoken up on behalf of other people who have suffered domestic violence so she has been, essentially, an ambassador in a metoo movement, so to be questioned about what she was saying, being told that it was all a hoax, this is very, very important to her reputation, and also, to be believed about what she said over the course of their relationship.
and the judge said a recurring theme in depp’ evidence was that heard had constructed a hoax and that she had done this as an insurance policy.
he was not convinced by that argument.
our media correspondent david sillito.
joining me now is clare walker, a domestic abuse consultant who delivers training to organisations like the , local authorities, prison services and military.
thank you so much for joining us.
i wondered what your reaction was when ard this ruling.
i have to say most are ghted and thank you for the opportunity to comment on it yourself this morning.
we do enough problems in the courts garding cases of domestic violence hrough and whether there are things believed or not and we have an increase in libel claims, ich is only going to stand to fect to silence the victim further may be, perhaps, not to go through the court process and all of auma of having to divulge all the trauma of having to divulge all of the personal and private experiences that they have had, so i see this as a positive going forward mestic violence cases.
that is interesting you say very interesting what you say because as david sillito was just ing us, sometimes it is almost ard to remember that amber heard a note on trial here.
it was not who was being served, yet it was who stood up in the court and ounted her experiences.
are you ncerned then that some women are off doing that or do you think hat perhaps this might encourage do so?
i am hopeful that it would discourage false claims by a being made in one court arena and then perpetrator putting in for case.
50 it st, you know, a libel use.
so it just, you know, it deviates the legislation that has been applied.
hopefully, it ill have a two pronged approach and victims also will feel less erturbed that that might not ecessarily be an option for them, ugh every situation is case—by—case, obviously.
there is a seem inge on whether, use seem to hinge on whether, ultimately, , amber heard was telling uth.
how often are women the truth.
how often are women disbelieved?
mostly, really.
and ially when there is not especially when there is not actually any physical abuse.
if it dominantly based in coercive control then it is incredibly icult, incredibly difficult and its quite biased within family urts in particular where there are itional challenges in getting our voice and putting your voice heard and putting protection in places, which is campaigning and campaigning some more to get those changes.
can tell us a bit more about you tell us a little bit more about how women can get help?
what is your ice to tims and, indeed, their advice to victims and, indeed, their families?
well, iwould say that for children, if there are any, and perpetrators, it is time to out and make changes to circumstance and situation.
and it a different input for all of hose.
we’re going nto into lockdown again, you know, we still caught up with all of the have not caught up with all of the increased need in demand on our ices alone, but other services well in this arena, from a march so, you know, we are not nticipating it is going to be a in the park a month ahead, so ach out, get on google.
they can also act our services, claire walker consultancy, and seek advice port or guidance in whatever or support or guidance in whatever way, but there are lots of other ites and agencies that will till be running through lockdown
so it safely.
you so much for alking turns on news, claire ker.
thank you very much for your me.
more new on the month—long national coronavirus lockdown in england starting on thursday.
it’ll mean many small businesses will have to close.
let’ speak to keely weir, who’ managing director of clip ‘ climb — a climbing centre in bicester which will have to close under the new lockdown rules.
thank you for joining us.
what are your thoughts, i heard they did ask the prospect of having to dose you, at the prospect of having to close questioning obviously it is sappointing.
we were very disappointing.
we were delighted when we got to open at the july.
aving been close end ofjuly.
having been close performance previously.
we have been ting at 50% capacity.
operating at 50% capacity.
thankfully people have come back, joyed bing.
we have ust had enjoyed climbing.
we have just had half term and we were full at 50% pacity so thought of closing capacity
so they thought of dosing again is a a really disappointing for lves as a business, but also ecause it has been delightful to families enjoying family time ogether so obviously knowing that to be taken away from is going to be taken away from peopla as well.
i was going to ask do you understand your aving to close?
but perhaps i may that any erent way, have ask that any different way, have 7°“- as far as you’re aware, seen any rases of infection since you ened?
no.
and i know other aces where staff have maybe had to lf—isolate and things.
we’ve have ses with their star.
everyone as been delighted to hers, with the covid measures be put in place.
so for us, we have had no cases, no on on the ack and trace app are cases on the track and trace app are anything like that —— now cases with taff.
have felt that we have done all that we can do to make sure re safe our staff, our we are safe and our staff, our customers are safe when they come to obviously, it is a bigger us.
but obviously, it is a bigger picture than just us, really.
rstood.
i mean, ithink the understood.
i mean, i think the area in which you are located is seeing a ses per 00,000, which, 321 cases per 100,000, which, relatively speaking, is high.
yes.
nderstand what you’re saying
but i understand what you’re saying that you have not seen any cases at business.
do you need, your business.
what do you need, what would help in order to survive latest lockdown?
i think for us, obviously, the first lockdown, was the financial support and there was the financial support and in place
and we had reserves, but reserves are busily running .
we cannot take ourselves online, an activity where people this is an activity where peopla come and do it.
if that lockdown does go on longer, that will make it harder and harder again because we have not got that income coming in because cannot come under the peopla cannot come under the activity.
what support do you need overnment?
to help you from government?
to help you survive?
there is the financial ort that is needed, but with that you cannot, the government of cannot keep it giving out this i cannot keep it giving out loans and bounce back once we both it needs to, i personally feel, be a more rounded approach, needs coming from landlords, etc.
here needs to be support throughout ole system.
if we had not the money in, we cannot send money out.
eciate the government do not have an endless pot of money but i think it needs to be drawing ybody together to support each other.
when it comes to landlords, rents, etc the leisure business and other businesses.
we must leave it there, but really good to you and good luck.
thank you.
the headlines on news borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
as business in england faces more restrictions the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
actorjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife—beater".
more new on the month—long national coronavirus lockdown in england starting on thursday.
the government has made it clear that nurseries, schools, colleges and universities will remain open.
but education unions are already concerned about the impact the virus is continuing to have on attendance — both for pupils and staff.
let’ speak to julie mcculloch, who’ director of policy at the association of school and college leaders thank you for joining us on news.
first of all, do you agree keeping schools, colleges, nurseries, universities open?
so we sent esent 20,000 and college represent 20,000 school and college leaders around the and our view at we do need to prioritise eeping schools and colleges open as as we possibly can.
we know much as we possibly ran.
we know that the consequences of closing ols in the spring and summer erm were dire, both in terms of ping education going but also in erms of children’ welfare and -being.
view is that we well-being.
our view is that we think the government has right to ritise keeping schools open over services as much as they can.
we so need to be really mindful of the impact, obviously, on the spread of the virus and the children and staff in our ols.
there is also a difference, sn’ there, between primary and ondary schools?
it does seem that here is less of a rate of spread, ant of a better word, in for want of a better word, in primary schools.
what about ndary chools, should they carry on?
we think that is definitely an ment for looking at possibly eing on a rota system in a ondary schools.
the spread in condary schools seems to be much greater than it is in primary.
in the government on potentially ning, they’ve already said, have been saying several weeks now hat if we get into a position where prevalence of the virus is rticularty igh, secondary schools uld ould move to a rota, so possibly ing half of their pupils in a at ight
and then those peoples working ome and having the other half in it for the next fortnight —— in fortnight.
think this is for a fortnight.
we think this is something the government should ously be looking at here and it is not necessarily an all or nothing tion, school is completely open a close, we think there might be more nuance approaches that ould be taken.
have you cemented approach to government?
and at sort of response have you had you have?
-- bmitted.
we are in regular discussions the government and the announcement that over the weekend was a came out over the weekend was a surprise to many people.
that was quite time in the government was anticipating.
there is a little catch—up going on there, but have ertainly been in iscussions with the department for ation this morning and are education this morning and are raising the comments and concerns we ceiving from our members and tting the suggestions to overnment.
you mention the comments and concerns from your members.
we have also heard concerns from the ns.
they are perhaps, some nyway, a little more concerned attendance, the number of econdary school pupils who are ting the virus, and the safety of aff as well.
what do you say to ?
yes, absolutely share those oncerns.
we are also representing leaders so we have a school leaders so we have a responsibility to represent our ers views as well and they, what we’re hearing from them is that we need to get that balance right.
we need to keep children in the school ossibly can, but we also need if we possibly ran, but we also need to make sure that we have all of safety measures in place and re prepared to move to a different tion if we need to, like rotors for example.
we also know that one things that school leaders re singularly clearly is that they need nancial support to put need more financial support to put those safety measures into their ols and colleges that they need at the moment they’re not etting it government so they are spending thousands of pounds to ure they have got hand make sure they have got hand sanitiser, all sorts of measures they need to put in place, that they need to put in place, spending a lot of money and supply at the moment, for example, ere staff need to self—isolate, so of the things were calling for a ery strongly lease let’ very strongly is a please let’ make sure that we give our schools and eges the money that they need in der to keep those premises as safe possible and keep schools open.
must leave it there.
director of policy at the association of and college leaders, julie cculloch, we are very grateful for time, thank you.
the presidential election enters its final day of campaigning, with both president trump and joe biden appealing to voters in crucial battle ground states.
the scale of early voting has been unprecedented with more than 93 million americans having cast their ballots already.
our correspondent nomia iqbal reports from florida.
this is the most important election of our lifetime.
it is crunch time.
president trump and joe biden have been making a push in the midwestern states and if those swing states are crucial, then florida is critical.
donald trump needs more than their love.
he needs their votes.
to become president it requires 270 points from the electoral college system and florida has 29 up for grabs.
without this state, the path back to the white house looks near impossible.
more than eight million residents here have already voted.
this is the last day of in—person early voting here in florida and at this polling station there are donald trump supporters on one side and joe biden supporters on the other, with no—one meeting in the middle.
and that sums up what it is like to be in a swing state.
people love the guy because they think he is like us, a regular person and not a politician.
he is a liar.
he wants his ego, power, that is it.
he does not care about the community.
and some say donald trump is trying to portray his rival, joe biden, in a way that plays on the fears of many latino voters.
the trump administration needs something to grab onto because their record is terrible.
so one of the biggest ways to scare cubans and venezuelans is by fear mongering them into talking about communism and socialism.
my entire family is voting for donald trump.
my entire family.
i am one of the few in my family who is not voting for trump, who is voting forjoe biden.
florida has been problematic in delivering election results.
but officials tell us they are ready this time.
if that is true, then on election night florida will give us an early sense of which man is on track to become the next president.
nomia iqbal, news, florida.
you can join us tomorrow night from 11.
30pm for our election special results programme on one and the news channel and you can follow all the expert analysis online as the results come in at bbc.
co.
uk/news and on the news app.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carole.
hello again.
some parts of the southeast and eastern england this morning started off with temperatures between 15 and 18 degrees.
but as this cold front sinks south, the temperature will actually go down behind it.
and you can see another weather front coming in from the west, enhancing the showers.
and all those isobars are telling us that it’ going to be another windy day.
not as windy in the north as it was over the weekend, but still windy in the west and also the south.
so, some weather today, some sunshine to look forward to.
but, equally, we’ve got quite a lot of showers and some of those will merge to give some longer spells of rain at times.
these are the kind of wind gust that we’re expecting — so still gusty winds to watch out for.
temperatures, nine in the north to about 1 in parts of the southeast, so dropping for some by about four degrees or so.
now, through this evening and overnight, the rain in the northwest pushes across scotland.
we could see some wet snow in and bute, the south highlands, for example.
and we’ve got another band coming in across southern wales and also central parts of england.
behind that, on higher ground in wales, in the moores, we could also see some wet snow — butjust on higher ground.
now, that will bring rain into the southeast and then it turns cooler.
a ridge of high pressure starts to build in and you can see all that mild air indicated by the yellows and oranges pushed away and we see a return to blue — indicating that cooler weather.
so for tuesday, we eventually say goodbye to this weather front as it drifts off into the north sea — lot drier behind it.
there will still be some showers dotted around.
the winds will be a lot lighter, as well, than they have been in the last few days, and are going to be for some of us today.
and temperature—wise on tuesday — well, roughly between nine in lerwick and 12 as we sweep down towards london.
now, moving on from tuesday night into wednesday, we start to see this ridge of high pressure build in.
that’ going to settle things down, but it’ also going to turn much colder, so first thing wednesday morning, we could be looking at some frost and also some fog as we go through notjust wednesday, but the overnight period and the next couple of nights, as well.
so what can you expect?
well, on wednesday, thursday, friday and saturday, it will be drier.
there’ll still be one or two showers.
it’ not going to be as windy, but it’ going to be cooler by day and night.
this is news.
i’ rebecca jones.
the headlines: borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
scotland’ new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force, with edinburgh, glasgow and the central belt facing controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
and new restrictions for wales — later today the first minister will set out his plans for when the country’ firebreak lockdown ends next monday.
as business in england face more restrictions, the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
actorjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife beater".
donald trump and joe biden head to crucial swing states to campaign, as the election campaign enters its final day.
hello and welcome to news.
borisjohnson will urge today to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
he’ expected to stress the government’ intention to ease the new restrictions after a month.
the prime minister announced on saturday that strict measures will be imposed across england from thursday.
people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
pubs, restaurants, gyms, nonessential shops and places of worship will close.
and meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
but you will be able to meet one other person from another household outside in a public place.
elsewhere, scotland has moved into its new five—tier system of restrictions this morning.
nowhere has yet been placed into the most severe, tier 4.
in the next few minutes, the first minister of wales, mark dra keford, will outline an exit plan from the country’ national firebreak, which is due to end on the 9th november.
this afternoon, to to win over some tories who are threatening to vote against the lockdown in england.
and at the annual conference of the confederation of british industry, the outgoing—director general has criticised the way major announcements, like the lockdown in england, have been handled.
let’ speak to our political correspondent, iain watson.
a lot to die just that, but to let’ perhaps a deal first with boris son the challenge he faces.
cut a lot die just.
sometimes has ome as your enemies are hind you, but he will sadly be ing criticism from sir keir tarmer in this delay in having this down to coincide with the school half term holidays in england, but eir starmer i think will make also keir starmer
i think will make the point that he believes there has human cost to the delayed boris ohnson ollowing the advice of some of his scientific sors to go for it lockdown very uch earlier when they were advising to do in late september.
but from his own side, he will be facing ery specific questions of some very specific questions of whether he is really looking at this in the round.
is he looking at he economic impact of a month—long own in england?
could there be formal assessment aboutyou will be questioned i think on some the evidence he is relying on, conservative have speaking his morning so they believe that age, the scientific advice has been ing, has been out of date, and some parts of the country where have had these restrictive tier ures, such as the city of 3 measures, such as the city of manchester itself, they actually nfections go down, so is he sing infections go down, so is he losing his nerve.
it is not whether get it hrough the house of commons on wednesday, but whether it extended or whether there will be some sunset clause on this.
assurances will matter, cause that will likely determine he will face from his own what he will face from his own backbenchers.
some may say we can up with it time but never put up with it this time but never again.
behind the scenes in downing the chancellor has been street the chancellor has been arguing that as much of the economy be kept open for as much as possible, but today he made it very he stood with the prime minister, because he felt that the nment now had no option to act, given the growing pressure on the there is a range of different models and different estimates and i agree with the prime minister that we have to be humble in the face of nature.
we’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared.
it’ the last thing we want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
we strove very hard to avoid being in this situation.
even the areas with currently low incidence now have some of the highest rates of increase and because of the way that the is constructed in some of those areas, actually the pressure on beds would manifest itself quite soon — in a matter of weeks — and i think when we heard all of that and saw all of that from all of our scientific medical advisers, it was clear — very regrettably — that, unless we took action now, and quite significant action, we would be in an unacceptable situation in just a matter of weeks.
in fact, what the prime minister will be arguing that afternoon in ouse of commons is that we can the house of commons is that we ran see deaths double the rate this than they did in the spring, there is a medical case for ervention.
but he will have to ake that case pretty strongly to me his own sceptical backbenchers.
one of them he was in he chair of the committee that represents the backbench opinions, aham brady, was telling the that some of these measures —— if they had announced in a totalitarian state one i spoke to ali this morning was esting that for example the overnment’ track and trace system was nothing short of a farce, as i think to some extent, simply at this , some of that criticism will be muted this afternoon.
between now debate on wednesday, he will have to justify his going into down and guarantee that it will extend in its current form past ember the 2nd.
thank you.
people in scotland face new restrictions today, as the country is split into a five—tiered system.
the new rules came into effect at six ’clock this morning.
glasgow, edinburgh and dundee are amongst the areas with strict restrictions in tier 3, although no area in scotland is currently in the highest tier.
wales’ first minister, mark drakeford, will set out the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’ firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
people in wales have been told to stay at home except for exercise and essential journeys.
meetings between households are banned, and pubs, restaurants and nonessential shops are shut.
and we are expecting to hear that briefing from the first minister of wales, mark drakeford, very shortly and we will bring that to you live here on the news channel.
that they are preparing for that announcement.
johnny depp has lost his libel case against the sun.
the hollywood star sued the newspaper’ publisher and its executive editor, dan wootton, over an article in 2018 which claimed he had assaulted his ex—wife amber heard, which he denies.
our correpsondent helena wilkinson gave this update from the royal courts of justice.
it was a highly anticipated ruling.
it has been about three and a half months since that dramatic hearing here at the high court, which saw both amber heard and johnny depp both give evidence in the hearing where amber heard said that there were more than 1a occasions where her former husband, johnny depp, had assaulted her, been violent towards her.
she said at times she had feared for her life.
the judge, in the last hour, handed down hisjudgment, mrjustice nicol, and he had said in thatjudgment that the claimant, that isjohnny depp, had not succeeded in his libel case against the sun.
and what the sun, the publisher of that article in 2018 which referred tojohnny depp as a wife beater in the hearing, the burden of proof was on the sun to prove that what they had published was truthful.
and thejudge in his judgment had said that the words that were published by the publisher of the sun, news group newspapers, were substantially true.
so, the sun newspaper had managed to prove that they were truthful in what they had published.
but it was a trial here injuly, just after lockdown, which heard details, revelations, about the hollywood couple, the breakdown of their marriage and a difficult marriage that it was.
very serious allegations, as i say, that amber heard had made against her former husband, johnny depp.
that was helena wilkinson with the latest from the royal courts of ice.
in the meantime, we have received a atement from just received a statement from johnny depp’ lawyer, which i am to be ealt to you.
i quote going to be dealt to you.
i quote here, this decision is as perverse bewildering.
most troubling is the judge’ reliance on the imony of amber heard and orresponding disregard of the ntain of counter evidence from lice officers, medical actitioners, her own former sistant, other unchallenged tnesses and an array of ocumentary evidence which pletely undermined the llegations point by point.
all of was overlooked, says the statement from johnny depp’ lawyer.
dgment so lawed that it the judgment is so ﬂawed that it would be ridiculous that depp not eal this decision.
joining me now is media law expert and consultant, david banks.
perhaps we will come onto that statement and the decision to appeal ment, but first, what did you make of the ruling itself?
i think as a fairty mpetitive it was a fairly competitive indication of the actions of the sun shing and the testimony given by amber heard and others, which the udge’ it ind to prove to took the judge’ it mind to prove to the truth of the allegations.
truth fficult offence for is a difficult offence for publishers, that the burden is on ublisher to prove the truth as helen just said.
that means that the ting point the court is that starting point for the court is that they do not believe, or they believe he allegations made were that the allegations made were untrue, so publishers have got a tain to climb.
to the really ard to defence, but the sun have aged to mount that defence ccessfully.
bringing the evidence the judge says has been substantially proven.
i take your that actually it is a big point that actually it is a big mountain to climb for the publisher.
the less, johnny depp must but none the lass, johnny depp must have taken quite a risk here to ove that he wasn’ not a wife ter.
ould he take that risk, you think?
-- sn’ not a wife eater.
hat is it going through a osed ind is difficult to discern.
would have been advised with the involved with going to high ourt with a libel action and we seen countless libel actions this where skeletons have come mbling out closet when tumbling out of the closet when peopla give evidence and stand up in igh court.
50 he will have been the high court.
so he will have been aware and advised of this, but rtheless has taken the decision neverthelass has taken the decision to go to court.
we can only assume he the allegation made of that he felt the allegation made of abuse, of wife—beating, was iciently serious that he felt he ad to clear his name and to leave challenged would be more it unchallenged would be more damaging.
i think, as we have seen, rospect that might not have been the wisest decision, but he he was up for the fight, as we see rom the statement that was ued today.
absolutely.
talking to id banks, media law expert and onsultant about the news that depp has lost his libel case gainst the .
the hollywood star ad sued the newspaper’ publisher xecutive editor, dan wootton, if at an ticle that claimed he had assaulted his ex—wife amber ard.
you’re watching news.
for staying with us.
i do ant asking about the news that has into us the , that statement rom johnny pp’ lawyer, that he ntends ll, i’ saying he ttends to appeal, the statement the udgment is lawed that said the judgment is so ﬂawed that it would be ridiculous for depp appeal this decision.
has apprised would you be if he did or indeed?
—— how surprised you be?
if a claimant once to pend money on an appeal and they that they have grounds, they do hat.
i think that the judgment is irly comprehensive and you look at number of if you look at the number of accounts that mrjustice nicholl to, 2 of the 1a counts being refers to, 12 of the 14 counts being brought saying that they have been .
you have to wonder at the isdom, but clearly depp and his egal team feel he counter legal team feel that the counter evidence that they brought is icient to outweigh that and go appeal.
you’re talking about sive investment in legal fees ain in any appeal here and so it a very substantial step to take.
etimes announcements are made ith intent to appeal in cases which fullness of time, once a reful consideration has been given dgment, come to pass, and judgment, do not come to pass, so it may well be that things might in due course, but we can change in due course, but we ran only look forward to the appeal ing and more evidence or a counting of the evidence before judges in the appeal court.
ally good to hear your thoughts insights, thank you for ing joining us on news.
the headlines on news borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’ intention to ease restrictions after a month.
as business in england face more restrictions the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
actorjohnny depp has lost his high court libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife beater".
the labour leader sir keir starmer has criticised what he called the government’ ‘catalogue of mistakes’ over the coronavirus crisis which he said have cost lives.
111: but first, let’ go and listen to mark drakeford.
i said it would back with the discussions we ad over the weekend about the new of national measures which would in place here in wales when he firebreak comes to an end a week today, next monday.
ministers ave been meeting throughout the kend to consider the final tails of these measures.
and white and our iscussions have had plans and our discussions have had to adapt to a the and its rated uncement by the prime minister hat england will start a month long own on thursday for —— our lans.
iwant absolutely clear hat our firebreak will end as nned and as promised on monday 9th of november.
but we do now ave to consider the impact the lish lockdown will have on the steps we take in wales.
we need his because we share a long and porous border between wales and nd.
every day, on a non—lockdown day, almost 150,000 a criss cross this border to peopla criss cross this border to work, to visit family, shop, do ness and to travel.
and everyday a huge volume of goods and services rough wales to england and ﬂow through walas to england and vice versa.
the english lockdown evitably impact on people inevitably has an impact on peopla who live in wales but work in and.
on companies operating in oth england and wales and on inesses trading along the border.
ill be coming out of our irebreak ust as england begins its long lockdown.
and it is ally important that as we open up, les does not become an escape for eopla seeking circumvent the new tighter restrictions imposed by the minister.
we want to keep prime minister.
we want to keep wales safe and we we to keep the ted kingdom safe as well.
now, hen the firebreak ends next monday, will be a new set of national there will be a new set of national measures which will replace the ious local restrictions.
but previous oral restrictions.
but more important than any rules, dance or gulations which we put in place will be at the parts which one of us plays in responding the ongoing public health mergency we face in wales.
we can oduce new laws, but these will be successful if we all do rything we can to reduce our everything we ran to reduce our exposure to the virus, by keeping ontacts we have with other eople to a minimum, at home, in and we go out.
we need to do the minimum.
not the maximum, the rules allow.
our real which the mles allow.
our real strength lies, , as it has been ughout the pandemic, in the choices we make and the actions we take together.
now, when we ame of lockdown in the spring took a cautious approach, elaxing restrictions gradually to ure that we did not lose all make sure that we did not lose all the gains we had worked so hard to eve.
we will once again take hat approach.
for the first two after the firebreak ends, the ational measures will be designed ximise the impact of everything that we have done together during irebreak period, to control the spread of the virus.
and we will iew situation in a review the situation in a fortnight’ time to see whether we any urther changes.
turn ran make any further changes.
turn now to what all this means in tice.
during the firebreak, it as only been possible to see the ple you live with within your own ome.
now, result of the home.
now, as a result of the firebreak and all we have done it, do ore.
we all want our we ran do more.
we all want our homes to be welcoming places, but we ant them to be safe places.
one of the most common conceptions about coronavirus is we catch it from people that we do not ow.
in fact, we are more kely to catch it from and pass it to the people we are in closest ontact every day.
these are families or loved ones and the ple we left with.
—— we live th.
to households in wales will be to join gether to form a able to join together to form a bubble or extended household for —— useholds.
to help keep two households.
to help keep everybody as safe as possible at , only people from your own ousehold or extended household will to meet in your own home.
be able to meet in your own home.
now, the rules around meeting people erhaps the difficult that are perhaps the most difficult that we have to consider and that is ked people to think about what hey should do, rather than simply hey ran do.
and we know that what they ran do.
and we know that changing the rules to allow two eholds to join together and to eet at home, which will be very uable for many, many households walas, not reflect the in wales, does not reﬂect the family dynamics of many people and oes enable friends and young it does not enabla friends and young peopla to meet.
beyond november the there will be new arrangements meet indoors in other settings as pubs, bars, cafes and estaurants.
but because all these aces will be closed in places will now be closed in england, we are having to think her about how the hospitality ector in wales can operate in these rcumstances.
and that consideration will continue into fternoon.
in relation to this afternoon.
in relation to organised activity, up to 15 people be ble to meet together to will be able to meet together to take part in an indoors activity and 0 in outdoors activities up to 30 in outdoors activities provided of course, as ever, that ocial distancing, hand hygiene other covid safety measures are owed.
as from the 9th of followed.
as from the 9th of november, schools will reopen in , working from home will become even more important.
and all that ness premises which have been shut since the 23rd of october will to reopen again on monday of week.
local authority services resume, reflecting local ircumstances and places of worship able to reopen.
there will be no travel restrictions inside , but during the month long ockdown in england, travel will not mitted outside wales without a reasonabla excuse.
now, as i explained on friday, we continue to rge numbers of people falling see large numbers of peopla falling ill with oronavirus in walas.
we have over hospital beds have over 1000 hospital beds occupied by people with coronavirus ated nditions and very sadly, -related conditions and very sadly, again over this weekend, we had to more families losing loved to this awful virus.
we still ave a left of the firebreak period.
it week to make a real erence to the course of this virus, to prevent our from being overwhelmed and to save lives.
as ever, ivvant thank everyone for erything that you have done so .
together we continue to keep ales safe.
and as they tend to take estions from rnalists, all the questions from journalists, all the answers, as you know, will be dcast live on our own social edia channels.
first, over an from wales.
thank you, i would eally ateful if you could be really grateful if you could answer these in welsh.
you said would only do what is it peopla would only do what is it really necessary, but you’re itting people to do what is permitting peopla to do what is perhaps not necessary after the break, to go out to a pub for a .
if you think people should eave their homes when it is uinely necessary, then society is cally being asked to impose its lockdown.
what i’ saying to pla in wales as this, we will ave this new simple set of national beyond the firebreak period, if people pproach that period asking mselves what is the maximum i can do?
how many things i now part in?
how many people ran i meet?
how far will i travel?
that will lead us all back the difficulties we have faced in this awesome.
so what we have to is a set of national rules ether the ongoing together with the ongoing determination of people in wales to right thing, for every one of us to ask ourselves that question, ontribution can we make to what contribution ran we make to keeping ourselves and others say?
at does not mean trying to and that does not mean trying to stretch the rules to do even more.
eans taking responsibility it means taking that responsibility in our own lives to do the things keep us all safe.
that is the ssage i was trying to convey this ning as i want to convey it again ow.
people in wales have made the enormous effort.
when the irebreak is over, i do not want to be a signal to people that ose those efforts ran come to an end.
if we are to get the benefits of a break period, we all need to ehave in the weeks that follow by ing us not what can i do, but asking us not what ran i do, but what should i do?
and in that way, go on together helping to ring the coronavirus under control give a through to christmas beyond.
so, we have been listening to a fing from the first minister of wales, mark drakeford, where he has nced a new nationwide measures which will take effect after the firebreak lockdown ends next eek.
let’ run through week.
let’ just you through some of them.
he said that from next , two households in wales would able to join together to a bubble or an extended usehold, but only people in that ubble extended household can meet ople inside their own home.
ans for reopening hospitality, it nded as if they have been put on old or at least are subject to ther discussion, that of course in the light of the announcement england will face a second ckdown for a month from thursday.
walas, up to 15 people will but in walas, up to 15 peopla will be able to meet indoors for ivities, sports for example, and 0 outdoors, provided they abide by distancing rules.
let’ social distancing mles.
let’ listen back into that conference.
may think that that insurance policy is not working and wales better off, its response to ovid would be better, if it was an ependent nation.
if we were not part of the united kingdom, we would not be having a ussion about for at all the illions and millions of pounds that been spent on supporting people are unable to work during oronavirus would be here for us to use -- furlough.
so of course, i think it strikes me and will strike a in in wales as unfair that when peopla in walas as unfair that when we asked for flexibility, we were at none was possible.
and told that none was possible.
and when the government decided to for england, suddenly that exibility was found.
at the asury is he treasury for the ole of the united kingdom, not part of it.
but without the treasury and without being part of that great insurance policy, not be debating whether or we would not be debating whether or not we were getting furlough unfair because we would not be terms because we would not be getting help with furlough at all.
independence is concerned, we have already an independent here that are able to make isions here for wales and throughout the coronavirus period i have used independently the powers is a welsh government to ake decisions that are right for as.
i sometimes think the wales.
so i sometimes think the debate, a sort of polarising debate independence and what we got, misses the point, really.
independent scope to act and it all the time, but we do it the umbrella that the united ngdom provides to us and one which drawn on the strength of that throughout this crisis.
over to an masters of wales.
he said that scussions continue this ternoon about the hospitality ctor.
you had promised all sectors they would get a week’ notice be able to repare.
can you tell them that they get that them that they will get that decision today and can you confirm sort hings you’re looking what sort of things you’re looking at - is at keeping pubs and taurants close altogether or different mles in border areas?
i do not want to keep those places , , i want to see them reopen in les.
but any prime minister’ ecision the weekend is inevitably create a different ext dash might be prime inister’ decision.
if pubs are along the border in england, ere is bound to be a risk that opla will to break the law, ecause the law in england will say hem that they should not travel nto wales because pubs here will be and serving alcohol.
so i do open and sewing alcohol.
so i do not want our police forces to be rted into having to police the order because we have a situation we had not anticipated and we not had a chance to think through.
had that not happen, i would simply have been announcing that everything would reopen today that everything would reopen on the same terms as they would have ted on the 22nd of october.
but the context has changed, it is rtant that we talk to the sector.
that we get a set of angements that work for them and hat prevent unintended consequences causing us difficulties beyond that sector and i want to get those sions as quickly as possible, more than getting them quickly, get them right
and that want to get them right and that means being prepared to talk to le, hear heir iews, and then peopla, hear their views, and then come to the decisions that will need .
thank you.
and could you to make.
thank you.
and could you also tell me what your thinking is care homes.
it is something that is portant for the mental ll-being of sidents as residents well as families.
will visits be owed take place cut care homes allowed to take place cut rare homes are a constant cause of concern to .
because one the virus gets into a rare home, we now have fast spread among the very vulnerable population and we know the devastation that ran follow.
we have tried our best to learn the ons from the earlier part of the year.
lam rare ome visits are ill happening wales —— care still happening in walas -- rare home visits.
while i do not want to this in the of offering say this in the sense of offering false hope to people, one of the that we do have some optimism at things will develop over the eks ahead is that he new neration of tests may become ilable where people will be able to minister themselves and be able the answer is very quickly ithin, let us say, half an hour, so asked our officials here to ork with the care home sector to , as does become available, see, as does test become availabla, whether used for care home visiting be priority, one of the top would be a priority, one of the top things that we would use those tests they become available to us in walas.
because if that were the , , someone could come to a care home, minister the tests hemselves, while they were waiting far, and within half an hour, hey would now hat they had a test positive and negative and if it positive, you could not visit , but if it was negative 3 the it ould go ahead.
that does visit could go ahead.
that does offer us a different path through a very difficult dilemma where we want protect who live we want to protect people who live in rare homes, but of course, we peopla to to be able to have the omfort knowing they can be seen their loved ones as well.
if those tests do come on stream, and some optimism that they will, then rare home visiting is at the the list things that we top of the list of things that we would want to explore for putting to work here in wales.
ageing, hank you.
over to andy davies at nnel 4.
thank you.
you said there be no travel permitted outside les without a reasonable excuse.
what that mean in terms of peopla visiting wales from england?
welsh regulations prohibit hat, egardless of what the english lations say?
no, it will be the ame broad system on both sides of border.
people who live in les, but work in england will have easonable reason for travelling work people who live in to work and peopla who live in england and work in wales will ely have easonable excuse for likely have a reasonabla excuse for coming across the border to work .
it will be a restricted list essential purposes, rather than ormal toing and froing across der that you would have seen the border that you would have seen in a less fraught and difficult es.
what would your message he to those people in england who be nsidering coming to wales as to visit a pub or taurant during the lock in period and include?
my message to them is that they must the law in england.
and at the in england will not allow that appen.
it will not allow that to pen for a very good reasons.
the sures that have been put in place england are designed to turn back ale of challenge that the scale of challenge that coronavirus has now caused to our and neighbours across the order.
those rules will have been in place by prime minister put in place by the prime minister for very good reasons.
and people in and eed to follow them just as always ask people in wales to follow ules that we put in follow the mles that we put in place for people here.
andy, thank will ayward at wales you.
to will hayward at walas online.
thank you, first minister.
are seeing more cases and england are seeing more rases and deaths than the reasonable worst nario model predicted also as wales also permits projections that mean there is likely to be more deaths than the 6300 that reviously feared?
can you talk were previously feared?
“an you talk a study most —to—date reasonable scenario modelling for wales, ease question mark thank .
before we took the decision to stitute a fabric here in wales, we racking -- irebreak.
we were tracking, but not ceeding it.
we were going along the pathway that wansea modelling suggested uld be the worst case.
that is nstituted the firebreak.
we have swansea to the modelling again us to take into account the impact of a fire break period and we ave the results of that, i’ sure, shortly.
but we were not eding it as they have reported england, but we were tracking it.
that was a strong signal to us need to act and act early here wales.
ank you.
can you also in walas.
thank you.
“an you also talk ecause really plan for local turnes now.
if there is a local utbreak, follow a similar outbreak, will you follow a similar model with the figure of 50 cases 00,000 as a benchmark and were estrictions imposed by the same as ?
and could ask for the before?
and could ask for the confirmation, can you confirm people alas now able to book in walas are now able to book holidays in wales such as in stone after the firebrick?
yes, on the final point i can confirm peopla ill be able to travel within the wheels.
they will not be ned to the local authority area confined to the oral authority area as was the case —— wales.
we are to leave briefing note going to leave that briefing note from the first minister of wales, akeford there in cardiff.
announcing a new nationwide measures ill take effect after the that will take effect after the welsh firebrick lockdown ends next it has work reiterating that these measures will not come into until next monday.
the effect until next monday.
the headlines, schools will reopen, nesses that have been shut since october 23 will be able to reopen as week, hospitality venues, iscussions are ongoing as to ther they will be able to reopen the light of the announcement the prime minister boris johnson at england will be locked or a month from thursday.
ere will be no travel restrictions next monday inside wales, but avel will not be permitted outside without a reasonable excuse.
walas without a reasonabla excuse.
so mark drakeford they’re announcing was a new nationwide measures hat will take effect from next day.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has criticised what he called the government’ "catalogue of mistakes" over the coronavirus crisis, which he said "have cost lives and livelihoods".
he was speaking to business leaders at the annual conference, which is being held online.
earlier, at the same event, the business secretary, alok sharma, defended the government’ decision to implement a month—long lockdown in england, telling business leaders and media "the cost of inaction would be greater than the action".
our business correspondent vivienne nunis is here.
this was interesting, he differentiate the relationship with siness community from what it as under corbyn.
saying the party to build a new relationship, partnership with the business nity and that they really value community and that they really value the contribution business makes to ty, but as you said, he also ook the opportunity to really vily criticise the government and anagement so far of the coronavirus pandemic.
he talked the chancellor rishi sunak aving three economic plans and four weeks.
let’ have a sten to what sir keir starmer had say that conference this morning.
the central lesson of the first ways scratch make was ignored that if you control this virus, you have act earty and ecisively.
and hat if you don’, the cost to ple’ health and at the health of conomy is much, much worse.
one the things i’ve learned from this is is that it take exposes dership like nothing else.
—— poses eadership.
on that count, prime minister and have failed.
the leader of the opposition addressing the conference this ing.
we would normally be morning.
we would normally be hearing from the prime minister on at the opening morning of the conference, wouldn’ we?
he was not .
how did that go down with there.
how did that go down with delagates?
that they regarded as a of a snob or was it well, he has always got a lot on his plate?
i think there was a sense of appointment that the prime nister could not be there this ning.
i remember, it is the morning.
i remember, it is just the second time in all the years that has been hosting this annual ent that the prime minister of the could not make an appearance.
ris johnson, course, is going to be speaking the commons later day about the new lockdown coming england on thursday.
i really, lockdown was at the bigger focus of this morning’ discussions, siness is going to cope with a second lap time?
he quite severe in.
dame caroline for locked in.
dame caroline for revenge, the director—general of the id usinesses are better said businesses are better prepared than they were the first around —— fairbench.
businesses have been to adapt.
but in other ways businesses are worse off, ould any much healthier they would any much healthier position financially at the nning of the year because they ave now been dealing with the ncial impact of a pandemic for several months.
hear what dame line fairbairn had to say this orning.
we need to recognise the covid safety of so many workplaces and keep as much of the economy open as we ran.
financial support — it needs to be there, it needs to be strong, and it needs to be there for the duration.
the trouble is, the furlough scheme ending in four weeks is tomorrow for so many businesses.
we need more clarity on timing.
and more is going to be needed for some sectors.
i look at aviation — an enabler of our economy.
we are an open economy, we’re going to need to be able to again for our trade — for our global trade — for our recovery.
we cannot let our aviation sector die.
dame caroline fairbairn there.
the other big topic was a brexit.
the sition period ends on the ist of january.
she government to ome up with a soon.
sir keir tarmer also urged the committee up with the deal.
dame caroline airbairn said it would be conscionable to unleash a no—deal it on he and europe are now dealing with the second wave of the avirus pandemic.
thank you very much.
our business corresponded, .
as that briefing was taking place in wales, so nicola sturgeon was also giving one to the people of scotland.
today scotland has been placed under a new tier system across its council areas, restricting certain areas to harsher lockdown measures than others.
but, she says the country has a decision to face, as the government’ furlough scheme funding is only available during the month that england is in lockdown.
the position, as it has in so many countries across the world, remains ragile and we remain very very fragile and we remain very concerned about the rise in hospital and intensive rare commissions.
we still there’ a lot of uncertainty of countries do.
that is clear last week that when i set he levels that would apply nitially that we might yet have to urther and that we cannot rule out a to level four for all the arts of the country.
while that ision would never be easy, there no doubt that the availability of ore extensive unfurlough scheme the kind that the prime minister nounced on saturday would make it lass difficult —— furlough scheme.
it would make it light less difficult because kers would have more of their ages paid.
what we have to be up coming ays as there is, should we take the opportunity of more rous financial support to step arder on the brakes now to to infection rates down faster more firmly?
the potential efit of that would be suppressing ite is a further and faster at a time when financial support is lable.
—— suppressing the virus.
but possibly ing up a bit more breathing space over the christmas .
ideally, we would assess the period.
ideally, we would assess the impact of the current restrictions it longer before making that decision and, at the very least, until our next scheduled review which is during lectures, a tomorrow.
but he has a dilemma ace
and it is important i am with you about it.
at this age, the indication is that the generous unfurlough scheme is going to be available for the -- urlough’ scheme during he period of england’ lockdown.
it should be available to devolved nistrations whenever it is eeded and most reasonable people think that has the fair ossession and i, with colleagues in elsh and northern irish governments have pressed that point irmly at the cobra meeting very firmly at the cobra meeting which has just concluded.
but we put of vital decisions while a we have debate with the treasury ause at the virus does not stop preading while we do that.
that is ope we get absolute clarity that point from the treasury ay.
because it matters to our ecision—making here in scotland.
nicola sturgeon.
the presidential election enters its final day of campaigning, with both president trump and joe biden appealing to voters in crucial battleground states.
the scale of early voting has been unprecedented with more than 93 million americans having cast their ballots already.
our correspondent nomia iqbal reports from florida.
this is the most important election of our lifetime.
it is crunch time.
president trump and joe biden have been making a push in the midwestern states and if those swing states are crucial, then florida is critical.
donald trump needs more than their love.
he needs their votes.
to become president it requires 270 points from the electoral college system and florida has 29 up for grabs.
without this state, trump’ path back to the white house looks near impossible.
more than eight million residents here have already voted.
this is the last day of in—person early voting here in florida and at this polling station there are donald trump supporters on one side and joe biden supporters on the other, with no—one meeting in the middle.
and that sums up what it is like to be in a swing state.
people love the guy because they think he is like us, a regular person and not a politician.
he is a liar, he is a liar.
he wants his ego, power, that is it.
he does not care about the communities.
and some say donald trump is trying to portray his rival, joe biden, in a way that plays on the fears of many latino voters.
the trump administration needs something to grab onto because their record is terrible.
so one of the biggest ways to scare cubans and venezuelans is by fear mongering them into talking about communism and socialism.
my entire family is voting for donald trump.
my entire family.
i am one of the few in my family who is not voting for trump, who is voting forjoe biden.
florida has been problematic in delivering election results.
but officials tell us they are ready this time.
if that is true, then on election night florida will give us an early sense of which man is on track to become the next president.
nomia iqbal, news, florida.
election special results programme on one and the news channel and you can follow all the expert analysis online as the results come in at bbc.
co.
uk/news and on the news app.
borisjohnson is due to address later this afternoon about his plan for a new four—week lockdown across england from thursday.
he’ expected to warn that covid—19 deaths could be twice as high over the winter as they were in the first wave of the pandemic without action, citing models from his scientific advisers.
but some other scientists insist there is still a better way to beat the virus.
i’ve been speaking to tom jefferson, an epidemiologist at oxford university, who says there is no modelling on the impact of a lockdown.
as we explained several times, the data which is referred to as black hite is anything but black and hite.
we do not really understand cases are calculated and how cases are ralmlated and projections we have seen, are cast we have seen of cases and eaths actually really quite aggerated.
we have shown that in trackers, and our website, and nybody ran go and check edictions ersus the actual vidence that is coming out.
i must , however, that this is very, difficult to untangle because is quite a number of different urveys and data sources.
which give erent stimates and no report methods and most often do not report sumptions that are behind these models.
isn’ one thing ain, though, that a lockdown definitely reduce the spread of tions and, therefore, the number of deaths?
well, the rtunately, the patchwork of restrictions that have been applied ghout europe actually make that throughout europe actually make that statement very problematic to check, ess.
because what you would to assess.
because what you would have to do is you would have to have or nation or an area with me kind of restrictions and one thout restrictions and then mpare them.
well, this has not ppened and the increasing number trictions, all patchwork, all doubung ing and sometimes very unclear rogressive, makes that kind of nterpretation very difficult.
what tain is that restrictions have is certain is that restrictions have an impact, human toll and they have nomic toll.
a societal toll.
that toll is never modelled.
the casts that we see and that we re shown in now that the projected its on restrictions, but none the harms.
you may have heard the ellor lashes a neck saying that nonetheless, we must be handling the nature —— rishi sunak.
there may be some ople who are lessening eventually putting ivelihoods ahead of lives, —— entially aying that you are tting livelihoods ahead of lives.
eaths are regrettable.
all deaths are regrettable.
unfortunately, we are allowed to die end of our life.
the question ecomes wider, if you want to wed in question and it becomes as llows - we going to use follows — are we going to use restrictions every winter?
if we a very bad acute respiratory nfection season, are we going to using restrictions there?
cause this is the logic that is ind applying restrictions and ogressive restrictions.
for ovid?
not for the other ?
which re going to start bugs?
which are going to start moving around very soon?
if they not already done so.
doctor fferson, i want to go right back the eginning of our to the beginning of our conversation.
you said you have ained your position several imes.
i know you have presented a to the prime minister.
what is reaction from him?
what are you hearing government to ideas and arguments that you’re ing forward?
nothing.
nothing at ?
nothing at all.
do you that i think that is a question of government will stop i do not think that there does not that they’re open for debate.
any governments are open to debate.
and this is, i think regrettable.
i personally think it is regrettable, because of the measures that are taking impact on everybody.
or tom jefferson.
on mccoy doctor tom jefferson.
simon mccoy will be here with the news that 1pm.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with helen.
behind it a chilly west wind.
equally quite a number of showers as it is looking pretty placid there, particularly for england walas, driving in the showers.
a rather wet weather highlighted for in england where we could another a0 or 50 millimetres of in throughout est of today.
rain throughout the rest of today.
potential further flooding and a on the roads.
it looks quite to end the day for parts of thern ireland and that will all northwards as well.
either side hat, showers.
moving northwards nto scotland overnight, possibly a tering of snow for and islands and a band of rain otentially running and across the hern half of england and wales uld have a smattering of sleet the welsh mountains and moors.
will be significantly chillier night compared with the welsh untains and moors.
it will be gnificantly chillier tonight pared with teenagers gone.
that really a theme for the coming .
rain is with is eastern england for the first half of the clears away, sunny spells and scattered showers follow.
mostly north and west.
they could be heavy here with some hail and der and temperature is about ime to where they should be for time of year, but clearly today this time of year, but dearty today it has felt chillier because they , the wind is a notch down omorrow.
that wind continues to through wednesday as gh—pressure dressing of the lantic, it will meander its eastward so that by the weekend will be starting to have a way again.
for two or three days, weather doesn’ look a little ieter.
there will still be a few owers around wednesday and a bit a breeze, but gradually that ace eases off and when events come confined to the north.
after site, temperatures get back
ere they should be for this ime of year between ten and 11 ius stop into thursday, we are going to have some potential problams.
they are stagnating at time of year it takes a while or that fog to away.
once it for that fog to clear away.
once it does so, again some sand and coming gh, but probably some low cloud too.
that is something we will rit later this week as well is arly morning fog and frost, but at ast they and rain for a time least they wind and rain for a time is eating away, but as i say, it is a ﬂeeting glimpse of just a fleeting glimpse of high—pressure for two or three days it gets way and low pressure before it gets away and low pressure once again returns.
warnings on the te.
borisjohnson prepares to ask to support his plan for a month—long national coronavirus lockdown in england.
there’ll be a commons vote on the move on wednesday.
the new restrictions are due to come into force the day after we’ll be getting the latest from westminster, where some tory say they will vote against the government.
also this lunchtime: facing another lockdown — businesses across england say the potential damage is immense.
we’re nervous, we don’ know where it’ going to end, and i think that’ our biggest problem.
his hollywood reputation in tatters: johnny depp loses his libel action against the sun newspaper over an article which labelled him a "wife—beater".
the presidential candidates spend the last day of campaigning crisscrossing the key battle ground states.
prince william had covid at the same time as his father and the prime minister, but kept it quiet to avoid alarming the nation.
and coming up on news: ole gunnar solskjaer counts the cost of paul pogba’ stupid mistake, as manchester united lose to arsenal for the first time at old trafford in years.
good afternoon.
welcome to the news at one.
the prime minister is preparing to ask to support a new national lockdown in england to last four weeks.
in the commons later this afternoon he’ expected to warn that covid—19 deaths could be twice as high over the winter as they were in the first wave of the pandemic.
he will say there is no alternative to the measure which is due to start on thursday and to end on the 2nd of december.
he is expected to stress that he intends to ease restrictions after a month.
from thursday, people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
pubs, restaurants, and nonessential shops will close.
but takeaways will be permitted.
and meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
but you will be able to meet one other person from another household outside in a public place.
labour is supporting the move, but have criticised the delay in bringing it in.
meanwhile some conservative say they’ll oppose it.
our political correspondent chris mason reports.
it was always feared the turning of the seasons, autumn then winter, see a surge in coronavirus cases.
it was that blunt reality forced the prime minister and scientific advisers to tell us downing street at the weekend at another lockdown for england coming.
hello.
how things nge.
back in the summer, the ancellor was serving up discounts lure us to restaurants.
now alongside pubs, cafes and other regarded as nonessential, he is saying they will have to shut.
we have to be humble in the face of re.
we are dealing with a virus hat has dearty nature.
we are dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace ster we had anticipated or feared.
it is the last thing that we do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
we strove very avoid being in this hard to avoid being in this situation.
those around the prime ter say he sees a moral and medical responsibility to act.
in the commons this afternoon, boris on will ay that the scientific projections as been shown are bleak, and the consequences of nothing would be grim.
but he will face sharp questions from site him, from labour and others, but from behind him.
ake a listen to this from one of most senior backbenchers, alking to the westminster hour on four.
it is these kind of asures —— mac if these kind of asures ere being taken in any ind of totalitarian country around orld, we would regard it as a removal of fundamental liberties almost without comment.
but addressing the confederation of ish industry this morning, the abour eader repeated that the vernment should have locked gland down sooner, and he sought lame rishi sunak.
the hancellor’ name is all over this.
ecision to block a circuit aker, to dismiss it as a blunt strument, and to pretend that you rotect the conomy without controlling the virus will now mean usinesses have to close for that businesses have to dose for longer.
attention now turns