this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
president donald trump and the first lady melanie test positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
announcing the test results on twitter the president says he and the first lady "will get through this together" it comes after his one of his closest aides — hope hicks — tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips together in the past week world markets slump on the news with the dow futures index down — due to uncertainty about the operation of the administration we’ll be looking at what all this means for the election campaign — as the president is confined to the white house.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world — and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
donald trump has said he and his wife, melanie, have tested positive for coronavirus and have begun a period of quarantine.
they were both tested after one of trump’s most senior advisers, hope hicks, found out she had the virus.
the white house doctor has said both the president and the first lady are ‘well’ and that trump will continue to carry out his duties while he self—isolates.
president trump confirmed the news on twitter, saying that he and the first lady "will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately" — and that they "will get through this !
" this is the scene live in washington , well, i’m sorry, this is clearly not he image of washington we were to show you!
with just a hoping to show you!
with just a month to go until the presidential ion, all the states wondering hat this means for that vote.
before his positive test for covid, president trump spoke to fox news about his close aide hope hicks’s own positive test.
she did test positive, ijust heard about this, she tested positive.
she is a hard worker, a lot of masks, she wears masks a lot, but she tested positive.
and i just went out with a test because we spent a lot of time and the first ladyjust went out with a test also.
first lady melanie trump posted on twitter following the news that she and the president had tested positive for coronavirus.
she said: "as too many americans have done this year, the president & i are quarantining at home after testing positive for covid—19.
vice president mike pence tweeted: "karen and i send our love and prayers to our dear friends president trump and the first lady.
world leaders have also been tweeting their reaction.
indian prime minister narendra modi said: "wishing my friend president trump and the first lady 3 quick recovery and good health.
the ’s prime minister, borisjohnson, who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year said he sends his "best wishes to president trump and the first lady.
and the director—general of the world health organization, tedros ghebreyesus has given his "best wishes to the president and the first lady for a full and speedy recovery.
and in russia, the kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov has wished donald trump ‘a swift and easy recovery.
‘ let’s speak to our north america correspondent david willis and david joins us from los angeles.
david, hello again.
in terms of the ine when and how the president ontracted this virus, he obviously een in close contact with his ide, hope hicks, who also tested itive, that seems a reasonable sumption, but it’s from that close of advisers that this has appened.
that’s right.
and hope has been travelling with resident trump for most of the last ek.
she ted negative in a test for coronavirus on tuesday.
ditto on sday.
but then there was that positive covid—19 test and a short later, resident trump while later, president confirming both he and his wife had contracted covid—19.
and raises a mber of questions not east the future of the presidential aign.
how it will pan out.
—— elania.
hat we don’t know precisely is ill president trump ually is.
we had this statement his personal physician sean nnolly, saying he and the first are doing well, saying they anned to emain at home during heir convalescence, the white house home in his case and he goes on to say i expect the president tinue carrying out his duties without disruption whilst vering.
but make no mistake, this will completely change the re of this presidential campaign, the president will have to raw from it, to all intents and purposes for a period of time.
we don’t know how long, of course.
and have to abandon those he will have to abandon those rallies, he’s already abandoned one today, that was a fundraising event in florida, and swing state.
will have to campaign from he white house.
that, of course, is going to pend what was already a very strange campaign.
as you point out, david, although the from his personal physician 575 ays he is ll, we don’t actually now, do we come off whether donald has any ymptoms of this virus currently.
the clues we can currently.
the only dues we ran look out for our weather we see more s, i guess, whether we see any ppearances from within the white itself?
you’re absolutely ight.
of course, it is worrying ause at 7a years of age, and because at 74 years of age, and technically obese, president trump the high group as far as is in the high risk group as far as the coronavirus is concerned.
and we on’t know, of course, how lose he came behind the scenes, to mocratic rival biden.
they his democratic rival joe biden.
they were face—to—face, well, distanced, to-face, you like, socially distanced the debate in leveland earlier this week, on esday ght, but how close they got behind the scenes we simply know.
as far as contact don’t know.
as far as contact tracing is concerned, we know that dent trump and hope hicks had president and hope hicks had been in contact with members of ump ‘s family including ric and donald junior, ivanka p, the senate majority leader itch mcconnell, and amy coney rett, president trump ‘s nominee for the acant seat on the supreme court.
50 there are a lot of estions and n’t know how far questions and we don’t know how far this virus has spread but it is ainly there, in 1600 ave, that is very ying to a lot of people in this ountry.
on that point, david, eresting to see a tweet from mike mpeo saying he and his wife were ing to ubrovnik and had a test efore they off the plane, which as negative.
i guess there is that tation that individuals like expectation that individuals like mike pence and other key figures donald trump, will need to come rward and say what their atuses with regards to this virus.
bsolutely.
heard from mike absolutely.
we’ve heard from mike pence wishing donald trump and nie well at this time.
and of urse, it is possible that mike nce uld play a significant role in the eks ahead if it’s judged at donald trump is incapacitated some way.
25th amendment of the constitution lays out that it the vice president, mike pence, in this case, who would take the esidential duties.
we are some way away from all of that, is a lot of speculation, of urse, very few facts, but that is weight the constitution demands things proceed, ultimately, ike pence would become capacitated it would then be the ader of the is, nancy pelosi, such order of succession as laid in the constitution.
—— the ader of he house of lords it is at night here in the united ates.
the sort of condition donald is is infinitely get that first communique from the white house.
d, thank u.
brian klaas is a professor of global politics at university college london and a washington post columnist.
good to have you with us.
president is a man who absolutely ves trump is a man who absolutely thrives on the campaign trail, ves on being in front of big iences.
that was already curtailed quite a lot because of the mic.
crowchild much more now because of his positive test so what impact do you think that is going to have on how he operates in emaining weeks of the election mpaign.
-- rtailed much more campaign.
-- curtailad much more now.
all of the polling averages a clear and decisive biden lead the moment.
in order to win the tion needs to turn around he election trump needs to turn around the narrative in a very short period e, we are about 30 days away from november the 3rd, being able to ign was part of that, of campaign was part of that, of course.
the second reason this oblem for him is that he is trusted by erican voters on his handling of covid—19 pandemic, % of americans think he has done job in handling it
so this puts it in centre stage as the issue in the news at a time main issue in the news at a time when he wants to change the rative and the dynamics of the ace.
if i can interrupt you, you uote 6096 of ricans, according to one survey, aying he has handled it but what about his supporters?
ere are actually relatively mall numbers of potential voters in who might go one way or the play who might go one way or the other, and each site needs to get core vote out, is it going to any difference to his upporters, who actually think he is ing things well?
no.
and handling things well?
no.
and there’s a lot of discussion about , when you think about the race, ill this change his base?
the wer is always no, his base loves and they will vote for him and for him in large numbers but he problem is his pace is too l, his base is around 40% of the small, his base is around 4096 of the country, robably a little bit less what needs to do is win over oters and the problem again is time ing out.
you have about 30 until the is running out.
you have about 30 days until the election and this is big fference from past the big difference from past elections, 3 huge chunk of ballots already cast in many, many more are being cast every day.
i voted, for example, already, this is ’s a problem for him because you need to turn around a race the numbers of people who have or diminishing each day, you just lost 1a days on the mpaign ail and here is another campaign trail and there is another issue that is in the front of voters that they already don’t trust 7°“- you, that’s a very bad recipe for a idate already trailing badly in he polls.
do you think there will ressure on president trump to make tual appearances and lots of hem to basically make that ection, keep that connection, with his voters going?
absolutely.
i assume there will be much more aigning done remotely, as long his health allows it
but this is thing, elsewhere, it brings the ssue centre stage on things that just fundamentally, een have been irresponsible about president trump aviour.
two and a half days ‘s behaviour.
two and a half days ago at the presidential debate, he of biden for wearing a made fun of biden for wearing a mask, he mike tim, —— he mocked him.
with 1500 eople, their a rally with 1500 peopla, their chairs stacked virtually on top of ther and the one wearing each other and the one wearing masks, in violation of public health lines.
trump may now have to be guidelines.
may now have to be forced to do remote campaigning but he mocked biden for doing after he mocked biden for doing remote campaigning for the last ral months.
it’s not the issue hat the campaign wants voters thinking that the trump campaign wants voters to be thinking about.
thank you very or your thoughts on all of much for your thoughts on all of this.
let me tell you, we are seeing ters news agency, reports that the russian president vladimir putin donald trump a telegram, we has sent donald a telegram, we are told, to wish him a swift very after his positive test for covid-19.
ssian news agencies porting citing the kremlin that putin has said i am certain that inherent vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with angerous virus.
that’s this dangerous vims.
that’s according to the interfax news cy, that coming into us.
sarah elliott is is chair of the republicans oversees — i’ve been getting her reaction.
i wish him a fast recovery.
i think he’s actually in robust health, his doctors have come out and said as much.
as you said, he has the best medical care in the world.
i think he will recover.
he is now going into quarantine with the first lady for ten days, so the campaign is going to a halt.
but then again, i think it will pick right back up where it left off.
things change so much now with four weeks to go until the actual election.
big questions over future presidential debates, obviously, campaign rallies and so on.
what kind of bearing do you think this is going to have on the election, especially as president trump was trying to move attention away from the virus, i think it’s fair to say, he simply cannot do that now, can he?
i don’t think, he has taken the virus very seriously.
i think his opponents like to say he downplays it and now he has a personal experience sarah, i’m sorry to interrupt you, he has been, absolutely not a proponent of social distancing or wearing masks, when he has worn masks it’s been very late in the day.
soto say that he has taken it really seriously is perhaps to a lot of people, strange comment.
well, annita, he gets tested routinely, the people around him get tested routinely and he wears masks when he feels it’s necessary.
he also is the leader of the country and he goes out and he meets with people, he thinks you need to lead by example and not hide in the basement and i’m sorry, he put himself at risk and now this is the situation we are in, he is asymptomatic.
i’m sure he will recover quickly.
i do hope that the other people around him also get tested and are in quarantine as well.
he is taking all the medical advice on board.
you know, when this happened with borisjohnson, he garnered a lot of sympathy.
and so now, president trump has a personal experience and a connection to covid and the american people, you know, mayjust look at him sympathetically and be like, wow, he can now personally really feel our pain.
do you think that is what is going to happen?
in terms of people planning to vote for president trump, considering whether they would vote for president trump, do you think they will feel sympathetic towards him or will they say, here is a president who has been trying to project an image of business as normal during this pandemic, keen to keep the economy open and so forth?
and now, he has actually caught this virus, this disease, himself.
i think actually, there will be sympathy from the american people because generally, the american people are kind—hearted and they want to see the president of their country succeed.
unfortunately, there are people on the left who are gleefully relishing in this and hoping the worst for the president but i don’t think that’s going to happen.
you know, people write about the 25th amendment and we’ll mike pence takeover?
i think that’s ridiculous and much too soon.
i think he will recover, we will get back to normal
but it is at a critical time.
every day matters in campaign right now.
it will be interesting to see the polling, but he is the comeback kid.
he likes a challenge, he likes to prove people wrong and i think this is another challenge on which he will do so.
you say talk of mike pence being there to take over is far too premature.
but surely, the white house advisers will have thought about this possible scenario?
and surely, it’s sensible to talk about this because if the president was to become ill and we are told at the moment that he is fine, doing well, if he was to become ill, don’t the american people want to know what’s going to happen?
because of our constitution we know what is going to happen and we do know the vice president would take over in a situation like that.
but it also brings up a really curious point about vice presidential candidate and there might now be more scrutiny on kamala harris and her role and her possibility of her becoming president prematurely if something happened to the president.
this might have a negative effect on the biden campaign, harris is universally not popular across the country.
that was sarah elliott.
with me now isjohn sardino — a spokesperson from democrats abroad.
good to have you with us.
we have not heard from the biden campaign hat do you think the reaction is going to be from that camp?
as a ocrat an american i wish the democrat and an american i wish the president well, i wish him a speedy ery.
i wouldn’t wish this virus on anybody.
some of the effects are term, eurological effects that long-term, neurological effects that are a bit unpredictable.
i think we seen is many people what we have seen is many people react differently to the virus.
and ly, i wish well.
having itruly, iwish him well.
having said that, you know, if he has been and i was listening to your epublican guest a moment ago, has traded this very seriously.
the country has been in a crisis from the very beginning.
he is on record as saying he was ing it down.
as recently as last eek, he was at a fundraising dinner he was saying the virus is hind us, you know, we are over the mp.
america has got 40,000 new of infection a day.
you know, ompare that to the , with 7000, you see the dramatic measures hat are being taken here in the .
n’t see how the president could ossibly say that the virus, this sis, is behind us and i think his lness, if that’s what it is, is to be, makes his statements ery empty, that the virus is behind t’s going to be interesting to how much we see of him in the few days, given that statement the white house doctor, the resident ‘s doctor that he was well.
do we have any idea whether the president as well as biden, took a coronavirus tests re the debate earlier this week?
i haven’t een the evidence so i couldn’t say for sure.
i would say was a question that was raised a minute ago about the status of the resident on the line of vice president on the line of succession and all of that.
and that e, the vice president is the next in line with the president is pacitated in some way, then the ice president naturally takes over.
or some reason, the vice if, for some reason, the vice president is incapacitated as well, as you said earlier in the i think as you said eartier in the broadcast, then the speaker of the , nancy pelosi, would then ecome the commander—in—chief.
it’s interesting of a very interesting line of succession, and also this point kamala harris, there is a ebate, scheduled for next week, ween kamala harris and mike nce, scheduled for next tuesday ht, which i presume is going to roceed, whether or not the next sidential debate which is two eks from now, goes ahead, it ains to be seen.
whatever happens, it’s to be a very happens, it’s going to be a very different final few weeks of the aign.
but do you think the fact that the president and his wife had positive for coronavirus is going to have any bearing ultimately on how peopla decide to vote?
i think it might.
you know, and i think as someone said before i came ting has already started.
on, voting has already started.
ballots started going out for icans living abroad, a lot of allots were sent out in the middle eptember.
many of those ballots ave already been returned.
have voted and returned.
in the ates, there is a lot of early ting that’s going on both by voting that’s been going on both by mail in ballot and in many places an vote arly, showing up at a you ran vote earty, showing up at a place that has been designated for so quite a lot of voting is that.
so quite a lot of voting is already under way.
i will say what sadly, america is very ivided.
so there are probably a small portion of the overall opulation in key battle ground tes like pennsylvania, wisconsin others, where there are decided voters and that’s where a of the attention is right now.
how this will affect their isions, well, i think, as i said, have to up the president you have to weigh up the president ‘s actions and statements about ging the crisis or his lack of anaging the crisis, with a four we now.
thank you for your time morning.
we are oing to this morning.
we arejust going to pause in our coverage of that donald tory for a moment.
let’s talk story for a moment.
let’s talk about politic.
s.
the first ster of scotland, nicola sturgeon, written another tweet, a tweet to the margaret ferrier, roundly condemned by ers of the and right across political spectrum for her ctions over the last few days.
testing positive for covid—19.
had and took a test and hile waiting on results of that test, stead of self isolating, she velled to london to the house of ommons, she took part in that ate, you saw the picture a minute go of her taking part in the debate he house of commons on monday ening.
also on monday evening she confirmation she was positive coronavirus.
but then the next ay she took a train journey, a five train journey, london back hour trainjourney, from london back to scotland.
let’s look at the tweet icola sturgeon this morning.
from nicola sturgeon this morning.
she said, i’ve spoken to margaret ier she uses that word indefensible, she said last night, said it again this morning, and goes on in the tweet, i have no power to force an to but i hope she will do the resign
but i hope she will do the right thing.
heavy pressure being by the first minister, by ther mps, and indeed, from many across the political spectrum, saying that margaret ferrier ‘s ons, the decisions she made, or ndefensible and that she should be ping down as an .
but, we haven’t heard, apart from that ial admission that what she had one was wrong, we have heard ing further margaret ferrier et.
yet, but that was nicola sturgeon n, making it clear that she hinks she should step down as an hat her actions were both , that her actions were both dangerous and indefensible.
that is the first minister.
now, let’s return to the news that ident trump has tested positive president has tested positive for coronavirus.
along with his , the first lady, melanie.
let’s talk to political analyst eric ham who is in washington.
thank you for your time today, joining us on news.
as an vidual who has covid—19, donald 74.
he is medically obese.
we are told hat he is well.
but we ’t know a lot beyond that of how actually is, whether he has any toms or not of this virus, do ?
no, we don’t, this is the second dical emergency of donald trump, go back late ear, we note we go back late last year, we note the president was abruptly taken to spital and we still don’t know the president was taken to the pital.
we did get indications at mike pence was told to be on nd-by ecause the president would to undergo anaesthesia but now president has contracted onavirus and file all are hoping a speedy recovery, we don’t know as we would like to about as much as we would like to about the president ‘s health to determine act he will be able to recover from this virus.
how much ssure will re be particularly pressure will there be particularly because we are in the last few weeks election campaign to find out of the elaction campaign to find out more about how he is doing?
daily tes, in fact.
and to actually him, see if he will do any irtual appearances to let voters how he is doing in person?
you right.
this certainly upends the paign of the president, he is railing in the polls, we are ting some new data out in the of the presidential debate that place just 48 hours ago.
now, looks as if biden is it looks as ifjoe biden is expanding his lead both nationally some of these key battle and in some of these key battle ground states and the president erately needs to be able to use is moment, this time, to close gap but these are 1a days, 1h this gap
but these are 14 days, 14 crucial days, that the president be off the campaign trail and ere’s another wrinkle in this nt.
the president has been trailing joe also indicate money ace, we do know that biden sed $3.
8 million in the last hour presidential debate, more an 10 million over the course of debate.
and now we know the esident, now that he has ontracted this virus, the question mes what happens to those donors he desperately needs to be able provide the resources that he ds, be competitive over these 30 days?
the president right is looking at a number of major sues above all, being his health his ability to ward off this s.
rus.
are those donors really going fall away use the president to fall away because the president has this virus?
will they not stick m?
that is something we do not know.
the president is 7a.
he is within the lnerable age group for clearly within the vulnerable age group for those who typically umb to this virus.
again, we succumb to this vims.
again, we hope that is not the case but given the esident is trailing in that the president is trailing in the polls, trailing with the money race right now, and then these 14 crucial days that he will be of the aign trail, this does not bode well for his chances of getting lected.
especially when millions re-elacted.
especially when millions of americans are literally voting single day, be it from early every singla day, be it from earty voting, or from polls that are now .
this learly does not give the resident the time he needs to turn around.
eric, thank you very ch.
political analyst, joining washington.
i’m joined now by , emeritus professor in the epidemiology of infectious diseases at the university of nottingham.
professor, good to have you with us.
president trump, we have heard it times day already, since he tested positive, 7a, overweight, so to those categories which he falls into those categories which put him at greater risk from the but we are told by his doctor that he is doing well.
how important he has been tested really earty in this disease, how important hat hat be in ensuring he has a will that be in ensuring he has a good recovery from it?
at the nt, we don’t have any specific ntiviral treatments and remdesivir shortens your stay in hospital.
we do have another treatment which mortality rate by a third.
the old figures give someone in 705 and mortality risk of ound 8%, at higher risk cause he around 896, at higher risk because he is a man, but iven, he is probably fit and healthy 74—year—old mpared to ny, and also the main actor is obesity which also reases his risk.
i think just because ’s been tested earlier in he lness and found positive, you an actually unwell for a week or before can become seriously ll.
so with boris nson, we ill.
so with boris johnson, we sought the prime minister battling gh, didn’t we, for a while.
dearty with the virus, really quite the point he was admitted to ospital.
we don’t have many details how president trump is, about how president is, whether he is showing or it doesn’t seem, on the face it at least, that he is certainly ill?
we don’t know and if he’s ted quite early in the illness, it part of a routine test, hen we do know small numbers of are actually and would have a very good prognosis.
i think we will know more ek’s time, exactly how the sease has played out.
really, in of his medical team, personal sition, it is a case of close monitoring than any other monitoring rather than any other actions being taken at this point, what you are saying?
i think eopla themselves who might have vid diagnosed without medical tention the president gets, people adly ill in this country are he ones who would need to seek help many people do go through because many peopla do go through this illness without any there will be considerable pressure on him to put in some virtual arances to back up this ter appearances to back up this letter that we have seen from his sician?
i think so, and ithink this has ome a very political ssue for him
and i tend not to deal the politics as i am no great with the politic as i am no great expert on that.
i think they could debates online
but he might be very ary of what happened to hard nixon in the 1960 election when went into one of these ebates recovering from flu and did badly.
yes, because in the richard nixon case, people thought ked blessed trustworthy, in hat scenario, was that not the e?
ironically, they may have rned urned out to be right.
—— less stworthy.
don’t know an awful about president trump’s health, that he is pretty good for someone of 7a, we see pictures of playing f, and we have seen him playing golf, and we have seen images of joe biden jogging, and ing ackwards, but we don’t know an awful lot about the presidential eral health and fitness, do e?
no, and i think that sort of thing should be private.
i understand they get an annual kup but to actually maintain the job itself, you have to have some of physical fitness.
in that ense.
it is a very demanding job, president or prime minister of ntry.
but given that he is president and that the election is few weeks away, that private medical information ultimately has ome public knowledge, doesn’t to become public knowladge, doesn’t it?
ithink some of the voters may to know how healthy he is, because then the role of the vice-president becomes cmcial.
i think politically, it might have of an impact if he gets the disease badly.
he won’t have vered before polling day.
from hat you know of him, do you think prognosis is good, if we base it he scent information at we on the saint information that we have so far?
the risk gets greater get older, but the vast majority of 19—year—olds in care have got covid in this homes who have got covid in this country have now fully recovered.
—— ar-olds.
and is a long way 90-year-olds.
and he is a long way off 90 yet.
so, thank you very much.
our business correspondent, katie prescott, is here.
so, tell us what reaction katie pre don’t is here.
what to investors don’t really know what to make of this.
like many of our entators this morning, there is till so much uncertainty around.
as been reflected in the that has been reflected in the numbers this morning.
in after—hours in merican stock markets we trading in american stock markets we have seen falls of about 2%.
when rkets open here we saw falls of about 1%.
so it shows a certain ount of vousness from investors but certainly is nomad panic yet.
think investors are really waiting to see exactly what this s.
we don’t know how ill donald is, and hat that might mean the or the election which is coming up just a few ks, and that is all nknown.
there is some eculation among investors that it could mean a biden because it makes win for biden because it makes donald trump look weak.
in that e, that ould mean more taxes on orporate erica and that is nvestors are pulling out markets and putting their oney into safe havens such as gold the japanese yen.
but there is uch nknown still, and investors, like all of us, i really for more information to come out.
katy, thank you very much.
just word to ay that a german a quick word to say that a german government spokesman has said that a merkel has also sent her best wishes to president trump and nie trump, hoping they will melanie tmmp, hoping they will recover from the coronavirus ction soon.
let’s recap now on our breaking news for viewers who might be just ing us.
president trump has tested positive for coronavirus.
he says he is quarantining at the white house.
his wife has also tested positive.
throughout the pandemic, trump, who’s 7a, has often refused to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
with the presidential election a month away, it has thrown the campaign into disarray.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
on tuesday, the first debate between president trump and joe biden took place.
his special advisor hope hicks, who has also tested positive, traveled with the campaign.
then on wednesday, the trump campaign flew on marine one and air force one to a rally in minnesota.
again, hope hicks is with president trump.
she falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
on thursday, hope hicks tests positive for coronavirus as president trump travels to newjersey for another fundraiser.
donald trump then takes a test along his wife melanie.
this takes us to today.
president trump takes to twitter to announce that he has tested positive for covid—19.
he will have to isolate for 10 days even if he shows no or for days if develop.
an election rally in florida tonight has been cancelled.
on thursday 8th october, the vice—presidential debate is due to take place in utah.
there has been no news about whether this will change.
the next presidential debate is then set to take place on thursday 15th october in miami, florida.
again, there has been no word on whether this key election event will be effected.
then the final debate between president trump and joe biden is scheduled to take place on thursday october 22nd in tennessee.
this all leads up to tuesday 3rd november.
that’s election day in the united states.
with just a month left to go until polls open across the entire united states, how will donald trump’s coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—election?
a short while ago, our north america editor, jon sopel, explained how president trump could have contracted the virus.
it is simultaneously astonishing that the president who is so well protected, where testing happens so much, could have contracted the virus, and also not in the least bit surprising, given the ambivalent attitude in the white house towards wearing face masks.
you talk about this very close aide and confidante hope hicks having contracted it earlier in the week, there is film of her and four other people walking to the marine one helicopter, that cramped helicopter that takes the president and those people from the white house to andrews air force base.
none of them are wearing masks at all and that sort of underlines the problem that you can have all the protection you need but actually if you haven’t got the masks mitigating it, then that could be problematic and probably is how it spreads.
donald trump is 7a years old.
the last full medical report we had said that he was obese.
those are two comorbidities that go with covid.
that said, the physician’s report i thought was very upbeat in its assessment, although very early days, of course, because it is said that he thinks that the president should be able to continue his work uninterrupted while he recuperates and there is no suggestion there that the president needs to step aside and that they need to invoke article 25 of the constitution for the vice president to temporarily take over.
but where this leaves the campaign and, you know, those small questions like that, who knows?
earlier, before he tested positive, president trump spoke by phone to fox news about news that his close aide hope hicks had the virus.
so, she did test positive, ijust heard about this, she tested tive.
she is a hard worker, she ears masks a lot
but she tested itive.
it’s very hard, when u’re with soldiers, when you’re airmen, when you’re with the rines, and the police officers, with them so much, and when they me over to you, it’s very hard to y, stay back, stay back, it’s a kind of a situation, it’s a rrible thing.
you no hope very l, she’s fantastic and she’s done eat job but t’s very, very hard when you are people from the ilitary and —enforcement and hey come to and they want to you and they want to kiss you cause we really have done a good for them.
that was president speaking just before he got own positive result back, along his wife.
jordan fabian is the white house correspondent at bloomberg news.
he broke the news earlier that hope hicks, trump’s aide, had tested positive.
he explains what travelling with the president on air force one during the pandemic entails.
yeah, reporters generally wear masks all the time when they’re at the white house and on air force one.
we’re tested every day that we go into the white house or on a trip with the president using those rapid tests that take about 15 minutes to get back.
so, they to do as much as possible to keep us protected and we to do ourselves as much as possible to keep ourselves protected, but as we’ve seen, the system isn’t foolproof and of course the president and the staff are very much less vigilant about wearing masks and social distancing, and now we’re seeing something like a massive, possibly a massive outbreak, happening in the white house.
jeremy faust is an emergency medicine doctor and coronavirus specialist at brigham and women’s hospital and harvard medical school.
he explains what will happen next.
the president’s physician wrote a memorandum that was circulated this evening in which he said optimistically that he expects the president to continue his duties and to convalesce, to get better.
no—one can know that.
we hope that’s the case, on a human level, but the next 10—14 days are the most dangerous 10—14 days that the president of the united states has everfaced in his life.
he could be doing proverbial cart wheels two weeks from now, or he could be intubated in an intensive care unit.
these are going to be extremely tense moments for him and his family, and we all have to sit here and watch that.
and it’s going to be difficult.
he does have several things working against him that we have learned.
we’ve learned so much about this virus in such a short period of time.
we know that obesity, which he has, is a risk factor for serious and critical cases.
we know that his age is an undeniable risk factor.
90 times more likely to die than a person in their 205 would be.
we know that even the male gender is a problem, and there is a little bit of a predisposition there.
so there are a lot of reasons where we could say he’s a healthy individual, he’s obviously able to do one of the most demanding jobs in the world, and on the flipside of that same coin you could say, and yet there are very important reasons to be concerned.
the president has recently attended large indoor gatherings where many of his supporters are not wearing masks.
trump spoke about wearing face coverings on tuesday during the presidential debate.
i mean, i have a mask right here.
i’ll put the mask on, you know, when i think i need it.
tonight is an example, everybody’s had a test, and you’ve had social distancing and all of the things that you have to, but i wear masks when needed.
i wear masks.
0k, let me ask i don’t wear a mask like him, every time you see him he’s got a mask.
he could be speaking 200ft away from me and he shows up with the biggest mask i’ve ever seen.
first lady melanie trump posted on twitter following the news that she and the president had tested positive for coronavirus.
she said vice—president mike pence tweeted world leaders have also been tweeting their reaction.
russia’s president vladimir putin wished donald trump a speedy recovery the ’s prime minister, borisjohnson, who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year said indian prime minister narendra modi said and the director—general of the world health organization, tedros ghebreyesus.
borisjohnson has tweeted he hopes president trump and the first lady make a speedy recovery.
the ’s prime minister tested positive for coronavirus back in april.
earlier our political correspondent leila nathoo reminded us that he was the first world leader to contract covid—19.
sending his best wishes for a speedy recovery to both the president and the first lady, but you know, borisjohnson, when he contracted coronavirus, it was a completely different stage of the pandemic, it was back towards the end of march, when he revealed that he had developed symptoms, he had a temperature, a cough, and he was getting tested.
now, obviously, the testing situation back then was completely different as well, so he only got tested once he had developed symptoms, he was isolating in the flat above number 11 downing street.
you might remember him posting videos on his social media feeds, reassuring people that he was well and continuing with business.
but then, his situation did worsen pretty rapidly.
he was admitted to hospital after about ten days or so, and then a few days later, going into intensive care, and it ended up in a situation where the foreign secretary, dominic raab, deputised for him officially when he was in intensive care, and it did look at one point that his situation was a bit touch and go.
of course, that all seems a long time ago now, borisjohnson has since made a recovery.
but you know, he has talked himself about his weight being a factor in how badly he was affected by coronavirus, he’s talked openly about losing weight since then, so, clearly, perhaps some comparisons could be made there.
he is younger than president trump.
but you know, it is worth remembering that borisjohnson was at that time the first world leader to contract coronavirus at a very different stage in the pandemic, but he was able to continue working initially, but then obviously once he had been admitted to hospital, recovered in chequers i think it was after he was released from hospital
and then he was able to return to work gradually.
obviously president trump at the moment at a very different stage, not showing yet, but perhaps he was tested, because of the regularity of testing, at a different stage of infection.
scott lucas, professor of american studies at the university of birmingham, told us this news doesn’t come as a shock to him.
i spoke to him earlier.
i’m surprised he didn’t get it months ago.
we have had other white house staff including the wife of his close adviser stephen miller who have tested positive.
including his white house valet.
and as your correspondent has noted there, trump has effectively flouted those restrictions that we have lived under in the , and in the , social distancing, mask wearing, other measures to to contain the virus.
he now has got it, i think it raises and elevates that question around effectively his denial and his downplaying of the virus, but it also raises the question of, how widely has it spread?
he does have other advisors with whom he is in daily contact.
and the question about the government functioning, let alone the questions of the campaign over the next month, depending on how far this might have spread, well, that is sort of the unknown as we to process this news.
let’s to work through a few of those points.
i suppose the immediate question is, has he been in close contact with the vice—president, mike pence?
because if president trump was to become ill and incapacitated, wasn’t able to carry out the role of president of the united states, constitutionally, that would fall to the vice—president.
so, presumably, we will want to know very quickly what the situation is with mike pence?
absolutely right.
mike pence is technically head of the coronavirus task force, so you assume he would be briefing trump on that front.
mike pence, of course, is campaigning along with the rest of the trump team to to get a second term.
you would assume there might be interaction between them on that level.
let me add another one for you, jared kushner, donald trump’s son—in—law, of course, is vital in terms of how the administration tries to project its foreign policy.
he’s been involved in, for example, the agreement between israel, the and bahrain to establish relations.
how much has trump interacted with kushner, who then in turn has interacted with others on the global stage?
i think the one thing we can safely say is that if trump is incapacitated and mike pence is incapacitated, we’re relatively safe with the number three, the speaker of the house, nancy pelosi, because one, she’s a democrat, and two, donald trump doesn’t like her very much.
well, yeah, that really would put the cat amongst the pigeons, so to speak, wouldn’t it?
and we’re a long way from that yet.
but let’s talk about the election campaign.
where does this leave the campaign?
because the statements coming out from the white house are saying that the president is continuing with his duties, they’re projecting an image of normality, so far as one can in this situation, but the fact remains that this is far from normal and we’re four weeks out from the election and donald trump is not going to be able to do the things that he would have been expecting to do or wanting to do?
no, let’s be honest here, it’s disarray.
now, the trump campaign may be counting on maybe sympathy for donald trump, which can rally him as he legs in the polls.
but donald trump has never really relied on sympathy, as we saw on tuesday night in the debate with the challenger, joe biden, he’s relied on being very aggressive, very bullying.
and the effect of this, well, let me tick off three very quickly.
first of all, it takes donald trump of the campaign trail and deprives him of his main tactic, which is those large rallies that he can speak for an hour or 90 minutes with no need to talk about social distancing or wearing masks.
two, it makes coronavirus the number one issue again when the trump campaign had been trying to push it aside — let’s talk about the supreme court, let’s talk about the supposed cultural wars with extremists and anarchists.
and thirdly, it deprives the trump campaign of that disinformation tactic, thatjoe biden is physically and mentally unfit to be president.
biden actually is in very good physical health for a man of 77.
he’s in very good mental health.
now the focus on health issues turns back on donald trump, especially since we still do not know whether he’s or with this virus.
melissa mackenzie is publisher of the american spectator magazine in houston in texas.
she says president trump will find new ways to connect with american voters well, this is a wily virus and a lot of peopla who have been everything have gotten sick and the ident is now one of those people.
every person who gets within with him is tested, and so, this is actually kind of remarkable, ven with all of the testing of he people around him, that he has ill aged somehow to get the vims.
rus.
but this is a tricky virus, e’s just more ictim of and he’sjust one more victim of its.
he hasn’t been doing everything , though, has he?
he’s been in rge crowds without social istancing, without wearing a mask.
are the basic things that we re told to do to to protect elves from that virus?
well, it ourselves from that vims?
well, it may look like he’s close to people these wds, but that might in these crowds, but that mightjust be a trick of photography, because actually been in close ontact, if you will notice, at the es.
he’s not shaking hands with peopla, hugging them, getting close.
he’s been doing his part in hese situations to stay distanced.
ust one of those things, it’s it’s just one of those things, it’s a difficult virus.
i think there hots of him getting on board rine one with hope hicks and ers in the last few days, all ery close together, clearly there not a huge of space in a is not a huge amount of space in a helicopter, none of them wearing s.
so, that is one example of here people have been close ether without wearing masks and president in their company.
but at do you think, melissa, what aring do you think this is going have on the remaining weeks of election campaign?
well, there no question this is crunch time the campaign.
i think it is ing to shift things.
i think of and his fireside chats, and the rican people will connect with he sident in a different way.
he president will now have the rience of so many people in erica right now, who are distanced and having zoom meetings, and i suspect that the president is going ways to connect with the rican people in the same way the est of world is connecting, via omputer, google hangout or however rks, he will find a way.
laurie laird is an american politics commentator, she explained that in the past the president has been quite relaxed about the risk of catching the virus.
well, i think like so many of your guests, this comes as a shock, but surprise.
we know that donald is not ften wearing a mask, i was i was watching his nomination of ney barrett last weekend, in the rose garden at the white house — had a ask on.
it harked back nobody had a mask on.
it harked back to eartier days, e-covid days.
he didn’t have sk, judge barrett idn’t ave a mask, none of the sembled guests had a mask.
we know onald oesn’t like to wear a sk, we donald trump doesn’t like to wear a mask, we know that he’s mocked joe for earing a mask.
he has uestioned his masculinity.
so it ’t all that surprising.
i think ere are a couple of big questions, h.
one is, how sick windle onald though.
one is, how sick windle donald trump get?
many of your have ntioned that he is in a high-risk area, clinically bese, he is the age of 70 and is sort of ironic, donald trump ocked joe biden for so elderly, donald only three years nger.
he is donald trump is only three years younger.
he is in a high—risk area.
that his covid was caught we know that his covid was taught very quickly, he is probably one of tested men in the world, ould his condition deteriorate?
is a very big question.
the her question is, who has he been ntact with?
the president is in ontact with so many people during urse of a day and that means economic advisers, national security ers, campaign advisers.
it is not unlikely or impossible that so ides from so many different places could be affected, and that include people involved in the nomination process of barrett, peopla involved in coming up with a lus plan on the economic side.
so how widely spread through the wing, hrough the white house, could, orona be?
you’re watching news.
and today, the news continuing to be dominated by the news that president and milani have both tested ositive for oronavirus.
we do not ow, although his personal doctor aid that he is well, whether the president is suffering from any oms.
we will have much more coming up, but first, the weather, arah keith—lucas.
hello.
the weather is set to bring us some disruption at times over the next few days.
today, we’ve got storm alex in the south with some wet and windy weather but, at times, as we head to the next couple of days into the weekend, we are all going to see some spells of heavy rain fell at times.
there is a chance that there could be some disruption to travel and transport, some flooding possible as well as strong winds, strong enough to bring down the odd small tree or two, with some big waves around the coast as well.
now, storm alex today is mainly affecting the southern half of the .
the strongest of the winds associated with the storm are across the north—west of france but we could see gusts around about 50 to 60mph quite widely along the south coast, 70mph or more down towards the channel isles too with some heavy downpours here and an area of rain just moving its way northwards into the midlands and north wales, followed by some brighter skies and scattered showers from the south.
but it is a very different day the northern half of the .
it was quite a cold start to the day, we’ve had fog patches around, one or two showers here there through parts of northern ireland, western scotland, also quite showery and breezy for the northern isles as well, but for the rest of scotland into northern england, northern ireland, you should stay predominantly with some sunshine.
that rain edging into northern england for the likes of liverpool later on this afternoon.
temperatures out there today 12 to 15 celsius, feeling colder with the wind and the rain in the south.
through this evening and overnight, we see more of that rain piling in on a brisk easterly breeze across much of england and wales and eastern scotland too.
western scotland and northern ireland, clearer skies
so it is here that the temperatures will fall lowest, down into single figures, but elsewhere further south and east it is a mild, wet and windy start to the day on saturday.
that is the way it looks through the day.
lots more heavy, persistent rain tracking its way further westwards across england and wales, combined with gales or severe gales down towards the south—west, persistent rain to the east of the pennines, for eastern parts of highland scotland as well, there could be some flooding issues around.
it will brighten up towards the south—east, 16 celsius or so in norwich and northern ireland, mostly on saturday.
sunday, low—pressure sits right across the british isles and we will see heavy showers rotating around that area of low pressure.
gales particularly around the periphery of the and it will be a day of sunshine and blustery showers.
goodbye for now.
and around the world.
president donald trump and the first lady melanie test positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
announcing the test results on twitter the president says he and the first lady "will get through this together".
it comes after his one of his closest aides — hope hicks — tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips together in the past week world markets slump on the news with the dow futures index down — due to uncertainty about the operation of the administration.
we’ll be looking at what all this means for the election campaign — as the president is confined to the white house.
or around the world.
stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
m: we start with the story in the .
donald trump has said he and his wife, melanie, have tested positive for coronavirus and have begun a period of quarantine.
they were both tested after one of trump’s most senior advisers hope hicks found out she had the virus.
the white house doctor has said both the president and the first lady are well and that trump will continue to carry out his duties while he self—isolates.
president trump confirmed the news on twitter saying that he and the first lady "will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately" — and that they "will get through this together.
" where the president is confined to the white house — with just a month to go till the presidential election.
let’s speak to our north america correspondent david willis.
this news broke in the middle of the night time, extraordinary lopments, any update on the state of health of the president and lady?
first lady?
it is 63m east coast time, america waking up to astonishing news.
all we as the ignition of ident trump is concerned is the statement from his personal ician sean conley who says both and the first lady are doing well an to remain at the white and plan to remain at the white house during heir convalescence.
he went on to say, i expect the sident to continue carrying out uties while recovering.
but what we do not know is whether the ident is exhibiting any oronavirus.
this raises a heap questions not least about who run the country should the sident develop symptoms.
and deed what this will mean for the ure of the presidential campaign has 33 days to run.
the president will not be able to icipate in that an campaign in way he has been used to doing, those large gatherings.
very tle in the way of social distancing or mask wearing.
he will have to content himself for probably have to content himself for the next couple of weeks at the very with campaigning from the white house under quarantine.
that ean his presence in the second will mean his presence in the second presidential debate which is two away is very much in doubt.
of course the vice presidential which should take place next esday could be in doubt if mike nce who has been around hope hicks esident trump himself.
or president himself.
so many questions raised.
have we from the democrat leadership does this mean they would have suspend campaigning with both des trying to honour some greement where they both campaign while the president is fit able?
we do not know.
we have no word so rom the joe den campaign.
far from the joe biden campaign.
what we do not know is how close the ident got to biden during president got to joe biden during that kievan debate on tuesday night.
they kept social distancing we know they kept social distancing while the debate itself was under ack behind the scenes, before and after that debate, how close did ecome and will biden now they become and will joe biden now be tested for coronavirus?
he is routinely every week we are but there will of course be ose who say due to contact tracing so on, that he and many of the ident’s closest advisers who ave come into contact with him and icks in the last week should hope hicks in the last week should now be tested to see if they also oronavirus.
the coronavirus.
this will inevitably raise tions, if campaigning has to alt, whether it will throw into tion the legitimacy about the ultimate poll in november.
the polls en, people are voting.
are open, peopla are voting.
absolutely, they are, and onavirus was a subject president had rump had hoped to steer the ampaign from and on other campaign away from and on other matters, for example, his pick for cant post in the supreme the vacant post in the supreme court, amy coney barrett.
but it has ack to bite him if you like come back to bite him if you like and is very close to home.
it is in hite ouse.
this is a virus the white house.
this is a virus that has killed more than 200,000 icans, 7 million people here have contracted it.
president trump een iticised of course for has been criticised of course for those open—air rallies, for his issal of mask wearing, he had a at joe biden out that during the the debate on tuesday night.
he wanted to steer the campaign away the issue of coronavirus, but from the issue of coronavims, but now it is front and centre of the presidential campaign.
2020 presidential campaign.
we have seen well—wishers coming in from nternational leaders globally from international leaders and from critics within the of resident, everyone wishing him is wife the best in terms of tting better.
we don’t know ether they have any real but politically, there will be lot of questions about white house and how leadership will be ble to function.
lots of people eed extra testing.
absolutely.
this will go on and move peopla who had been in out to peopla who had been in contact, press people, for example, peripherally involved with the white ouse over the last week or longer.
what sort of condition they are in.
it raises a questions.
we know stephen bela, presidential adviser, and trump’s family, donald mmp’s family, donald junior, eric ivanka, have been contact him, questions about heir health.
the same for the majority leader mitch mcconnell, and amy coney barrett, in contact with the she was in contact with the president a few days ago.
id willis, thank you.
clare gerada is the former chair of the royal college of gps.
we talked to her months ago when she had the virus herself and shejoins me now.
thank you for your time.
i hope you have recovered from the virus lf.
i have.
it took me longer than i imagined, about four months to fully the
but yes i am get over the
but yes i am fully recovered, thank you.
resident is 7a, described as the president is 74, described as being clinically obese according to eleased about his health.
how uch at risk does that put him tistically?
statistically he is at more risk.
he is also male so being a man, being e, being over 75, our 705, obese, being over 75, in your 705, put you -- put you at a much higher and omeone in your 205, at risk and someone in your 205, at higher risk of being in hospital, ing ventilation and sadly of death.
tatistics are bandied about sometimes it is difficult to put a ext but the closest i can give is he has a in 25 chance of you is he has a one in 25 chance of being quite seriously unwell but you put that in context.
he also has a 24 out of 25 chance of pulling ugh this hich i really hope he through this which i really hope he does.
does.
he will have top acute medical ntion, how much will that play a art and the fact we know a bit more how to treat this?
it is not so much he will have the octors, we have in this country.
it is that we know much how to treat it.
to use better how to treat it.
to use steroid medication, we also knew tilating ple, that isn’t ventilating people, that isn’t necessarily the best way of managing who are very sick.
we also now who is more at risk, what if antibiotics are required.
we are a much tter place than we were back in march.
nevertheless what n’t anged is the risk factors.
is obese, if you measure his , just have to look at him.
he is ell, and in an at risk age group.
ortant to point out it affects eryone differently.
my father in 05 had this virus at the same ime as my son his teens and my on was much more unwell.
we have donald trump full of energy.
bsolutely.
ays golf every absolutely.
he plays golf every week.
speaking to a friend of mine, got it at the same time in we both got it at the same time in new york.
he is 75.
i was really ll.
he didn’t even know he had until later on when he got sted.
it does affect people ferently.
on a population level he older you are, fatter you are, more likely are to have a the more likely you are to have a more serious outcome and there are factors such as uncontrolled etes, heart disease and other actors which i do not think are evant to trump.
it the case you may not be very ill mediately, it can be if you ays before now whether the days before we know whether the president and his wife are through isk stages.
high risk stages.
yes, people say it is about day five you start better or that you start to get better or sadly not get better and might ire more intensive treatment.
the earty stages can be very mild, were, i didn’t even know i had ntil one and a half days into illness.
i am not sure the visit you feel on day one in terms of how you will get through this.
i think his doctors will be keeping a eye on him to see whether he close eye on him to see whether he requires more intensive treatment aybe he is getting.
saw with boris johnson, initially we re told was working downing street, communicating ually, initially.
is that omething any doctor would recommend esident should be doing or is it better to rest and take time out?
rospect i am sure he wishes he taken some time out because no ter whether he is the president the united states or the prime ister of britain, the fact is at the illness does not scriminate between your status and oes
ave you really washed out.
have tried to work, when i was not fully fit, on meetings, and i wish i had practised what i preached and a few weeks off to recuperate.
its worst, how difficult was it ou?
for you?
i wasn’t welcome it was, i describe it as the worst full -- worst i had ever ad but at no time did i think i would die.
i wished the erature would go down, i wished elt etter.
is not a nice i felt better.
it is not a nice illness.
i am in my 60s.
if you are nger, i know from the figures, ould probably have a milder isease.
glad you are better, thank you for ing us with that.
before his positive test for covid, president trump spoke to fox news about his close aide hope hicks’s own positive test.
m: we can listen to what he had to say.
she did test positive, ijust heard about this, she tested positive.
she is a hard worker, a lot of masks, she wears masks a lot, but she tested positive.
it is very hard when you are with soldiers, when you are with air men, when you are with marines, the police officers, with them so much, and when they come over to you, it is very hard to say, "stay back,", it is a tough situation.
you know hope very well, she is fantastic and has done a greatjob.
but it is very hard when you are with people from the military or from law enforcement and they come over to you, they want to hug you and kiss you, because we really have done a good job for them.
earlier keith neal, emeritus professor in the epidemiology of infectious diseases at the university of nottingham, told us more about how president trump may respond to the virus.
at the moment we don’t have any specific antiviral treatments and sivir only shortens your stay in hospital.
we do have another tment which reduces the ortality rate by a third.
the old ures give someone in their 705 a ortality risk around 8%.
he is mortality risk of around 896.
he is at high risk for eing a man but how he is probably a fit healthy 74—year—old compared to many
so he main factor is obesity which also increases his risk, i think just because he has been early in the illness and tested earty in the illness and found positive it can actually, you ctually unwell for a week or ran actually be unwell for a week or two before you become seriously ill.
he is tested quite early on and if he is tested quite earty on in the illness as part of a routine , we do know small numbers of opla are actually ally and hey would have a good gnosis.
we will know more in a exactly how the disease has out.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
on tuesday the first debate between president trump and joe biden took place.
world leaders have also been reacting to the news.
russia’s president vladimir putin wished donald trump a speedy recovery — saying: "i am convinced that your vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with this dangerous virus.
" the ’s prime minister, borisjohnson, who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year, has tweeted, saying he sends his "best wishes to president trump and the first lady.
" spokesman for german chancellor angela merkel has sent her best wishes.
she’s quoted in a tweet as saying — "i hope that they recover well from their coronavirus infection and are soon completely healthy again.
" indian prime minister narendra modi tweeted: "wishing my friend president trump and the first lady 3 quick recovery and good health.
" and the director—general of the world health organization, tedros ghebreyesus, has given his "best wishes to the president and the first lady for a full and speedy recovery.
" the nato secretary—general has ished 3 speedy recovery to resident trump in the last few nutes well.
good wishes coming in internationally from many world regardless of politics.
and nternally thin the even from ritis of president, everyone anting good ealth for the resident and his wife.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
on tuesday the first debate between president trump and joe biden took place.
his special adviser hope hicks — who has also tested positive — travelled with the campaign.
then on wednesday the trump campaign flew on marine one and air force one to a rally in minnesota.
again hope hicks is with president trump.
she falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
on thursday hope hicks tests positive for coronavirus as president trump travels to newjersey for another fundraiser.
donald trump then takes a test along with his wife melanie.
this takes us to today.
president trump announces on twitter that he has tested positive for covid—19.
he will have to isolate for ten days — even if he shows no — or for days if develop.
an election rally in florida tonight has been cancelled.
on thursday 8th october the vice presedential debate is due to take place in utah.
there has been no news about whether this will change.
the next presidential debate is due to take place on thursday 15 october in miami in florida.
again there has been no word on whether this key election event will be affected.
then the final debate between president trump and joe biden is scheduled to take place on thursday october 22nd in tennessee.
this all leads up to tuesday 3rd november.
that’s election day in the united states.
with just a month left to go until polls open across the entire united states how will donald trump’s coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection.
a short while ago, our north america editorjon sopel explained how president trump could have contracted the virus.
well, it’s simultaneously astonishing that the president, who is so well protected, where testing happens so much, could have contracted the virus, and also not in the least bit surprising given the ambivalent attitude in the white house towards wearing face masks.
you talk about this very close aide and confidante, hope hicks, having contracted it earlier in the week, there is a film of her and four other people walking to the marine one helicopter, that cramped helicopter that takes the president and those people from the white house to andrews air force base, none of them are wearing masks.
at all.
and that underlines the problem, you can have all the protection you need but actually, if you haven’t got the masks mitigating it, that could be problematic and probably is how it spread.
donald trump is 74—years—old.
the last full medical report we had says that he was obese, those are two comorbidities that go with covid.
that said, the physician’s report i thought was upbeat in its assessment although it’s very early days, of course, it said he thinks the president should be able to continue his work uninterrupted while he recuperates.
and so, no suggestion that the president needs to step aside and they need to invoke article 25 of the constitution, for the vice president to temporarily take over but you know, where this leaves the campaign and small questions like that, who knows?
so what impact is news of president trump’s positive test had on the world’s stock markets?
ave indicated that shares will open sharply lower after the news broke.
stock market futures showed that all three of america’s main indexes — the dowjones, the s&p 500 and the nasdaq — are set to drop by at least1.
5% each when trading begins.
let’s get more now from our business correspondent theo leggett.
what can you tell us?
at the moment i would say there is a shiver through the share markets in urope.
if you ok at the 100 dex, that is down a little over 5, 6, is in rankfurt, and in paris.
hat investors here are looking at hat oes this mean?
the problem nobody really knows how serious ald trump’s condition is, what it ould an in terms of the daily nning of the white house, or what eans in terms of the election.
the markets opened we will that mplified because, bviously, there is more of a local ffect.
igns are as you pointed effect.
the signs are as you pointed out from premarket trading that the ndexes, they will all open sharply down.
i have to say a little caution here, what we are eeing is likely to be a significant at the start, 1.
5%, these are fall at the start, 1.
596, these are significant but huge.
no sign of c, just a worry there is uncertainty and during times of rtainty, people tend to turn away from uities and look for safer places to put their money.
at the moment there is a nervousness.
do not know what to expect and that is reducing the appetite hares.
we do not know where for shares.
we do not know where this is going and investors do not either.
know either.
president trump had wanted make economy a theme for the the economy a key theme for the election, this is an uncertain time ading up to the vote in november.
bsolutely.
one piece of data we are get out today is what they being non—farm payrolls, mployment figures, expected show a reasonably substantial in the number of people mployed in the .
that would have xpected to give the markets a boost.
but there is talk of a $2.
2 lion stimulus programme in the which has hit a new hick ups.
a bill was passed in the house of esentatives but without republican support which means it is rtain whether that bill in its urrent form can make it into law.
these ctors which we would ormally expect to focus attention attention has moved away these nuts and bolts economics, wards at is happening in the white use and where does the esident barack obama honestly the this critical point.
—— the resident’s illness leave the .
another person wishing him a speedy recovery is sarah elliott, who is chair of the republicans overseens group who told us what she believes this means for the upcoming election.
i wish him a fast recovery.
i think he is actually in robust health.
his staffers have come out and said as much.
if you listen, he has as you said the best medical care in the world.
i think he will recover.
he is now going into quarantine with the first lady for ten days so the campaign is going to a halt.
but then again, i think it will pick right back up where it left off.
now president trump has a personal experience and a connection to covid, and the american people mayjust look at him sympathetically and feel like, "wow, he can now personally feel our pain.
".
i think actually there will be sympathy from the american people because generally the american people are kind—hearted, and they want to see the president of their country succeed.
unfortunately there are people on the left who are gleefully relishing in this and they are hoping the worst with the president.
but i do not think that is going to happen.
people are talking about the 25th amendment and will mike pence take over?
i think that is ridiculous and too soon.
i think he will recover, will get back to normal
but it is at a critical time.
every day matters in this campaign right now.
so it will be interesting to see the polling.
but he is the comeback kid.
he likes a challenge, he likes to prove people wrong and i think this is another challenge in which he will do so.
because of our constitution we know what is going to happen, and we do know a vice president would take over in a situation like that.
but it also brings up a really curious point about candidates.
there might be more scrutiny on kamala harris and her role and her possibility of her becoming president prematurely should something happen to the vice president and they get elected.
this may actually have a negative effect for the biden campaign because kamala harris is universally not very popular across the country.
despite now contracting covid—19 the president has faced criticisim for not taking the virus seriously enough.
a little earlier we heard from one of his critics, john scardino from democrats abroad.
would wish the president well, i wish him a speedy recovery.
i would this virus on anybody.
some of the effects are long—term ological effects that are a bit edictable.
i think what we are seeing is that many people react differently to the vims.
and i wish him well.
having said , he that, he has been saying now, and i was listening to your republican a minute ago, he has not guest a minute ago, he has not treated this very seriously.
the has been in a crisis from the very beginning he was on record saying he was playing it down.
as recently as last week he was at a raising dinner where he was saying the virus is behind us, we ver the hump.
america has got 0,000 new cases of infection a day.
are that to the with 7000 and you see the dramatic measures being here in the .
i do not see the president could possibly say the virus, this crisis is behind us, and i think that his ess if that is what it is, is oing to make his statements very that the virus is behind us.
jordan fabian is the white house correspondent at bloomberg news — he broke the news earlier that hope hicks, trump’s aide, had tested positive.
he explains what travelling with the president on air force during the pandemic entails.
reporters generally wear masks all the time when they are at the white house and on air force one.
we are tested every day that we go into the white house for a trip with the president using those rapid tests that take about 15 minutes to get back.
so they’re trying to do as much as possible to keep us protected and we to do as much as possible to keep ourselves protected.
but as we have seen, the system isn’t full—proof and of course the president and staff are very much less vigilant about wearing masks and social distancing and now we are seeing something like a massive, possibly a massive outbreak happening in the white house.
president donald trump and the first lady melanie test positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
announcing the test results on twitter the president says he and the first lady "will get through this together" it comes after his one of his closest aides — hope hicks — tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips together in the past week world markets slump on the news with the dow futures index down due to uncertainty about the operation of the administration.
let’s recap on our breaking news for viewers who might bejustjoining us — president trump has tested positive for coronavirus.
he says he is quarantining at the white house.
his wife has also tested positive.
throughout the pandemic, tmmp, who’s 74, has often refused to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
with the presidential election a month away, it’s thrown the campaign into disarray.
peter bowes has more.
so sorry, we might have just lost that peace.
we will to come back t, if we can.
melissa mackenzie is publisher of the american spectator magazine in houston in texas.
she says president trump will find new ways to connect with american voters over these last few weeks of the presidential election campaign.
well, this is a wily virus and a lot of peopla who have been doing rything right have gotten sick, the president is now one of people.
every person who gets thin contact with him is tested, so this is actually kind of markable, that even with all of testing of the people around him has still managed somehow to get the vims.
but this is a tricky and get the virus.
but this is a tricky virus and he is just one more victim he has not been doing everything right, though, has he?
he has been in large crowds without distancing, without wearing a sk.
these are the basic things we told to do to protect ourselves the virus.
well, it may look ike he is ose to people in these owds but that might be a crowds but that mightjust be a trick of photography, because he is tually been in close contract not actually been in dose contract to make contact.
if you noticed, at llies, he is not shaking hands, hugging them, getting close.
been doing his part in these situations to stay distanced.
it is of those things.
it is a just one of those things.
it is a difficult virus.
i think there were of getting on board marine shots of him getting on board marine one with hope hicks and others in ast few days, all very close ether.
clearly there is not a uge amount pace in a huge amount of space in a helicopter, compared to air force one of them wearing masks.
hat is one example of where people been close together without earing masks and the president in company.
what do you think, lissa, hat pairing
do you think his will have on the remaining of the election campaign?
well, there is no question this is think it is going to shift things.
i think of and his fireside chats, american people will connect with president in a different y.
the president will now have the perience of so many people in rica right now, who are distanced and having zoom meetings, and i suspect the president will find ways nect with the american people to connect with the american peopla in the same with the rest of the is connecting, through world is connecting, through computer, google, however it works.
find a way.
—— he will find a way.
let’s just bring you that report no.
he bombed show like no other, a before the presidential month before the presidential election, donald trump and his wife anie, the lady, have tested melanie, the first lady, have tested positive for coronavirus.
it follows hat one of his closest advisers, hope hicks, has the ase.
she experienced of ease might well accompanying the sident at a rally in minnesota.
was quarantine on the residential plane back to shington.
earlier in the week, she ravelled eveland in ohio with travelled to cleveland in ohio with for the presidential bate.
she was seen arriving with not wearing a mask.
the his team not wearing a mask.
the president confirmed his diagnosis in t.
the first lady later tweeted that they were both feeling good.
the ident because my doctor said both were well at this time and ned to remain at home within the ite ouse during their convalescence.
rest assured, i expect the president to continue ying out his duties without dismption carrying out his duties without disruption well recovering.
the e-night ouncement has sent late-night announcement has sent shock waves throughout america and rld.
days after a heated the world.
days after a heated debate with his democratic opponent, den, trump is now confined joe biden, is now confined to the white house for an indefinite d.
he has ancelled a rally period.
he has cancelled a rally scheduled for tonight in florida.
ronavirus has long been the the coronavims has long been the central issue in the presidential ion campaign, with the election campaign, with the democrats accusing trump of ling to ert the nation to the failing to alart the nation to the severity of the disease, and for ring the advice of his medical perts.
the virus has killed more an 200,000 americans, and multiple tes are experiencing a surge in ses.
for months, mrtrump een cases.
for months, has been belittling joe biden for isolating at home in his basement and for wearing a mask during his public rances.
i don’t wear a mask appearances.
i don’t wear a mask like him.
every time you see him, got a mask.
he could be speaking 200 feet away from me and ows up with the biggest mask ’ve ever seen.
the vice esident, mike pence, who would over rom donald ump if take over from donald if he became too ill to carry out his has tweeted his love and yers to the president and his fe.
election law in the means the country will go to the polls on mber the 3rd, but what happens etween now and then is far from ar.
they talk about the october rprise in merican politics, but his is ncharted territory.
laurie laird is an american politics commentator and economistjournalist.
she explained that in the past the president has been quite relaxed about the risk of catching the virus.
well, i think, like so many of your guests, this comes as a shock but surprise.
we know that donald is not ften wearing a mask i was watching his nomination weekend in the rose garden at white house, nobody had a mask it harked back to earlier days, pre-covid-19 s, he did not have a ask, judge rrett did not have a ask, none the assembled guests ad a sk.
we know donald trump does not to wear a mask, that has mocked joe biden for wearing , one, questioned his masculinity.
it is not all that surprising.
there couple of big questions hough.
one is how sick will donald et?
get?
many of your guests have mentioned he is a high risk area, ically obese, over the age of 70, and it is sort of ironic, donald as has mocked joe biden for being so elderty.
donald trump is only years ounger than biden.
three years younger thanjoe biden.
we know that it was caught very ckly, he is bably one of the quickly, he is probably one of the most tested men in the world.
could ndition deteriorate?
that is a ery big question.
the other stion is, who has he been in ntact with?
the president is in ntact with so many people during he urse of the day.
economic dvisers, national security isers, campaign advisers.
it is unlikely or impossible that so aides from so many different of government, it could include pla involved in the nomination ocess of dge barrett.
the people involved coming up with the imulus plan.
how widely spread ough the west wing, through the ite ouse could coronavirus be?
so what impact is news of president trump’s positive test had on the world’s stock markets?
ave indicated that shares will open sharply lower after the news broke.
stock market futures showed that all three of america’s main indexes — the dowjones, the s&p 500 and the nasdaq — are set to drop by at least1.
5% each when trading begins.
joining me from west sussex in southern england is michael hewson, chief market analyst at markets.
can you tell us a bit more about what uropean markets are doing?
are sharply lower.
it is really no surprise, the health of presidents has always been an issue rkets.
you have only got to go for markets.
you have only got to go back to when reagan was shot in the 5, and when george bush senior fell ill at a japanese banquet, ets fell quite sharply in the aftermath of that and this is no erent.
what a different out this, though, is the fact that is coming at a time of enormous itical uncertainty, off the back debate where the president did really perform that well.
the ocrats are leading in the polls politicians in the cannot agree on a new stimulus package.
in terms of investors, obviously we that the next few days and weeks now are going to be an extra tical roller—coasters on top of what as already expected.
what will mean?
how are you expecting to play out?
i am expecting an ful lot more volatility.
you ked about an october surprise.
of the things for financial kets is increased volatility.
is is another catalyst, tentially blowing a massive hole esident trump’s re election ampaign.
he is a very big mpaigner, likes to go on the road.
is very strident.
the debates at were scheduled for next week, vice presidential debates ween mike pence and vice esidential nominee kamala harris well not to take place.
and the bate on the 15th of october een president trump and joe iden may take place.
this is a big blow for the president, and i think it is going to be very ficult for him to get his elaction campaign back on track.
i mean, we do not know yet at all, we not heard anything on whether ese debates are going to be held t.
they could of course be held online.
just more dly, the online.
just more broadly, the economy has been one of donald ’s themes.
he wanted to show trump’s themes.
he wanted to show his success rate there.
how much the market volatility affect the economy story, assuming that the ampaign does eventually get back up and unning fully?
not so h, really.
ithink wful lot much, really.
i think an awful lot of focus will be on this afternoon’s loyment report for september.
if that is a good one, president will be able to point to the act that the economy is covering from its covid—19 shock.
downside is it takes the pressure of politicians from ving at the stimulus package.
ith election only 30 days away, the ndow for that is closing very pidly and i think that is one of reasons the markets are as as they are.
the diagnosis of sident trump was really president was really just another factor mitigating in the imism of markets in general at he moment, in the face of rising ction rates across europe and in as well.
0k, many thanks.
jeremy faust is an emergency medicine doctor and coronavirus specialist at brigham and women’s hospital in boston.
he explains what will happen next.
the president’s physician wrote a memorandum which was secular to this ng, in which he said evening, in which he said optimistically that he expected the dent to continue his duties and to convalesce, to get better.
nobody that.
on a human level, we ran know that.
on a human level, we hope that is the case but in the ten days, these are the next ten to 14 days, these are the most angerous ten to days that he president united states has ever faced in ife.
he could doing roverbial cart wheels two eeks now or he could be ntubated in an intensive care unit.
are going extremely these are going to be extremely tense moments for him and his ly, and we all have to sit here watch that.
it is going to be fficult.
he does have several ings working against him that we learned.
we have learned so about this virus in such a much about this virus in such a short period of time.
we know that ity, which he has, is a risk obesity, which he has, is a risk factor for serious and critical s.
we know that his age is an deniable risk factor.
90 times re likely than a person in their 205 would be.
we know that the male gender is a problem.
there is a little bit of a disposition there.
so there are a of reasons we could say he healthy individual, obviously to do one of the most demanding obs in the world, and on the flip that me coin you could say and there are very important reasons oncerned.
and of course, we in the followed boris johnson’s health with those oller—coaster of changes.
the ation really tching very closely hat happened with boris on’s n’s health no doubt the will go ough a similar thing in the next hours and days.
the president has recently attended large indoor gatherings where many of his supporters are not wearing masks.
trump spoke about wearing face coverings on tuesday during the presidential debate.
imean, i have a mass grave here.
i put a mask on when i think i need onight is an example, everybody as had a taste and you have had ial distancing and all of these hings, but ear a mask when needed.
let me ask i do not wear like him.
every time you see im, he’s got a mask.
you could be aking 200 feet away and he shows with the biggest mass give ever en.
professor kimberly nalder of california state university director of the project for an informed electorate spoke to my colleague annita mcveigh and explained that the president may have to continue to campaign for the election from the white house, which as a federal building isn’t meant to be used for political campaigning.
i think it seems reasonable.
i don’t think he is going to, you know, he up on charges and taken to ourt over it.
it is very derstandable.
infect, it is advisable.
we would certainly prefer do that instead of go out that he do that instead of go out like he was planning to, in person, ing lots of people together, xposing more people to this virus, ntially.
what bearing do you potentially.
and what bearing do you think he is contracting the virus is to have he vote, these going to have on the vote, these remaining few weeks?
frankly, how it play out if he either would it play out if he either remains well or if he was to become well, one of the things that he has is a mean appeal for people his kind brash, combative, trong man style.
if he appears k, if he appears sick and, ecially if he gets intubated or on a ventilator, that would undercut that image of him, ven if it is subconscious for ple.
so that would be a big concern him, if he did get especially sick.
if he is well, i imagine that he will say, see, it is at big of a deal.
it will not that big of a deal.
it will reinforce that message that he has ushing.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
on tuesday the first debate between president trump and joe biden took place.
his special advisor hope hicks — who has also tested positive — traveled with the campaign.
then on wednesday, the trump campaign flew on marine one and air force one to a rally in minnesota.
again, hope hicks is with president trump.
she falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
on thursday, hope hicks tests positive for coronavirus as president trump travels to newjersey for another fundraiser.
donald trump then takes a test along his wife.
president trump announces on twitter that he has tested positive for covid—19.
he will have to isolate for 10 days — even if he shows no — or for days if develop.
an election rally in florida tonight has been cancelled.
on thursday 8 october the vice presedential debate is due to take place in utah.
there has been no news about whether this will change.
the next presidential debate is due to take place on thursday 15 october in miami in florida.
again, there has been no word on whether this key election event will be effected.
then the final debate between president trump and joe biden is scheduled to take place on thursday ctober 22nd in tennessee.
this all leads up to tuesday 3 november.
that’s election day in the united states.
with just a month left to go until polls open across the entire united states how will donald trump’s coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection?
eric ham, a political analyst in washington, looks at the affect the infection may have on donald trump’s presidency.
politically, there is nothing good about what we are hearing about the dent’s prognosis at this point.
this is a president who has tried at turn and every opportunity to dismiss this virus.
the president so far as to say that if even went so far as to say that if you take out those who have died this virus in blue states, the united states would be doing very .
almost to dismiss the fact hat so many people have died.
in, we heard from the again, we have heard from the president’s own recordings that he hat this virus early on was as knew that this virus earty on was as deadly as it is.
simply did not do gh.
of course, the president’s proval rating on the virus has very, very low.
in fact, one of reason is perhaps den, the reason is perhaps whyjoe biden, the former vice president, is doing is because millions of so well is because millions of americans believe this inistration simply has not done nough to combat this virus, and now the president’s own cavalier response to the virus catching up to he question becomes, will it catch up to him to the point where him lose his presidency as a ult?
let’s look at how this story unfolded, the first lady melania trump posted on twitter following the news that she and the president had tested positive for coronavirus.
vice president mike pence tweeted world leaders have also been reacting to the news.
pardon me.
world leaders have also been reacting to the news.
obviously i think we all want to send our best wishes to the sident and first lady.
i have that this morning, as you can magine.
iam that they will both stage was meant boris son
they re reacting very johnson they are reacting very brieﬂy in an interview with us on ident briefly in an interview with us on president trump a’s situation.
boris son mself went through a very johnson himself went through a very difficult time with covid—19 at the of the pandemic, pretty much.
political correspondent is at tminster.
we had a very brief there from boris word there from doris johnson.
of course, we are getting tributes around the world for the right around the world for the president.
good wishes, messages of recovery for the president and his wife.
what do you think the are ing to be in thoughts are going to be in particular of the british government watch this unfold?
well, boris johnson early speaking from perience, ving contracted coronavirus very early on in the demic.
you remember, it was pandemic.
you will remember, it was back at the end of march that he down with coronavirus symptoms.
ituation then was very ifferent.
testing was nowhere near despread as it is now, so he as only tested when he developed ptoms.
remember, it took more han a week or so for him to then be itted to hospital.
50, his admitted to hospital.
so, his trajectory was one of a deterioration in his condition.
he had started off still working from street, still being in downing street, still being in charge, carrying out government ness, but while isolating in business, but whila isolating in downing street.
then, he was sferred to hospital and a few ays later went into intensive care.
ched the stage, if people can emember that far, when his foreign etary, dominic rod, actually eputised for him when the situation very touch and go.
of course, oris johnson ded up making a ecovery, ame out of hospital, cuperated at chequers, his country idence, and then eventually went to work.
it seems that he has ade a full recovery.
but i think he be watching president trump now, at the boris ohnson was now, at the time boris johnson was the first world leader to contract rus, but clearly some hope the virus, but dearty some hope that things do not deteriorate in the same way for president trump.
we are just looking at images in ington of sunrise there, as the wakes up, and the wakes up, this news.
it is just really riking, when we think back to how followed boris johnson’s gress when was ill, and fortunately or him he was extremely ill at one nt.
the nation tends to go hrough a bit of an emotional er—coaster watching this, and viously litics will come into it, especially at this incredibly time the , but there is, fevered time the , but there is, you know, some tension in the air as a get these updates on the people get these updates on the leadership of mckell.
we are not ing whether there are any ptoms for president trump and his ife.
in the ontext, there was no imminent election, as there is in , but it was certainly a very larming time, because the pandemic in its early days, lockdown was just in its earty days, lockdown had just begun.
the world was still ling with coronavirus taking grappling with coronavirus taking hold.
and here you had the prime ster going down with coronavirus.
his health secretary well, but made a swift had as well, but made a swift recovery.
boris johnson was ating it was, i think, a time of great uncertainty in the when his condition deteriorated and up having to go into ospital
and then clearly very ious when he ended up in tensive care.
i think he would be est said at the time, he honest and said at the time, he described it as 50—50 whether he was to recover not.
he has going to recover or not.
he has talked quite openly about his ion that his weight was a factor how seriously he was affected by ronavirus and he has made attempts weight since then.
it was ertainly an extremely anxious time, worrying, and when he had to a deputy in charge, the foreign retary, to take charge any cision—making role, clearly there will be that that does not will be the hope that that does not have to happen but certainly, in of the context in the , this will be very worrying for many la.
and peopla.
and what we found in the as well that there were a lot of tions about the number of diving street staff that went down that downing street staff.
the white his operation, the use still has to be led, could be cted.
the line of duty, could it ffectively go to mike pence if sident trump is too ill.
we have heard any of that as of not heard any detail of that as of yet
but it brings political rtainty, does it not?
absolutely.
a very critical time for but, again, the context was different here, when boris on contracted coronavirus.
there were rhaps the same measures that are in place now and at the point in andemic, westminster was very uch the centre of coronavirus breaks and he has comedy health cretary as i mentioned also came with coronavirus and certain arce as well amongst other fficials in downing street as well.
will be difficult for them to but it will be difficult for them to keep operating but hopefully ectory will not be as serious as the one that boris nson experienced.
but certainly, there the hope that precautions, will be the hope that precautions, isolation, regular testing will help ite house staff their work.
k, thank very much indeed.
now it’s time for a look at the weather.
hello, the weather is set to bring us some disruption at times over the few days.
ay, storm alex in next few days.
today, storm alex in the south were some wet and windy her but, at times, as we head hrough the next couple of days into eekend, we are all going to see ome spells of heavy rainfall at s.
the chance there could be ismption to times.
the chance there could be disruption to travel and transport.
looding possible as well as some ﬂooding possiblo as well as strong winds, enough to bring down der a small tree or two.
some big waves around the coast as well.
torm alex is mainly affecting the southern half of the .
we could see gusts of around 60 widely around the south coast.
70 towards the channel isles as with some heavy downpours and an area of rain oving its ay an area of rain just moving its way northwards into the midlands and wales.
followed by some north walas.
followed by some brighter skies and scattered showers he south.
it is a very from the south.
it is a very different day for the northern half .
it was quite a cold start today, some fog patches are in.
one showers to parts of northern ireland, western scotland, and quite and busy for the northern islas.
but for the rest of scotland northern england and ireland, should stay predominantly some sunshine.
that rain edging northern england for the likes verpool later on this fternoon.
feeling colder than those eratures with the wind and rain the side.
through this evening vernight, more of that rain iling in on a brisk easterly breeze ross of england, wales and across much of england, walas and eastern scotland as well.
for ern scotland and northern western scotland and northern ireland, clearer skies.
the eratures will fall lowest tier.
elsewhere, further south and st, it is a mild, wet and windy to saturday.
that is the way looks through the day.
lots more vy, persistent rain tracking its further west across england and alas.
combined with gales or severe ates down wards the south—west, ersistent ain to the east of the nnines for eastern parts of hland scotland as well.
some ooding issues around.
it will ghten up owards the south east.
ostly on saturday.
for a day, low pressure sets right cross the british i’ll, icy and showers rotating around that of high pressure.
gale is ticularty around the coast of the a day of sunshine and blustery howers.
this is news.
president trump and his wife test ositive for coronavirus and are f—isolating.
it comes after one closest aides hope hicks also est positive.
he latest on how global markets reacted and in the the dow futures ex is down 2%.
futures index is down 296.
with a onth to the election we what is means for the campaign as the president is confined to the house.
white house.
live in washington, where icans are waking up to the news eir president has the virus.
hello, welcome to news.
president trump and his wife have into arantine in the white gone into quarantine in the white house after testing positive for d—19.
mrtrump is often covid-19.
who is often downplayed the virus and seldom uses said they would get through his together.
the white house tor said trump was doing well and would carry duties and would carry out his duties without disruption.
let us take you the events just before esident trump tested positive.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
on tuesday the first debate between president trump and joe biden took place.
his special adviser hope hicks — who has also tested positive — travelled with the campaign.
then on wednesday the trump campaign flew on marine one and air force one to a rally in minnesota.
again hope hicks is with president trump.
she falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
m: we will look at what this means.
let us take you to washington for the latest.
what a massive moment or americans to be waking up to and rippla effects of all of this are enormous.
solutely.
americans are waking up his stunning, shocking and nsettling news that the president he first lady have contracted is virus, 7 million americans have racted it, more than 200,000 have been killed, and now the virus is inside the white house itself.
in the middle of the night president’s cian did tweet and said at this time the president and the first well.
he did not say anything about whether they had symptoms.
he did say he expects the president to rying out his duties without dismption be carrying out his duties without disruption and indeed the president chedule has been published for day.
although it has been nded he is due to have all things about coronavirus with senior itizens.
early there is concern in shington, because the esident is 7a.
he is in a high-risk oup.
he is also verweight.
ese are things which uld potentially put him at risk.
ill of course have the very best edical care there is.
here is my lleague now more on a colleague now with more on a dramatic evening in washington.
bshell like no other.
a month efore the presidential election.
trump and his wife milani at he first lady tested positive or coronavirus.
it followed the one of his closest advisers hicks has the disease.
she perienced of covid—19 ccompanying the president at rally in minnesota.
she was antined on the presidential lane back to washington.
earlier in week travelled to cleveland the week she travelled to cleveland in ohio with trump for the esidential ate.
she was seen arriving with his team not wearing a the president confined his diagnosis in a tweet.
—— confirmed.
the first lady later twisted this.
esident’s doctor said the resident and his wife were both at this time and plan to remain the white house during their alescence.
convalescence.
rest assured i expect the president tinue his duties without to continue his duties without dismption while recovering.
late—night announcement has sent waves through america and the rld.
days after a heated debate his democratic opponent biden, mrtrump is confined to he white use for an indefinite riod.
he has cancelled a rally for night in rida.
the coronavirus has long been a ntral issue in the esidential election campaign, with democrats accusing trump of iling to alart nation to the everity of the disease and for oring the advice of his medical perts.
the virus has killed more an 200,000 americans and multiple tes are experiencing a surge in ses.
for months trump has been elittling joe for isolating belittling joe biden for isolating himself at home in his basement, and aring a mask during his public for wearing a mask during his public appearances.
not wear a mask like him come ery time you see him, he is aring a mask, he could be 200 feet and shows up with the biggest ask i have ever seen.
vice—president mike pence who take over rom onald trump if he became ill to carry out his uties has tweeted his love and yers to the president and his fe.
wife.
election law in the means the will go to the polls on country will go to the polls on november the 3rd but what happens een now and then is far from lear.
they talk about the october prise in erican politics, but this is ncharted territory.
bowes, news, los angeles.
esident trump potentially had ntact with many high—level members overnment, with his team as ell.
what is in place now in terms ontact racing, how many might have to quarantine?
entially tens of people, maybe 0 people.
the president has had an credibly busy week.
he was in veland on tuesday for the presidential debate, i was there.
one in that debate all had to tested for coronavirus.
you have sume he did not have it on tuesday
but he may well of course been infectious at that point.
haven’t yet heard anything from biden campaign about whether biden imself has been tested.
ember he was separated from the esident on that stage but he and moderator, everybody in that you would assume would now have to be tested.
the president has played the virus.
he now has it downplayed the vims.
he now has it himself.
this presidential campaign joe iden has tried to make which joe biden has tried to make into a referendum on the president’s ing of the virus, has put into stark relief, it is now put into relief.
on thursday the president was at a fundraiser in new y, at his roperty there.
verybody came into contact with at fundraiser will have to be ed.
all the secret service agent accompany him everywhere.
it is extraordinary set of rcumstances.
even his supreme urt justice minee amy coney barrett has met with him cently.
she will now have to be sted.
it throws everything up in the air.
presidential debate was heduled for october to 15th in mi.
the president will have to arantine for at least two weeks.
suming he doesn’t get sick, the ist he could be out on the road two weeks from now with just 32 to go until the election.
this as rambled the race in what was ready a turbulent year in american tic and american life.
politics and american life.
we know members of the white house often was seen without masks.
signs of social distancing as l.
there was daily testing taking lace.
was that the only eventative measure?
does look like the white house relying that testing.
certainly anyone who came into close with the president was ested regularly.
i was in cleveland he for the debate on tuesday night.
i saw members of the champ entourage into that debate auditorium earing their masks but during the ate they did not have them on and president himself has very rely been photographed in public ing a mask, only about twice, once when he went to the military ital.
he has downplayed the importance of wearing a mask.
he has along america is rounding the corner, that a vaccine is coming he pipeline.
his focus has een to get america back to work to tore the economy that he felt was strongest card in this election, conomy so damaged by the virus.
his has brought sharp relief this has brought into sharp relief all of this.
32 days to go until —— the lection.
until the elaction.
let us talk about president trump’s h.
can “an you take us health.
“an you take us through hat the guidelines say terms of what president trump and elanie trump need to do?
hey are now quarantined, for to 14 days.
do not know if he is
but i am presuming no
and if he remains he has no
and if he remains so for the next ten days, that antine period could be potentially shortened by four days.
ere going to get if he were going to get when would that happen?
ink the highest risk for developing will be the next ays.
if we get through the four days.
if we get through the next ten days without developing toms then i think it is than i think it is relatively unlikely he will.
the four days are critical, the ext ten days to rule it out.
is the sident high risk because his weight and age?
is suddenly high—risk if he were evelop mptoms because of his to develop because of his age and his weight, that puts him in -risk ategory for having a more difficult course.
important is it for we —— it wasn’t for know when the president last tested negative?
is a period of edding.
going back two to three from the positive test.
he reason i ask is if he tested tive on tuesday that was debate ay.
potentially he wasn’t ntagious which has huge mplications.
don’t think it makes a great deal fference.
if he tested positive oday or late yesterday, they will go back two or three days have to go back two or three days and think about testing.
testing be close contacts for more han 15 minutes, not necessarily eone in the back of an auditorium hysirallv separated from the resident.
when he was awaiting the result we know went to a fundraiser in jersey.
as that against the les ules and irresponsible of him?
sorry, he was tested before he had the results back?
waiting for a test result ecause he was tested daily.
assuming the president gets sted every day.
he waits for every day.
if he were that is a different g.
thing.
given his close contact to hope s.
contact with hope hicks, yes.
i think if he was tested every day and tomatic that was not necessarily irresponsible.
the son this virus is everybody’s danger as it was.
if you look great britain, canada, france, ael, we see the virus researching ommunities brought to have it control.
when i see people packing gether closely without sks, i worry about contagion.
ank you very much for ning us.
thank you very much for joining us.
so what impact is this having on the stock markets?
stock market you just point to all three main xes in the falling around 5% when trading gets under way.
let us now to a senior market nalyst.
markets not like uncertainty.
correct.
what we are seeing ere is a ssic risk off trade, selling off risk yet assets such as and moving ﬂows towards safe avens, gold, the dollar and anese en, the trades we are ooking at ight now.
what could happen later today?
the nonfarm payrolls today sually the highlight
but this will overshadow that.
markets will watching the developments closely ause of the implications that it uld have on the presidential ection which were clouded in rtainty any way.
uncertainty any way.
what kind of message when investors be hearing right now, what ould settle things down?
me clarity over what will happen.
we know the severity of the illness president trump has and we not that for a couple of days, whether he has symptoms, how is hitting him, those are the questions investors will be ng, what they really want to now.
from that they will be able to some decisions as to what might ppen about the election.
we have the debate this week.
there was ertainty surrounding the election, whether president trump accept outcome.
that put will accept the outcome.
that put this into question as well, how he accept the election is given is campaign will probably take a because of this development.
are watching news.
m: we will take you straight to scotland and nicole sturgeon.
id tatistics for today.
the otal number of positive cases orted sterday was 775, that is 12.
6% of people newly tested and kes total number up to 30,687.
24 cases were in greater glasgow lyde, 64 in lothian, 102 in lanarkshire.
there will be a meeting of the ational incident today of the national incident management team looking at a range ues in particular the current of issues in particular the current situation in glasgow and arkshire.
the remaining 185 cases spread across other health board eas.
i can also report 175 people in hospital is an increase are in hospital which is an increase of 21 from yesterday.
19 people are ensive care, to more than in intensive care, to more than yesterday.
i also regret to report have been registered of ople who had first tested positive ovid during the previous 28 days -- eaths.
gain, i want to send my cere ondolences to everyone who has lost one and of course that asically includes those who have a loved one in the last few ys.
these numbers today not of rases but perhaps more rticularly hospital admissions, ers in intensive care and of people dying, uld remind us that this surgence of covid is omething we have to take very ously.
there are several issues to briefly update on today.
irstly, as i often do on a friday, your attention to an nouncement made last night, the ish element has added poland turkey to the list of those tries subject to quarantine estrictions.
and the three islands caribbean which means that from 4am tomorrow people travelling otland from these cases must self—isolate for a0 days on their urn.
deira and the azores will be removed from the list of places ect to restrictions but if you ave a ride from those places in the two weeks or if you arrive later today or tonight you will still have to self-isolate for 14 days.
days.
these changes are another reminder of the virus in any country or area ran change quite rapidly and hey change our quarantine mles when they change our quarantine rules often change as well, so ase, this especially important as we approach the october holidays, carefully about any think carefully about any unnecessary travel.
if possible, unnecessary overseas travel.
remember the fact a country is from quarantine requirements when you go there does not mean it still be exempt when you come ack.
back.
second update relates to the protect and app.
i have said before hat the app is not a magic lution, it does not replace the for the hard work being done by test and protect teams but it is eally important additional tool tackling covid and already oving its worth.
more than 1.
3 lion people have downloaded the app in past three weeks, more an a third of the people who had sted positive have been at it is in that time more than 2,000 ntacts had been advised to elf—isolate.
these are people who not herwise have been might not otherwise have been identified.
here are three points i want to ess which might make the app more eful.
the first applies to everyone who currently has it.
if you test positive for covid you will a code which you are meant to enter into the app.
make sure you because it is necessary for you to do that for the app to omatically notify people you have in ose contact with.
that might sound obvious but we know at oment not everybody who has the and who receives a positive test is actually doing that.
nough people are doing it for the to make a ference but it app to make a difference but it would be better if everybody entered when they test positive.
lease remember.
second point is we an update to the app this which some people may wish to ake vantage of, it allows the app be paused without bluetooth being bled in your phone.
let me stress i do not want people to pause when you are going about the app when you are going about your daily activities because that remove the point of having it.
would remove the point of having it.
this is a feature that is especially for some groups, useful for some groups, in particular, clinical staff in jobs ften involve being within two metres of other people but were ificant measures are in place to reduce the risk of oking at other we are also looking at other improvements to the act, we are ing hard with england and northern ireland on linking up tect scotland app with the other untries to support people who ravel, to these different ones travel, to make these different ones interoperable.
and whether the age for the use of the app can limit for the use of the app ran change.
to see if we can reduce the to under 16.
age to under 16.
finally, if you haven’t downloaded yet and you are able to do the app yet and you are able to do so, please do it.
it takes less than minutes, data is kept two minutes, your data is kept entirely secure and anonymous, it is but really powerful way in hich we can all play our part in struggle covid.
the struggle against covid.
lastly, i want to stress again how rtant it is of us important
it is all of us self—isolate when we are asked to do viously cannot do that today without first addressing the issue garet ferrier, the who of margaret ferrier, the who travelled by train to london and nded the house of commons after aking a test when she should have self—isolating and who then ravelled back to scotland by train being told that her test was ositive.
margaret is a friend of so everything i am about to say bviously with the heaviest of arts and i wish her a speedy overy from covid.
none of that anges the fact that her actions reckless, dangerous and completely indefensible.
i feel very angry on the you, every single day i stand here and i ask you to make endous sacrifices as part of our ollactive efforts against covid.
it is really rtant whether you agree with me or not, whether you me or load me, that you can love me or load me, that you ran have have confidence in the advice that i give you.
that means me being clear he rules apply to everyone, that the mles apply to everyone, regardless of who you are and rdless of what your political agiance .
trust me, it is one the allegiance is.
trust me, it is one of the easiest things in the world litic to all for tough in politics to call for tough consequences when one of your nents breaks the rules, that is not hard of us.
the litmus test is whether you are prepared to same when it is one of your breaking the rules.
in these rmal times when everybody is being asked to do difficult things, that is more important than r.
that is the whip has een withdrawn from margaret and is the most serious sanction a an impose on an elected representative.
i have also spoken directly and made lear to her that i think she should resign as p.
people contact now resign as an .
people contact me and say, don’t you just sack her, a pointl had to make clear.
i don’t have he power to force an to step down, no party leader has power.
but i can make my views nown and difficult though it is, i have done so, and i hope she will to the right decision in the nterest of the overall integrity of vital public health messages.
i want to emphasise again it is portant to self—isolate.
we are aunching a dia campaign this vening which has been planned for eral days to stress the importance of self—isolation.
ntially if you have any one of the of covid you should to self—isolate immediately and ok a test.
you can do that through the website.
the as a reminder of a new inuous cough, high—temperature loss or hange in taste or smell.
when you get your result if est egative, you can stop elf—isolating.
if you have covid, to elf—isolate for a you need to self-isolate for a further ten days starting from the date on which you took your test.
if you are identified as a contact of one with covid either by a test protect team or by the app you self—isolate for days.
you must self-isolate for 14 days.
you need to elf—isolate for longer than one who has tested positive because if you get covid you will be tious for a few days after the eriod of the person you got it m.
the key point
i want to stress day for obvious reasons is itself ation is not something anybody should see as an option come omething as something that is voluntary.
if you develop or if you are tified as a contact you must elf—isolate immediately.
do not you ran go to the shops one think you ran go to the shops one last time let alone travelling.
you elf—isolate completely which means taying at home and not going where else.
the reason is simple, have been in touch with someone who has covid during their tious period there is a chance you will also have covid even if you yet have and self solation is one of the most portant thing we can all do to sure are not unwittingly ensure we are not unwittingly sometimes transmitting the virus to anyone else.
this is essential.
it is a tough thing for any of us to be to do but essential all of us abide by.
if we are asked to do it no matter are and no matter what our who we are and no matter what our circumstances, we should all do it.
nconvenient, it is tough, articularty or those on low incomes who might lose money when to self—isolate which is are ntroducing the £500 to port payment and we are working with local authorities to it has practical help for make sure it has practical help for peopla such as food deliveries.
ails of that are available on the website.
the reason we provide help for to do the right thing is cause right now doing the right ing for all of us is so important.
ase, please self—isolate and book est if you ave symptoms.
self—isolate for days if you are tified as a contact.
it is vital our collective efforts.
at int has particular added have already alluded to.
before i finish and hand over to jason i also provide he usual reminder want to provide the usual reminder of the other key public health ance.
none of us should be guidance.
none of us should be visiting each other’s homes right cept for very specific now except for very specific purposes like childcare or caring a lnerable adult.
when we do meet with thers outdoors or in oor public places, the maximum up size allowed is six and there people should not come from any re than households.
we should avoid rar sharing possible, work home if we can, download the otect otland app and finally all of us should remember , face rings, avoid crowded places, ean hands and hard surfaces, keep etres from other households, and self—isolate and book a test if symptoms.
i say this every you have symptoms.
i say this every day
but i feel a particular ponsibility today, i know how it is for everybody to follow rules and how angry people feel the mles and how angry peopla feel when they see others not following rules.
we have been asked to these mles.
we have been asked to stick with all of these rules for ollective well—being of the the collactive well-being of the country and for each and every one .
so please do that for yourselves, your ilies, your oved nes and your community as a ole.
my deep and sincere thanks to erybody who is making really tough rifices right now in the interests of that collective effort.
today want to make a plea jason.
today i want to make a plea on behalf of a piece of the health ice we perhaps take for granted.
every country has a blood sfusion service and we have one of the best in the world, the tish national blood transfusion rvice.
i would like to this remarkable organisation ten do take for granted because is invisible to many.
for the fe-saving they do every day.
life-saving work they do every day.
secondly, to give a huge thanks to land’s blood platelets and asma donors who have provided such mazing response, it is vital heir supplies get to patients right now.
that brings me to today, as health ices restart, the demand for lood across scotland is increasing onations are needed from people who are able especially as we move winter.
if you have never onated or if you haven’t recently ated and you are able, i would eally you to contact the scottish national blood transfusion ce.
i want to reassure anyone onsidering making a donation angements are in place to ensure fety at centres, they have reased social distancing, as would expect.
sessions are now by appointment
so the right ber donors are there at any time.
anyone with of covid has been in contact with or who has been in contact with anyone with sentence should not te.
the service is working to vance the fight against covid by llecting convalescent plasma.
a research is showing that the blood of somebody recently recovered from -19 may ontain antibodies covid-19 may contain antibodies which we can use for treating people spital are seriously unwell in hospital who are seriously unwell with the virus.
the blood nsfusion service is looking for donors of convalescent plasma.
if you have had covid—19, either irmed through test or have confirmed through test or have yourself isolated because you have mptoms, and are now symptom—free for 20 days, the ice would like to hear from you.
an you check eligibility to “an you check your eligibility to donate book an appointment ine.
online.
we will move straight to questions.
today, news.
thank you, hope you ran ear me.
the margaret rrier incident, highlights the act that people are adapting the meet their own rules to meet their own circumstances.
did the tell you thought it was so important that she goes to london, and what it tell you about people does it tell you about peopla are not following the rules?
look, a are are finding it really people are finding it really difficult to follow these rules.
re a variety of reasons for that.
the rules are complicated, mplicated the more we have more complicated the more we have come out of lockdown.
at times, erent rules apply in different les apply in different parts of ountry.
i think the vast majority of people want to low ese rules for the right follow these mles for the right people.
that might the right ons.
some people perhaps do not reasons.
some peopla perhaps do not fully understand them, that is not cism, sometimes people will nadvertently bridge them.
i am gling to put what margaret did nto any of struggling to put what margaret did into any of these categories.
the that has been clear and unchanging hroughout
this is the to self—isolate when you have mptoms get tested.
if you test ositive to absolutely make sure you complete that self isolation.
there can be no dubai about at.
this is not a minor breach of the rules.
it is not an inadvertent breach of the mles.
it is a ﬂagrant and dangerous breach of the mles and i am struggling, i have spoken to margaret, she ainly could not give me she solutely accepts, and let me make is clear, she accepts without servation that she has made a very rious mistake and error of gment.
for completeness, she has oluntarily, of her own back, erred herself to the police and tandards commission, she is not ing to evade responsibility for is, but can she give me a cogent xplanation as she did it?
no.
but in the sense that does not er.
nobody can have an excuse for that breach.
travelling for that kind of breach.
travelling on a rain when you know you are tive with covid—19 right now is ossibly the breach imaginable.
—— on a train.
i think ran can probably understand my people ran probably understand my feelings for a whole variety of ons right now, i cannot excuse his.
lam not going to to xcuse it.
and nor is margaret.
but i ran do is use the what i can do is use the circumstances to make it clear to that these rules apply to people that these mles apply to everybody.
nobody can be exempt and ran be xempt from the nobody can be exempt from the consequences when they breach them.
to take some positive out of this, use the inevitable publicity us to underline to people around us to undertine to peopla we are asking for self isolation in circumstances.
that is what we these circumstances.
that is what we will continue to to do.
you.
on margaret ferrier, when you ked her, or suggested to her thought she should resign from liament, what did she say to you bout at?
can you help us with who about that?
“an you help us with who knew hat wayne?
there is a ggestion that the whips knew about on wednesday and i wonder if hat delay between people knowing it and her going public and ing suspended suggests that there initially an attempt to to rite this out?
—— might raid the e.
whether she has been fully est hroughout the process with the party and others.
separately, if jason eech, on the i ran ask jason leech, on the figures in the last few days, to extent do you think students still a big chunk of driving is, and are we, by the sounds of , looking at possible further strictions in glasgow?
let me take ints to me first and i will be as brief as possible.
as open and as _.
; ossible as well.
on my onversation with her, i have been clear, i think she should step own.
isay ean this, i do that with a really heavy heart.
margaret ebody i have known a long is somebody i have known a long time.
i like her
but i cannot defend he has done.
in the what she has done.
in the circumstances right now, the grity of these public health sages, and my ability to stand re and look at this camera and see mles apply to everybody is too portant for me to to protect ebody who just happens to be a iend and colleague.
so that is ear.
she did not tell me one way nother what she intends to do.
other thing i am conscious of, again i am not going to see nything that tries to excuse it, i have to bear in mind the fact she has covid—19.
i asked her he was, viously, and how she was, obviously, and thankfuuy so far she is not fering thankfully so far she is not suffering serious symptoms.
but this a nasty ran be a nasty virus so obviously i am concerned to know that her health these are all factors.
but my is .
these are all factors.
but my duty is to make clear to her, as her leader, but also as first nister in the position that i am ling with right now, what my ews are, and that is what i have ne.
on the who knew what when, ese are important questions but imes i think in politics here ran perhaps be too much itical there can perhaps be too much political opportunism around some of we are all guilty of that in this.
we are all guilty of that in normal times, in these abnormal we should perhaps be less so.
efore i go into that in some detail, as brieﬂy as i ran, ran i say that my absolute understanding she fully cooperated with and went through the test and ect and test and trace, as far england and the house of commons cerned, philly.
so people who might have in contact with her have all been properly identified ntacted in the same way.
and contacted in the same way.
whatever i am about to say about lines, oes not affect that, peopla were properly notified if the protect and test entries ought there was a need to do that.
nderstanding is that the at estminster knew on wednesday that ad tested positive, but believed that she had taken a taste he had arrived back in once she had arrived back in scotland.
i understand that she had med colleagues on monday informed colleagues on monday evening that she was travelling back tland because a family member might have been unwell.
it was not yesterday, and my nderstanding is that there ormation came through the house commons test entries mechanism, not until yesterday my colleagues in the house of commons sed the circumstances.
that realised the circumstances.
that might test and trace mechanism.
they sed she had taken the test, travelled to london and travelled aving been told that she was hack having been told that she was positive.
the first i knew anything margaret ferrier having about margaret ferrier having covid—19 was yesterday afternoon, after ended first shortly after i ended first ministers questions.
i think people agine reaction to being ran imagine my reaction to being told that.
obviously, partly because truggling to comprehend how anybody uld have acted in that way.
i was anxious to make sure i was property understanding all of facts and not getting any essential details wrong.
i was told things at that point.
firstly, that the house of commons to put out a statement first confirming that an had tested tive.
i then made clear that if hat was to happen, margaret should iately then issue a statement confirming it was her and, and what rcumstances were.
i was also told that ian blackford, the leader group in westminster, who was on a plane travelling to inverness time, was due to speak to her once he landed in inverness.
by the hat discussion took place, the osition with the house of commons changed, so it was made clear to argaret she should issue a atement with all of the rcumstances and before she did at, she referred herself to the ice and i understand that she ok a little bit of time to inform pla dose close to her that she had peopla dose to her that she had covid-19, , and the statement was earty issued earty evening yesterday.
i know that politics kicks in in these
but i think the has acted uickly, appropriately and actually not tried to protect a colleague here.
we have tried to do thing, given the circumstances we are dealing with.
i am not going to get involved in tical statements here except to hat some of the people, i hear last night and ay, full of self-righteous criticism of the are peopla who completely lost their when a certain special tongue when a certain special adviser in london broke the rules self.
it is easy to be himself.
so it is easy to be critical when it is your opponent, test is whether you are the big test is whether you are prepared to do the same when it is your own.
jason, there was a art for you.
my summary is common umbers across the whole of rope and in scotland are going in wrong direction and continue to so.
to illustrate that beyond the figures, which is perhaps a rend, 3573 people have caught id—19 in this country in the last even days, and sted positive.
we have 19 patients in intensive care you have heard, an ncrease and you have just heard, an increase in hospital admissions of maybe 20 or so in the last of 24 hours.
we have also had 11 deaths in 48 hours.
0,000, rate is 63.
1 in per 100,000, our rate is 63.
1 in scotland.
glasgow city is at the top t, unfortunately table.
—— at of that, unfortunately tabla.
-- at the top of that unfortunate league .
the management team will meet in today, as it does consistently hroughout the week.
it will look at mbers, trends in lanarkshire, lothian, glasgow.
you are right that those positive cases still many of those positive rases still are in halls of residence and in the population.
that does not eassure me particularly, as you ard me say many times from his podium.
that will leak into a vulnerable community and you not immune if you are a student a serious illness.
50, all of the numbers oing in the wrong numbers are going in the wrong direction.
however, two weeks ago we place really quite a severe put in place really quite a severe household restrictions.
they will played through into the not have played through into the numbers yet.
i am hopeful they will.
guarantee it and it relies on each us following the rules.
ery single of us following those rules in order to drive those bers numbers down.
if the national give advice to gregor and i and then advice to the first minister in the cabinet, that will take its se.
today, there are no existing plans to tighten up restrictions in local authorities.
channel 4.
hello.
to margaret ferrier, if you don’t mind.
ijust wanted to ask hing broader on that.
you are setting these rules, telling that must follow them.
peopla that they must follow them.
and yet this is not the first time we have seen this, politicians public figures just ignoring and acting like they can do them and acting like they can do whatever they want and that these do not apply to them.
so the b“: lic will be sking this question again, and so put it to yet again, and so i will put it to you.
is it one rule for you and one a ; for verybody else?
and one ore rule for everybody else?
and one more question if you do not mind, is anything that you specifically there anything that you specifically ran do to stop another incident like particularly in relation to your own s, to stop something like is happening again?
no, there is one rule for us politicians and not one mic for us politicians and another rule for everybody else.
the thing i ran to make that only thing i ran do to make that clear is insist on the consequences politician breaks the rules when a politician breaks the mles being as severe and taking account circumstances of elected epresentatives and the sponsibilities they have, as they be if it was an ordinary would be if it was an ordinary member of the public.
i am being clear about that.
it is not asy and i am not asking for mpathy.
the last thing i am asking r.
but it is not easy as a olitician to effectively ask one of own to resign.
it is not, or a whola variety of reasons.
in normal cumstances, on more normal litical issues, maybe you to id that happening, but right now, most important, frankly the most ortant relationship i have right is the one i have standing here ooking down the camera at the ttish public.
i cannot ask you atching this right now to make all hese sacrifices if i am going to tand here and to explain away margaret ferrier did.
i will do that.
i can only speak for not do that.
i ran only speak for myself.
other politicians who might ecided to do things have decided to do things differently have to explain that.
an i do to stop any of my ther other colleagues doing this?
i cannot babysit everybody across the ry.
but i can be country.
but i ran just be clear, peopla have to abide by these ecause they are not there for reason.
they re there to keep us l, or to keep us all safe.
son has just are just oing to come of that briefing in nburgh and get some more on these ing falls for edinburgh and get some more on these growing cells for the margaret rrier esign.
she has lready ferrier to resign.
she has already been suspended, as we have heard, the for breaking those oronavirus rules after travelling een westminster and glasgow, despite just two testing positive vid—19.
we can speak to the for covid-19.
we ran speak to the speaker of the house of commons now.
you very much for ining us.
thank you very much for joining us.
what was your response and when did hear bout what had you first hear about what had happened?
obviously, i cannot eve the behaviour of a member of parliament.
it is with complete at somebody could be so shock that somebody could be so reckless with the staff at the house mons, their fellow member mps.
but also travelling on public sport as well.
completely transport as well.
completely reckless behaviour, totally ceptable and i am very angry hat the house has been put at risk.
very, very angry about this.
many people have been put at and many people have had to risk and how many peopla have had to isolate as a result?
what i can tell is the staff straight into you is the staff went straight into operation, but the problem was we found out late wednesday only found out late wednesday afternoon, and of course this was ening on monday, so what we had do is go back through, we have best track and trace, and within nutes we had started our track trace.
as i say, the staff are very, very aware of what to do.
we are a covid—19 secure building and at was put at risk by reckless behaviour.
50 wednesday afternoon, id that, we started immediately.
were working with public health land to make sure everything we put in place was happening and the right measures were carried as i say, one person was in out.
as i say, one person was in contact longer than would have been ted and therefore that person as been asked to isolate.
that is situation at the moment.
garet ferrier is facing calls to margaret ferrier is facing rails to resign as an .
nicola sturgeon, we ust heard, as made it very have just heard, has made it very dear in her view that is absolutely at you should do.
she said it was agrant and angerous break of he rules.
are you in a position to hether that is your position as ell?
that she should resign as an what i would ask is i would expect the mber to consider what have done, the reckless aviour and how that looks to the of the country.
we are in a y, very, this sends all of the ong messages and the fact that we put so much emphasis on trying the house in the right place, aking sure that we are covid—19 ure.
that has been put at secure.
all that has been put at risk.
people have really got to consider their position on that.
it is now with the and in fairness , they also only got told late wednesday afternoon, and ightaway they came to my office, hey let the speaker’s secretary within 20 minutes we were into ull swing to put everything in to be expected to.
a real problem that i don’t want to open up many details, as we know, this is a police matter lice this is a police matterfor police scotland and the metropolitan police l.
it is an ongoing as well.
it is an ongoing investigation.
as i say, in fairness member of parliament to the member of parliament concerned, they have reported selves to standards as well.
but is now a police investigation.
just heard from nicola sturgeon, ying that she understood the house ommons initially wanted to put a statement first on learning of ad happened here and that what had happened here and that position changed.
was there a reason at?
we have got to learn from this and of course we will be going over this on monday.
we have got to learn.
how could somebody put isk?
we cannot allow for that.
the fact is, we advise people to do, to behave, if you what to do, how to behave, if you show symptoms, please stay away, if need a test, going to get a you do need a test, going to get a taste, but whatever you do do not into the house of commons, and that message is loud and clear.
we have got to make got to keep getting essage out.
what i cannot llow for somebody feels ill, and have a test, does not bid or the result, turn up in rliament and then get a result to you are itive but then say you are positive but then disappear.
worse than that, not to until wednesday is not acceptable.
we were hearing erent stories, different essages that made it even more difficult for us to deal with.
so what i would say is of course we be going over this, over and veragain.
i believe ave the right measures in place but what we cannot do is sit on our laurels.
we will always be looking to upgrade we need to and if we need to hange things, of course we will.
i will say is we have got very staff good staff who work very hard.
i have had staff working through the on this and they should not been put in this position ther.
so, just to be clear, you we have heard different involved as well as the leadership?
not the leadership, the member concerned.
there but from the member concerned.
there was not a clear line coming out hat happened.
that made it ore difficult and, as i say, if we been told on monday, we would ave been acting on monday rather on wednesday.
that puts rybody at greater risk.
the fact s, we worked very hard to ensure the one good thing is that have a very secure regime in liament.
you cannot come in partiament.
you cannot come in without a pass
so we know who comes the building.
we make sure that we have checked all of the ments, you have got to swipe card on a log on the doors, if you use detail, because it cashless within there.
we can eck ere you have been, if you ave been for a cup of tea.
we have all of that.
the fact that this ember spoke in the chamber, we have checking all of the camera otage to make sure nobody was sat ere beyond he two metres.
we are careful that the chamber is y, very secure in the sense that not allow more and than we do not allow more mp5 and than what has been agreed with public england.
we keep the two etre rule and all that has been ecked.
we are very lucky that we do have the coverage and footage back.
no, what really also orries me is that the member of liament went on public transport.
at was hole different set of eople at risk as well.
we have at concerns there.
the house has working with west coast main to to ensure that we can int let me y, what happened in our view, what i don’t want to do is nto the details because that would rong during a police inquiry, but we are working with parties involved.
0k, speaker he house of commons, we are very rateful to you for your time on s.
thank you very much indeed.
let’s go back to our main story — president trump and his wife melanie has tested positive for coronavirus.
he says they are quarantining at the white house.
throughout the pandemic, trump, who’s 7a, has often refused to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
with the presidential election a month away, it’s thrown the campaign into disarray.
joshua douglas, a professor at the university of kentucky and an election law expert.
thank you very much for joining us.
is it at all possible that the tion on november the 3rd could derailed if campaigning has to op?
well, campaign obviously as now been thrown into disarray.
i don’t suspect that the election itself would be delayed.
is cause so many people have already voted.
there has already 2 million votes cast, over 2 illion.
voting is continuing oughout the month.
it would take act of congress to delay the tion, but i would doubt that occur, just because so many eopla have already voted.
the ection has begun.
if, however, mpaigning to stop, for example campaigning has to stop, for example if president trump becomes so unwell he annot even do virtual that he cannot even do virtual campaigning, would it be expected biden also would have to stop?
it really depends on what the of it are.
in terms of what people’s xpectations would be.
of course, we also have to make sure joe biden esn’t have the thatjoe biden doesn’t have the virus.
he was around ten feet away, to ten feet , during the eight to ten feet away, during the debate.
they did not shake hands but clear when trump it is not clear when trump contracted the virus so i am sure iden will so be tested and joe biden will also be tested and hopefully he does not have it as .
obviously there is the health oncern but in terms of basic tocol, i know in the for example, if one party leader has got lem and they cannot campaign, is often observed that the others ause for a while as well, just will pause for a whila as well, just to even up the picture.
since we are to the election and people so close to the elaction and peopla are already voting, i suspect that would be a major paws all around on the campaign, but
recall i think it will be a little bit different than the way trump has mpaigning.
0k, let’s been campaigning.
is there any way therefore valid?
is there any way the white house can see the vote is going to go ad?
not the white house by tself.
again, delaying the tion would be up to congress.
hat is lear under federal law, at congress decides the date of presidential election.
and of rse, the constitution requires next president to take the oath office on nuary 20, and that annot changed either.
whether it for a cannot be changed either.
whether it is trump for a second term or joe n.
50
the white house does not biden.
so the white house does not have the authority to to delay lection by itself.
you are watching news.
do stay us professor, we have a number different channels what is at the nt.
people are concerned about he electoral process.
what if ident trump became so ill that president became so ill that he was unable perhaps to go forward next month at all?
does that in the next month at all?
does that affect the voting process?
we start into issues that are very coming into issues that are very concerning, because there are not answers.
under the law, the tical parties theoretically could choose a nominee, so the blican national party could heoretically choose another inee, but the problem is that lots have already been printed erywhere.
as i mentioned, people oting and over 2 million votes ave already been cast, so the real estion is happens after question is what happens after november three in those states that dent trump wins.
with the president wins.
with the legislators be allowed to basically the electors in each of those tates to cast the ballot for one other than trump?
unfortunately, the constitution deral law is pretty unclear about what happens in that cumstance.
what about the situation where has to hand over to mike e, for trump has to hand over to mike pence, for example question mark has been discussed stop in ffice, as president right now, what mechanism for that?
speaker mic that would fall under the 25th the president would essentially deliver a notice that he ble to carry out the duties of is unabla to carry out the duties of his office at his current time.
that make mike pence, the vice would make mike pence, the vice president, deemed the acting ident.
until president until the president delivers another notice that says he recovered and able to take the office.
the other mechanism the 25th amendment is a thin ajority of his cabinet to determine at he is unable and unfit to erve ,-- if majority of his abinet, they uld essentially orce him to step down temporarily mike pence would become acting esident.
0k, professor, sorry to termpt, thank you very much deed.
interrupt, thank you very much indeed.
this is news.
you very much indeed for that.
ots and lots of questions in the much more in a couple of moments what is going on with these entous events.
let’s have a look the weather.
ello, so far the worst of the her has been across more southern parts, but into the end, the wind and rain will pread far and wide.
it is the way that will be the biggest problem.
it is likely to lead to some flooding, avel disruption as well.
and some travel dismption as well.
and some strong winds at times.
this ing, earlier on today, the morning, eartier on today, the strongest winds around sturm alex, by the maid service.
named by the french maid service.
they whence have been gusting over any north—west of france.
—— 100 any north-west of france.
-- the french maid service.
the winds ase by this evening.
later inds towards the south—west and nnel slands are still gusting go irst.
that rain is still falling, ing slowly northwards actually so is still this evening across otland and northern ireland.
as we into the night, we have got ore rain to come.
whilst it may ease a bit across wales and well ease of a bit across walas and the south—west, it continues and lops ore wildly, quietly across other parts of england and the rain pushed into parts of will be pushed into parts of scotland.
where we have clear skies tern scotland and northern eland, those temperatures will be r, but otherwise staying in uble figures.
more rain to come on turday.
that rain will develop re widely and push its way stwards across england and wales.
is the far south—west.
some nshine eveloping in the south of england but wetter weather reading more widely into scotland.
for orthern reland and some sunshine in the south east, they are ratures possibly getting up to but otherwise around 12 degrees the rain.
the heaviest is likely across wales and the west to be across walas and the west country, where we have this amber warning from the met office.
ould be more than two inches of over the high ground.
another area likely to see heavy rain is the in the north—east of scotland as the piled that rain and of north sea.
dominated by a large of low pressure over the end.
it is going to come to rest the way across the middle of .
around the edges, this is ere we have probably got the ongest of the winds at around at area of rain that moves way from northern scotland, mist or hern ireland and headstone ross south wales and the outh—west of england.
later winds middle of the but there be some sunshine and showers ich could be heavy, and those temperatures typically 13 or celsius.
all.
president trump and the first lady in quarantine after testing positive for coronavirus.
the couple will self—isolate in the white house for ten days.
their diagnosis comes after one of trump’s closest aides, hope hicks, also tested positive.
the president announced the news in a tweet, saying, "we will get through this together.
" world leaders have been wishing them well well, obviously i think we all want to send our best wishes to the president and the first lady, and i’ve done that this morning, as you can imagine, and i’m sure that they’ll both stage a very strong recovery.
we’ll be asking to what extent trump’s age, gender and weight make him more vulnerable to the virus, and what it means means for the presidential election campaign.
also this lunchtime the first minister of scotland calls on one of her to stand down, after she travelled by train despite knowing she had coronavirus.
this is not a minor breach of the rules, it’s not an inadvertent breach of the rules.
it’s a really flagrant and dangerous breach of the rules.
two billionaire brothers from lancashire win a takeover battle for the supermarket giant asda.
and, on your marks elite athletes arrive for this weekend’s london marathon, but coronavirus means it will be a race with difference.
and coming up on news, one of the biggest names in rugby league, sam burgess, is under investigation in australia after accusations of domestic violence and drug—taking.
the player’s lawyer says all the allegations are false.
good afternoon, welcome to the news at one.
"we’ll get through this together" — the words of president trump, after being told both he and his wife melanie have tested positive for coronavirus.
it comes after hope hicks, one of the president’s closest advisers, also tested positive.
at 7a years of age, the president is in a high risk group, but his doctor says he and the first lady are well at the moment and planning to stay at the white house for their ten day quarantine.
the president has often been criticised for not wearing a mask and underplaying the dangers of covid—19.
from the united states, here’s peter bowes.
breaking news.
president trump and he first lady test positive for the navirus and are in quarantine in white ouse.
this is one of ose days, go to bed one way you wake up and the world has changed.
it doesn’t seem eal, but it totally is.
a bombshell like no other — a month before the presidential election, donald trump and his wife melanie, the first lady, have tested positive for coronavirus.
it followed news that one of his closest advisers, hope hicks, has the disease.
she experienced of covid—19 while accompanying the president at a rally in minnesota.
she was quarantined on the presidential plane back to washington.
earlier in the week, she’d travelled to cleveland in ohio with trump for the presidential debate.
she was seen arriving with his team not wearing a mask.
last night, trump told fox news found it difficult to maintain ial distancing.
it is very hard hen you are with soldiers, airmen and marines and police officers, i am with them so much, when they come is hard to say, stay back, tay back.
it is a tough situation, a terrible thing.
the president confirmed his diagnosis in a tweet.
the first lady later tweeted that they were both feeling good.
the president’s doctor said both were well at this time and "plan to remain at home within the white house "during their convalescence.
"rest assured, i expect the president to continue carrying out his duties without disruption while recovering.
" m: really have done a very good job.
it is going to disappear one day, it is miracle, it will disappear.
so far, we have lost nobody to navirus in the united states.
the start the president onsistently played down the iousness of the virus and has criticised for opening up erica too soon.
at the debate, esident trump was pressed