this is news.
i’ victoria derbyshire.
here are the headlines from the and around the world.
after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
because we have been at home for so long, so it is very nice that we are able to come back to school and find new friends and things like that.
quite nervous because it’ my first day
but i feel like it will be, like, nice meeting new people.
lockdown restrictions in the , affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
but hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions.
and if you’re in glasgow or in greater manchester, how are you reacting to the latest change in rules?
let me know.
1a people go on trial, five years after the deadly attack on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo in paris.
the coronavirus pandemic plunges australia into recession for the first time in 30 years.
and businesses in the are urged to sign up to kickstart, a £2 billionjob scheme for under—245 who are at risk of becoming long—term unemployed.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world, and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
after months of home—schooling and being away from the classroom, thousands of pupils in england and wales have returned to school today.
the start of the new term is being staggered in many areas, as schools prepare to welcome students back safely.
but there are still many questions over how easy it will be for children to catch up on learning, and the impact on next year’ exams.
our education correspondent dan johnson reports from a school in worksop.
the nerves of starting a new school meet the concerns of coming back for the first time since march.
i don’ mind online learning, it’ just that i got sick of it.
i’ve been doing it for what, three months?
when we were out.
then another three months, wasn’ able to see anyone, really.
i just want to get back.
i haven’ put my uniform on for six months, so it didn’ fit, most of it, so i had to get a whole new uniform.
distanced corridors lead to reorganised classrooms and protective bubbles will keep year groups apart.
the squirt of sanitiser will be more frequent than the bell.
students have staggered breaks, staggered lunch.
in terms of cleaning as well, we had to get extra cleaners into the building in the course of the day.
but one thing we know for sure is the longer the students stay out of the classroom, the more disadvantaged they become.
so, we want to get students in.
does that mean everything will run smoothly?
no.
we will have some bumps here and there, and challenges here and there.
but we will work through that and make sure that the bottom line is that students and staff are safe.
you’ve all been given the visors.
you need to put those on when you are supporting.
there are plans for dealing with cases and responding to local outbreaks.
but none of this has really been tested.
the bubble system, yes, keeps you together and safe but as soon as the children go out of school, and can meet whoever they want, with that, it’ flawed.
i think it’ as safe as it can be.
i think it is probably safer than the local supermarket.
the other priority is working out how much learning has being lost, then helping every child catch up.
and dan was there at that school in worksop as lessons got under way for the new year 7 pupils this morning.
quite a mementous moment, notjust for these kids, their first day at big school which would be a nervous and exciting and interesting time
anyway but this is the first day back, really, in proper education for so many kids and although it is a staggered start and further year groups will come later in the week, it is a big test to see how things work.
you can see the social distancing measures in the corridor to to keep children apart.
the big thing is bubbles and year groups being separated, so they have different parts of the school for different year groups so they should not mix, that is the intention, to keep them apart.
we have got special permission to interrupt a lesson this morning, if we go in here, we can see how the day is starting and how the classrooms are laid out.
let’ have a listen to what is being said.
you guys are here to do your learning because that is the most important thing, you are here to start your secondary education and we are so, so happy to have you.
you will notice in front of you that you have your learning packs.
they are yours.
you will be able to take them home with you.
that is your information and work and how you will do all of your learning.
the pens and pencils are for you.
they are not to be shared because of covid—19.
it is really important that you are looking after them.
can we quickly interrupt?
of course.
i’ sorry, i know you’ve got so much to get through, but tell us what it has been like preparing to get the kids back into class today?
it has been a challenge but really exciting.
we have been making preparations sincejune, when the first lot of government guidance came out and then making the relevant amendments when the changes happened.
we have been working really hard, particularly for year 7, to get them back into school, into a new school that they have never been into before.
absolutely.
it has been quite a challenge but we have enjoyed it.
how are you feeling today?
i’ a bit nervous
but i am so excited to have year 7 in today and i’ really looking forward to getting all of the children that we know and remember back in tomorrow.
do you think it is the right time, is it safe?
absolutely.
we have got all the necessary precautions in place.
we are going to talk about students being on the left—hand side of the corridor, make sure that the students know when they can wear masks and should wear masks, and we are putting all of the relevant precautions in place.
you normally teach physics.
i do.
quite a practical subject so how will that work?
so the normal practicals will be done in labs that we have segregated for specific use.
the students who have to do required practicals, the guidance from quual is we no longer need to actually perform the required practicals, it can just be demonstrated to them which is absolutely fine.
it is something we will take in our stride
and i really enjoy demonstrating things
so i will really enjoy it!
when you get the older children back in, how will you work out how much they have missed and what they need in terms of catching up?
i think it is really important we are going to focus on making sure we pick up where we left off.
if there are students that did not complete home learning, and then there are, we will make sure that they are in the same position as the children that did do the home learning are in when they come back and it isjust going to be a case of working really hard to assess where those students are and get them to where they need to be ready for their exam.
pretty good, very nervous, as it is the first day of secondary school.
what about you, luke?
exciting, nervous, but fun to be in a new school.
and from the teachers i have met so far, it seems like it is going to be a good year.
what about the things to keep you safe, are you clear about what you need to do?
yes, lam.
we need to make sure to keep our distance and wear masks and walk on the correct side of the corridor when required.
good stuff, thanks, lads, appreciate your time, sorry to interrupt, class, we will let you get on, i know there is so much to get through and get used to.
it is good to see kids back in class and learning again.
things are not as they would normally be, the classroom would normally be organised differently, the fact that kids are all facing the front is part of the measures to to keep people safe, 3 lot for people to get to grips with today and a lot of questions about how this will play out, whether there will be further disruption to learning because inevitably there will be hallenges to come, a really tough time but a really exciting day to see children back in the classroom in england.
memories of the first day at school!
the mayor of greater manchester, andy burnham, says the easing of lockdown restrictions in the boroughs of bolton and trafford is "completely illogical".
burnham’ urging people living in these areas to continue to follow the guidance and not to have social gatherings at home because coronavirus cases are still rising.
measures were originally introduced to combat new infections across parts of england’ north west and were lifted overnight.
the rules were reintroduced in july after concerns the virus was being spread between households.
the lifting of the restrictions means different households can again meet indoors or in private gardens, but councillors have criticised the government, accusing them of ignoring advice from health officials and lifting the measures too soon.
well earlier, i spoke to the labour mayor of greater manchester andy burnham, who gave his reaction.
yesterday, we had the leader of bolton council, which is conservative, the leader of trafford council, labour, from different angles, both saying the same thing to the government, that it is not the right time to lift the restrictions and actually, trafford said last week to the government before they made their original decision, don’ lift the restrictions, and i am afraid that was ignored.
it is a very difficult position to be in.
we are on the front line of fighting this virus and we have this "whitehall knows best" approach.
well, they don’.
they should listen to what the council leaders are saying.
well, that is a question you would have to put to them.
what do you think, though?
they gave a role to local members of parliament to say it is important that they were involved in the decision, and i think there are different views amongst mps.
i would question the government, i’ve been an so i can vouch for the fact that most are not public health experts, directors of public health should be the most important voice in this, and certainly on both councils yesterday, the director of public health was saying, please don’ lift the restrictions.
it is frustrating to say the least that we find ourselves in a position this morning where boroughs with rising cases are seeing the restrictions lifted overnight, and neighbouring boroughs, still under the restrictions, with much lower cases, so no wonder the public is getting confused here.
we really need urgently to agree an exit strategy from all of this with the government and hopefully bring the public back on board.
are you saying it is conservative in the area who have lobbied you suggested it was confusing for people but what can you do now in bolton that you can’ do next door in bury?
the restriction is on social gatherings in the home and garden.
people are now free to have gatherings but i am still saying to people, you know, it is not wise to do that because obviously, this is a week when schools are going back, we have a rising number of cases in bolton, which has gone right up to the top of the list.
clearly, it does not make sense.
you know, you are not protecting the health of your family if you were to start having gatherings in the home.
what i would say more broadly, victoria, is that we need to move beyond this.
we need to agree an exit strategy from the restrictions with the government.
what we are saying is, what has been most effective is door to door testing and tracing.
we are saying to the government, as part of the exit strategy for this, put the national test and trace system under more local control and we will take responsibility for it.
we also need financial support for people to self—isolate, people on low wages, who are self—employed.
we are finding out they are finding it very hard to take 1a days off work with no money.
andy burnham, the mayor of greater manchester, there.
rose says she is part of the new people breaking the rules, people it don’ apply to them, who think it don’ apply to them, and he says lots of people, young old, ould know better.
sarah 5575 and old, should know better.
sarah says her daughter is in glasgow so allowed to come and visit in town not in restricted areas are much she has
but her last days of holiday and booked the , and we have not seen her since efore lockdown.
sarah, i think the is no because the rule is answer is no because the mle is don’ mix with people in other eholds.
the scottish government, 75 margaret, has given clear advice the pandemic and thankfuuy the majority of the pulation have complied.
i am happy personal responsibility and ollow the latest advice.
1a people have gone on trial in paris, in connection with attacks in 2015 on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo and a jewish supermarket.
17 people were killed in three days of violence around paris, carried out by brothers, cherif and said kouachi, and ahmedy coulibaly.
the attacks sparked large protests in defence of freedom of speech across france.
our paris correspondent hugh schofield has this report.
five years ago, these pictures brought france face—to—face with a new kind of horror.
shouting, "we’ve avenged the prophet", the kouachi brothers emerged from the office of charlie hebdo where they’ve just killed 11 people.
in the getaway, they kill a 12th, a policeman.
it’ the start of a frantic two days, which end when the two are cornered at a print works north of paris and shot by police.
but in the meantime, there’ been another islamist attack.
this time, a jewish supermarket, with four hostages dead.
before there, too, police killed the assailant.
ahmedy coulibaly, who’ previously videotaped a statement of support for islamic state.
francois molins was paris chief prosecutor.
he recalled what he felt when he first saw the charlie hebdo office.
: it was surreal.
there was this powerful silence and the smell of blood and gunpowder.
the editorial room was carnage.
it was no longer a crime scene.
it was a war zone with bodies piled up one on top of the other.
it was frightful.
the charlie hebdo attack here marked the start of a long violent period — the bataclan attack, nice, which changed france.
now for the first time, with this trial, comes a chance to tell the story and put it on record.
who did what, who knew what, who, if anyone, gave the orders.
the killers are dead, so it’ the alleged backroom conspirators who are on trial in this special court room.
1a in all, some of whom it’ claimed provided weapons, others phones or money.
three, including coulibaly’ islamic war wife, will not be in court because they fled to syria just after the attacks.
in the immediate aftermath, the world was outraged.
hundreds of thousands marched in sympathy for the dead and to support the right of anti—religious satirists to speak freely and to offend.
five years on, though, some say the issue has become lukewarm.
:
today, freedom of expression has been lost in france.
it still exists on paper but do it at your risk if you draw the prophet, so no, the lesson was not learned.
what happened but also it happened.
the two—week trial, unusually, is being filmed for france’ national archives so future generations can look back and maybe learn.
hugh schofield, news, paris.
australia’ economy has plunged into its first recession in nearly 30 years, as the country continues to suffer from the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
the nation’ shrank by 7% between april and june.
that represents the biggest fall since records began back in 1959.
meanwhile, household spending, which accounts for over half of the australian economy, slumped by 12.
1%.
and scott morrison’ government has already pumped the equivalent of 147 billion dollars in stimulus measures into the economy.
but australia is still doing better than many countries.
during the same period, the economy shrank by 9.
5%.
the australian finance minister has been reacting — this is what he had to say.
our commitment to the australian people is that we have your back.
we were with you on the way into this crisis, we are with you through this crisis, and we will be with you all the way out of this crisis.
our australia correspondent shaimaa khalil is in sydney.
she says the country’ economic good fortune appears to have run out.
ii’’i 2020 is going to go down as the year where australia lost its very famous ame of the lucky country and nickname of the lucky country and has fallen into recession for the time in 30 years.
a 7% dip in first time in 30 years.
a 796 dip in the economy in he last three ths, more than twice the full in he recession of the early 1990.
or many ung people who are new into the rkforce, this is omething they have never seen.
ralia has had a robust economy ith steady growth for decades now.
is thanks to its natural this is thanks to its natural resources of iron or, coal and ral gas, with a demand from hina, and tourism, which has been a river of creation and big driver ofjob creation and economic growth.
take those two and stack them up against hat has been happening this year.
country has been hit, not once, twice, firstly, catastrophic shfire season earlier in the year, hat ravaged 12 million that ravaged about 12 million hectares, and really bashed the omy, especially with tourism.
housands of small businesses have essential seasonal revenue.
hen a few weeks after that, vid—19 became a global pandemic australia closed its borders ternationally and internally, and than a million people lost more than a million peopla lost their jobs.
i remember back in , really long queues outside cial and financial support ices, with many people dazed that are in that situation, probably he first time in their lives.
the headlines on news after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
but hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions.
the scottish government has imposed fresh restrictions to control the spread of the virus in glasgow and two neighbouring areas.
the new measures will affect nearly a million people.
the first minister nicola sturgeon said the number of cases had been rising mainly "as a result of household gatherings".
let’ just take you through those restrictions.
will apply to people living in glasgow, west dunbartonshire and east renfrewshire, and mean people in these areas should not meet with people from other households indoors.
if a close contact has tested positive for covid—19, everyone in the household should self—isolate for days.
and only essential visits to care homes and hospitals will be allowed.
jason leitch is the national clinical director for scotland.
he was asked on breakfast whether the restrictions in glasgow and neighbouring areas had been introduced in order to keep schools open.
they have been brought in in the context where the schools have been open for three weeks and closing schools for five months is not a good thing.
it is a terrible thing.
or education and public health.
the likes of me advising, we are desperate for schools to open and higher and further education to get back because they are important for the population, not just for the kids.
it lets people get back to work and society.
but the numbers in glasgow in the last seven days, let mejust look at them quickly, 15, 21, 14, 36, 39, 69, 66.
you don’ need a maths degree to work out something is happening there.
it is not exponential so it has not rocketed.
but it is just enough for us to to do something relatively mild, although it doesn’ feel like that if you are waking up in glasgow today and you were going to see your mum and you now can’, but we wanted to do something that would restrict that, and human behaviour, which is our only treatment against the disease, would kick in and keep that number down.
the government is meeting later to decide whether english tourists returning from greece should self—isolate.
from thursday, anyone from scotland who travels to greece will need to self—isolate on their return.
welsh passengers going to the island of zante will have to do the same.
greg mckenzie reports.
touchdown last night at cardiff airport, holiday—makers, back from eek sland of santi, although the greek island of santi, although order to self—isolate for days be ered covid—19 tests.
last week, at least 16 people tested positive for covid—19 after arrivin back to cardiff from the greek island of zante.
some on that tui flight, including staff, had been accused of not adhering to safety precautions.
customers know that they should be wearing masks on board.
it is their responsibility to do so.
and our crew are trained and enforce that, but it is a difficult thing to enforce, particularly in an aircraft where you are not in the cabin as much as you used to be before.
again, because of social distancing protocols with covid.
it has led to the travel firm tui to stop offering holidays to the resort of laganos on zante, a popular destination for large groups of young people.
the health minister says there are currently six clusters of cases, amounting to 30 new infections, linked to flights from greece.
but he claims they have landed not only in wales but also in scotland and england too.
last night, the scottish government imposed a 14—day quarantine restriction for anyone returning to scotland from greece as of tomorrow morning.
it is spreading again particularly in these three local authority areas.
ministers say the move comes due to a significant rise in covid—19 cases being brought into scotland from people who have been to greece.
she the government is now facing mounting pressure from the welsh health minister to reimpose quarantine rules for greece, but the department for transport says no changes to its rules have been made.
it’ understood the government is considering putting portugal back on the quarantine list for all four nations, that’ england, scotland, wales and northern ireland, after cases this week went over 20 per 100,000 people, which is the marker for introducing quarantine measures.
in 2015, in one extraordinary week, europe experienced a series of events which continue to reverberate today.
more than1 million migrants were on the move.
from germany’ open door policy to hungary stopping trains to the border, each day revealed new tensions that tested european solidarity to its limits.
and it was exactly five years ago today that one of the most shocking images emerged — the body of a syrian toddler, alan kurdi, washed up on a beach in turkey.
he had drowned, along with his mother and
five—year—old brother, in a desperate attempt to reach greece, and safety, in europe.
his death became a symbol of the suffering of migrant families, and the dangers they faced.
his father survived, and he’ been speaking to our correspondent hanan razek.
a warning that his report contains upsetting images.
he would have been seven years old this year.
alan kurdi, the syrian toddler whose body washed ashore at a turkish beach, after the boat that was carrying him and his family capsized in the mediterranean sea.
his mum and older brother also died.
only the father survived.
five years on, abdullah kurdi is trying to rebuild his life.
he’ had another son whose name is alan.
:
i named him after his brother alan so i remembered him.
god sent me a child who looks like alan and has the same character.
i can’ wait to go home to see him.
i feel that he’ a godsend.
but the shadows of the past are still alive.
: it’ impossible to forget what happened.
i only blame myself
but i was forced to as a father because i could picture them in a school
and i wanted a better life for them.
but it didn’ go as i planned.
i regret it.
alan’ death shook the world.
it led to europe opening its doors and hearts to refugees and taking in over1 million of them in 2015.
last year, a german charity named one of its rescue ships alan kurdi.
the ship has helped rescue almost 700 migrants in the mediterranean waters between libya and southern europe but its team says the picture has got more grim recently.
it’ not that we cannot handle this financially or otherwise, as the european union, so we have the means to make a change and to help those people and take care of them.
but we don’ do it, we choose not to and i think that’ the most frustrating part to me.
it’ estimated that nearly 17,000 people have died in the mediterranean sea since alan kurdi’ death.
in recent years, europe has made deals with countries like turkey and libya to help curb the flow of migrants to the continent.
measures that have helped slow down the flow of migrants but didn’ stop tragedies from taking place.
hanan razek, news.
you can find more on this story on our website.
go to .
com and look for stories with the title "europe’ migrant crisis".
in them, correspondents and those who made the journey talk about how that dramatic time changed europe and the lives of those involved.
let’ take a look at some more stories from around the world this morning.
one of the most notorious figures from the genocidal khmer rouge regime in cambodia has died while serving a life sentence.
known as comrade duch, he was responsible for sending more than 1a,000 people to their deaths when the khmer rouge were in power in the 19705.
he oversaw a brutaljail system in which guards, who were often teenagers, tortured prisoners into confessing to fictitious crimes.
president macron of france is on a visit to iraq to show support for the government of the new iraqi prime minister.
before leaving for baghdad, macron said he wanted to help the administration reassert iraq’ sovereignty in the face of regional tensions.
the country has been a ﬂashpoint in the confrontation between its two major allies, iran and the .
the iraqi government is also still battling what remains of the islamic state group.
in bulgaria, anti-government protesters have been demonstrating outside the national parliament.
for nearly two months, protesters have demanded the resignations of the prime minister and the prosecutor general over allegations of corruption.
unrest in the ’ poorest state has continued despite early elections in may.
history by competing on strictly come dancing as part of the show’ first same—sex couple.
nicola told the that teaming up with a same—sex partner sends a message.
i think it is really important.
it is definitely a time for change.
it is definitely time to move on and be more diverse and this is a brilliant step in the right direction and it will be nice for the community to be able to see that there are same sex couples on the show as well.
hello this is news.
the headlines.
after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
lockdown restrictions in the — affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased — despite strong local opposition.
but hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions 1a people go on trial, five years after the deadly attack on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo in paris.
the coronavirus pandemic plunges australia into recession — for the first time in thirty years.
president trump has visited kenosha in wisconsin — and condemned the violent clashes there as domestic terrorism.
trump did not meet the family ofjacob blake — who was left paralysed after being shot by police last month.
the incident led to anti—racism protests in the city and across the country.
the ’ been speaking to jacob’ uncle justin blake, family friend tanya mclean and alvin owens, who runs a barbershop and was tear gassed while he was protesting.
tanya described what impact the protests have had on kenosha.
we’re just a small town, we’re peaceful people, we just get on with day—to—day life.
nothing major happens here.
there are some issues here in our town with division, but we’ve never seen anything like this.
what’ rough is watching a video of a black man being gunned down seven times.
what’ rough is with one week we had a fire in uptown here in our city and then four days to five days later, we had looters from god knows where that we didn’ recognise tear up our city and tore down the other half of uptown.
so that’ rough.
however, the president is 100% incorrect and he told a lie when he called protesters, peaceful protesters or non—violent protesters "domestic terrorists".
keep terrorists for terrorism.
we all know in america who terrorists are and what they are and what they do.
kenosha’ citizens and residents are not that.
jacob’ a soldier and he’ hanging in there.
he’ the epitome of blake men, we go through some really severe struggles and we still manage to turn it into a great success.
he’ stuck in the moment right before he got shot.
he knows something’ going on.
he can feel the love from the different event’ that’ been thrown, the help from the different organisations.
in kenosha, milwaukee, chicago and beyond.
pauline chilton is the republican nominee for the iowa house of representatives for district 99.
she wants president trump to speak to the family ofjacob blake he should hearfrom them and express his thoughts.
he did meet their pastor, he said the family wanted a lawyer to be there which is he wasn’ interested.
is that enough, to talk to a pastor?
i think at this point, any outreach that the president can make to someone who is personally connected to jacob blake is .
but at some point he should speak to theirfamily.
critics say that he went to kenosha to effectively scare people into supporting his law and order campaign.
what do you say to that?
no, i don’ think so.
i think the president has every right to go to wherever he wants to go in the country.
and i think that the president really should you know, i think he would want to show that he has some interest in the issue, and show his concern.
and i think it is also to show himself as a strong leader.
and do you think this is going to work?
is this law and order, strong leader campaign going to work for him in terms of the election in november?
i think that this strong leader thing is something that the american people wanted in 2016.
and i think it is something that the american people still want.
here’ the thing, i think that the other side, the opposition to president trump wants to make him look like he is being heavy—handed.
they want to make him look like he is trying to stoke fear, but that is not really what i think the president is trying to do.
yes, i think the american people want a strong leader.
they also wantjobs, don’ they?
something like 15 millionjobs have been lost since may.
could that be the main issue when it comes to voting in november?
absolutely.
people wantjobs, they want to see the economy come back.
and i think the american people want to put their trust in a leader who is going to revive the economy.
and he had already done a greatjob with the economy before the coronavirus issue started, with shutting down our economy.
so i think the american people would like to put their trust back in the person who has built our economy, in the first place.
and do you think i mean, what do you think when it comes to the way president trump has dealt with the coronavirus pandemic, which is the key issue of our time?
it is a very large issue of our time.
i think that most people have not seen something like this in their lifetime.
so, yes, everybody is watching how our leaders are handling the coronavirus pandemic.
i think the leadership has done a good job, but there’ definitely people who are looking for all of this to subside and get back to as normal as possible, back to work, back to school, get our economy going again.
did you switch from supporting the democrats to support the republicans in 2016?
i switched because i was not happy with the policies that i had seen over the years.
i supported the democrats, i started out voting for president clinton in my first time voting.
and i continued to support the democrats.
and that when i saw that their policies were not very effective in our country, i started to look in 2016.
i did my research, and i ended up going into the iowa caucuses in 2016 and changing my registration to republican.
and i feel that republican leadership is doing a betterjob of working out policies that are going to work better for the people of our nation.
the 77th venice film festival is the first major international film festival to take place physically after several months of lockdown.
it’ usually one of the biggest events in the industry calendar but safety measures will mean things are rather different this year.
there’ll be no fans allowed near the red carpet, booking is online only, and temperature checks and masks will be enforced in half—full theatres.
ana rocha sousa’ debut film listen will premiere at the festival next week.
it follows a fictional portuguese couple in london who are trying to keep their family together after a misunderstanding at school with their deaf daughter means social services get involved.
we’ll speak to ana in a moment, but first let’ take a look at a clip from listen.
i want to go home, mum.
please, when can we go home?
please speak in english, diego.
i’ not saying anything new, i just want to go home!
hey!
stay calm, diego.
it is , we agreed, we agreed.
we are going to speak english.
i miss you so much.
i’ sorry, you are not allowed to say things like that, 0?
but i do miss him so much!
if you insist on using language like that, i will end this visit, 0?
that’ it, daddy’ here.
sorry, no, no, no, she can’ do that.
how do you expect her to communicate, so?
we agreed english, yes?
look, if you really wanted to, you could have asked for an interpreter.
english only.
sorry, you can’ do this.
that was ‘listen’, directed by ana rocha sousa who will be presenting her film at the venice film festival.
i not seen the film, i would like to know if it is a happy ending, but on’ have to tell me.
that was upsetting.
i can’ tell you the of course, sorry!
i know it is our debut film, how do you feel actually being able to present the venice film festival?
ll, it’ overwhelming.
i think ’ an mazing opportunity to share ilm with the world.
it is a estone for any film—maker, you ow?
to me, is very know?
to me, it is very overwhelming.
what do you want to take from your film?
well, it is a film out love and family.
bringing awareness to the bject matter of forced adoptions.
at i want people to do is to be thoughtful, and to raise uestions.
and what was the spiration behind it?
first, options.
it is not based on a ecific rase that actually happened, but i did a lot of earch on the subject matter.
and ecause i became a mother myself, it ery touching and very was very touching and very visceral?
absolutely.
you could feel finitely.
ifirst, when you tart the research, you understand it is very easy to take a osition that can become very reme when you look at things on surface.
but then you realise these things happen, and there’ ays a gap in the law that makes a bit uncomfortable about the ect matter.
how important is it, you think, that the festival is ually going ahead, where people ill be to be face—to—face?
ell, it is very portant to keep iving.
of course, to me, rsonally, it is very important to to be there and show my be able to be there and show my film, for obvious reasons.
but, in alterms, i believe is very general terms, i believe it is very important for the film industry that events keep taking place, you now?
i think that the possibility atting cinema die, it is ctually a great threat.
which i think must keep united to fight the coronavims, of course.
we need all to be aware of the health afety measures, and to be responsible, and to keep respecting and not saying the opposite, of course.
but it is crucial that we iving.
to me, it is that keep living.
to me, it is that point, you know?
we need to keep without i think the living without i think the balance is always in between.
it’ to avoid everything at all, or just ignore things, you know?
we can’ keep staying at home and avoid .
for now, we all know that orona is here to stay and we need eep fighting it, and doing our best to keep everyone safe.
of course.
do you think the pandemic change the way the industry akes films?
do you think it will nge the way we go and enjoy films?
yes.
ithink massive hreat is, well, along the years the has been facing a lot of changes, in digital terms, all know.
and i believe that all forms are valid, you know?
but must be able to keep all the tforms.
cinema, is a classical platforms.
cinema, is a dassiral idea of going to a room to watch a on the big screen, it is film on the big screen, it is history to keep.
we need to be able that always, never losing .
if it is life—threatening, we to aware of that and fight out as much as possible, and living as much as possible.
eah.
thank you.
and good luck with ten.
really, really.
have an azing time, i am sure you will.
director of listen.
today a £2 billion pound scheme to help get young people into work is being launched by the government.
kickstart will provide anyone who is unemployed, aged under 25 and currently receiving universal credit, with a job placement.
jobs will last a minimum of six months, and will be paid at the national minimum wage rate for up to 25 hours per week.
so, what’ in it for businesses?
well, as well as having wages paid for six months, they will also receive 3 £2,000 bonus for every apprentice they hire, and £1,500 extra per person for things like training and uniforms.
here’ the work and pension secretary therese coffey speaking a little earlier about the aim of the scheme.
we know it is an important time for young people and we need to make sure we to help them get their first foot on the jobs ladder, so this is we are targeting in particular those who have been unemployed for a bit of time and are at risk of long—term unemployment.
in terms of what has happened in the past, yes, we have learned some lessons from that but this is on a bigger scale.
we have made it more straightforward for basically every business and organisation in the country to come forward and offer a kickstartjob and we believe the targeted support, notjust about, in effect, free labour, will be important for businesses and very important for young people.
campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died from coronavirus have accused prime minister borisjohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group said it wrote to mrjohnson five times to request a meeting.
it came as quite a shock to the families, because this is what the prime minister said last week, when he was asked if he would meet them.
i’ not aware of those letters.
but i, of course, will write back to every letter that we get.
but will you meet them?
well, i will write back to every letter that we get.
of course i will meet anybody who’.
the people who’ve.
the bereaved who’ve suffered from covid.
of course i’ll do that.
but i’ not aware of the letters that you’ve described.
since then, the prime minister has responded to the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice.
in a letter he passed on his deepest sympathies but said that he would not be able to meet them as a group.
earlier i spoke to fiona kirton from the group.
she lost her father bernard in april, after he was diagnosed with coronavirus in hospital, where he was being treated for a fall.
it’ rather confusing, because we met him in june.
he hasn’ seen letters at were sent to him, five letters that were sent to him, i don’ know.
for him to say he meet us and go back on it is would meet us and go back on it is disappointing, to say the least.
questions would you want the milies wanted to have asked him, he had met you?
well, we’ve got a of information about failures have happened in the system hat don’ seem to have been lighted anywhere, such as highlighted anywhere, such as failures in the 111 system.
there’ things that, as a group, we could talk to him about and make him of.
and these are the kind of hings that we want a statutory “: lic inquiry to look at, because hings have not been brought to ht.
and we know, from the preparing for a challenging winter that patrick vallance commissioned and published in , that here is a reasonable rst—case scenario forecast of 9,000 aths this winter in 119,000 deaths this winter in hospital, if plans are not put into over the summer.
now, we, as a place over the summer.
now, we, as a “- , have first hand experience of what led to our loved ones’ deaths, ere is a lot of ssons to be learned.
and yet we have repeatedly and asked to see him, and matt ncock, and they will not even luck the eye and talk to us about hat our experience has been.
you have to ask the prime minister doesn’ want to learn the he doesn’ want to learn the lessons we are offering our rience.
down the street would say, of course we want to learn the ons, they say the prime minister emains committed to meeting people been bereaved as a result of covid—19 and that he is, quote, lute in determination to resolute in his determination to defeat this virus to prevent further tating loss.
well, we must be the wrong kind of bereaved.
does want to meet us?
does he just ants to meet people who will smile etly and tell him he is doing a job?
that will not help to save ves.
that is what we are about, ving lives.
none of us want to be mpaigning.
all of us want to be aling our grief about the very traumatic loss of our loved ones.
we haven’ been able to be with them as ent, we haven’ been able to goodbye.
these are very ifficult deaths to deal with, and is we are asking for avement counselling, specialist reavement counselling for people that have been briefed as well.
we don’ want to be doing this.
we want to the prime minister.
will the rime minister of this not talk to us?
can i ask country not talk to us?
“an i ask what what happened to your dad, fiona?
he went into hospital for a fall.
ready to released.
and he had go to a rare ome because he was rail.
and we had one for him, a good one.
they would only take if he was tested.
at the hospital refused to test him.
we waited another two weeks before we find another care home in the could find another rare home in the middle of a pandemic, but in those ega weeks he caught covid in ospital and on the 7th of hospital and died on the 7th of april.
had he been tested, he would een in that care home, he have been in that rare home, he would be safe and he would be alive.
ollows on from the people who were discharged into care homes hout ing tested, which led to a without being tested, which led to a large number of deaths.
how would eel about the way your dad ed?
sorry?
how do you feel about the way your dad died?
horribla.
he was deaf, so we could not speak to they could not fit his hearing aids because of covid.
so he died used, alone and in pain, without being able to say goodbye.
boris borisjohnson has rejected that meeting with her group.
this is a age from glasgow, somebody who now subject to new restrictions.
new lockdown measures, says mn, are the new lockdown measures, says rizwan, are absurd.
i’ a sponsible ividual who has responsible individual who has followed social distancing elines.
but to be deprived from isiting loved ones, such as my mum, ives alone, will have a who lives alone, will have a detrimental effect on her mental th.
i can’ see this being iced, therefore i will not abide these new restrictions.
and on ilm listen, we were talking to the director, who will be presenting but film at the debut film at the debut film festival, david moran said, just hed the short clip, and incredibly emotive scene that grabbed my attention immediately, i need to know what happens next and forward to seeing it in the look forward to seeing it in the future, i hope it is a great success venice film festival.
members of the exam regulator in england, quual, have been appearing before this morning, to answer questions on what went wrong with this year’ and a—level results.
students didn’ sit exams, which meant quual were awarded grades based on an algorithm.
after two weeks of controversy over the fairness of the algorithm, the education secretary gavin williamson, decided to revert to what are known as centre—assessed grades.
speaking earlier, the chair of quual highlighted where mistakes were made.
the fundamental mistake was to believe that this would ever be acceptable to the public.
perhaps i might illustrate that point, give a sense of what i mean by that.
we were looking at this in terms of particular ideas of fairness, cross the whole population, the probability that somebody would get a grade, but acknowledging from the outset that it would not be anything like as accurate as exams.
i think what we now realise is that if you have 1000 students that have an 80% chance of getting a a grade, they would regard themselves, quite regularly go reasonably as a grade students.
: we were acknowledging that some of the students would get a grade.
taylor was also said that quual wanted students to sit exams, but it was secretary of state gavin williamson, who decided that they would be cancelled and replaced with a system of calculated grades.
our initial advice to the secretary of state was not the best ways to this was to to hold exams handla this was to to hold exams in a socially distanced manner.
our option was to delay exams, the third option, if neither of was acceptable, would be to look at some form of calculated grade.
we did also look ther that would be a teacher at whether that would be a teacher certificate, rather than attempting licate exam grades.
but that was our advice to ministers.
it was cretary of state who subsequently took the decision and nced, without further consultation with quual, that exams be cancelled and a system of calculated grades were to be nted.
—— implemented.
talking to mp5 in parliament, well, some of them were in parliament, of zooming in.
you can see some of them zooming in.
you ran see that is still going on, facing tions from over that exams you “ -- you turn, gland questions from over that exams ° " you turn, england followed -turns in and, wales and —turns in scotland, wales and northern ireland.
if you want to further, then you can go to parliament.
in the next few partiament.
in the next few minutes, joanna gosling will be with ight here news.
now it’ time for a look at the weather.
hello again.
many others are going to see some rain at some stage.
what pening as have got low is happening as we have got low pressure dominating our weather once , and it has a couple of fronts with it.
it is inging the rain the west, pushing towards the .
and with it, it is going to be irty windy, rticularly so with fairty windy, particularty so with exposure in the north and west, we could have gusts of around or 45 mph.
me of us have 40 or 45 mph.
some of us have already seen that today.
we have the front moving through bringing rain, the second coming behind it, ringing rain.
for eastern also bringing rain.
for eastern areas, largely dry.
the cloud inuing to increase before the in arrives later on.
then we got second batch of rain coming rough northern ireland.
you have first one going through, and in second one behind.
whenever you green and low, that is see green and yellow, that is telling you you can expect some bursts.
white circles heavy bursts.
those white cirdas indicate sustained wind speeds, but .
the temperatures ranging from 15 to 20 degrees.
his evening and overnight, the band of rain pushes off into he north sea.
the second one inues to sink slowly southwards.
will be a lot of cloud ahead it.
in behind it, there will be areas of cloud, but there be clear skies and also some owers.
it’ not going to be a cold ht.
most of us staying in double igures.
tomorrow, if we pick up weather ont, it ontinues its this weather front, it continues its slow descent southwards, weakening time.
but there are a lot of all the time.
but there are a lot of isobars on the chart.
tomorrow, once , there are going to be brisk winds, particularly with exposure in st.
inland, you will notice the wind, too, and as it sinks south bring a band of cloud and it will bring a band of cloud and patchy rain with it.
behind that, we oking at a mixture of bright pells, sunshine and showers, with eratures a little higher, up to 2 degrees.
overnight, thursday into ay, the front goes south, pivots comes back, bringing in some across southern parts of wales and thern england, pushing owards the south—east.
for the rest we are looking at a mixture of sunshine and showers.
of those showers could be avy, particularly in western tland.
saturday, a day for of us.
a cooler day as well.
breezy, and still a few showers knocking around, ticularly in the north and west.
not all ill see them.
not all of us will see them.
temperatures ranging from 11 in the team 18 in the south.
this is news withjoanna gosling with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
because we have been at home for so long, so it is very nice that we are able to come back to school and find new friends and things like that.
quite nervous because it’ my first day, but i feel like it will be, like, nice meeting new people.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown .
prime minister borisjohnson is branded "heartless" by families of coronavirus victims after they say he declined to meet them.
1a people have gone on trial in paris charged with helping the gunmen who carried out the deadly charlie hebdo attack five years ago.
the coronavirus pandemic plunges australia into recession — for the first time in 30 years.
and businesses in the are urged to sign up to kickstart — a £2 billionjob scheme for under—245 who are at risk of becoming long—term unemployed.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world.
and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
after months of home schooling and being away from the classroom, thousands of pupils in england and wales have returned to school today.
the start of the new term is being staggered in many areas, as schools prepare to welcome students back safely.
but there are still many questions over how easy it will be for children to catch up on learning - and the impact on next year’ exams.
our education correspondent, dan johnson, reports from a school in worksop.
the nerves of starting a new school meet the concerns of coming back for the first time since march.
i don’ mind online learning, it’ just that i got sick of it.
i’ve been doing it for what, three months?
when we were out.
then another three months off, wasn’ able to see anyone, really.
i just want to get back.
i haven’ put my uniform on for six months, so it didn’ fit, most of it, so i had to get a whole new uniform.
distanced corridors lead to reorganised classrooms and protective bubbles will keep year groups apart.
the squirt of sanitiser will be more frequent than the bell.
students have staggered breaks, staggered lunch.
in terms of cleaning as well, we had to get extra cleaners into the building in the course of the day.
but one thing we know for sure is the longer the students stay out of the classroom, the more disadvantaged they become.
so, we want to get students in.
does that mean everything will run smoothly?
no.
we will have some bumps here and there, somne challenges here and there.
but we will work through that and make sure that the bottom line is that students and staff are safe.
you’ve all been given the visors.
you need to put those on when you are supporting.
there are plans for dealing with cases and responding to local outbreaks.
but none of this has really been tested.
the bubble system, yes, keeps you together and safe but as soon as the children go out of school, they can meet whoever they want, with that, it’ flawed.
i think it’ as safe as it can be.
i think it is probably safer than the local supermarket.
the other priority is working out how much learning has being lost, then helping every child catch up.
and dan was there at a school in worksop as lessons got underway this morning.
quite a momentous moment, notjust for these kids, their first day at big school, which would be a nervous and exciting and interesting time anyway, but this is the first day back, really, in proper education for so many kids and although it is a staggered start and further year groups will come later in the week, it is a big test to see how things work.
you can see the social distancing measures in the corridor to to keep children apart.
the big thing here is bubbles and year groups being separated, so they have different parts of the school for different year groups so they should not mix, that is the intention, to keep them apart.
we have got special permission to interrupt a lesson this morning, if we go in here, we can see how the day is starting and how the classrooms are laid out.
let’ have a listen to what is being said.
you guys are here to do your learning because that is the most important thing, you are here to start your secondary education and we are so, so happy to have you.
you will notice in front of you that you have your learning packs.
they are yours.
you will be able to take them home with you.
that is your information and work and how you will do all of your learning.
the pens and pencils are for you.
they are not to be shared because of covid—19.
it is really important that you are looking after them.
0?
can we quickly interrupt?
of course.
i’ sorry, i know you’ve got so much to get through, but tell us what it has been like preparing to get the kids back into class today?
it has been a challenge but really exciting.
we have been making preparations sincejune, when the first lot of government guidance came out and then making the relevant amendments when the changes happened.
we have been working really hard, particularly for year 7, to get them back into school, into a new school that they have never been into before.
absolutely.
it has been quite a challenge, but we have enjoyed it.
how are you feeling today?
i’ a bit nervous, but i am so excited to have year 7 in today and i’ really looking forward to getting all of the children that we know and remember back in tomorrow.
do you think it is the right time, is it safe?
absolutely.
we have got all the necessary precautions in place.
we are going to talk about students being on the left—hand side of the corridor, make sure that the students know when they can wear masks and should wear masks, and we are putting all of the relevant precautions in place.
you normally teach physics.
i do.
quite a practical subject, so how will that work?
yeah.
so the normal practicals will be done in labs that we have segregated for specific use.
the students who have to do required practicals, the guidance from quual is we no longer need to actually perform the required practicals, it can just be demonstrated to them which is absolutely fine.
it is something we will take in our stride
and i really enjoy demonstrating things, so i will really enjoy it!
when you get the older children back in, how will you work out how much they have missed and what they need in terms of catching up?
i think it is really important we are going to focus on making sure we pick up where we left off.
if there are students that did not complete home learning, and then there are, we will make sure that they are in the same position as the children that did do the home learning are in when they come back and it isjust going to be a case of working really hard to assess where those students are and get them to where they need to be, ready for their exam.
pretty good, very nervous, as it is the first day of secondary school.
what about you, luke?
exciting, nervous, but fun to be in a new school.
and from the teachers i have met so far, it seems like it is going to be a good year.
what about the things to keep you safe, are you clear about what you need to do?
yes, lam.
we need to make sure to keep our distance and wear masks and walk on the correct side of the corridor when required.
good stuff, thanks, lads, appreciate your time, sorry to interrupt, class, we will let you get on, i know there is so much to get through and get used to.
thank you.
it is good to see kids back in class and learning again.
things are not as they would normally be, the classroom would normally be organised differently, the fact that kids are all facing the front is part of the measures to to keep people safe, 3 lot for people to get to grips with today and a lot of questions about how this will play out, whether there will be further disruption to learning because inevitably there will be challenges to come, a really tough time but a really exciting day to see children back in the classroom in england.
dan danjohnson with that class of pupils.
if you have not come back you’re feeling a bit nervous out it or if you are a parent and are feeling anxious at the ment you might want to hear the inical i will be lking to in 20 minutes also.
she be joining with some tips on how to manage anxieties around rning to school after so many nths.
the mayor of greater manchester, andy burnham, says the easing of lockdown restrictions in the boroughs of bolton and trafford is "completely illogical".
burnham’ urging people living in these areas to continue to follow the guidance and not to have social gatherings at home because coronavirus cases are still rising.
measures were originally introduced to combat new infections across parts of england’ north—west and were lifted overnight.
the rules were re—introduced injuly after concerns the virus was being spread between households.
the lifting of the restrictions means different households can again meet indoors or in private gardens, but councillors have criticised the government, accusing them of ignoring advice from health officials and lifting the measures too soon.
people are free now to have gatherings, but i am still saying to people, you know, it is not wise to do that because obviously this is a week when schools are going back, we have rising numbers of cases in bolton.
as risen right up to the top of the list and so it clearly doesn’ make sense and you are not protecting the health of your family if you are to start having gatherings in your home, so we just need to move beyond this.
you know?
we need to agree an exit strategy from these restrictions with the government and what we are saying is what has been most effective is door—to—door testing and tracing.
so we are saying to the government as part of the exit strategy from this, put the national test and trace system under more local control and we will take responsibility for it.
we also need financial support for people to self—isolate.
people on low wages, people who are self—employed we are finding out that they are finding it very hard to take 1a days off work with no money.
that is andy burnham, the mayor of greater manchester.
the scottish government has imposed fresh restrictions to control the spread of the virus in glasgow and two neighbouring areas.
the new measures will affect nearlyi million people.
the first minister, nicola sturgeon, said the number of cases had been rising mainly "as a result of household gatherings.
" let’ just take you through those restrictions.
will apply to people living in glasgow, west dunbartonshire and east renfrewshire, and mean people in these areas should not meet with people from other households indoors.
if a close contact has tested positive for covid—19, everyone in the household should self—isolate for days.
and only essential visits to care homes and hospitals will be allowed.
jason leitch is the national clinical director for scotland.
he was asked on breakfast whether the restrictions in glasgow and neighbouring areas had been introduced in order to keep schools open.
they have been brought in in the context where the schools have been open for three weeks and closing schools for five months is not a good thing.
it is a terrible thing.
or education and public health.
the likes of me advising, we are desperate for schools to open and higher and further education to get back because they are important for the population, notjust for the kids.
it lets people get back to work and society.
but the numbers in glasgow in the last seven days, let me just look at them quickly, 15, 21, 14, 36, 39, 69, 66.
you don’ need a maths degree to work out something is happening there.
it is not exponential, so it has not rocketed.
but it is just enough for us to to do something relatively mild, although it doesn’ feel like that if you are waking up in glasgow today and you were going to see your mum and you now can’, but we wanted to do something that would restrict that, and human behaviour, which is our only treatment against the disease, would kick in and keep that number down.
campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died from coronavirus have accused prime minister borisjohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group said it wrote to mrjohnson five times to request a meeting.
it came as quite a shock to the families because this is what the prime minister said last week, when he was asked if he would meet them.
i’ not aware of those letters.
but i, of course, will write back to every letter that we get.
but will you meet them?
well, i will write back to every letter that we get.
of course i will meet anybody who’.
the people who’ve.
the bereaved who’ve suffered from covid.
of course i’ll do that.
but i’ not aware of the letters that you’ve described.
: we will be asking our political correspondent what is going on with ituation a little bit later on he news channel.
you’re watching news.
fiona kirton lost her father bernard in april, after he was diagnosed with coronavirus in hospital, where he was being treated for a fall, and believes that the prime minister could learn important lessons from the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group.
there are lots of things that as a group we could talk to him about and aware of and these are the kind of things that we want a utory public enquiry to look at use things have not been brought light
and we know from the aring for a challenging winter report that atrick vallance commissioned and was published in that there was forecast a july, that there was forecast a reasonable worst—case scenario of 000 eaths this winter in 119,000 deaths this winter in hospital if plans are not put into over the summer.
and we, as a “- group, have first—hand experience of our loved ones deaths what led to our loved ones deaths and there are a lot of lessons to be ned, and yet we repeatedly have sked and asked to see him and matt ock
and they will not even look in the eye and talk to us about our experience has been.
you uld have to ask the prime minister doesn’ want to learn the he doesn’ want to learn the lessons that we are offering our rience of.
joining me now from westminster is our political correspondent, iain watson.
won’ the prime minister them?
well, what the premises in his is he recognised that a letter is he recognised that a letter wouldn’ be enough of a olence for bereaved families, he also mentioned two other ngs, that it is regrettably not sibla to eet everyone who is breathed, although he will be ing some people in the course of is work.
he raises the question of action as well, and he doesn’ ake this a distinct reason for not ting the families, but he does ention they are considering legal on against the government to force this independent enquiry, course as we heard the real and of course as we heard the real bugbear for them is the length of it it might to get that time it might take to get that enquiry
so they want a more rapid ew.
what the prime minister says letter is there will be an in his letter is there will be an enquiry at the appropriate time, but is no guarantee on the nature of that enquiry, whether or not it be independent and also the timesrala for that enquiry.
so i think the difficulty i suppose from ime minister’ point of view if he meets these families then well get into arguments, not about his handling of he coronavirus crisis, but more sure were placed on him to have enquiry sooner rather than .
but some of the families to this is quite odd because ough the bereaved families for ustice is a mpaign group, they do onsist of 00 people who have all lost latives and they say lessons to be learnt for next time and it did sound like on the 6th of august about a week ago when banister said he would consider ing beating them, sked a direct beating them, he was asked a direct question and it did sound at that as if he might be willing to the campaign group, although he not mention by name.
it is not ust bereaved families who are ing the government needs to learn ons quickly before a possible cond wave.
it is many as well.
the government doing to show lessons ave been learnt?
the ernment has said they have learned a lesson from the first wave erre ’re learning more about the and therre learning more about the virus time again.
what they are also sting is hat in the middle of suggesting is that in the middle of the pandemic it is the wrong time to hold an enquiry.
of course, ere has been pressure from the beral democrat leader, the new beral democrat leader was calling or an dependent enquiry and what eir starmersaid
and i imagine will come up in prime minister’ tions, the first clash they’ve questions, the first dash therve had ad since july, but what keir mer says is an independent quiry is inevitable, but he has uite caught for one himself.
not quite taught for one himself.
but he has met with representatives bereaved families group, so expected to put more pressure on is johnson consider.
you boris johnson to consider.
you mention prime minster’ questions up in alf an hour or so.
the first one for some time and it is going to be a hybrid event.
at is right, yes.
it has been eed and there are some rumours hat perhaps the government will the hybrid parliament, as we know.
they pped back from insisting that virtually every had to be in chamber during the last on, so at the moment those who re shielding or with relatives who hielding, they will still be lowed to take part remotely, so to extent that is also a product the fact so few people can an actually be he chamber itself to llow full social distancing, so it likely to go on until ovember.
the government is hoping that there isn’ a second by then that there isn’ a second wave of the coronavirus and efore parliament could perhaps therefore partiament could perhaps resume a little bit closer to al, even though numbers would ill be restricted.
but for now, we still see people asking some questions otely in the first rime minister’ questions in a tle while
and i imagine in terms he substance of that, given we talked about buried families of rse, the first time there has this clash between the party ders since the exams crisis as , so imagine what keir starmer will be trying to do is to ray his party is not more competent it was under his redecessor, but more competent than urrent government.
thank you.
will actually be getting the ews of the opposition on that cision by boris nson not to decision by boris johnson not to meet the families of the bereaved covid—19 as they would like to .
just in adows, shadow health inister oing to be oining me minister is going to be joining me in the next half hour.
the headlines on news: after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased — despite strong local opposition.
1a people have gone on trial in paris charged with helping the gunmen who carried out the deadly charlie hebdo attack five years ago.
: we will stay with that.
1a people have gone on trial in paris, in connection with attacks in 2015 on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo, and a jewish supermarket.
17 people were killed in three days of violence around paris, carried out by brothers, cherif and said kouachi, and ahmedy coulibaly.
the attacks sparked large protests in defence of freedom of speech across france.
our paris correspondent, hugh schofield, has this report.
five years ago, these pictures brought france face—to—face with a new kind of horror.
shouting, "we’ve avenged the prophet", the kouachi brothers emerged from the office of charlie hebdo, where they’ve just killed 11 people.
in the getaway, they kill a 12th, a policeman.
it’ the start of a frantic two days, which end when the two are cornered at a print works north of paris and shot by police.
but in the meantime, there’ been another islamist attack.
this time, a jewish supermarket, with four hostages dead.
before there, too, police killed the assailant.
ahmedy coulibaly, who’ previously videotaped a statement of support for islamic state.
francois molins was paris chief prosecutor.
he recalled what he felt when he first saw the charlie hebdo office.
: it was surreal.
there was this powerful silence and the smell of blood and gunpowder.
the editorial room was carnage.
it was no longer a crime scene.
it was a war zone with bodies piled up one on top of the other.
it was frightful.
the charlie hebdo attack here marked the start of a long violent period — the bataclan attack, nice, which changed france.
now for the first time, with this trial, comes a chance to tell the story and put it on record.
who did what, who knew what, who, if anyone, gave the orders?
the killers are dead, so it’ the alleged backroom conspirators who are on trial in this special court room.
1a in all, some of whom it’ claimed provided weapons, others phones or money.
three, including coulibaly’ islamic war wife, will not be in court because they fled to syria just after the attacks.
in the immediate aftermath, the world was outraged.
hundreds of thousands marched in sympathy for the dead and to support the right of anti—religious satirists to speak freely and to offend.
five years on, though, some say the issue has become lukewarm.
:
today, freedom of expression has been lost in france.
it still exists on paper but do it at your risk if you draw the prophet, so no, the lesson was not learned.
what happened, but also it happened.
the two—month trial, unusually, is being filmed the two—month trial, sually, is being filmed for france’ national archives so future generations can look back and maybe learn.
hugh schofield, news, paris.
australia’ economy has plunged into its first recession in nearly 30 years, as the country continues to suffer from the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
the nation’ shrank by 7% between april and june.
that represents the biggest fall since records began back in 1959 .
meanwhile household spending, which accounts for over half of the australian economy, slumped by 12.
1%.
and scott morrison’ government has already pumped the equivalent of $147 billion in stimulus measures into the economy.
but australia is still doing better than many countries.
during the same period the economy shrank by nine point 5%.
economy shrank by 9.
5%.
the australian finance minister has been reacting — this is what he had to say.
our commitment to the australian people is that we have your back.
we were with you on the way into this crisis, we are with you through this crisis, and we will be with you all the way out of this crisis.
our australia correspondent shaimaa khalil is in sydney.
she says the country’ economic good fortune appears to have run out.
2020 is going to go down as the year where australia lost its very famous nickname of the lucky country and has fallen into recession for the first time in 30 years.
a 7% dip in the economy in the last three months, more than twice the fall in the recession of the early 19905.
for many young people who are new into the workforce, this is something they have never seen.
australia has had a robust economy with steady growth for decades now.
this is thanks to its natural resources of iron ore, coal and natural gas, with a demand from china, and tourism, which has been a big driver ofjob creation and economic growth.
take those two things and stack them up against what has been happening this year.
the country has been hit, not once, but twice, firstly, catastrophic bushfire season earlier in the year, that ravaged about 12 million hectares, and really bashed the economy, especially with tourism.
thousands of small businesses have lost essential seasonal revenue.
then a few weeks after that, covid—19 became a global pandemic and australia closed its borders internationally and internally, and more than a million people lost theirjobs.
i remember back in march, really long queues outside social and financial support offices, with many people dazed that they are in that situation, probably for the first time in their lives.
today a £2 billion scheme to help get young people into work is being launched by the government.
kickstart will provide anyone who is unemployed, aged under 25 and currently receiving universal credit with a job placement.
jobs will last a minimum of six months, and will be paid at the national minimum wage rate for up to 25 hours per week.
here’ the work and pension secretary therese coffey speaking a little earlier about the aim of the scheme.
we know it is an important time for young people and we need to make sure we to help them get their first foot on the jobs ladder, so this is we are targeting in particular those who have been unemployed for a bit of time and are at risk of long—term unemployment.
in terms of what has happened in the past, yes, we have learned some lessons from that but this is on a bigger scale.
we have made it more straightforward for basically every business and organisation in the country to come forward and offer a kickstartjob and we believe the targeted support, notjust about, in effect, free labour, will be important for businesses and very important for young people.
england is facing pressure to reconsider quarantine rules for greece after scotland and wales introduced new measures over concerns about rising coronavirus cases.
from tomorrow anyone from scotland who travels to greece will need to self—isolate on their return.
welsh passengers going to the island of zante will have to do the same.
the holiday company has cancelled all holidays to the zante resort of laganas because customers have been failing to follow coronavirus safety measures.
greg mckenzie reports.
touchdown last night at cardiff airport, holiday—makers, back from the greek island of zante, although ordered to self—isolate for days and be offered covid—19 tests.
last week, at least 16 people tested positive for covid—19 after arrivin back to cardiff from the greek island of zante.
some on that flight, including staff, had been accused of not adhering to safety precautions.
customers know that they should be wearing masks on board.
it is their responsibility to do so.
and our crew are trained and enforce that, but it is a difficult thing to enforce, particularly in an aircraft where you are not necessarily in the cabin as much as you used to be before.
again, because of social distancing protocols with covid.
it has led to the travel firm to stop offering holidays to the resort of laganos on zante, a popular destination for large groups of young people.
the welsh health minister says there are currently six clusters of cases, amounting to 30 new infections, linked to flights from greece.
but he claims they have landed not only in wales but also in scotland and england too.
last night, the scottish government imposed a 14—day quarantine restriction for anyone returning to scotland from greece as of tomorrow morning.
ministers say the move comes due to a significant rise in covid—19 cases being brought into scotland from people who have been to greece.
the government is now facing mounting pressure from the welsh health minister to reimpose quarantine rules for greece, but the department for transport says no changes to its rules have been made.
it’ understood the government is considering putting portugal back on the quarantine list for all four nations — that’ england, scotland, wales and northern ireland, after cases this week went over 20 per 100,000 people, which is the marker for introducing quarantine measures.
greg mckenzie, news.
history by competing on strictly come dancing as part of the show’ first same—sex couple.
nicola told breakfast that teaming up with a same—sex partner sends a message: i think it’ really important.
it’ definitely time for change.
it’ definitely time to move on and be more diverse.
and this is a brilliant step in the right direction, and it would be nice for the community to see that there’ same—sex couples on the show as well.
hello.
this is news.
the headlines after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown.
prime minister borisjohnson is branded "heartless" by families of coronavirus victims, after they say he declined to meet them.
1a people have gone on trial in paris charged with helping the gunmen who carried out the deadly charlie hebdo attack five years ago.
president trump has visited the city of kenosha in wisconsin and condemned the violent clashes there as domestic terrorism.
trump did not meet the family ofjacob blake, who was left paralysed after being shot by police last month.
the incident led to anti—racism protests in the city and across the country.
the ’ been speaking to jacob’ uncle, justin blake, family friend tanya mclean and alvin owens, who runs a barber’ shop and was teargassed while he was protesting.
tanya described what impact the protests have had on kenosha we’re just a small town, we’re peaceful people, we just get on with day—to—day life.
nothing major happens here.
there are some issues here in our town with division, but we’ve never seen anything like this.
what’ rough is watching a video of a black man being gunned down seven times.
what’ rough is with one week we had a fire in uptown here in our city and then four days to five days later, we had looters from god knows where that we didn’ recognise tear up our city and tore down the other half of uptown.
so that’ rough.
however, the president is 100% incorrect and he told a lie and he called protesters, peaceful protesters or non—violent protesters "domestic terrorists".
keep terrorists for terrorism.
we all know in america who terrorists are and what they .
kenosha’ citizens and residents are not that.
jacob’ a soldier and he’ hanging in there.
he’ the epitome of blake men, we go through some really severe struggles and we still manage to turn it into a great success.
he’ stuck in the moment right before he got shot.
he knows something’ going on.
he can feel the love from the different events that’ been thrown, the help from the different organisations.
in kenosha, milwaukee, chicago and beyond.
coronavirus is just one of the anxieties children and parents may face about going back to school.
pupils may also worry about being bullied or making the transition from lockdown to being surrounded by hundreds of other children.
let’ talk to clinical marianne trent.
thank you for joining us.
what are your thoughts on the issues that be arising today and in the ays ahead?
i think they are ltifaceted.
so much going on so, many young people, this might be first they have been the first time they have been outside their homes at all other for exercise or to see close amilies, rhaps in gardens and hings like that.
they will be going the advice of what mum and or parents or caregivers have telling them over the last few nths, to keep your distance, keep ay from people, don’ go places here ere might be other people, there is going to be a lot going but also somebody’ transition a new hool, there is added xiety, stress and worry about that ll.
what is the best advice for arents on naging the transition?
llow yourself to be human, and yourself in your child’ shoes 3 bit, but also that children don’ yet have fully functional ns, so they don’ have their rontal lobe is as yet, so can’ essarily think through the full nsequences and implications, and full gravity of this global andemic situation we find ourselves allow yourself to not be an xpert.
none of us are an expert in .
none of us have facilitated a turn to school for our children or urn to work if we have not yet that, so i guess have an open honest policy, where you can alk anything that worries 7°“- you, and i will be saying to my dren, we are not quite sure how it’ going to work out, but we are to and do what is asked of us and see how it goes, and let me if something doesn’ sit right.
what are ying is excellent dvice it doesn’ always come sily or naturally, it is often mal and understandable first sponse when a child is distressed say, don’ worry, it’ going be fine, and and brush it .
what mpact does that have on a child who feeling in need of heard?
of course, as humans, really are not great at olerating distress in other people, at is around grief, that is and that is around grief, that is around anxiety.
we want other people good.
we don’ want people to eel awful.
it’ hard to watch as man, to see other people being tressed, so there can be a natural dency to and distract omebody and cheer them up and ect them in a different rspective, but what we need to do , gosh, i know, that is really ricky, isn’ it, how did that make feel?
is there anything i can do to help?
ther than necessarily ying to fix a problem which might be fixable at this stage.
this brand—new territory.
some simple where you are not trying to words where you are not trying to fix ran actually have a greater in terms of actually fixing they are feeling, is that what are saying?
absolutely, it’ out being validated and contained heard, and i guess what my ession are really good at is having those difficult versations, but it’ something at parents don’ need to be shying rom, you don’ need to be away from, you don’ need to be thinking, gosh, i have to keep my jolly all the time, they still have to go to school tomorrow, but is important is in terms of auma debrief, mini ones, having a to think about how it is felt the time, so we have a tendency ay, did you have a really good ay, was it brilliant, did you love sometimes it’ useful to it?
and sometimes it’ useful to have a conversation about what was ickiest thing you did today, as anything surprising or a bit ry?
with child’ experience in heir day, we ’ need to away rom that.
we can give a forum, we an hear negative as well as ran hear negative stuff as well as good stuff.
what advice to the many who ill find themselves in the position of saying, what ened at school today, and the ance has come of nothing, want to .
what best to do?
that’ a puule and talk.
what is best to do?
that’ a puzzle and sometimes children don’ to alk about it the second
hey get in, but for children with rodevelopmental conditions they want to talk about anyway, and times it can be useful to have a sometimes it ran be useful to have a checkbox of things a child can go to they feel want to talk
but if they feel they want to talk but struggle to find their words.
it was thing that happened today, was anything worrying, would you to talk to mummy or daddy or want to talk to mummy or daddy or somebody else about whatever ened today, not everybody wants alk about it the second
they get , and it might be an opportunity back to basics and think about ying to eat ound a table or trying to eat at the same time out a on or a distraction, ust to up that communication and what comes out and to use it as space of containment.
we have been our children for months now.
it’ going to be different.
change cky.
we have ust to allow is tricky.
we have just got to allow ourselves and our children to grow hat change.
we can’ expect rselves to be experts in things we never done before.
advice, ank you very much.
more new on the group of campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died from coronavirus, who have accused prime minister borisjohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group said it wrote to mrjohnson five times to request a meeting.
mrjohnson responded by sending a letter where he passed on his deepest sympathies but said that he would not be able to meet them as a group.
joining me now from westminster is labour’ shadow health minister, justin madders.
thank you for joining us.
can you understand he wouldn’ meet ?
i can’, afraid.
think them?
iran’, i’ afraid.
ithink his behaviour is beyond contempt, to to meet them is bad enough refuse to meet them is bad enough but to go back on his word, having iously agreed to meet them is, my opinion, plain cruel.
we have a sum —turns from the government, a —turn on this uld be ost welcome as soon as ossible, please.
he has said he is tely conscious of the letter will of little comfort against the and heartbreak the families ave suffered, but he says he wants ffer his sincere condolences to families who have lost loved nes.
even those from a perience how debilitating it affects up and imagine the pain and despair of bereaved families, he goes on to talk about how the government is learning lessons.
in reality, what comfort can he offer milies?
well, he can do more the families?
well, he ran do more than have words, he can act and show he has that he has learnt lassons, and i think, if you look back over the of this pandemic, there has een a series of questions about ernment decisions, be it on , eparations in the first place, ial care, and families who have ost ved ones will want to know hat the government have understood it’ gone wrong and have put where it’ gone wrong and have put in place measures to prevent a at of some of the horrific nes we’ve seen this year.
having onversation with the families that would be a good starting oint in terms of helping people erstand the government is, in a ay, getting things right.
just to a it more from his letter, he does address partly what you are ng, he says, i will of course eet members of the public and key kers who have been bereaved as art of covid—19.
each story of loss vates me to ensure we beat this virus together.
he says, much as i would wish to be able to offer my olences in person to all of condolances in person to all of those who have suffered loss, that is not possibla so i am and am -- i am unabla to meet with you and he , as for the issue of an independent enquiry, the government there will be opportunities to look back and analyse and reflect aspects ovid—19, and he on all aspects of covid-19, and he says, as i have previously made , this will include an enquiry the appropriate time.
isn’ that enough?
is meeting people, can’ meet everybody.
we are not ecting him to meet everybody, but as had a specific request five imes from this campaign group to with him, and i think it would really useful him to do that, ecause although he can talk about ndependent enquiry, it doesn’ the questions that the bereaved ilies want to see that he won’ answered all the questions that eed to know the answer to, and won’ necessarily show that the ernment have learnt lessons from he past six months.
i really don’ what the problem is in having a eeting, and i think it would go a way to showing the public that determined to get things
right we do get a second way.
what is view on the ming of your view on the timing of independent enquiry?
i think it to be discussed with the bereaved families.
you could do something quite quickly now, i think, or you could actually wait after the winter and do something far more in—depth and iled.
i think the important is that the prime minister monstrates to those families that taking on board their concerns, and the best way for him that is to meet with them and iscuss those issues.
thank you for us.
in 2015, in one extraordinary week, europe experienced a series of events which continue to reverberate today.
more than a million migrants were on the move.
from germany’ open—door policy to hungary stopping trains to the border, each day revealed new tensions that tested european solidarity to its limits.
and it was exactly five years ago today that one of the most shocking images emerged — the body of a syrian toddler, alan kurdi, washed up on a beach in turkey.
he had drowned, along with his mother and
five—year—old brother, in a desperate attempt to reach greece, and safety in europe.
his death became a symbol of the suffering of migrant families and the dangers they faced.
his father survived, and he’ been speaking to our correspondent, hanan razek.
a warning that his report contains upsetting images.
he would have been seven years old this year.
alan kurdi, the syrian toddler whose body washed ashore at a turkish beach, after the boat that was carrying him and his family capsized in the mediterranean sea.
his mum and older brother also died.
only the father survived.
five years on, abdullah kurdi is trying to rebuild his life.
he’ had another son whose name is alan.
:
i named him after his brother alan so i remembered him.
god sent me a child who looks like alan and has the same character.
i can’ wait to go home to see him.
i feel that he’ a godsend.
but the shadows of the past are still alive.
: it’ impossible to forget what happened.
i only blame myself
but i was forced to as a father because i could picture them in a school
and i wanted a better life for them.
but it didn’ go as i planned.
i regret it.
alan’ death shook the world.
it led to europe opening its doors and hearts to refugees and taking in over1 million of them in 2015.
last year, a german charity named one of its rescue ships alan kurdi.
the ship has helped rescue almost 700 migrants in the mediterranean waters between libya and southern europe, but its team says the picture has got more grim recently.
it’ not that we cannot handle this financially or otherwise, as the european union, so we have the means to make a change and to help those people and take care of them.
but we don’ do it, we choose not to and i think that’ the most frustrating part to me.
it’ estimated that nearly 17,000 people have died in the mediterranean sea since alan kurdi’ death.
in recent years, europe has made deals with countries like turkey and libya to help curb the flow of migrants to the continent.
measures that have helped slow down the flow of migrants but didn’ stop tragedies from taking place.
hanan razek, news.
you can find more on this story on our website.
go to bbc.
com and look for stories with the title "europe’ migrant crisis".
in them, correspondents, experts and those who made the journey talk about how that dramatic time changed europe and the lives of those involved.
the headlines on news after almost six months at home, it’ back to school for millions more children in england and wales.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
1a people have gone on trial in paris charged with helping the gunmen who carried out the deadly charlie hebdo attack five years ago.
now, back to the coronavirus restrictions across the .
eight areas of the north of england — where people were told in late july there was to be no visiting another household, even in a garden — are having those restrictions lifted today, although local leaders in two of them — bolton and trafford — would have preferred to keep them because they’re worried about a spike in infections in recent days.
let’ get more on this from our correspondent, richard galpin.
restrictions have eased in some parts of the north—west — but not everyone is happy about it.
it seems to be a co—ticket situation at the moment.
—— a chaotic uation.
despread easing in terms greater manchester, cashire and west yorkshire, but, that ans, of course, that embers of two households can meet their mes and gardens, as long you maintain social distancing, emains key, but then you have that remains key, but then you have this situation in bolton, trafford ockport, asking for a delay in he easing, because they are saying the infection rates are going and it isn’ safe to be actually this.
we have heard from the reater manchester mare, andy nham, saying that easing is llogical with cases increasing, so a really situation at the moment, and it’ not clear how this to be clarified and how uickly it’ going to be clarified.
ave they been eased if there are still oncerns around rising ections?
there has been a sudden .
it seemed like the situation was
but now they are saying there a significant spike, so herefore the situation has changed ground, and the whole idea is be able to react as quickly as sibla in these situations.
asgow possible in these situations.
glasgow and surrounding areas have new restrictions.
tell us more.
we don’ have that much detail but they ying, because of an increase in cases, people should not visit ople’ houses, and that will remain in force for the next two .
and the issue of tourism till ongoing, that flight back from nthos, what should happen in zakynthos, and what should happen in future with english tourists is discussed later.
as expected?
have to wait and see, but whether government will decide there be automatic quarantine for nybody coming back from greece, in, they are very worried about he situation, particularly on the sante, where people have island of santa, where peopla have come back and there have been ters of cases in the , clusters of cases in the , particularty lots of young people tying on nte, a real party partying on zante, a real party island, and then they are importing cases into the , so is nother big worry which the government needs to deal with.
thank members of the exam regulator in england, quual, have been appearing before this morning to answer questions on what went wrong with this year’ and a—level results.
students didn’ sit exams and were awarded grades based on an algorithm instead.
after two weeks of controversy over the fairness of the algorithm, the education secretary, gavin williamson, decided to revert to what are known as centre—assessed grades.
speaking earlier, the chair of quual highlighted where mistakes were made.
the fundamental mistake was to believe that this would ever be acceptable to the public.
perhaps i might illustrate that point, give a sense of what i mean by that.
we were looking at this in terms of particular ideas of fairness, cross the whole population, the probability that somebody would get a grade, but acknowledging from the outset that it would not be anything like as accurate as exams.
i think what we now realise is that if you have 1,000 students that have an 80% chance of getting an a grade, they would regard themselves, quite reasonably as a grade students.
in ina in a normal year, 200 of those students would not get there a , they get a grade.
taylor also said that quual wanted students to sit exams, but it was the education secretary, gavin williamson, who decided that they would be cancelled and replaced with a system of calculated grades.
our initial advice to the secretary of state was that the best way to handle this was to to hold exams in a socially distanced manner.
that our second option was to delay exams, but the third option if neither of these were acceptable would be to have to to look at some form of calculated grade.
we did also look at whether that might be a teacher’ certificate, rather than attempting to replicate exam grades.
that was our advice to ministers.
it was the secretary of state who then subsequently took the decision and announced without further consultation with quual that exams were to be cancelled and the system of calculated grades was to be implemented.
taylor was also asked about the adjustment to the appeals process, which was introduced in england following similar problems in scotland.
he said that quual advised at the time that the system, which was based on mock grades, was a risky option.
the initial response in scotland was driven by a view that it had unfairly penalised disadvantaged communities and, as i have said, we were confident that our approach was not unfairly penalising disadvantaged communities.
the second thing to say about this is that the decision to change policy on the basis that there was no public confidence was obviously something that ministers would need to agree with.
it was on that day that the secretary of state decided that the government’ response in terms of policy adjustment in relation to scotland would be to introduce this new form of an appeal based on mock grades.
our advice was that this was an extremely risky thing to do because we were very unclear how it could be delivered in a way that was consistent with quual’ legal duties.
that select committee hearing, a sign of the times of how these are being done, and it meant ewborn baby was able to interact oceedings in the most adorable .
basically, it’ the newborn by of the for stoke, jonathan lis, and re is the moment when he and his daughter caused the most rable ent.
extensive guidance, adorable moment.
extensive guidance, which we updated when it came to us, nce the centre side of the and hence the centre side of the declaration .
had the exams taken place.
i want to to the chair’ question, about the testing of this algorithm.
run any of the isn’ that did you run any of the isn’ that brilliant?
i loved how he looked he was caught in something, but ’ those ents that underline it’ those moments that undertine how everybody is human, we are all ing with the same things, a tory ying to do his and question quual over at happened with the ams, and he is ggling childcare well stop
and he managed to the the baby put up i keep saying by berause don’ know whether it’ a little boy or a little girl.
’ when the baby was born or what the name is, but it was a lovely moment.
you are watching news.
one of the most notorious figures from the khmer rouge regime in odia has died after saving a ife sentence.
known as comrade , who was responsible sort nding more than 1a,000 people to their their deaths in the 19705.
he oversaw a brutal jail system in gods, ten teenagers, which gods, often teenagers, tortured prisoners into confessing titious crimes.
now we said goodbye to viewers watching around rld.
see you soon.
we are now waiting for prime minister’ tions, due to start at midday.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carol.
in the next 2a hours, many of us will see some rain and it will also ite windy, particularly in the be quite windy, particularty in the north and west.
through the early of the ernoon, still largely in eastern areas, but the cloud uild ahead of this band of will build ahead of this band of rain moving west to eased, and then band comes in which will be king south.
where we see greens yellows, at is telling you you an expect avy bursts, and don’ orget the winds.
this evening overnight, the first band plays the north sea and the second hand continues to journey south, a lot of clout ahead of it.
hind it, some clear skies and owers, but it will not be a cold with most of us staying in ouble figures.
tomorrow, this band oud and patchy rain continues to sink southwards.
behind it, a lot weather and a lot of of weather and a lot of sunshine, but also a few showers.
eratures, 15 to 21 or 22 and, nce again, brisk winds.
in a few moments the first prime minister’ questions since the summer break will take place in parliament.
it’ another hybrid session, with some mstoining by link, zuma link atever they are using.
alex is at westminster.
—— zoom they have een for some time, link.
they have been for some time, so it’ full back to business almost mal for or what are you as normal for for what are you expecting?
there is definitely a edly different feeling westminster yesterday and today, there are more back now because there are more mp5 back now than there were initially during little months of lockdown, and we have just come out of the summer ss, so it’ the first time we ill see boris nson and keir tarmer across the dispatch box and is probably quite a lot that could come up because, over the er, there has been quite a lot that the government has had to deal that exams, what happened with with, that exams, what happened with the a—levels and results, where upboard to —turn and came the cupboard had to -turn and fame in for a lot of flak, questions over economy, ause some of the key the economy, because some of the key support schemes, they are coming to , so it’ about government plans about that, it’ about how the nment might pay for some of the spending bills it has racked up tried to put in some support hroughout this pandemic, and of today we have had this story bout some of the families who lost ones during the covid pandemic anted a meeting with the prime minister, and they say today they think that’ going to happen because they have received a letter oris ohnson, so it’ possible from doris johnson, so it’ possibla that could come up, so there is there, but as ever with prime inister’ questions what is also tant is the mood in the house commons, and we know that, before , during lockdown, some people thought that starmer, the thought that keir starmer, the labour leader, had the advantage use they said he had a very calm ay for questioning, which really ned boris hnson, and boris pinned boris johnson, and boris johnson did better with the support backbenchers, so we will see how that might feel different today, ’ what comes up from the and it’ what comes up from the backbenchers themselves, what tions they choose to put to the prime minister and how he responds.
at is the mood within the party is a bad the parties, the of the leadership?
because viously these have been testing nths.
yeah, you have to remember at boris hnson got elected with that boris johnson got eluted with only an 80 0 seat majority only in mber
and then of course the december
and then of course the country and the world was hit with a pandemic, so they might have knocked his original priorities of , but from a government course, but from a government perspective what they are hoping to est firmly back onto that do is rest firmly back onto that ground, the things about the omic recovery and making sure hose seats they won last year are catered for, there has been me real discontent though on the backbenchers about how the vernment has handled all of this.
coming out publicly, saying hat the government and its —turns hift in olicy aren’ the way a run a government.
without some etty rong riticism, so i think pretty strong criticism, so i think boris johnson has got something of a management problem, so a lot party management problam, so a lot of peopla will be looking at his formance today from his own ackbenchers on what he says and his and message and how he comes cross
and we also understand the me minister could be meeting with ome backbenchers this afternoon, aps in part to address those concerns and to be seen to be ble and to to make sure that those rumblings of discontent that ries and he is are an nhappy boris hnson has started eaking.
thank very much.
three weeks ago today a community in my tituency of and i think it is ndeed the entire country was rocked events on the railway line just south of us, the tragic events three men tragically lost their lives.
i’ sure my right urable friend and indeed the hole house will in me in sending our epest ondolences to the amilies and friends of those three oday as well as our heartfelt atitude to the incredible men and of the emergency services and ltiple agencies who worked in an credibly difficult conditions to he survivors from the help the survivors from the accident.
the interim report is on ath desk of the transport the death desk of the transport secretary as we speak and i know the eport will take time to run full report will take time to its course, , as it is only right.
assurances can my right onourable friend give to my tituents that the serious uestions they have will be swered, any recommendations will mplement it and the government do anything it can to prevent ccident like this ever happening in?
ithank honourable friend i know the whole cathouse house want join ending who want tojoin me in sending our condolences to the family and of those who died.
i would like to thank my writer friend who tribute to the emergency services and the bravery that they .
british railways are among he safest in europe, partly because accidents like this so riously and therefore we must ure that we learn the lessons of tragic event to make sure that such incident recurs in the ure.
now i come to the leader of opposition, keir starmer.
thank - , ran ijoin with the prime minister on those comments about the events of a few eeks tragic events of just a few weeks ago?
speaker, can also begin by ing tribute ohn hume, who paying tribute to john hume, who passed away during recess.
he was a of light at the most troubled times and he will be seriously sed.
let me start today with fiasco.
on a day that thousands of rubles had their vel grades downgraded, the prime ister aid, and quote, the am minister said, and i quote, the exam results are robust.
they are good, re dependable.
the education they are dependabla.
the education secretary has said that it will lutely not be a —turn.
take a few days later, a turn.
we learned sterday that education secretary knew well in advance there roblem with the algorithm, so was a problem with the algorithm, so a straight answer to a straight tion, please, prime minister.
when did he prime minister know ere was a problem with the algorithm?
speaker, perhapsl could begin by congratulating the honourable gentleman on his rthday and say to him that on the and the stress that young ople have been through over the mmer both the secretary of state education and i understand very how difficult it has been for hem and for their families going ough a pandemic at a time when we ave not been able because of that ndemic, in on with most other pandemic, in common with most other countries in the world, to stage examinations.
and as a result of what we learned, about the the , the results that had come in, did institute a change.
we did .
the students, pupils of this ountry now do have their grades and ask the right honourable ntleman whether he will in in congratulating those pupils on their ork?
and whether he agrees ith me that they deserve the grades got?
keir starmer!
speaker, have already expressed ngratulations to all those students and i do so again and i want to go back to my question, the prime minister avoided and know he avoided it.
because he her knew there was a problem with algorithm and did nothing or he didn’ know when he should have.
so let me ask again, when did the prime ter first know ere would be a problem with the algorithm?
speaker, as he knows perfectly well made it absolutely clear time quual made it absolutely dear time and again that in their view the that was in place was robust.
uual is, as he knows, an dependent organisation and credit be given to their views.
all mmer long, speaker, he has been around undermining confidence, reading doubt is, in particular out the return to school in safe ditions and today is a great because the parents of pupils of country, the teachers of this untry are overwhelming approvingly rong.
proving the doubters rong, speaker, because they are back to school in record going back to school in record numbers, in spite of all the gloom he tried to spread.
i think the finding is today after three months using to do so, as pupils go back to school if today finally he that school was safe to go back to come on!
the prime minister is making it up as he goes along.
surprised the education cretary stood at that dispatch box terday and said and acknowledged hat labour’ first priority has getting children back to school.
that has been our first rity, i have said numerous times as dispatch box, he knows it well
and he is playing very well
and he is just playing games.
speaker, and he is fooling .
even if have run out of nobody.
even if have out of patience, the one person has said overnor says one thing on the governor says one thing on monday, changes its mind on tuesday, hing different is presented on wednesday.
that sounds familiar, ’ it?
a number of who doesn’ it?
a number of who wants to remain anonymous said in hamber today that it is mess after mess.
your own mps, —turn -turn, a ndamental issue of after -turn, a fundamental issue of incompetence.
god knows what is on!
there is no grit.
his own are right, aren’ they?
this is ader of the opposition who backed remaining in the and now backed, in fact he still does, speaker!
this is a leader of the opposition who supported an condoning policy and wanted to get nato.
this is a leader of the opposition who on the front ench order!
ithink re are questions being asked.
we do need to answer the questions being put to the panellist.
it would be ful to those who are watching to know the answers.
i minister.
i think it would be helpful to all those who are watching to know i think i will make the decisions today.
come on, prime minister.
i think it would be helpful to all who are watching to know that is opposition and this lead at the ition said absolutely nothing opposition said absolutely nothing to oppose the method of examinations as proposed and indeed they pposed the teacher accreditation that we eventually came up ith.
is he now saying that those des aren’ right?
or is it just captain ndsight leaping on a ndwagon and opposing a policy that pported two weeks ago?
the roblem is he is governing and dsight.
that is where he is ing so many mistakes.
before i go , speaker, the prime ministers said something about the
and i want him to take it back.
i worked rthern ireland for years in northern ireland for five years for the police service in northern ireland, bringing peace.
i prosecuted as a director of public cution serious terrace, working ith the police in northern ireland asked if i minister to have decency to withdraw that ent!
prime minister, it is the same every time.
pretend the lem doesn’ exist.
brush away problem doesn’ exist.
away scmtiny.
make the wrong decision, blame somebody else.
this has to change.
because the next jor decision for the prime inister is on the furlough scheme, obs of illions people at with jobs of millions of peopla at risk.
the longer he delays, the more re at risk, so will he act , finally get this decision right commit to extend the furlough or those sectors and workers who perately need it?
speaker, we are doing in this government getting people back to school, etting our ils back to school in spite of all the doubts that he is to sew and we are getting ople back to work.
what he wants do is end the furlough scheme, hich this country has already spent illion.
what we would rather do is get people into work through ck—start scheme, which we are unching today.
illion to spend to support people, young people in rticular, to jobs that particular, to get the jobs that they need.
he wants to get people re out of work in suspended nimation.
we want to be this forward!
that is the difference between him and us!
“an i just say there as a question about allegation in northern ireland.
as very concerned about is the oint he was making.
i think it rness i’ sure you would like to dress that.
speaker, i am very to say that i think i listen the protestations of the right ourable gentleman i think honourable gentleman
and i think they would have been more in order ughout the long years in which supported a leader of the labour keir tarmer.
when the panellist has rked in security and elligence forces prosecuting minals and terrorists he can ectme lecture me.
iasked him to do i asked him to do the decent thing, oing the decent thing and this prime minster don’ go together.
has been a wasted summer!
the vernment should have spent it eparing for the autumn and winter.
ead they have lurched from sis to crisis, —turn to —turn, correct one or, even to might make sense, but when the government tched up 12 —turns and has notched up 12 -turns and rising, the only conclusion is incompetence.
that serial competence is holding britain .
will be prime minister pick sponse ility and finally get a rip?
speaker, itake response ability for everything that ppened under this government hroughout my period in office and what has happened so far is hat we have succeeded in turning tide of this pandemic and in pite of the negativity and the stant sniping from the opposition, we are seeing a country not only going back to that is not only going back to school, but going back to work.
ain is in the lead in developing accines, we are in the lead in eloping and finding cures for is disease, in dexamethasone, in inding atments for this disease.
not only that, speaker, we are this country forward, in pite of the extreme difficulty is we face.
what i think the eople of is country would appreciate is he a die, the labour bench, erybody across this front bench, everybody across this house, coming together and uniting ying that it is safe for kids to get back to school.
i must say, ill have not heard that.
those from the right honourable ﬂaman.
words from the right honourable gentleman.
will he now says school ?
i have said it so many is safe?
i have said it so many times.
school is safe.
my own dren have been in school children have been in school throughout.
there is no issue on .
the seeking to divide this.
the seeking to divide instead i wrote to him on the of may in confidence and in in fering their support to support to to get kids back to school.
the reason they went back before summer was because of his incompetent education secretary.
speaker, the prime minister will recall that before the recess i asked him if he would meet the -19 bereaved families for justice roup.
i had the privilege eeting families on the 15th of meeting the families on the 15th of july.
they gave me incredibly ccounts of how covid—19 had taken taken their loved ones from them.
on news last week, the prime was if he would meet the families he said, and i will quote, of course i will meet the bereaved.
of course i will do that.
but yesterday ived a letter from the me i received a letter from the prime minister, saying that meeting them regrettably not possible.
was now regrettably not possible.
the prime minister will understand ustration and the hurt of the and the hurt of those families that he said one to camera and another to them.
an i urge the ist to can i urge the panellist to reconsider?
to do the right thing ind time to meet these grieving amilies?
speaker, if say say to the right honourable judgment it olutely typical of him that she should frame it in that way use when i made that answer and course i would be very happy to the families of the bereaved i sympathise deeply with all who have lost loved ones roughout this pandemic.
and we all their pain and their grief.
but turns out that this particular up that he refers to are urrently in litigation against the rnment and i will certainly meet hem once that litigation is luded.
but i may say to him that would be a better thing, rather trying to score points in that , if he oined ogether with us with this government and said only is school safe, but it is lso safe to go back to by the , speaker, that is the first me in four months that he has said i’ delighted to have extracted from him over this dispatch box.
as never said it to me in the house of commons.
i hope, speaker, he will also say that it is or the work force of this safe for the work force of this country to work in a covid—19 secure want to ake this country way.
we want to take this country forward.
were not only getting the mic under control, with death own and hospital admissions way .
we will continue to tackle it with lockdown is, with our uperiative test and tray system, ich by the before they sneer, before they mock at it, speaker, conduct more tests than any other country in europe.
and he hail that, rather than sneering at this country’ evements.
thank you, speaker.
discussions in the mmittee discussions in the joint committee established under the withdrawal ment will have the most crucial bearing on the future of trade, not etween the and the , but also within the itself.
unless rwise agreed in that committee, oods passing from great britain to hern ireland will be subject to full rigour of the european toms code and also to the imposition of tariffs.
that would be unacceptable, so would my ight honourable friend commit to whatever it takes to ensure at it does not happen?
prime nister.
yes, my right honourable is absolutely right to raise concern that he does and we must course and will deliver on what protocol says, which is that re shall be unfettered access between great britain and and there shall be no tariffs and we legislate in the course of the next months to guarantee that.
we now come to the leader the , ian kford, on the first of two questions.
thank you, speaker, i associate myself with the emarks of the prime minister and leader of the opposition on the gedy that we witnessed close to onehaven?
and indeed to the ute we had to hume from the tribute we had to john hume from the leader of the opposition.
a man that much for the delivery of peace in the northern ireland.
speaker, yesterday the panellist is cabinet and i quote, i am no great nautical expert, but times it is necessary to tack here in response to the facts as change.
it was surprisingly onest for the panellist to admit his government is all at sea.
government now defined by -turns in months.
but if the anister is true to his word, hen surely see sense and then surely he must see sense and change tack.
with the clock ticking ruggling businesses and for struggling businesses and workers, will be promised a commit ay to extend the job retention heme beyond october?
or is his vernment making the political oice to accept levels of employment last seen under atcher in the early nineteen ighties?
rime minister.
speaker, i members of opposite on rties seem to want to extend all parties seem to want to extend the furlough scheme, which has ady cost this country £40 billion, help supported 11 million a, but after all keeps them in people, but after all keeps them in suspended animation and prevents rom going to work.
what we them from going to work.
what we want to do is get people back to !
that is i hope you will instead support our kickstarter to get young people into jobs and support them in those jobs.
how etter that than languishing out of work?
my goodness, speaker, languishing out of work!
rlough scheme is there to the furlough scheme is there to protect people so they can come back work to work when the time is right.
speaker, france, germany and ireland xtended their furlough scheme into 2021.
they have made a moral ce.
they are not prepared to unish their people with record levels of unemployment.
you know, speaker, people in scotland are a tale of two governments.
hile he tories are cutting the low heme upport, yesterday nicola turgeon was announcing new estment to protect jobs, luding a youth guarantee.
we all now that jobs are threat if know that jobs are under threat if the furlough scheme ends in october.
wer to end this threat lies ith the prime minister.
will he do duty and tend the furlough scheme?
orare going to return to vels of unemployment last seen der thatcher, with the result of an misery?
speaker, what we doing is not only continuing the furlough scheme, as he ows, until the end of the month, ich is by far more generous, by way, than ything but i did in the way, than anything
but i did in france or germany or ireland.
we are nuing with it, but we will also continuing with it, but we will also after that scheme elapses, we will with other measures to get on with other measures to support people in work and starting there is kickstarter today there is the kickstarter scheme to help young people get the hat they need.
that is in jobs that they need.
that is in addition to a £160 billion package have spent to support the economy throughout this crisis.
this nment has put its arms around government has put its arms around all the people of this country to port throughout the crisis.
support them throughout the crisis.
that is what we are doing and will elp them to get back into work!
ank you, speaker.
i share my honourable friend’ enthusiasm those who can get back to work safely in their should do safely in their offices should do so, but realistically many will only do so for two or three days a week.
and i urge him to use his iderable powers of persuasion to ourage the rail industry to troduce immediately flexible ason tickets, so that those people tied into traditional work atterns?
both to help many ousands of commuters in areas like in ashford, but also to help save the rail industry.
well, i think the right honourable friend absolutely right that we are orking at pace with rail companies to deliver new products in to to deliver new products in terms of ticketing, which ensure not etter value, but also enable eople to get back to work in a axible way.
an i thank the prime minister the chancellor for the ncial and economic interventions at government have made to date?
he will be aware, as much as we to see people back in work, but ere are tain sectors, such as tourism, travel, hospitality and pace, where that will not be possibla in the short to medium .
therefore, encourage the prime ister to look at a targeted tension for those sectors?
and to look at a specific —wide heme help those so far who have een excluded from the current emes, including the newly self—employed?
well, speaker, as onourable gentleman knows, there are a great number of mes in addition to the job retention scheme that support people and in all sorts of sectors, the coronavirus loans, they bounce loans, grants that have been made to businesses of all .
he mentioned the tourism and hospitality sector and we have made nvestments in there, the very successful and eat out to help out me that we have been running.
scheme that we have been mnning.
but it is also very important that people back into the we get people back into the workplace in a covid—19 secure way like the leader of the and unlike the leader of the opposition we do absolutely hope to hem confidence that it is a ood idea to go back.
and nfidence, speaker, it is one is worth a tonne of taxpayers ey.
thank you, speaker.
the ounce back loans scheme has been a success delivered by the panellist and the chancellor, 1.
3 on loans have been granted, million loans have been granted, vital support for smes.
the party ittee on business banking which i chair is established there are 200 business banking who do have ccess to those loans cause they cannot get access to bank of england’ funding scheme enders who do have those loans are not really accepting loan ications from new customers.
ould the prime minister uses best ices to persuade the governor of he bank of england to open up this ding scheme to those alternative ance organisations or open the ors of other lenders who can provide schemes, those loans other smes?
well, i thank my onourable friend.
he raises important point.
as he will know, around access to schemes for the rules around access to schemes for alternative finance are not the nsibility of my rational responsibility of my rational friend, the chancellor, but for the england, but i’ sure the government will have heard him .
thank you, speaker.
over he summer months, many people ertake a range of activities.
for ome, it is camping, for others it stivals and events.
in my constituency we’ve got a number of successful employers in highly successful employers in audiovisual technology, hospitality eative industries, none of them ran currently undertake their activities.
the face of normal activities.
in the face of this, when pella ends, these panies uld face collapse.
what companies could face collapse.
what should i tell them?
that the rnment are today going to extend he scheme make sure that the ran get back on its feet or has the government completely given hemnot at all, is to speak up on themnot at all, is to speak of.
we have supported the arts alone with i think about £1.
7 billion of support and in land, as i’ sure he never tires of saying, the overall support for ing coronavirus has been in the order of about £4 billion.
we will inue to give support, but we happen to think and i hope this on ground across the house, we happen to think that it would be for the economy and all the people he cares about to into work.
thank you, is speaker.
now, one positive is among oom of the covid—19 pandemic is that his year’ i am a celebrity be found not in new south wales ustralia, in our own north alas.
australia, but in our own north wales.
even if i cannot tempt the llist to take part in a welsh tucker trial, would he commend on its choice of venue and welcome ositive impact this can have on the regional nomy?
i think my onourable friend
and he is right to ttention to the wonderful attractions of north walas, which i know very well myself when i tried elected there many years ago!
successfully.
and i congratulate on his success and may it be long repeated.
neil gray.
thank you, aker.
earlier is summer the speaker.
eadier this summer the treasury floated a story in the egraph ggesting a public sector pay eeze to save money.
given so public sector workers, such as rses, police, firefighters, chers and others have put their on the line to fight covid—19, rely this uld be an surely this would be an unconscionable betrayal?
will be minister therefore unequivocally not only rule out a reeze, commit to fully pay freeze, but commit to fully funding a package to ensure they are rated to reflect their sacrifices?
i must say i listened fully to what the honourable entleman said and he seems to ore the fact that we just had an nﬂation ignore the fact that we just had an inflation busting public sector pay that nurses alone, as part the package that we agreed in 8, have had a 12.
5% pay increases hen
and i appreciate his ntiments, he is on the right lines should look at what is actually happening.
thank you, speaker.
alexander dennis has been acturing buttons in guildford or over 100 years of exciting new mission vehicles.
i’ sure my low emission vehidas.
i’ sure my right arm will be saddened as i was a 200 jobs have been made edundant locally.
does he agree me that the fantastic skills hese workers have a vital as part green recovery and will he ork to me with me to assure the success of our button ufacturer’ of both domestic and ort markets?
i thank my honourable friend for her very site intervention on behalf of alexander dennis.
i was a keen of alexander dennis and his fantastic machines and i hope that an recovery and a massive investment in green buses, and i can’ guarantee this, but i hope it of benefit to the workforce of alexander dennis.
into swansea geraint davies.
speaker, he prime minister is stumbling ward into mass unemployment with he sudden and universal removal of ugh and towards a further spike resurgence in coronavirus, due making ple who are working to making peopla who are working from home travel to work.
in order nimise further and future bad ecisions and —turns, will he fully re the online parliament, so restore the online partiament, so that all voters can be fully esented in all debates and all lawmaking, as happens in the welsh nment and the scottish government and the scottish government and the lords, whether shielded or unshielded, so that we make the best decisions with ast harm during the pandemic during the recession by the ntroduction of proper online mocracy?
well, speaker, ithink onourable gentleman i encourage to return from new or shanghai or wherever he is.
to join us fast as we can and to join us as fast as we ran hear in this house.
i think actually he people of this country want what the peopla of this country want to see is their representatives back seats as fast as possible on their seats as fast as possibla in the palace of westminster and is what we should work for and at is we are working together drive down this virus and create vid-19 ure environment.
thank a covid-19 secure environment.
thank 7°“- speaker.
when i buy a copy of the mirror, daily mail or the legraph, lam not quired to buy a copy of guardian, and yet when ant to watch on or azon prime, i am forced to pay for .
does the plan is to believe is is a sustainable situation in medium or long—term?
well, my nourable end makes a very honourable friend makes a very interesting point of view i am sure by many people in this country, but ight honourable riend the secretary of state for ture, media and sport will be etting out a road map shortly for a orm of the and addressing the issue he mentions.
ruth ury.
bury.
thank you, speaker.
last the financial times published a of the trial government —turns nder this prime minister, from the exam results the esco to the tact up, to wearing of masks.
contact up, to the wearing of masks.
-- the fiasco.
he has just said he response ility, so i wonder hich of those 12 —turns is they mised a’ ourite?
speaker, promised a’ favourite?
speaker, it is a rare privilege to be asked a stion in a se, you would have question in a house, you would have thought they would have come up with something better than that.
i what i want to say to her is that this is a pandemic that this government is dealing with extremely ectively as a medical level and at we want to do now is in a ovid-19 ecure way, not only get children back to school because hat is is happening today, in that is what is happening today, in spite of the i don’ know where as been on this question, but spite of the leader of the pposition and his colleagues, and also want to do is get our what we also want to do is get our country and economy back on its feet and get us back to work, so again and get us back to work, so i hope that she and her colleagues say that it is also safe to go back to work in a covid—19 secure my honourable friend will be aware that, welcome though it is, the of the new term this week will challenging for all schools, pecially for burton green church gland academy in my of england academy in my constituency, where hs2 has just sed road many parents use to closed the road many parents use to access the school.
it has done that veral months with little for several months with little notice or consultation and contrary urances given during the assage of the 52 bill.
this is , as my right honourable friend nows, the first or only example of hhandedness or poor communication the part of 52, so will he help me to require of 52 at it does better for the people ton green and elsewhere on the oute?
yes, speaker, i heartily orse, lam fraid, the sentiments endorse, i am afraid, the sentiments he has expressed.
anybody who has with hs2 over the last few years will that they do treat oral ocal residents with, i am afraid, a handed anner, and what i can high-handed manner, and what i ran tell him is that, where there is to local roads, hs2 will pay compensation.
i will certainly take point with .
low public up his point with .
low public confidence in social distancing ures means many businesses are struggling.
if the etention scheme ends in october, there will astrophic consequences for workers, businesses and the economy spite earlier waffle from the so, despite eartier wafﬂe from the prime minister, i am asking again, commit to extending the job retention scheme or are we to expect overnment incompetence, resulting in unnecessary undancies and further strains on direct the honourable lady to what i have already said, which is that will always be those who argue infinite extension of the rlough scheme and who want to keep off work, unemployed, being id substantial sums for a very time.
i don’ think that’ the thing.
i think the best way rward for our country is to get opla as far as possible back into rk, and here is the bonus, as she knows, till end of the year, there are abundant schemes, £160 ion has been spent to support the economy through the crisis, and continue to put our arms we will continue to put our arms around the entire people to keep going throughout this crisis.
indefinite furlough is just not answer.
our nation has a proud tory as a safe haven for desperate souls, but now the asylum is broken and being abused, the people would like to know he prime minister will introduce legislation to fix the lum stem, which will save lives asylum system, which will save lives by taking back control of our ers?
i think my honourable iend
and i have a great deal of pathy with those who are so desperate as to put their children ghies or children’ paddling ols and and cross the channel, i have to say that what they are ing is falling prey to criminal ngs, and they are breaking the , and they are also undermining he legitimate claims of others who seek asylum in this country, that is we will take dvantage of leaving the by ging the dublin regulations on returns, and we will address the and our laws that make this ountry, i am afraid, a target and a net for those who would exploit vulnerable peopla in this way.
i trust the prime minister had an enjoyable visit to appledore.
he knows well the mother the odd in my constituency in east belfast, and i ask that the prime minister gnise the strategic purpose of ppledore and also that howell wharf in an well—placed position exist -- sist this country in defence needs.
it was very cited to get appledore to see the ential of that yard to see what rland and wolfe is doing there, also, of rse, he is right in and also, of course, he is right in what he says about the potential for us other contracts, both in evon and belfast, but i can’ give now the kind of guarantees he over this dispatch box, but this space.
blackford, you not given me notice of this int of order, but i think it is portant to clear up this matter for that it isn’ normally that i would allow urgent questions to be fered with but on this will allow it.
thank you, speaker, i am most grateful.
on friday the 21st ugust, the mail ran a of august, the daily mail ran a front-page story revealing the tion of the prime minister’ holiday in tland.
this was a iolation of his family’ privacy at ither myself nor my party in any way condone.
later the same day, or conservative source in downing street told the sun paper, and i quote, the finger blame for all this getting out is ing pointed at the , articularly ian blackford, and this bsequently repeated in a was subsequently repeated in a number of newspapers and broadcast ts.
this allegation and outiats.
this allegation and briefing was entirely and iberately false.
it was a geted political smear from the me minister possible to office.
he photographer who provided the erial for the original daily mail nt-page front-page later confirmed that i was not his source in revealing the minister’ location, a prime minister’ location, a location, i might add, iwas not aware of.
however, by this oint, the damage was done.
this ter has not only been the worst of political smearing, the lse allegation is equally resulted ecurity implications for myself my family with a serious and ersonal nature.
i can see the prime nister pulling , but all he minister pulling a face, but all he has to do is go to social media to he threats that i was then rced to witness.
it is a very rious situation when the apparatus government can be deployed of the government ran be deployed in this way, manufacturing false fings in order to attack an pposition politician.
i raised this with the prime minister possibla office in writing but, as i have not received a response, i am ing this point of order today to nsure these false briefings are now ped and are never repeated.
for parliamentarian.
may i first of say what a derful staycation all say what a wonderful staygtion holiday i had in the right ourable gentleman’ constituency, hat a tastic part of the world, and how thoroughly commend it to body.
it’ absolutely beautiful, he is very lucky to represent .
on the substantive point he ses, lam happy accept the assurances that he gives, but i would just draw his tention he talks out going to social a, edia, so i draw is attention to a tweet chap called crikey on the 17th by a chap rallad crikey on the 17th of august, saying ferocious mitch county in washer ross tonight, i hear it must be bad if you are fair ned and camping, to which an ccount that purports to be the honourable gentleman’, but ’ sure it isn’ because of what he just said, saying i wonder if energy is an eton in good stead.
i am sure and i am happy to accept his assurances and protestations, and i think we should leave it at that.
i just say i am very can ijust say what i am very concerned about is the security ications to the prime minister to the leader of the .
please ijust veryone, let’ be very, careful let’ learn from is, and it is on the record from parties, and i hope we can draw ine under it, please let’ take each other’ security very, seriously.
thank you.
: that’ the end of prime inisters question time, quite a lot on, a fairty eisty exchange going on, a fairly feisty exchange between boris johnson and keir mer, we have come to expect in prime minister’ questions.
there me breaking lies that emerged hat
i want to bring you stop while ime nister’ questions was under , we heard that there has been turn on he local restrictions -turn on the oral restrictions around covid—19 in bolton and ford.
we were reporting earlier that they being lifted, but there was a lot of local unhappiness cause had been a spike in because there had been a spike in the number of cases, and now the secretary has announced that is going to be changed.
and another line that emerged in rime minister’ questions from is ohnson on the , he said hat the lture secretary will hortly be publishing a road map for uture of the , and we will looking at funding.
let’ go back to the restrictions around covid—19 in bolton and ford.
we were just talking a ile ago about the change and how eopla are nhappy, and now the estrictions have come back.
it’ happened very quickly.
just artier, we were talking about more a a million people in greater nchester, lancashire, west kshire looking forward to restrictions being eased so that ers of two households could actually meet up with each other, ctually, at that time, we did now that bolton and trafford, these areas, were asking for a elay in the easing, because they saying there has been a ignificant spike of infections.
urnham had been saying it was a logical to carry on with easing estrictions in this situation.
was illogical.
in the last our or so, we ave had a statement health secretary matt hancock ying there has been a significant in the level of infection so bolton and trafford will main under the existing estrictions, which means members of ouseholds in those areas will be able to meet up.
so it’ all nge, quite quickly, but i have to somewhat predictably, given the that infections have been going .
the oral tory , chris green, or for bolton and alberton, said, pite what i had local press have said, ton is being kept in local ockdown
and i’ disappointed in how mportant decision has been communicated because of the impact ill have on people’ lives.
just hearing ime minister’ questions how many —turns there been, it obviously means hat people find things predictable.
they took the ision to end them, and they have id there was this sudden spike, trying to unpick what the sequence of events was and when this ion was taken what have you able to ascertain?
it’ got ery complicated step there have flip—flops going on and it’ been ﬂip-ﬂops going on and it’ been change after change, so it’ really messy, and i think the messaging for people in this ntry, ’ very, very confusing.
country, it’ very, very confusing.
it’ one thing one day at the next ’ all change, it may be the next hour it’ changing, so it’ difficult for people to keep up with exactly what they can and not .
it is affecting people’ and therefore it’ really ncerning this is going on.
it is clear decision making or clear cisions being made.
another urn, this ime from the about he last night of proms, rule ritannia and land of hope and glory be sung at the last night of the proms by a select group of singers.
you will probably have been that there was quite a row aware that there was quite a row over what will be happening on the night, when it was decided it ould simply be musical.
the new ector—general, tim davey, has ust taken up reins in his role at he , and now oday we hear at at there will be a select group of singers singing at the last ight of he proms, so we will get latest on that without media tor on news that 1pm.
speaking at first minister’ questions — nicola sturgeon has been addressing the fresh restrictions and the latest deaths in the country.
an additional 156 cases of covid were found yesterday, and the total now is 20,788.
86 of the new number now is 20,788.
86 of the new rases are in greater glasgow and , 26 in lanarkshire, 16 in othian six in ayrshire and ran.
258 patients are in hospital, ewer than yesterday, and five eople are in intensive care, one wer an yesterday that i am sorry say that, in the last 2a hours, death registered of a one death was registered of a patient who had tested positive, and mber of deaths and that measurement 2495 the in additional, nal record of scotland has troduced its latest update, which udes cases where covid is a uspected ntributory cause of ath.
the latest update covers the up to sunday the 30th of august shows the total of a bridge to ath with a or presumed link to is now a228.
six of those were registered in previous week, the ame number as the week before.
two in rare omes, two fewer than he previous eek, and my ndolences go to everyone who has a loved one.
in the interest of “: blic information and parliamentary ormation, let me mention briefly to other ers.
last night, we announced that greece has been added list of countries subject to quarantine restrictions.
test and has had in recent days
that a number of new covid cases can be nected individuals returning rom that country and any strictions apply from thorium morrow.
anyone arriving in tland from greece after that time elf—isolate for days.
anyone who as urned from greece in the last days should be particularly eful about social interactions llow all of the advice and follow all of the advice particularly carefully.
given the tainties inherent in a global andemic, i want to repeat my advice eople to be very cautious about nonessential foreign travel right here can be no guarantee that now.
there ran be no guarantee that the mles on quarantine will not while the rules on quarantine will not change while you are awake and ect you on return.
let me brieﬂy remind people living in sgow city, east renfrewshire and tern partnership of the new idance.
the level of covid is rticularty high and rising in ese
hese areas given the cole we know ran take doing nothing was not option.
the ate we now get from and protect allows us to be re targeted in the measures we and what we know is that unlike he cluster in aberdeen 3 eeks the cluster in aberdeen a few weeks ago data so far suggests that smission in western scotland is pening not exclusively but mainly eople’ homes.
50 the guidance now firstly, if in is now firstly, if you live in glasgow, east renfrewshire and west rtonshire, you should not host dunbarhonshire, you should not host peopla from other households in your and you should not visit someone else’ home, no matter where .
there re exceptions for that is.
there are exceptions for emergencies, providing care or pping to nerable people and shopping to vulnerable peopla and for extended households, and you can urther guidance and a and a find further guidance and a 0 and a at the scottish government website.
lastly, visits re omes in these areas is to care homes in these areas is restricted to outdoor only, and ital visiting will return to essential visits only.
these rictions will be in place for weeks and reviewed in one week.
have not been put in place but they are necessary and elieve proportionate and we hope hey will allow spread to be ntained at an early stage without for further measures later.
apply only in these three ncil areas right now, but i think hey should be a wake—up call for us.
if we let it, the virus spread rapidly but, if we stick some basic rules and continue to sacrifices we can stop it.
make some sacrifices we ran stop it.
blunﬂy, but only works if we all do things, so please make sure you are aware of the rules and stick hem follow face coverings, avoiding public bases, clean hands surfaces, keep two metres tance and, self—isolate and book if you ave this is more a test if you have this is more important than it has been at any of the pandemic so far.
nicola urgeon on the new restrictions in asgow.
pupils in england and wales have been going back to school after the unprecedented shutdown during the coronavirus pandemic.
the start of the new term is being staggered in many areas.
but there are still many questions over how easy it will be for children to catch up on learning.
our correspondent, tomos morgan, went to a primary school in barry island earlier to see what measures have been put in place for children to return to the classroom safely.
barry island primary school is reopening for some pupils today in wales.
children under 11 will not have to socially distance.
there are no masks needed for any primary school children, but children will be in classrooms like this, all forward facing, and they will remain in their bubbles throughout the day, which means they will be doing everything in groups of 30 or so or how big the class is.
so they will be having break timejust on their own.
they will be having lunches here in this classroom.
sarah, your two children standing next to you here, you are obviously really excited to come back today, aren’ you?
yeah.
yes?
yeah.
a resounding yes, there.
and you are happy, safe, looking forward to children going back?
absolutely.
they have been looking forward to coming back for ages and certainly we are looking forward to having some routine back.
i was lucky during the whole covid crisis because we used the hub, but they missed their friends, that teacher contact and learning.
and the way it’ set out here, you’ve had a little walk through the school, you are happy?
you’re confident everything is going tonot go to plan but you all feel confident about the safety element here?
no concerns at all.
good luck today, both of you.
we willjust walk down back through the classroom here and we’ll just go back through the corridor.
there is hand sanitiser when you come in and out so the pupils and staff will have to wear that.
the one—way system now on the floor through the corridor as we come into the main hall here.
the main hall will not be used for assemblies at the moment because the bubbles have to stay together.
renee and niamh, your first day back as well.
renee just talk to us a little bit about different entrances for different year groups.
are you happy with everything?
yes, we have had communication and it has been very clear that different classes use different entrances at different times and they will also finish school at different times, they will be staggered.
there was a trial run before the summer holidays.
quite confident that the school is ready to have the children back.
and obviously, for you, niamh, the main thing is you get to see friends again.
yes.
but also, you have to get a little bit of learning in, are you happy about that?
yes.
brilliant, of course.
matt, the head teacher here, look, it has clearly been a lot of work.
what has it been like getting the teachers, not on board, but making sure everyone understands the guidance?
i think realistically, with advice and guidance from the local authority, you know, with human resources supporting some members of staff to return to work, they have been incredible.
i’ lucky to work with the dynamic teaching team, so they are really the hands—on, integral to setting up the school ready and again going with the risk assessments based on government guidelines and the local authority’ advice.
thank you so much.
barry, one of the schools opening today, but most schools like this one will be doing a phased return, having different year groups starting school at different days of week and by week and a half’ time, all children in wales will have to be back in school.
let’ go back to that breaking news in the last few moments that there een a government —turn over he lockdown restrictions in bolton trafford, and trafford, urrey, where restrictions are going main after they were supposed have been lifted after the health etary was in consultation with oral leaders and there was a big in the level of infection tes in the last few days.
as you uld imagine, there has been a lot eaction to this decision, cause people thought the estrictions were going, and now have been told they are not.
hey are being brought back 12 hours fter they were eased.
the tory , ris green, has oral tory , chris green, has tweeted.
he is the for bolton and appleton, and he’ happy.
he says, spite what i and local press erstood, bolton is being ept in oral lockdown.
i am disappointed at how this important ion has been communicated decision has been communicated because of the impact this will have ple’ lives.
bolton and on people’ lives.
bolton and trafford councils have written to vernment yesterday but parently they haven’ had any ponse by last night, so this orning the mayor of greater chester was out saying that he unhappy about the restrictions eased, and now, just in the half an hour or so, that ancock has the restrictions are to be put back in place.
—— hancock.
we will have plenty ore ction to that through the afternoon.
members of the exam regulator in england, quual, have been appearing before to answer questions on what went wrong with this year’ and a—level results.
students didn’ sit exams and were awarded grades based on an algorithm instead.
after two weeks of controversy over the fairness of the algorithm, the education secretary, gavin williamson, decided to revert to what are known as centre—assessed grades.
speaking earlier, the chair of quual highlighted where mistakes were made.
the fundamental mistake was to believe that this would ever be acceptable to the public.
perhaps i might illustrate that point, give a sense of what i mean by that.
we were looking at this in terms of particular ideas of fairness, cross the whole population, the probability that somebody would get a grade, but acknowledging from the outset that it would not be anything like as accurate as exams.
i think what we now realise is that if you have 1,000 students that have an 80% chance of getting an a grade, they would regard themselves, quite reasonably as a—grade students.
grade, they’ get a grade.
taylor also said that quual wanted students to sit exams, but it was the education secretary, gavin williamson, who decided that they would be cancelled and replaced with a system of calculated grades.
our initial advice to the secretary of state was the best way to handle this was to to hold exams in a socially distanced manner.
our second option was to delay exams, but the third option, if neither of these was acceptable, would be to to look at some form of calculated grade.
we did also look at whether that would be a teacher certificate, rather than attempting to replicate exam grades.
but that was our advice to ministers.
it was the secretary of state who subsequently took the decision and announced, without further consultation with quual, that exams were to be cancelled and a system of calculated grades was to be implemented.
and then there was this surprise intervention.
had the exams taken place that’ the conservative for stoke, jonathan gullis, who had his hands full throughout the hearing.
if: he ended up putting on a papoose.
it’ lovely to see what happened, hing the baby, and finally soothing the baby, and finally resorting to the papoose and ying on as if nothing was happening.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with tomasz.
hello.
earlier on today we had a window of fine weather, particularly across eastern and southern areas, but the clouds have been increasing through the afternoon and into this evening it is a case of rain at times, in some places heavier than others.
here is the cloud moving across the .
the heaviest of the rain will be across northern ireland, the south—west of scotland, as well as the lake district.
so this area here.
to the south it may be heavy at times, but should be moving swiftly on and actually generally speaking it is going to be looking overcast and drizzly this evening and not cold.
temperatures tonight may fall lower than about 16 degrees in the south.
there is a bit of a mild south—westerly wind, but a lot of cloud, moisture and hill fog spreading across the .
further north, also relatively mild, around 1a degrees there in the lowlands of scotland.
so here is the weather map for thursday.
low pressure close to iceland, a cold front moving across the ,
so it is going to introduce some fresher, blustery conditions to the north—west of the .
to the south of that where that weather front is moving through there will always be a bit more cloud and outbreaks of rain, anywhere from cardiff, london, say, to norwich, during the course of the afternoon.
i think the best bit is going to be this bit in the middle here around liverpool and yorkshire.
temperatures should nudge up to around 20 degrees.
the rest of the week is going to be a bit of a mixed bag.
here is friday’ weather forecast.
another weather front sneaks into the south, bring cloud and some outbreaks of rain and also we have some showers across scotland, maybe one or two sneaking into the north—west of england.
and relatively cool, 16 or 18 celsius.
now at the weekend, we are watching this high pressure from the azores, it is called the azores high because it is close to the azores and the islands there.
but it is building into the , settling things down across the south of the country, so i think sunshine from birmingham to norwich to london, but scotland closer to the low further north and also cooler and also more of a breeze there, with some showers.
some of them may even sneak in as far south as central parts of england.
through the course of the week, the weather is going to improve and you can see from these weather icons, turning a little bit brighter towards the weekend, but the temperatures not spectacular, we’re mostly talking about the high teens.
bye— bye.
back to school — with a difference.
millions of pupils in england return after the coronavirus lockdown.
for many of the children, it’ the first time they’ve been in a classroom for months.
it is a mixture of emotions and stuff.
ifeel, like, really, really excited but really nervous as well.
i just can’ wait to get in and start learning and stuff.
we’ll be seeing how they’re getting on and asking if the safety measures are working.
also this lunchtime we wanted exams to go ahead but were overruled — the head of quual launches a robust defence of the regulator’ role in the a—level and fiasco.
another government —turn — hours after lifting them, restrictions in two parts of manchester are reimposed.
rule, britannia —turn — the broadcaster says there will now be singing of rule, britannia and land of hope and glory at the last night of the proms, after a chorus of criticism.
making history — boxer nicola adams becomes the first contestant to be part of a same—sex pairing in strictly come dancing.
coming up in the sport later in the hour on news, 20,000 fans could be heading to twickenham next month for england’ match against the barbarians.
good afternoon and welcome to the news at one.
it’ a huge day for many families in england and wales, as millions of pupils return to the classroom after almost six months.
schools look very different from how they did back in march — with one—way systems and staggered start times helping to keep students safe.
but there are still many questions over how easy it will be for children to catch up on learning and the impact on next year’ exams.
schools in scotland and northern ireland have already reopened.
our education correspondent dan johnson is at a secondary school in nottinghamshire.
over to you.
yes, don’ underestimate how rtant this day is, for so many tudents and for the teachers who done so much work preparing for is return today.
now, here at twood academy portland in worksop, are corridors that are being rotected from certain year groups, students apart and we have een year seven return here this ning ahead of the rest of the ,500 pupils coming back to classes rrow.
put yourself in amy’ new school shoes.
that strange first day in the uncertain world of secondary school.
i am a bit nervous, because i don’ know anyone and it is a big day.
then throw in the added baggage of coronavirus, weighing on 11—year—old shoulders.
it is a mixture of emotions and stuff.
ifeel, like, really, really excited but really nervous as well.
i just really can’ wait to get in and start learning and stuff.
good morning, year seven and welcome to portland!
and here are 300 more fresh faces.
masked for the bus ride but eager to learn after months of lockdown.
a bit nervous, but i’ feeling good.
it made me feel safe but i couldn’ breathe.
can’ breathe in these masks, i don’ like it.
it’ funny, though.
we were missing out on a lot of learning during covid, so it’ good to be back.
having been at home, it’ been quite hard however, being at school, obviously staying two metres apart and things like that, it’ definitely going to help.
i’ , i mean, the school’ put lots of things on the website, they’ve given us, like, a virtual tour of the school, so i know what i’ expecting and, today, it is just year sevens in, so we do have a bit of a transition.
so i’ feeling fine.
waving them off is always a wrench, so parents could be forgiven some anxious worries.
you know, it’ like a sense of trepidation, he’ starting a new part of his schooljourney, but, you know, other than that, yeah, good.
yeah,
i think it is the right time, they’ve been at home for a long time without having as much teacher support as they would normally have, so it’ great that they are back with people their own age and back in a learning environment.
the signage around the school is excellent, amy knows what’ expected of her, so i think we’re feeling as positive as we can.
we hope that, at least, this will give them the chance to get settled into school and then if there are cases and we find there has to be lockdowns, or things change again, then they will at least know what they are doing and they will be