Hi, good morning.
I hope you’re doing 0K.
I’m Victoria Derbyshire.
Welcome to BBC News.
Let’s bring you the latest headlines.
The Prime Minister has spent the night in hospital,
ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
He’s said to be undergoing tests "as a precaution".
He will continue to be kept informed as to what is happening and to be
in charge of the Government.
As I say, I hope, we all do, that he has a speedy recovery
and he gets back to Number 10 and can take charge
in the way he would want to.
I want to express our nation’s well wishes
to Prime Minister BorisJohnson as he wages his own personal
fight with the virus.
All Americans are praying for him, he’s a friend of mine,
he’s a great gentleman.
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer resigns after making two
trips to her second home during the lockdown.
She during the lockdown. made a serious mistake, and
people
She made a serious mistake, and people are right to be angry about
peopla are right to be angry about it, she was
people are right to be angry about it, she was right to apologise, it
it, she was right to apologise, it was clear yesterday she could not
was clear yesterday she could not continue to be the face of public
continue to be the face of public health advice campaign.
Refuge says the National Domestic Abuse Helpline has seen a 25%
increase in cells and online requests for help since
the lockdown began.
"Better days will return" — the Queen’s rallying
message for the nation.
She says the UK will suceed in its fight against the coronavirus.
A tiger — and six other big cats — at the Bronx Zoo in New York test
positive for the coronavirus.
It’s thought the animals were infected by a zoo keeper.
Good morning, and welcome to BBC News.
Our top story this morning.
The Prime Minister BorisJohnson has
spent the night in hospital,
where he was admitted for tests, ten days after being diagnosed
with coronavirus.
Downing Street says it’s a precautionary
step as the Prime Minister continues to show persistent
symptoms of the virus.
He remains in charge of the Government but the Foreign
Secretary Dominic Raab will chair this morning’s coronavirus meeting.
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer has resigned after being criticised
for visiting her second home twice, against her own lockdown advice.
The First Minister Nicola Sturgeon initially defended
Catherine Calderwood before agreeing that the doctor’s
behaviour risked undermining confidence in the Government’s
public health message.
The Queen has said the UK "will succeed" in its fight again
the pandemic, if people remain united and resolute.
In a rare address to the nation, the monarch thanked the public
for following Government rules to stay at home.
She acknowledged that self—isolating may be hard at times,
but concluded on an optimistic note — echoing the words of Dame Vera
Lynn’s Second World War song, We’ll Meet Again.
Reports from japan say the Government
is preparing to declare a state
of emergency as coronavirus cases continue to increase.
In Tokyo, the number of cases has doubled over the past week
to more than 1,000.
And a tiger — at a zoo in New York — has tested positive for Covid—19.
It’s thought the four—year—old animal contracted the virus
from a keeper but she’s expected to recover.
Our first report this morning comes
from our political correspondent
Chris Mason.
The man charged with leading the country’s response to this virus
is experiencing the unpleasant reality of it.
It was a week last Friday that we heard the Prime
Minister had coronavirus.
Hi, folks, I want to bring you up to speed with something
that’s happening today, which is that I have developed mild
symptoms of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature
and a persistent cough.
And on the advice of the Chief Medical Officer,
I have taken a test, that has come out positive,
so I am working from home.
I’m self—isolating.
Number 10 made it clear BorisJohnson would continue to work
This
remotely from his Downing Street flat, and he chaired
what he described as the first ever digital Cabinet meeting
from self—isolation.
Last Thursday night, he joined millions of others
in expressing his gratitude to those working in the health service.
Thanks, NHS, thank you.
Thank you, thanks, all.
Thank you.
But, it was clear in another post on Twitter on Friday,
that he was still unwell.
Although I’m feeling better and I’ve done my seven days of isolation,
alas, I still have one of the symptoms, a minor symptom,
I still have a temperature so in accordance with government
advice, I must continue my self—isolation until that
symptom itself goes.
Last night, Downing Street issued a statement.
I want to express our nation’s well wishes
to Prime Minister BorisJohnson as he wages his own personal
fight with the virus.
All Americans are praying for him, he’s a friend of mine,
he’s a great gentlemen, and a great leader,
and as you know, he was brought to the hospital today.
But I’m hopeful and sure that he’s going to be fine.
He’s a strong man, strong person.
BorisJohnson has spent the night not here, but in hospital.
His officials are adamant he is still leading the Government’s
response to the pandemic.
But this virus is crippling the economy, robbing us of our usual
liberties and straining the personal capacity of the Prime Minister
to respond to it on our behalf.
Chris Mason, BBC News.
Let’s get the latest from our assistant political
editor Norman Smith who’s at his home
in north London.
it must be hard for Boris
it must be hard for BorisJohnson to
it must be hard for Boris johnson to mn
it must be hard for Boris johnson to nm the
it must be hard for BorisJohnson to run the Government from his hospital
nm the Government from his hospital bed.
bed. That is a statement of the obvious.
That is a statement of the obvious. while it is
That is a statement of the obvious. While it is true you can hold video
while it is tme you ran hold video conferences,
While it is true you can hold video conferences, added to which, he is
conferences, added to which, he is not a well man I am sorry, Norman,
not a well man I am sorry, Norman, the sound is getting worse and we
the sound is getting worse and we had every fourth word but we got the
had every fourth word but we got the jest of it.
jest of it. —— the gist of
jest of it. -- the gist of it. Maybe we will go
-- the gist of it. Maybe we will go back to
—— the gist of it. Maybe we will go back to Norman. We will talk to a
back to Norman. We will talk to a professor in a moment, from the
professor in a moment, from the University of East Anglia about
University of East Anglia about Boris Johnson’s
University of East Anglia about BorisJohnson’s persistent
University of East Anglia about Boris Johnson’s persistent symptoms.
Boris johnson’s persistent symptoms. Anybody who
Boris Johnson’s persistent symptoms. Anybody who has had a coronavirus,
Anybody who has had a coronavims, peopla talked
Anybody who has had a coronavirus, people talked about being wiped out,
people talked about being wiped out, potentially that could be what is
potentially that could be what is happening with the Prime Minister.
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer has resigned after being caught
visiting her second home — in breach of her own social
distancing guidance.
Dr Catherine Calderwood made a public apology and received
a police warning after she travelled from Edinburgh to her other
home in Fife, for two consecutive weekends.
Alexandra Mackenzie reports.
This is a vital update about coronavirus.
To help save lives, stay at home.
Dr Catherine Calderwood will no longer front the public campaign
against coronavirus.
After pictures were published in the Scottish Sun,
she was forced to admit that she had travelled from Edinburgh
to her second home in Fife the last two weekends.
She initially apologised, then resigned, saying...
During an uncomfortable media briefing yesterday,
Scotland’s First Minister stood by her Chief Medical Officer.
Her advice and expertise has been invaluable to me,
and it continues to be so.
If I am to do what I need to do to steer the country through this
crisis to the very best of my ability, I need
her to be able to focus on the job that she is doing.
But hours later, Nicola Sturgeon agreed, she had to go.
Many have expressed their anger and disbelief at Catherine
Calderwood’s actions.
Police Scotland say that they have spoken to her and emphasised
that the stay—at—home rules apply to everyone.
And as we enter a third week of lockdown, which has
been observed by most, Dr Calderwood will step back.
She said the people of Scotland must have complete trust in those
who give advice in the difficult months to come.
Alexandra McKenzie, BBC News, Glasgow.
Well, in the last hour, Scotland’s First Minister
Nicola Sturgeon has been giving her reaction
to Dr Calderwood’s resignation.
She made a mistake, she made a serious mistake,
and people are right to be angry about it.
She was right to apologise.
It was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be
the face of the public health advice campaign.
But candidly, yes, I did hope I could continue
to call on her expertise.
Because, to be frank, in a situation like this at this
particular moment in time it is far from ideal for me as First Minister
not to have that continuity of advice, but by last night it
became clear that the bigger risk was the damage it could be doing
to the important message the Government is putting
forward right now.
So these are not easyjudgments.
At this point in time the normal rules of politics or news management
couldn’t be further from my mind.
I’m simply trying to do the best things and the right things to best
equip us to get through this challenge as well as we can.
Let’s try again with our assistant political editor Norman Smith,
who’s in north London.
ﬂ
I will Boris Johnson
I will BorisJohnson funding is from
I will Boris johnson funding is from hospital?
hospital? With great difficulty.
hospital? with great difficulty. Doctors won’t
with great difficulty. Doctors won’t say you have
With great difficulty. Doctors won’t say you have to ease off, at the
say you have to ease off, at the very least, they will be asking for
very least, they will be asking for rest and recuperation. He will not
rest and recuperation. He will not have the hands—on focus he would
have the hands-on focus he would like never
have the hands—on focus he would like never mind the fact he is
like never mind the fact he is dearty not
like never mind the fact he is clearly not well. As we know from
dearty not well. As we know from our own
clearly not well. As we know from our own experience, it is very hard
our own experience, it is very hard to bring the necessary energy and
to bring the necessary energy and focus and drive to work if you are
focus and drive to work if you are feeling not too good never mind to
feeling not too good never mind to one of the hardest
feeling not too good never mind to one of the hardestjobs in the
one of the hardest jobs in the country and
one of the hardestjobs in the country and at a time of crisis. The
country and at a time of crisis. The question is how long is Mr
country and at a time of crisis. The question is how long is MrJohnson
question is how long is Mr johnson is likely to be
question is how long is MrJohnson is likely to be in hospital. He was
is likely to be in hospital. He was admitted on the advice of his
admitted on the advice of his doctors. Not at his request. We are
doctors. Not at his request. We are told it was precautionary to carry
told it was precautionary to carry out tests, to see him face—to—face.
out tests, to see him face-to-face. It is possibla he
out tests, to see him face—to—face. It is possible he may have to stay
It is possibla he may have to stay in, albeit
It is possible he may have to stay in, albeit listening to Robert
in, albeit listening to Robert jenrick who
in, albeit listening to Robert Jenrick who said they promised I was
jenrick who said they promised I was doing well
Jenrick who said they promised I was doing well although he did not rule
doing well although he did not mla out the
doing well although he did not rule out the possibility he would have to
out the possibility he would have to stay in longer and as long as medics
stay in longer and as long as media deemed
stay in longer and as long as medics deemed necessary.
Today he is in hospital having the test.
But he will continue to be kept informed as to what is happening
and to be in charge of the Government.
And as I say, I hope, we all do, that he has a speedy recovery
and he gets back to Number 10 and can take charge in the way
that he would want to as soon as possible.
I’m sure this is very frustrating for him,
somebody like Boris who wants to be hands—on running the
Government from the front.
But nonetheless, he is still very much in charge of the Government.
Any Prime Minister wants to be seen to be in control, out and about, and
to be in control, out and about, and at a time like this there is a
at a time like this there is a leadership issue to be seen to be
leadership issue to be seen to be publicly encouraging, helping people
publicly encouraging, helping peopla through this.
publicly encouraging, helping people through this. You know Boris
publicly encouraging, helping people through this. You know BorisJohnson
through this. You know Boris johnson will have
through this. You know BorisJohnson will have been trying to work his
will have been trying to work his “Y
will have been trying to work his way through this. Nevertheless, he
way through this. Neverthelass, he has
way through this. Nevertheless, he has been out of action, out of the
has been out of action, out of the front line for ten days now. I
front line for ten days now. I suspect that indicates how hard—hit
suspect that indicates how hard-hit he has
suspect that indicates how hard—hit he has been by this virus. It means
he has been by this vims. It means if it
he has been by this virus. It means if it continues and the doctors say
if it continues and the doctors say you do need a period of
you do need a period of recuperation, then, the Government
recuperation, then, the Government will have to look at alternative
will have to look at alternative procedures, Dominic Raab technically
procedures, Dominic Raab technically as first Secretary of State steps
as first Secretary of State steps in. But you could see a more
in. But you could see a more prominent role, I guess, for Michael
prominent role, I guess, for Michael Gove and Matt Hancock who already
Gove and Matt Hancock who already have been pretty central to our
have been pretty central to our response to coronavirus because we
response to coronavirus because we are facing huge decisions day by day
are facing huge decisions day by day in terms of the severity of the
in terms of the severity of the lockdown and in terms of our broader
lockdown and in terms of our broader strategy about how we emerge from
strategy about how we emerge from this. So, these are very nervous
this. So, these are very nervous times.
times. Norman, thank you very much for the
Norman, thank you very much for the moment.
Professor Hunter, tell us what kind of tests like Boris Johnson
Professor Hunter, tell us what kind of tests like BorisJohnson be
of tests like Boris johnson be having and
of tests like BorisJohnson be having and what kind of persistent
having and what kind of persistent symptoms could he be experiencing.
symptoms could he be experiencing. I have no personal knowledge of the
I have no personal knowledge of the Prime Minister’s record but at this
Prime Minister’s record but at this stage of the illness I imagine he is
stage of the illness I imagine he is still few brow, still coughing and
still few brow, still coughing and possibly also having some degree of
possibly also having some degree of shortness of breath —— febrile.
shortness of breath -- febrila. Typically
shortness of breath —— febrile. Typically most people would get over
Typically most peopla would get over the
Typically most people would get over the sentence in a week but it is not
the sentence in a week but it is not unusual to continue to have symptoms
unusual to continue to have symptoms for longer. If his symptoms are
for longer. If his symptoms are actually getting worse than getting
actually getting worse than getting better, then, the sorts of things
better, then, the sorts of things that would be happening in hospital,
that would be happening in hospital, he would be having chest x—rays,
he would be having chest x-rays, possibly CI’
he would be having chest x—rays, possibly CT scans of his lungs, a
possibly CT scans of his lungs, a range of blood tests, and people
range of blood tests, and peoplo would
range of blood tests, and people would be monitoring his vital
would be monitoring his vital observations, his pulse and
observations, his pulse and breathing rate and also quite likely
breathing rate and also quite likely what is called the oxygen saturation
what is rallad the oxygen saturation which is
what is called the oxygen saturation which is a marker of how well the
which is a marker of how well the lungs are functioning in terms of
lungs are functioning in terms of getting oxygen into your blood.
getting oxygen into your blood. Is he any more particularly at risk
Is he any more particularty at risk than anyone
Is he any more particularly at risk than anyone else in their 505
than anyone else in their 505 without an underlying health
without an underlying health condition?
condition? I don’t know whether he smokes. I
I don’t know whether he smokes. I don’t know whether he has any other
don’t know whether he has any other health condition. People in their
health condition. People in their 505 are at a slightly increased risk
505 are at a slightly increased risk of developing
50s are at a slightly increased risk of developing severe disease and
of developing severe disease and indeed of developing fatal disease.
indeed of developing fatal disease. But not that much more at risk than
But not that much more at risk than saying somebody in their 405. But it
saying somebody in their 40s. But it is dearty, and
saying somebody in their 405. But it is clearly, and we have seen that
is dearty, and we have seen that people of all
is clearly, and we have seen that people of all ages, whether or not
peopla of all ages, whether or not they are
people of all ages, whether or not they are suffering from a
they are suffering from a pre—existing disease, can actually
pre-existing disease, ran actually develop
pre—existing disease, can actually develop severe illness. 50, his
develop severe illness. So, his doctors
develop severe illness. 50, his doctors will indeed be
develop severe illness. So, his doctors will indeed be monitoring
doctors will indeed be monitoring him for a few days.
him for a few days. Even when you talk to people who
Even when you talk to peopla who have
Even when you talk to people who have had it or believe they have had
have had it or believe they have had it all people who have tested
it all people who have tested positive for it, even when they get
positive for it, even when they get over the most high—profile symptoms
over the most high-profit; symptoms like
over the most high—profile symptoms like fever or persistent cough,
like fever or persistent cough, actually, the effect on the body
actually, the effect on the body because your immune system has had
because your immune system has had to fight this, Ms you are knackered.
to fight this, Ms you are knackered. It could happen to Boris
to fight this, Ms you are knackered. It could happen to Borisjohnson. It
It could happen to Boris johnson. It is a fact. Yes,
It could happen to Borisjohnson. It is a fact. Yes, absolutely. We’ve
is a fact. Yes, absolutely. We’ve vary quite dramatically. A lot of
vary quite dramatically. A lot of peopla will
vary quite dramatically. A lot of people will the illness will
peopla will the illness will actually
people will the illness will actually have very mild symptoms and
actually have very mild symptoms and will actually get back to full
will actually get back to full health quite quickly. But many will
health quite quickly. But many will not, particularly if you are in a
not, particularty if you are in a more at
not, particularly if you are in a more at risk group and a ticket if
more at risk group and a ticket if you have had more severe disease.
you have had more severe disease. People ran be
you have had more severe disease. People can be under the weather for
People ran be under the weather for days if not
People can be under the weather for days if not weeks after recovery
days if not weeks after recovery from this infection. But it takes
from this infection. But it takes all of us in very different ways as
all of us in very different ways as we are learning.
we are learning. Thank you very much. Professor Paul
Thank you very much. Professor Paul Hunter. In the next few minutes we
Hunter. In the next few minutes we will talk to the sister of a nurse
will talk to the sister of a nurse who died after testing positive for
who died after testing positive for Covid—19. And we will talk to her
Covid-19. And we will talk to her younger sister
Covid—19. And we will talk to her younger sister Kazuma in the next
younger sister Kazuma in the next few minutes. Because he to come on
few minutes. Because he to come on air to pay tribute to her sister. ——
air to pay tribute to her sister. -- because she
air to pay tribute to her sister. —— because she wants to come on air.
The National Domestic Abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells
and online requests for help over the past week — that’s
according to Refuge, the country’s largest
domestic abuse charity.
It says there was also a 150% rise in people visiting
the helpline’s website.
These are the first statistics which give a picture
of the potential consequences of social distancing
for abuse victims.
Tomos Morgan reports.
It’s been bad.
I didn’t care if I didn’t wake up from the night before.
I just knew what was going to happen.
Ijust wanted the days to go past, but itjust got worse.
Tara told me she has been mentally and physically abused
by her partner for six months.
He deleted her social media account, stopped herfrom seeing herfamily,
and controlled all aspects of her life, and, since having to
isolate with him, things escalated.
You must stay at home.
It’s been getting worse since the lockdown, as well.
Mentally abusive, verbally.
Erm, been hitting me, just causing an argument from nothing.
If I fight back and say something wrong, he willjust hit me.
New figures seen by the BBC give a picture of the potential
consequence of lockdown for victims.
The national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells
and online requests over the past week.
Refuge, the country’s largest domestic abuse charity,
who run the line, say there has been a daily rise of 150% in people
visiting the website.
Tara has now fled her abuser and is being supported
by a charity in Wales.
But charities and campaigners have expressed concern that those
in violent relationships could be at serious risk as the
lockdown continues.
The homicide rate will go through the roof.
You can’t stop the perpetrator unless he’s visible.
Rachel Williams suffered violence from her husband for 18 years.
When she decided to leave he shot her with a sewn—off shotgun.
She is now one of the country’s main campaigners battling on behalf
of those still suffering.
We will never do enough until we eradicate domestic
abuse and violance - end of.
We have an epidemic in the UK with a pandemic on top.
Police chiefs and both governments in Cardiff Bay and Westminster say
help is available for anyone experiencing domestic abuse,
and that people should contact if they need advice or feel
they are at risk.
Good morning. Welcome to BBC News.
Last year, Areema Nasreen fulfilled a lifelong ambition
of graduating from university to become a fully—qualified nurse
at Walsall Manor Hospital.
Last Friday, it was announced that she and a fellow nurse
Aimee O’Rourke had died.
Yesterday, the Health Secretary said three nurses have died so far duing
this coronavirus outbreak.
Areema Nasreen’s colleagues described her as an "amazing nurse"
who "put her patients first and herself last".
Her sister is Kazeema and she wanted to come on air today to pay tribute
to Areema and we can also talk to another family relative
Dr Samara Afzal who is also a GP.
ﬂ
I want to say to you we are so sorry
Iwanttosaytoyouwearesosorry for the
I want to say to you we are so sorry for the loss of your sister. I know
for the loss of your sister. I know you want to pay tribute to her, so,
you want to pay tribute to her, so, do tell us about her.
do tell us about her. She was just a rare goal. Not
do tell us about her. She was just a rare goal. Notjust
She was just a rare goal. Not just at work.
She was just a rare goal. Notjust at work. She put herself last in the
at work. She put herself last in the community -- girt.
at work. She put herself last in the community —— girl. Any time she
community -- girt. Any time she found
community —— girl. Any time she found somebody suffering back home,
found somebody suffering back home, she would send money. Anybody who
she would send money. Anybody who wanted to go to pilgrimage, she
wanted to go to pilgrimage, she would pay for the poor to go. You
would pay for the poor to go. You used to go with them coming every
used to go with them coming every year, she would help out with
year, she would help out with everyone there. If you are to be ill
everyone there. If you are to be ill and go to the hospital, she was with
and go to the hospital, she was with them all night. It was not
and go to the hospital, she was with them all night. It was notjust
them all night. It was not just work, she put
them all night. It was notjust work, she put herself last
work, she put herself last everywhere, in the community. She
everywhere, in the community. She helped every body with everything.
helped every body with everything. We have lost an amazing nurse and
We have lost an amazing nurse and also an amazing person in life who
also an amazing person in life who has affected everybody by this. She
has affected everybody by this. She was an amazing sister, mum, my
was an amazing sister, mum, my younger sister, we were so close
younger sister, we were so close with her. She said to me, sit down,
with her. She said to me, sit down, and I was packing her stuff. I
and I was packing her stuff. I didn’t know she wasn’t going to come
didn’t know she wasn’t going to come back.
back. When did she first
back. when did she first become ill?
when did she first become ill? She
When did she first become ill? She had done her last shift before
She had done her last shift before annual leave, she came home. I can’t
annual leave, she came home. I can’t get the dates in my head. She said
get the dates in my head. She said she had a slight leg ache. If you
she had a slight lag ache. If you have
she had a slight leg ache. If you have had a 12 hour shift, that is
have had a 12 hour shift, that is why. She texted two hours later
why. She texted two hours later saying the pen was coming up. I
saying the pen was coming up. I never thought anything. You have to
never thought anything. You have to understand symptoms are different.
understand symptoms are different. And when she found out this was all
And when she found out this was all happening, the shortage of staff,
happening, the shortage of staff, she booked bank shift at Walsall
she booked bank shift at Walsall Manor Hospital. It was a Monday. She
Manor Hospital. It was a Monday. She woke me up and said, we are really
woke me up and said, we are really short. I
woke me up and said, we are really short. Idid
woke me up and said, we are really short. I did a shift with her. I
short. I did a shift with her. I said she didn’t look good. She said,
said she didn’t look good. She said, lot
said she didn’t look good. She said, let us do this shift together, we
let us do this shift together, we will go home together. I had been
will go home together. I had been checking her temperature at work and
checking her temperature at work and it was getting higher. She’d never
it was getting higher. She’d never thought anything of it. We ate
thought anything of it. We ate together. She handed over the night
together. She handed over the night staff. That was the last handover.
staff. That was the last handover. I am really sorry, I can hear that
I am really sorry, I ran hear that this is really,
I am really sorry, I can hear that this is really, really emotional
I am really sorry, I can hear that this is really, really emotionalfor
this is really, really emotional for you.
you. What did it mean to
you. what did it mean to your sister to
what did it mean to your sister to be a
What did it mean to your sister to be a nurse?
be a nurse? When she first looked after
be a nurse? when she first looked after my Nan,
when she first looked after my Nan, she was only a
When she first looked after my Nan, she was only a little girl herself
she was only a little girt herself but
she was only a little girl herself but that inspired her more and more.
but that inspired her more and more. Her time at Walsall Manor Hospital,
Her time at Walsall Manor Hospital, she applied for the housekeeping
she applied for the housekeeping job, she applied through the
job, she applied through the newspaper. A year later, she got me
newspaper. A year later, she got me in there and our younger sister and
in there and our younger sister and we all helped. Her passion started
we all helped. Her passion started growing, looking after patients.
growing, looking after patients. Then she went into health care and
Then she went into health rare and from that,
Then she went into health care and from that, she said, I want to do it
from that, she said, I want to do it but there is no one in the entire
but there is no one in the entire family who has graduated, she was
family who has graduated, she was quite worried. She asked my dad, my
quite worried. She asked my dad, my husband. She said, I am
quite worried. She asked my dad, my husband. She said, lam married now,
husband. She said, lam married now, with kids. But my sisters were
with kids. But my sisters were willing to help her, so, she went
willing to help her, so, she went into nursing. That is when I said,
into nursing. That is when I said, don’t worry about anything. That is
don’t worry about anything. That is what she did for four years, she had
what she did for four years, she had no stress. He and my sister did
no stress. He and my sister did everything for her. I was looking at
everything for her. I was looking at your sister’s to eat where she wrote
your sister’s to eat where she wrote how much she loved her
your sister’s to eat where she wrote how much she loved herjob as a
how much she loved her job as a nurse. --
how much she loved herjob as a nurse. —— tweets. Last April, when
nurse. -- tweets. Last April, when she graduated, she
nurse. —— tweets. Last April, when she graduated, she said, thank you
she graduated, she said, thank you to Walsall Manor Hospital for
to Walsall Manor Hospital for believing in me. Countless people
believing in me. Countless people struggled to believe they have the
struggled to believe they have the right to dream. But please follow
right to dream. But please follow through, and with commitment,
through, and with commitment, compassion and support, dreams do
compassion and support, dreams do come tme.
come true. The hospital has been
come tme. The hospital has been amazing
The hospital has been amazing throughout her
The hospital has been amazing throughout herjourney, my
The hospital has been amazing throughout herjourney, myjourney,
throughout her journey, my journey, and the
throughout herjourney, myjourney, and the support that we have had.
and the support that we have had. You were clearly so supportive to
You were dearty so supportive to her as
You were clearly so supportive to her as she was studying.
her as she was studying. The hospital, they believed in her.
The hospital, they believed in her. She wanted to believe in herself but
She wanted to believe in herself but they pushed her to do it. If it
they pushed her to do it. If it wasn’t for them, she would have kept
wasn’t for them, she would have kept thinking, ran I do
wasn’t for them, she would have kept thinking, can I do it? She was
thinking, ran I do it? She was asking for
thinking, can I do it? She was asking for help, please teach me. It
asking for help, please teach me. It was amazing they supported her. I
was amazing they supported her. I said to my mum, when this is all
said to my mum, when this is all over, if you want to think about
over, if you want to think about your daughter, go past her ward, her
your daughter, go past her ward, her memories are a life there. She was
memories are a life there. She was for four
memories are a life there. She was forfour months and
memories are a life there. She was for four months and I see you ——
memories are a life there. She was forfour months and I see you —— ICU
for four months and I see you -- ICU nurse. She
forfour months and I see you —— ICU nurse. She went back there but she
nurse. She went back there but she never came back.
Dr Samara Afzal is a relative of Areema Nasreen.
ﬂ
I wonder what tribute you would like to pay to Areema Nasreen.
to pay to Areema Nasreen. She was full of life every time you
She was full of life every time you saw her, bursting with energy. One
saw her, bursting with energy. One of the very few people you have to
of the very few people you have to be around and she would be full of
be around and she would be full of positive vibes, always motivating
positive vibes, always motivating everybody. At a family event, she
everybody. At a family event, she would be the one to come up to you
would be the one to come up to you to ask how you were, the first to
to ask how you were, the first to help any elderly relative who needed
help any elderty relative who needed any form of
help any elderly relative who needed any form of help. And she was
any form of help. And she was absolutely passionate about nursing.
absolutely passionate about nursing. She would have chat about medicine,
She would have chat about medicine, sometimes, if there was something
sometimes, if there was something she was unsure about coming she
she was unsure about coming she would send a message. You could tell
would send a message. You could tell she was dedicated to her
would send a message. You could tell she was dedicated to herjob. But at
she was dedicated to her job. But at the same
she was dedicated to herjob. But at the same time, she was very balanced
the same time, she was very balanced with her family.
the same time, she was very balanced with herfamily. A fantastic
the same time, she was very balanced with her family. A fantastic role
with her family. A fantastic rola model
with her family. A fantastic role model to Asian women because very
model to Asian women because very rarely do you see someone who has
rarely do you see someone who has got family, three children to look
got family, three children to look after, still working 12 hour shifts
after, still working 12 hour shifts as a nurse. That is quite rare in
as a nurse. That is quite rare in the south Asian community and I want
the south Asian community and I want her to be remembered as a fantastic
her to be remembered as a fantastic role model for all the Asian women.
role model for all the Asian women. I wonder if the grieving process has
I wonder if the grieving process has been even more difficult because
been even more difficult because family and friends are not able to
family and friends are not able to come together
family and friends are not able to come togetherfor
family and friends are not able to come together for obvious reasons,
come together for obvious reasons, full social distancing reasons.
full social distancing reasons. Absolutely. We have not been over to
Absolutely. We have not been over to her house and normally with South
her house and normally with South Asian families when there is a
Asian families when there is a death, everyone on that day will
death, everyone on that day will reach the family house to support
reach the family house to support them, give them hugs, bring over
them, give them hugs, bring over food so the family don’t have to do
food so the family don’t have to do anything for a few days. That is
anything for a few days. That is what has made it so much more
what has made it so much more difficult. Especially the children,
difficult. Especially the children, I really feel for them. Again, when
I really feel for them. Again, when you have a bereavement, the children
you have a bereavement, the children get to have their cousins around,
get to have their cousins around, they get distracted. It is
they get distracted. It is heartbreaking thinking, her mum, her
heartbreaking thinking, her mum, her children have sat there together,
children have sat there together, they don’t have the extended family,
they don’t have the extended family, family friends, as they would, and
family friends, as they would, and in terms of the funeral, it is a
in terms of the funeral, it is a sign of respect when hundreds of
sign of respect when hundreds of people get together. That almost
people get together. That almost gives a little bit of relief. But
gives a little bit of relief. But again, only five or six are allowed
again, only five or six are allowed at the funeral which makes it very
at the funeral which makes it very difficult for the family, not only
difficult for the family, not only are they grieving but organising the
are they grieving but organising the funeral by themselves.
funeral by themselves. Thank you, we appreciate your time.
Thank you, we appreciate your time. This ran I say
Thank you, we appreciate your time. This can I say thank you to Walsall
This ran I say thank you to Walsall Manor
This can I say thank you to Walsall Manor Hospital, the support we are
Manor Hospital, the support we are still getting from them is truly
still getting from them is tmly amazing,
still getting from them is truly amazing, from the managers.
amazing, from the managers. Thank you so much to the NHS staff.
Thank you so much to the NHS staff. And we are so grateful for the work
And we are so grateful for the work your sister did and so sorry for the
your sister did and so sorry for the loss of your amazing sister.
loss of your amazing sister. Thank you so much.
The Queen has given a message of reassurance to Britain
and the Commonwealth, urging people to remain united
and resolute in the face of the coronavirus pandemic.
In a rare televised address from Windsor Castle,
she paid tribute to the NHS and key workers and urged people to take
comfort in the fact that better days would return.
And though self—isolating may at times be hard,
many people of all faiths, and of none, are discovering that it
presents an opportunity to slow down, pause and reflect,
in prayer or meditation.
It reminds me of the very first broadcast I made, in 1940,
helped by my sister.
We, as children, spoke from here at Windsor to children
who had been evacuated from their homes and sent away
for their own safety.
Today, once again, many will feel a painful sense of separation
from their loved ones.
But now, as then, we know, deep down, that it is
the right thing to do.
While we have faced challenges before, this one is different.
This time we join with all nations across the globe in a common
endeavour, using the great advances of science and our instinctive
compassion to heal.
We will succeed, and that success will belong to every one of us.
We should take comfort that while we may have
more still to endure, better days will return.
We will be with our friends again, we will be with our families again,
we will meet again.
But for now, I send my thanks and warmest good wishes to you all.
With me is Afua Adorn, freelance journalist.
Also, I’m joined by the LGBT activist and writer Ejel Khan.
Afua, how did hearing from the Queen affect you personally? It’s one of
affect you personally? It’s one of those momentous occasions. You know
those momentous occasions. You know when the Queen comes out, it is
when the Queen comes out, it is serious. The part when she talked
serious. The part when she talked about we will see our friends again,
about we will see our friends again, we will meet again, I have to admit
we will meet again, I have to admit I felt
we will meet again, I have to admit Ifelt a bit
we will meet again, I have to admit I felt a bit choked up when she said
I felt a bit choked up when she said that at the end. I thought, gosh, we
that at the end. I thought, gosh, we have had so many comparisons to the
have had so many comparisons to the Blitz spirit, to the war and that
Blitz spirit, to the war and that kind of war effort. When she said
kind of war effort. when she said that, it really
kind of war effort. When she said that, it really did hit me and I
that, it really did hit me and I thought, wow. It was interesting how
thought, wow. It was interesting how she talked about how we needed to
she talked about how we needed to have unity, how we needed to come
have unity, how we needed to come together to approach this but we
together to approach this but we needed to have unity in our
needed to have unity in our separation, we need to have unity
separation, we need to have unity and come together to stay apart to
and come together to stay apart to stop this virus from spreading. So
stop this virus from spreading. So yes, definitely choked up at the
yes, definitely choked up at the end. I thought it was interesting
end. I thought it was interesting though that she didn’t reiterate the
though that she didn’t reiterate the Government’s advice. She didn’t
Government’s advice. She didn’t reiterate the message that has been
reiterate the message that has been given out by government, by Boris
given out by government, by Boris johnson and
given out by government, by Boris Johnson and all the team at Downing
johnson and all the team at Downing Street, but
Johnson and all the team at Downing Street, but she did talk about us
Street, but she did talk about us staying in our homes, staying apart
staying in our homes, staying apart and coming together to stay apart so
and coming together to stay apart so yes, I thought it was interesting,
yes, I thought it was interesting, and like I said I was choked up at
and like I said I was choked up at the end. Were you choked up, Ejel?
the end. Were you choked up, Ejel? How did you find it? It was a
How did you find it? It was a positive message. I thought it was a
positive message. I thought it was a very upbeat message, and she
very upbeat message, and she mentioned the postal and NHS
mentioned the postal and NHS workers. The public at large. She
workers. The public at large. She talked about prayer and meditation,
talked about prayer and meditation, which I find useful. And she spoke
which Ifind useful. And she spoke of peopla of
which I find useful. And she spoke of people of no faith too being
of peopla of no faith too being united
of people of no faith too being united in these difficult times. A
united in these difficult times. A lot of people are finding social
lot of peopla are finding social distancing
lot of people are finding social distancing hard. It was an upbeat
distancing hard. It was an upbeat message not
distancing hard. It was an upbeat message notjust of this country but
message not just of this country but the larger
message notjust of this country but the larger Commonwealth too. Yes,
the larger Commonwealth too. Yes, you found it inspiring, then. She
you found it inspiring, then. She didn’t use there was that famous
didn’t use there was that famous reference to the Second World War
reference to the Second World War and Vera Lynn’s We Will Meet Again.
and Vera Lynn’s We will Meet Again. She
and Vera Lynn’s We Will Meet Again. She didn’t talk about the battle
She didn’t talk about the battle against coronavirus and fighting it,
against coronavims and fighting it, instead
against coronavirus and fighting it, instead she spoke about calm and
instead she spoke about ﬁlm and disciplined,
instead she spoke about calm and disciplined, quiet, good resolve.
disciplined, quiet, good resolve. Absolutely, Victoria. You are right.
Absolutely, Victoria. You are right. She didn’t come out like the Warrior
She didn’t come out like the Warrior queen like perhaps we have seen in
queen like perhaps we have seen in the past in 19A0 and obviously
the past in 1940 and obviously before
the past in 19A0 and obviously before the first Gulf War in the 905
before the first Gulf War in the 905 as well. She talked about that Great
as well. She talked about that Great British keep calm and carry on
British keep calm and carry on spirit. It felt more like that. It
spirit. It felt more like that. It felt like the calm implication. She
felt like the calm implication. She said we need the country to be proud
said we need the country to be proud of ourselves when we come out of the
of ourselves when we come out of the other end of this. We need to be
other end of this. We need to be proud of the actions we have taken,
proud of the actions we have taken, we need to be proud of how we have
we need to be proud of how we have kept of how we have kept indoors and
kept of how we have kept indoors and carried on. It wasn’t really a
carried on. It wasn’t really a warrior queen but I think we needed
warrior queen but I think we needed that ran,
warrior queen but I think we needed that can, steely, class act queen
that ran, steely, class act queen which of
that can, steely, class act queen which of course she really is. That
which of course she really is. That was really quite upbeat. I agree she
was really quite upbeat. I agree she was positive in her message, like I
was positive in her message, like I said ending with "We will meet
said ending with "We will meet again". I think,
said ending with "We will meet again". Ithink, especially
said ending with "We will meet again". I think, especially after
again". Ithink, especially after the
again". I think, especially after the weekend we have had where a lot
the weekend we have had where a lot of people have been struggling with
of people have been stmggling with the
of people have been struggling with the fact we had such good weather,
the fact we had such good weather, she came in at a point when we
she came in at a point when we needed another boost and it was the
needed another boost and it was the nice ‘Keep
needed another boost and it was the nice "Keep calm and carry on"
nice ‘Keep calm and carry on" message and I
nice "Keep calm and carry on" message and I think we needed that.
message and I think we needed that. Really briefly, Ejel, Afua was
Really brieﬂy, Ejel, Afua was right, she
Really briefly, Ejel, Afua was right, she did remind us that we
right, she did remind us that we have all got a part to play and this
have all got a part to play and this is a collective effort. Was that
is a collactive effort. Was that important
is a collective effort. Was that important to you? Yes, because she
important to you? Yes, because she wasn’t just speaking as
important to you? Yes, because she wasn’tjust speaking as our monarch,
wasn’t just speaking as our monarch, she was
wasn’tjust speaking as our monarch, she was speaking as a human being,
she was speaking as a human being, someone who is over 70 and having to
someone who is over 70 and having to self—isolate herself. Her son, who
self-isolate herself. Her son, who is also
self—isolate herself. Her son, who is also over 70, just recovered from
is also over 70, just recovered from coronavirus so I felt she was
coronavirus so I felt she was speaking as a human being
speaking as a human being experiencing the same difficulties
experiencing the same difficulties as we are so it was a positive and
as we are so it was a positive and uplifting message for the whole
uplifting message for the whole country to take on board. Thank you
country to take on board. Thank you very much, both of you. Really
very much, both of you. Really appreciate it. Take care.
A tiger at a zoo in New York has tested positive for the coronavirus.
The four—year—old female, named Nadia, is thought to have
contracted the virus from a keeper at the Bronx Zoo, who didn’t
have any symptoms.
It’s believed to be the first known case of an animal infected
by a human with Covid—19.
Now, it’s time for a look at the weather with Carole.
Hello, again.
Yesterday, we had the warmest day of the year so far.
Porthmadog in Wales reached 22.2 Celsius.
This afternoon we are not expecting temperatures to be as high.
We say goodbye to this morning’s rain with a lot of dry weather
around but still showers will be well scattered, some
in Scotland and Northern
Ireland could be heavy with thunder and lightning.
Here, too, gusty winds, 55 miles an hour, slowly easing
through the afternoon.
A top temperature today likely to be 18 in London.
Under clear skies tonight, with a few showers,
temperatures will fall away.
The wind continues to ease in the north west.
In towns and cities, between two and six Celsius.
Cool enough in sheltered pockets to see a touch of frost and any
patchy mist and fog will quickly lift tomorrow leaving us
with a dry day but take a cloud in the north west,
lighter winds than today.
We could see the odd shower with highs of 20.
Hello, this is BBC News.
Good morning, I
Good morning, lam
Good morning, I am Victoria
Good morning, lam Victoria Derbyshire.
The headlines:
The Prime Minister has spent the night in hospital,
ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
He’s said to be undergoing tests as a precaution.
Scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two
trips to her second home during the lockdown.
Domestic violence charity Refuge says
The National Domestic Abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells
and online requests for help since the lockdown began.
"Better days will return" — the Queen’s rallying
message for the nation.
She says the UK will suceed in its fight against the coronavirus.
Good morning.
Care homes in Britain say they’re at risk of becoming
overwhelmed if Covid—19 cases continue to spread
through their homes.
It comes after at least 13 residents at a care
home in Glasgow died after a suspected
coronavirus outbreak.
The country’s biggest charitable care provider, MHA,
has confirmed suspected cases in over half of its facilities.
Let’s talk now to Sam Monaghan,
CEO of MHA, who says in their 220 homes one in ten
staff are now unable
to work because of the virus.
And Edith Monk, who has MS
and typically relies on four care workers a day to support her.
But this weekend had to move in with her parents as she says
staff were not provided with the proper protective equipment
making the visits to her unsafe.
Good morning both of you. Sam Monaghan, how desperate is the
Monaghan, how desperate is the situation becoming in care homes?
situation becoming in rare homes? Very
situation becoming in care homes? Very desperate indeed. There is in
Very desperate indeed. There is in the PP equipment and the testing to
the PP equipment and the testing to make sure we don’t have spread of
make sure we don’t have spread of coronavirus. It is a desperate
coronavirus. It is a desperate situation where we are moving
situation where we are moving suppUes
situation where we are moving supplies around between homes to
supplies around between homes to make sure they have sufficient
make sure they have sufficient suppUes
make sure they have sufficient supplies but we are increasingly
supplies but we are increasingly finding there are critical pieces of
finding there are critical pieces of equipment like gowns and long—sleeve
equipment like gowns and long-sleeve aprons which
equipment like gowns and long—sleeve aprons which we cannot get access
aprons which we cannot get access to. Have you wrung the Government’s
to. Have you wrung the Government’s hoﬂine?
to. Have you wrung the Government’s hotline? We should be ringing all of
hoﬂine? We should be ringing all of the providers
hotline? We should be ringing all of the providers and the Government
the providers and the Government hotline, and we are in a constant
hoﬂine, and we are in a constant dialogue
hotline, and we are in a constant dialogue with a range of suppliers
dialogue with a range of suppliers to make sure that both from the
to make sure that both from the Government source but also other
Government source but also other suppliers we are able to keep
suppliers we are able to keep inadequate or try to keep inadequate
inadequate or try to keep inadequate sunplv.
inadequate or try to keep inadequate supply, but we are being told some
supply, but we are being told some government supplies are being
government supplies are being prioritised obviously for the NHS,
prioritised obviously for the NHS, but that then means we are not
but that then means we are not getting the supplies. Our staff, who
getting the supplies. Our staff, who are on the second front line, are
are on the second front line, are unabla to
are on the second front line, are unable to do the job they are being
unable to do the job they are being asked to do in terms of caring for
asked to do in terms of raring for peopla with
asked to do in terms of caring for people with Covid—19. That’s
peopla with Covid-19. That’s interesting
people with Covid—19. That’s interesting you describe it as the
interesting you describe it as the second front line. I wonder how many
second front line. I wonder how many residents in your 220 homes have
residents in your 220 homes have symptoms of Covid—19 or have tested
symptoms of Covid-19 or have tested positive, if
symptoms of Covid—19 or have tested positive, if they have been able to
positive, if they have been able to get a test for Covid—19? Yes, we
get a test for Covid-19? Yes, we have had
get a test for Covid—19? Yes, we have had 13 residents who have sadly
have had 13 residents who have sadly died and we have 80 people who have
died and we have 80 peopla who have died but
died and we have 80 people who have died but we haven’t been able to
died but we haven’t been able to confirm whether that has been the
confirm whether that has been the result of the virus but there have
result of the virus but there have been strong suspicions it has. We
been strong suspicions it has. We currently have 43 residents who have
currently have 43 residents who have testing positive for Covid—19 but we
testing positive for Covid-19 but we have
testing positive for Covid—19 but we have another 346 who are not
have another 346 who are not confirmed. So we have staff trying
confirmed. So we have staff trying to manage the symptoms of that and
to manage the symptoms of that and avoid the risk of spread on an
avoid the risk of spread on an ongoing basis. And I would just add
ongoing basis. And Iwould just add that I
ongoing basis. And I would just add that I have had already 10% of my
that I have had already 1096 of my staff at
that I have had already 10% of my staff at the moment who are
staff at the moment who are currently either sick or self
currently either sick or self isolating and they are going above
isolating and they are going above and beyond but we need to give them
and beyond but we need to give them the tools to be able to do that.
the tools to be able to do that. They are amazing people but we need
They are amazing people but we need to equip them for the task. You
to equip them for the task. You spoke of those off, 750 staff I
spoke of those off, 750 staff I think is 10% of your staff. Have any
think is 1096 of your staff. Have any of your staff
think is 10% of your staff. Have any of your staff members died? Sadly,
of your staff members died? Sadly, last week we lost one of our staff
last week we lost one of our staff members and we have another staff
members and we have another staff member in hospital at the moment.
member in hospital at the moment. This it’s hugely hard and it also
This it’s hugely hard and it also rauses
This it’s hugely hard and it also causes real concern and fear amongst
causes real concern and fear amongst our staff generally, and we are
our staff generally, and we are seeking to reassure them, we are
seeking to reassure them, we are seeking to move the equipment that
seeking to move the equipment that we have around to make sure they are
we have around to make sure they are safe but there are real difficulties
safe but there are real difficulties and we cannot bring people into
and we cannot bring peopla into those
and we cannot bring people into those environments who have the
those environments who have the disease because it would just spread
disease because it would just spread it further. We cannot take people
it further. We cannot take peopla unless
it further. We cannot take people unless we are assured they don’t
unless we are assured they don’t present a contagion risk. Of course.
present a contagion risk. Of course. Edith Monk, good morning. How are
Edith Monk, good morning. How are you? I’m 0K, thank you. Could you
you? I’m 0K, thank you. Could you remind the audience of your
remind the audience of your condition and how carers would
condition and how carers would normally help you. I have MS. I am
normally help you. I have MS. I am very physirallv
normally help you. I have MS. I am very physically disabled, I use a
very physically disabled, I use a wheelchair and hoisted to get in and
wheelchair and hoisted to get in and out of bed in the morning which is
out of bed in the morning which is why normally have two carers visit
why normally have two carers visit me in the morning to get up and
me in the morning to get up and dressed, and in the evening to get
dressed, and in the evening to get into bed. How has that been since
into bed. How has that been since the social distancing guidelines
the social distancing guidelines were brought in, Edith? Well, I
were brought in, Edith? Well, I mean... There are a few changes, so
mean... There are a few changes, so my kind of regular care schedule was
my kind of regular care schedule was stretched and altered and different
stretched and altered and different people coming because obviously some
peopla coming because obviously some carers
people coming because obviously some carers were going into isolation and
carers were going into isolation and going off sick and couldn’t risk
going off sick and couldn’t risk coming. It also kind of I felt
coming. It also kind of I felt exposed because although I was
exposed because although I was staying in my flat and taking on the
staying in my ﬂat and taking on the guidance because I am on
staying in my flat and taking on the guidance because I am on the at risk
guidance because I am on the at risk list of people who should be
list of peopla who should be isolating,
list of people who should be isolating, like you cannot stay two
isolating, like you rannot stay two metres away
isolating, like you cannot stay two metres away from someone helping you
metres away from someone helping you get dressed. So I felt quite
get dressed. So I felt quite vulnerable because they carers
vulnerable because they carers didn’t have any protective
didn’t have any protective equipment, they were wearing gloves
equipment, they were wearing gloves and washing their hands but beyond
and washing their hands but beyond that they had nothing extra. They
that they had nothing extra. They are obviously in the community going
are obviously in the community going door to door, however many calls
door to door, however many calls they have, be it
door to door, however many cells they have, be it ten more going home
they have, be it ten more going home to home. I
they have, be it ten more going home to home. Ifelt more at
they have, be it ten more going home to home. I felt more at risk with
to home. I felt more at risk with them than I did just in my home.
them than I did just in my home. Understood. Did that make you feel
Understood. Did that make you feel pretty anxious? Yes, it did. I
Understood. Did that make you feel pretty anxious? Yes, it did. Ifelt
pretty anxious? Yes, it did. Ifelt like... Yes, I
pretty anxious? Yes, it did. Ifelt like... Yes, Ijust felt like there
like... Yes, Ijust felt like there was no point me social distancing
was no point me social distancing and staying on lockdown when I had
and staying on lockdown when I had this big risk of front line workers
this big risk of front line workers coming into my home, and I think I
coming into my home, and I think I found it quite anxious and I think
found it quite anxious and I think the carers were quite worried about
the carers were quite worried about it too because obviously they are
it too because obviously they are putting themselves at risk. How do
putting themselves at risk. How do you feel about moving in with your
you feel about moving in with your parents? Obviously it is good you
parents? Obviously it is good you have that choice, your parents are
have that choice, your parents are there to help you, but it makes me
there to help you, but it makes me think there must be so many people
think there must be so many peopla with
think there must be so many people with disabilities who in normal
with disabilities who in normal times are living independently but
times are living independently but actually it’s really challenging
actually it’s really challanging right now.
actually it’s really challenging right now. Yes, so I am really
right now. Yes, so I am really grateful that my parents can still
grateful that my parents ran still help me.
grateful that my parents can still help me. They are in their 605 so it
help me. They are in their 605 so it is going to be probably quite
is going to be probably quite physically hard for them and we
physically hard for them and we don’t know how long it will last,
don’t know how long it will last, but at least as a household now we
but at least as a household now we ran just stay in
but at least as a household now we can just stay in isolation because
can just stay in isolation because otherwise I would not have a choice,
otherwise I would not have a choice, I would still be in my flat and
I would still be in my ﬂat and obviously
I would still be in my ﬂat and obviouslyjust I don’t know when the
obviously just I don’t know when the carers
obviouslyjust I don’t know when the carers would get protective
carers would get protective equipment or even if they are going
equipment or even if they are going to. Edith, thank you for updating
to. Edith, thank you for updating us. Good to talk to you. Stay well,
us. Good to talk to you. Stay well, and your parents. And Sam Monaghan,
and your parents. And Sam Monaghan, thank you for telling us about the
thank you for telling us about the situation in your care homes.
situation in your rare homes. Cleariy an
situation in your care homes. Clearly an issue of personal
Cleariy an issue of personal protective
Clearly an issue of personal protective equipment for people
protective equipment for people going into homes, and carers
going into homes, and carers employed by the care provider MHA.
employed by the rare provider MHA. He says is the
employed by the care provider MHA. He says is the boss he has run all
He says is the boss he has mn all the suppliers
He says is the boss he has run all the suppliers and the Government
the suppliers and the Government hotline and still cannot get
hotline and still cannot get personal protective equipment for
personal protective equipment for people working in care homes with
peopla working in rare homes with many elderty
people working in care homes with many elderly people.
You may remember last week we spoke to Ann Andrew
who runs four small care homes in Derbyshire and Stockport.
She wasn’t able to do her usual online supermarket shop for their
75 residents and was worried they could run out of food
by the middle of this week.
Well, after she appeared on BBC News, Ann says she’s had
an outpouring of help.
Tesco, their regular supplier, has been in touch and helped them
to order more than 80 items in one go.
They’ve also received free food and flowers for residents from other
national and local businesses.
Tesco said in a statement, "We understand the limit of three
items per product makes it difficult for people like Ann who normally buy
in large quantities and are sorry for the experience she has had.
Our wholesale business Booker is better set up to meet the needs
of customers with larger orders for their businesses,
and Booker has been in touch with Arm to set up accounts
for her care homes."
And lots of you on Twitter offer to help her and her residents as well,
help her and her residents as well, so you are all amazing. Thank you.
Now on BBC News, it’s Your Questions Answered.
With me to answer some of the questions you’ve been sending
in on coronavirus is
Dr Bharat Pankhania.
A senior clinical
lecturer at the University of Exeter Medical School.
And also I’m joined by NHS GP Dr Anwara Ali.
Thank you both forjoining me.
How can
How canl
How can I speak to a GP during this
How ran I speak to a GP during this pandemic? My
How can I speak to a GP during this pandemic? My GP has given no
pandemic? My GP has given no instructions with how to establish
instmctions with how to establish contact.
instructions with how to establish contact. I am shielding my father,
contact. I am shielding my father, who has cancer, and I have questions
who has cancer, and I have questions about that. What am I meant to do?
about that. what am I meant to do? 111 Could
about that. What am I meant to do? 111 Could not help me either. I’m
111 Could not help me either. I’m very sorry to hear that. I work in
very sorry to hear that. I work in Tower Hamlets, and we are triage
Tower Hamlets, and we are triage only and consulting patients by
only and consulting patients by telephone, so in answer to the
telephone, so in answer to the question, Fiona has had no luck
question, Fiona has had no luck contacting her GP or 111. She can
contacting her GP or 111. She can contact her CCG to find out why that
contact her CCG to find out why that is the case. 50 that is the clinical
is the rase. So that is the clinical commissioning
is the case. So that is the clinical commissioning group, and where
commissioning group, and where should she get the number from that?
should she get the number from that? That should be on the website, if
That should be on the website, if she looks where she lives in her
she looks where she lives in her burrow. On the council website mud
burrow. On the council website mud the GP surgery website? —— or the GP
the GP surgery website? -- or the GP surgery website?
the GP surgery website? —— or the GP surgery website? Both will have
surgery website? Both will have that. If the staff are unwell and
that. If the staff are unwell and unabla
that. If the staff are unwell and unable to work in that case she
unabla to work in that case she should
unable to work in that case she should look up the council as well
should look up the council as well as the GP surgery website because
as the GP surgery website because that will give the information of
that will give the information of who to call in that case. 0K.
who to all in that use. 0K. There’s
who to call in that case. 0K. There’s also cancer charities like
There’s also cancer charities like Macmillan who may be able to offer
Macmillan who may be able to offer some help. They have some really
some help. They have some really useful online forums with frequently
useful online fomms with frequently asked
useful online forums with frequently asked questions answered. 0K, thank
asked questions answered. 0K, thank you for that. This is from John
you for that. This is from john Thunder.
you for that. This is from John Thunder. Are people who use mobile
Thunder. Are people who use mobile phones at risk of getting
phones at risk of getting coronavirus? When out shopping I see
coronavirus? when out shopping I see peopla wearing
coronavirus? When out shopping I see people wearing masks and gloves but
peopla wearing masks and gloves but then touching
people wearing masks and gloves but then touching potentially
then touching potentially contaminated surfaces and then
contaminated surfaces and then holding phones to their heads. Thank
holding phones to their heads. Thank you. It’s quite obvious, isn’t it,
you. It’s quite obvious, isn’t it, that this poses a risk of
that this poses a risk of transmission from dirty phones to
transmission from dirty phones to the face, the mouth, the nose to
the face, the mouth, the nose to infection and therefore I would
infection and therefore I would advise, yes, please make sure that
advise, yes, please make sure that you frequently, not occasionally,
you frequently, not occasionally, frequently wipe your mobile phone
frequently wipe your mobile phone down with ordinary wipes. Keep it
down with ordinary wipes. Keep it clean because clearly it is a
dean because dearty it is a conduit
clean because clearly it is a conduit from picking up infection
conduit from picking up infection from somewhere onto the phone, onto
from somewhere onto the phone, onto your mouth. Thank you. That is very
your distance away from your mum because you are bringing
because you are bringing potential infection
because you are bringing potential infection into the
strategy are some way off and one would hope BorisJohnson would be
would hope Boris johnson would be fully
would hope BorisJohnson would be fully recovered by then.
fully recovered by then. Thank you.
Earlier I spoke to Professor Paul Hunter
who is a Professor of Medicine at the University of East Anglia.
I asked him what kind of tests BorisJohnson might be having —
and what kind of persistent symptoms he might be experiencing.
ﬂ
I have no personal knowledge of the Prime Minister’s held record but
Prime Minister’s held record but somebody at this stage of the
somebody at this stage of the illness I would imagine he is still
illness I would imagine he is still probably afebrile, still coughing
probably afebrila, still coughing and
probably afebrile, still coughing and possibly also having some degree
and possibly also having some degree of shortness of breath —— febrile.
of shortness of breath -- febrila. Typically
of shortness of breath —— febrile. Typically these are symptoms of most
Typically these are symptoms of most peopla would
Typically these are symptoms of most people would get over in a week but
people would get over in a week but it is not unusual for people to
it is not unusual for peopla to continue
it is not unusual for people to continue to have symptoms for a bit
continue to have symptoms for a bit longer. If his symptoms are getting
longer. If his symptoms are getting worse than getting better, the sorts
worse than getting better, the sorts of things that would be happening in
of things that would be happening in hospital, he would have chest
hospital, he would have chest x-rays,
hospital, he would have chest x—rays, possibly a CT scan of his
x-rays, possibly a CT scan of his lungs, a range of
x—rays, possibly a CT scan of his lungs, a range of blood tests, and
lungs, a range of blood tests, and peopla
lungs, a range of blood tests, and peoplo would
lungs, a range of blood tests, and people would be monitoring his vital
people would be monitoring his vital observations, his pulse and
observations, his pulse and breathing rate, and also, quite
breathing rate, and also, quite likely, what is called the oxygen
likely, what is called the oxygen saturation which is a marker how
saturation which is a marker how well the lungs are functioning in
well the lungs are functioning in terms of getting oxygen into your
terms of getting oxygen into your blood.
In the United States, Donald Trump said he hoped
BorisJohnson would make a swift return to health —
calling him a great gentlemen and a great leader.
The President also predicted that the US is nearing
the peak of the outbreak, saying he could see light
at the end of the tunnel.
His comments go further than assessments by US
health officials who have been more cautious.
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowes reports.
New York City, still the epicentre of the corona
—— coronavirus outbreak in America.
As the death toll rises and officials warn they are running
out of equipment, the country braces for a major escalation
of the pandemic.
More than 3,000 military medical
personnel have been deployed to hospitals around the country
to ease the burden on doctors and
nurses, stretched to the limit.
Americans have been warned to expect some of the nation’s
darkest days.
The next week is going to be our Pearl Harbor
moment, our 9/11 moment.
It is going to be the hardest moment
for many Americans in their entire lives.
We really need to understand if we want it
—— to flatten that curve and get to the other side, everyone needs
to do their part.
Latest figures suggests the rate of
new infections in New York is slowing down, although
officials say it is too early to say whether the fall in
cases is significa nt.
At the daily White House briefing, President Trump said
he was encouraged by the better news.
Things are happening.
We are starting to see light at the end of the tunnel and
hopefully in the not too distant future, we will be very
proud of the job we all did.
And you can never be happy when so many people are dying, but
we will be proud of the job we did to keep the death down to
an absolute minimum, the least it could have happened, with
this terrible, terrible virus.
Mr Trump praised officials in California where the virus is
spreading more slowly than the country’s other hotspots.
The state was one of the first to
introduce social distancing and stay at home orders.
One of the President’s senior advisors
said data from Italy and Spain, where fewer people are dying,
could be a sign of how the outbreak is going to progress
in the US.
We are very hopeful over the next week, although we
will see a rising number of cases of people who lose their
lives to this illness, we also hope to see a stablisation of
cases across the large metro areas where the outbreak began
several weeks ago.
Despite the glimmers of hope, Americans
remain hunkered down as the nation holds its breath for
what is to come.
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer has resigned after being caught
visiting her second home, in breach of her own social
distancing guidance.
Dr Catherine Calderwood made a public apology and received
a police warning after she travelled from Edinburgh to her other
home in Fife, for two consecutive weekends.
Alexandra Mackenzie reports.
This is a vital update about coronavirus.
To help save lives, stay at home.
Dr Catherine Calderwood will no longer front the public campaign
against coronavirus.
After pictures were published in the Scottish Sun,
she was forced to admit that she had travelled from Edinburgh
to her second home in Fife the last two weekends.
She initially apologised, then resigned, saying...
During an uncomfortable media briefing yesterday,
Scotland’s First Minister stood by her Chief Medical Officer.
Her advice and expertise has been invaluable to me,
and it continues to be so.
If I am to do what I need to do to steer the country through this
crisis to the very best of my ability, I need
her to be able to focus on the job that she is doing.
But hours later, Nicola Sturgeon agreed, she had to go.
Many have expressed their anger and disbelief at Catherine
Calderwood’s actions.
Police Scotland say that they have spoken to her and emphasised
that the stay—at—home rules apply to everyone.
And as we enter a third week of lockdown, which has
been observed by most, Dr Calderwood will step back.
She said the people of Scotland must have complete trust in those
who give advice in the difficult months to come.
Alexandra McKenzie, BBC News, Glasgow.
Well, Scotland’s First Minister
Nicola Sturgeon has been giving her reaction
to Dr Calderwood’s resignation.
She made a mistake, she made a serious mistake,
and people are right to be angry about it.
She was right to apologise.
It was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be
the face of the public health advice campaign.
But candidly, yes, I did hope I could continue
to call on her expertise.
Because, to be frank, in a situation like this at this
particular moment in time it is far from ideal for me as First Minister
not to have that continuity of advice, but by last night it
became clear that the bigger risk was the damage it could be doing
to the important message the Government is putting
forward right now.
So these are not easyjudgments.
At this point in time the normal rules of politics or news management
couldn’t be further from my mind.
I’m simply trying to do the best things and the right things to best
equip us to get through this challenge as well as we can.
The Austrian Chancellor has said their restaurants and hotels will
their restaurants and hotels will reopen step—by—step from mid May at
reopen step-by-step from mid May at the
reopen step—by—step from mid May at the earliest. More specific
the earliest. More specific decisions later on this month. The
decisions later on this month. The Chancellor says, from May the 1st,
Chancellor says, from May the 1st, the aim is to reopen
Chancellor says, from May the lst, the aim is to reopen all shops and
the aim is to reopen all shops and shopping malls, and the aim is to
shopping malls, and the aim is to let smaller shops reopen mid April.
let smaller shops reopen mid April. So, the partial
let smaller shops reopen mid April. 50, the partial lockdown being
So, the partial lockdown being lifted to some extent in Austria.
The headlines on BBC News:
The Prime Minister has spent the night in hospital,
ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
He’s said to be undergoing tests "as a precaution".
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer resigns after making two
trips to her second home during the lockdown.
The US says it expects the rate of new infections to stabilise
in the coming days but the US Surgeon—General warns the number
of dead will continue to rise.
The number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases in South Korea has
decreased to below 50, its lowest daily number since
the outbreak peaked in February.
The number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases in South Korea has
decreased to below 50, its lowest daily number since
the outbreak peaked in February.
South Korea has been widely praised for its approach to tracing
and testing for cases of Covid—19 but is warning against complacency.
Laura Bicker in Seoul has more.
Eight weeks on and here we are.
We now have 47 newly—confirmed cases within the last 2A hours,
16 of whom are overseas arrivals, in fact, within the last two weeks,
over half of all the cases that have been confirmed here in South Korea
are people returning home from the likes of Europe,
the US and Canada.
However, the Vice Health Minister today has issued a warning.
They are extremely worried about complacency.
Life here is slowly getting back to normal.
You must remember, there has been no lockdown here in South Korea.
They advised people to work from home where possible
which people have been doing.
They advised people to wear masks, to stay socially distanced,
two metres apart, and most people have been doing that, however,
there have been slight breaking of the rules over the weekend
as the beautiful spring weather arrived.
So, the government has advised people to maintain
the social distancing
measures for just another two weeks if they ran.
And that’s because they are trying to get schools reopened.
From today it will be compulsory for Austrians to wear
if they want to go food shopping, and it’s the supermarkets who’ll
be footing the bill.
This follows mixed advice from global authorities
on the effectiveness of wearing a mask to limit the
spread of Covid—19.
Whilst popular in countries like South Korea and Japan,
in the UK and other countries, people have consistently been told
that — other than N95 medical grade masks —
the use of face masks won’t help.
But, a US study has now found the distance that particles can
spread through coughing and sneezing is further than previously thought,
and indicated that wearing a mask could be beneficial
to protect others.
Let’s talk now to one of the authors of that
report, Lydia Bourouiba from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.
And Margaret Harris from the World Health Organization,
which does not advise wearing masks for the general public.
Margaret Harris, the current WHO advice is what?
advice is what? It is not that we do not advise it,
It is not that we do not advise it, we say do not use medical masks
we say do not use medical masks because there is a severe shortage
because there is a severe shortage of medical mask and we need those
of medical mask and we need those for health care workers at high risk
for health rare workers at high risk of exposure
for health care workers at high risk of exposure some because of the
of exposure some because of the procedures you need to do to save
procedures you need to do to save lives will increase the amount of
lives will increase the amount of virus in the atmosphere. We do say
virus in the atmosphere. We do say if you wish to wear a mask that is
if you wish to wear a mask that is fine, but do not use a medical mask,
fine, but do not use a medical mask, use other kinds of face barriers.
use other kinds of face barriers. But combining it with the other
But combining it with the other things we know will protect you,
things we know will protect you, hand washing, environmental hygiene,
hand washing, environmental hygiene, if you are coughing and sneezing,
if you are coughing and sneezing, covered with your elbow to ensure
covered with your elbow to ensure you really limit the spread of
you really limit the spread of anything.
anything. Wearing a mask, is it to protect you
Wearing a mask, is it to protect you or other peopla
Wearing a mask, is it to protect you or other people from you?
or other peopla from you? It is to
or other people from you? It is to protect other people from
It is to protect other peopla from you.
It is to protect other people from you. We are getting increasing
you. We are getting increasing evidence people may have mild
evidence people may have mild symptoms they may not even be aware
symptoms they may not even be aware they actually have the virus that
they actually have the virus that they have a lot of virus in their
they have a lot of virus in their throat and nose. They have no
throat and nose. They have no symptoms, they may not be coughing,
symptoms, they may not be coughing, but in the sunshine, we will sneeze
but in the sunshine, we will sneeze with dust. The main reason for
with dust. The main reason for wearing a face covering of some kind
wearing a face covering of some kind whether it is one of those beautiful
whether it is one of those beautiful ones people are producing, there is
ones people are producing, there is a fantastic stuff out there, is
a fantastic stuff out there, is simply to protect others from you.
simply to protect others from you. Lydia, you authored a study into how
Lydia, you authored a study into how far coughs and sneezes can travel,
far coughs and sneezes ran travel, "TY
far coughs and sneezes ran travel, very simply,
far coughs and sneezes can travel, very simply, what did you find?
very simply, what did you find? It focuses on developing
It focuses on developing technologies to reveal what we can
technologies to reveal what we ran see with
technologies to reveal what we can see with the naked eye and in this
see with the naked eye and in this use, we
see with the naked eye and in this case, we looked at violent
case, we looked at violent exhalations from sneezing, coughing,
exhalations from sneezing, coughing, the key finding was during those
the key finding was during those exhalations we are omitting the air
exhalations we are omitting the air we have inhaled and in doing so that
we have inhaled and in doing so that air is omitted at a high momentum,
air is omitted at a high momentum, and that cloud when coming out is
and that cloud when coming out is trapping droplet sizes within it
trapping droplet sizes within it moving them forward than they could
moving them forward than they could reach if we did not include the
reach if we did not include the cloud physics in this description.
cloud physis in this description. How
cloud physics in this description. How much further forward, how far
How much further forward, how far ran a cough or
How much further forward, how far can a cough or sneeze travel?
ran a cough or sneeze travel? Sneezing for
can a cough or sneeze travel? Sneezing for example, the most
Sneezing for example, the most extreme, can reach with that cloud
extreme, ran reach with that cloud come up to 27
extreme, can reach with that cloud come up to 27 feet. Coughing, up to
come up to 27 feet. Coughing, up to 19 feet. Normal exhalations, seven
19 feet. Normal exhalations, seven feet. It is important to understand
feet. It is important to understand it is the continuum of the droplet
it is the continuum of the droplet sizes. Particularly those invisible
sizes. Particularty those invisibla to
sizes. Particularty those invisible to the
sizes. Particularly those invisible to the naked eye, they are enhanced
to the naked eye, they are enhanced and they wouldn’t go critically far
and they wouldn’t go critically far without the presence of this cloud.
without the presence of this cloud. Six feet is this two metres distance
Six feet is this two metres distance we are told to keep between each
we are told to keep between each other. If coughs and sneezes are
other. If coughs and sneezes are travelling further, it would sound
travelling further, it would sound like it is sensible to wear a mask.
like it is sensible to wear a mask. The major implication of the work is
The major implication of the work is when we think about these coughs and
when we think about these coughs and sneezes and symptomatic subjects in
sneezes and symptomatic subjects in a health care setting, patients who
a health rare setting, patients who are coughing
a health care setting, patients who are coughing and sneezing, there is
are coughing and sneezing, there is no way to consider within that two
no way to consider within that two metre distance health care workers
metre distance health rare workers will not
metre distance health care workers will not be safe without that
will not be safe without that protection. And in everyday life,
protection. And in everyday life, wearing a protective barrier that is
wearing a protective barrier that is not high—grade, for everyday life,
not high-grade, for everyday life, there’s
not high—grade, for everyday life, there’s barriers, thinking about the
there’s barriers, thinking about the cloud, would be a way to remove
cloud, would be a way to remove energy from that cloud and deflect
energy from that cloud and deﬂact it to
energy from that cloud and deﬂect it to the
energy from that cloud and deflect it to the side, reducing that
it to the side, reducing that horizontal range to reach others.
horizontal range to reach others. But still have some emissions
But still have some emissions locally. It is important whoever is
locally. It is important whoever is wearing this is conscious of the
wearing this is conscious of the fact this is not full protection to
fact this is not full protection to others but a reduction of exposure
others but a reduction of exposure to others. Particularly not full
to others. Particularty not full protection
to others. Particularly not full protection to the wearer because
protection to the wearer because they are not high—grade and fully
they are not high-grade and fully sealad.
they are not high—grade and fully sealed. It is about protecting
sealad. It is about protecting others.
others. Margaret, something else in the
Margaret, something else in the news, to do with the Tiger in the
news, to do with the Tiger in the Bronx zoo in New York which has
Bronx zoo in New York which has apparently reportedly been infected
apparently reportedly been infected by a zookeeper who was not showing
by a zookeeper who was not showing symptoms. It is really surprising to
symptoms. It is really surprising to me, how do you read that that a
me, how do you read that that a human ran
me, how do you read that that a human can apparently infect an
human ran apparently infect an animal?
animal? We have seen that humans ran infect
We have seen that humans ran infect their pets,
We have seen that humans can infect their pets, people living closely
their pets, peopla living closely with
their pets, people living closely with their pets in Hong Kong, and
with their pets in Hong Kong, and rats
with their pets in Hong Kong, and cats infected by their owners as
rats infected by their owners as well.
cats infected by their owners as well. What we have not seen and this
well. what we have not seen and this is the good news
well. What we have not seen and this is the good news is the animals do
is the good news is the animals do not seem to be infecting us. A lot
not seem to be infecting us. A lot of the anxiety was, what if my dog
of the anxiety was, what if my dog has got it? But you do not want your
has got it? But you do not want your pet to be ill. So, again, if you
petto be ill. So, again, ifyou have any
pet to be ill. 50, again, if you have any symptoms or if you are
have any symptoms or if you are self-isolating
have any symptoms or if you are self—isolating because you have been
self-isolating because you have been exposed to
self—isolating because you have been exposed to someone else, remember to
exposed to someone else, remember to self—isolate from your pet.
self-isolate from your pet. Thank you
self—isolate from your pet. Thank you very much.
And the tiger by the way is expected to make a full recovery.
The coronavirus pandemic is a huge blow to economies across the world.
New research says low earners and younger employees in the UK
are likely to be hardest hit financially by the lockdown.
The Institute for Fiscal Studies — an economic think—tank —
says those on low incomes are seven times more likely to work in sectors
which have effectively shutdown, compared to those on higher incomes.
Joining me now is our business presenter Ben Thompson.
Why is this group so much more badly affected than others?
Good morning. It is not
Good morning. It is notjust those
Good morning. It is not just those on low
Good morning. It is notjust those on low incomes but women and Under
on low incomes but women and Under 255 the IFS singles out stock it
25s the IFS singles out stock it suggests those groups are most
suggests those groups are most likely to be working in jobs that
likely to be working in jobs that are shut down
likely to be working in jobs that are shutdown as a result of this
are shut down as a result of this vims. In
are shutdown as a result of this virus. In hospitality, travel,
vims. In hospitality, travel, tourism.
virus. In hospitality, travel, tourism. Not the sorts of
virus. In hospitality, travel, tourism. Not the sorts ofjobs you
tourism. Not the sorts ofjobs you ran do
tourism. Not the sorts ofjobs you can do from home. Because they are
ran do from home. Because they are customer facing
can do from home. Because they are customer facing jobs
can do from home. Because they are customerfacing jobs and
can do from home. Because they are customer facing jobs and you need to
customer facing jobs and you need to be present to do them. The IFS
be present to do them. The IFS points out it is a double whammy for
points out it is a double whammy for many, those groups will be working
many, those groups will be working in jobs they cannot do. Question is
in jobs they rannot do. Question is whether they
in jobs they cannot do. Question is whether they can go back to those
whether they ran go back to those jobs when this
whether they can go back to those jobs when this virus outbreak is
jobs when this virus outbreak is over, whether business can just pick
over, whether business ran just pick up. We have
over, whether business can just pick up. We have seen headlines about the
up. We have seen headlines about the number of businesses that might
number of businesses that might struggle to survive over the next
struggle to survive over the next couple of months given their
couple of months given their business shut down overnight. There
business shut down overnight. There is a real concern about those coming
is a real concern about those coming to the end of college or university
to the end of college or university degrees looking to get into the job
degrees looking to get into the job market in September but given the
market in September but given the uncertainty about the jobs market
uncertainty about the jobs market right now, there are clearly no
right now, there are dearty no plans to take
right now, there are clearly no plans to take on people at the end
plans to take on peopla at the end of the
plans to take on people at the end of the year. Those two groups, young
of the year. Those two groups, young people, women and those on low pay,
peopla, women and those on low pay, most likely to
people, women and those on low pay, most likely to be affected by this
most likely to be affected by this shutdown.
shutdown. Can I mention Debenhams,
shutdown. (“an I mention Debenhams, this
Can I mention Debenhams, this statement has
Can I mention Debenhams, this statement hasjust come
Can I mention Debenhams, this statement has just come in,
statement has just come in, Debenhams had today filed a notice
Debenhams had today filed a notice of intent to appoint an
of intent to appoint an administrator in the UK. Explain the
administrator in the UK. Explain the significance of that and what it
significance of that and what it means.
means. Like all retailers now
means. Like all retailars now struggling,
Like all retailars now struggling, and
Like all retailers now struggling, and once —— what the pandemic has
and once -- what the pandemic has undertined
and once —— what the pandemic has underlined is those already on shaky
underlined is those already on shaky foundations are finding it even
foundations are finding it even tougher than they would have. This
tougher than they would have. This is nothing new for Debenhams, it has
is nothing new for Debenhams, it has already sought administration and
already sought administration and was bought out. It has asked its
was bought out. It has asked its landlords for rate, rent reductions.
landlords for rate, rent reductions. They were renegotiating the rent
They were renegotiating the rent they pay on some of their stores.
they pay on some of their stores. Debenhams traditionally being quite
Debenhams traditionally being quite badly hit by the rise of online, if
badly hit by the rise of online, if you are going into their stores on
you are going into their stores on high streets, paying overheads, so
high streets, paying overheads, so dearty a
high streets, paying overheads, so clearly a number of problems. And
dearty a number of problams. And what we
clearly a number of problems. And what we are expecting to hear is
what we are expecting to hear is they are trying to come to a deal
they are trying to come to a deal where they can cut their rent
where they ran cut their rent further
where they can cut their rent further to safeguard their future.
further to safeguard their future. BY
further to safeguard their future. By no means is this guaranteed but
By no means is this guaranteed but if we look at last week with
if we look at last week with retailers going under, this could be
retailars going under, this could be the first
retailers going under, this could be the first of a long line finding it
the first of a long line finding it tough to be
And a quick word about car sales,
And a quick word about rar sales, not a
And a quick word about car sales, not a massive surprise there has
not a massive surprise there has been a huge slump in them. No, and
been a huge slump in them. No, and you might wonder why we are talking
you might wonder why we are talking about rar
you might wonder why we are talking about car sales when there are more
about rar sales when there are more pressing issues,
about car sales when there are more pressing issues, but carmaking is a
pressing issues, but armaking is a huge industry
pressing issues, but carmaking is a huge industry in the UK so therefore
huge industry in the UK so therefore sales will determine the future of
sales will determine the future of the industry over the next few
the industry over the next few years. what
the industry over the next few years. What we have heard from the
years. what we have heard from the organisation
years. What we have heard from the organisation that represents car
organisation that represents rar makers,
organisation that represents car makers, they reported a 44% slump in
makers, they reported a 4496 slump in new rar
makers, they reported a 44% slump in new car registrations last month.
new rar registrations last month. That is
new car registrations last month. That is significant because remember
That is significant because remember this is a lagging indicator, this is
this is a lagging indicator, this is looking back. These restrictions on
looking back. These restrictions on businesses only coming into force of
businesses only coming into force of the month so it suggests the start
the month so it suggests the start of the month wasn’t great either,
of the month wasn’t great either, consumer confidence down, fewer of
consumer confidence down, fewer of us prepared to put our hands in our
us prepared to put our hands in our pockets. As it is a big industry
pockets. As it is a big industry under big employer, what happens now
under big employer, what happens now will determine the future. But there
will determine the future. But there is a glimmer of hope. If you look at
is a glimmer of hope. If you look at what has happened to car sales
what has happened to far sales across
what has happened to car sales across Europe, Italy’s sales down
across Europe, Italrs sales down 8511,
across Europe, Italrs sales down 8596, and in
across Europe, Italy’s sales down 85%, and in Spain down 69%, so
8596, and in Spain down 6996, so whilst
85%, and in Spain down 69%, so whilst an awful
85%, and in Spain down 69%, so whilst an awfulfigure,
85%, and in Spain down 69%, so whilst an awful figure, the worst
whilst an awful figure, the worst since records began as far as sales
since records began as far as sales are concerned, it suggests the UK is
are concerned, it suggests the UK is not faring as badly as some of our
not faring as badly as some of our EU counterparts. Thank you, and a
EU counterparts. Thank you, and a couple of messages from you. I asked
couple of messages from you. I asked on Twitter, are you keeping your
on Twitter, are you keeping your head above water, and Sam Gillespie
head above water, and Sam Gillaspie 5575
head above water, and Sam Gillaspie says as a sola
head above water, and Sam Gillespie says as a sole director of a limited
says as a sola director of a limited company I
says as a sole director of a limited company I won’t get any support and
company I won’t get any support and the same goes for my freelancer
the same goes for my freelancer friends. Kerry says, my husband is a
friends. Kerry says, my husband is a self-employed
friends. Kerry says, my husband is a self—employed bricklayer and I’m a
self-employed bricklayer and I’m a rarer for my
self—employed bricklayer and I’m a carer for my disabled son.
carer for my disabled son. Unfortunately we won’t receive any
Unfortunately we won’t receive any payments until
Unfortunately we won’t receive any payments untilJune or
Unfortunately we won’t receive any payments untilJune orJuly. So they
payments until june or july. So they qualify for the
payments untilJune orJuly. So they qualify for the help from the
qualify for the help from the Chancellor but those payments won’t
Chancellor but those payments won’t come until the summer. She says,
come until the summer. She says, therefore my husband has had to
therefore my husband has had to return to work. We have some savings
return to work. We have some savings but not enough to carry us that far
but not enough to carry us that far and we should be isolating. That
and we should be isolating. That berause
and we should be isolating. That because of her vulnerable son. Thank
because of her vulnerable son. Thank you for those.
In a televised address from Windsor Castle,
the Queen has paid tribute to the NHS and key workers,
keeping goods and services going amid the coronavirus pandemic.
The Queen gave the message of reassurance to Britain
and the Commonwealth, urging people to remain
united and resolute.
She also acknowledged the grief, pain and financial difficulties that
many were facing but urged people to take comfort in the fact that
better days will return.
And though self—isolating may at times be hard,
many people of all faiths, and of none, are discovering that it
presents an opportunity to slow down, pause and reflect,
in prayer or meditation.
It reminds me of the very first broadcast I made, in 1940,
helped by my sister.
We, as children, spoke from here at Windsor to children
who had been evacuated from their homes and sent away
for their own safety.
Today, once again, many will feel a painful sense of separation
from their loved ones.
But now, as then, we know, deep down, that it is
the right thing to do.
While we have faced challenges before, this one is different.
This time we join with all nations across the globe in a common
endeavour, using the great advances of science and our instinctive
compassion to heal.
We will succeed, and that success will belong to every one of us.
We should take comfort that while we may have
more still to endure, better days will return.
We will be with our friends again, we will be with our families again,
we will meet again.
But for now, I send my thanks and warmest good wishes to you all.
Hello, this is BBC News with Victoria Derbyshire.
The headlines:
The British Prime Minister has spent the night in hospital,
ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
He’s said to be undergoing tests "as a precaution".
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer resigns after making two
trips to her second home during the lockdown.
The US says it expects the rate of new infections to stabilise
in the coming days, but the US surgeon general warns the number
of dead will continue to rise.
It’s better news for South Korea as the number of newly confirmed
coronavirus cases falls to its lowest level since
the peak of the outbreak.
And a tiger and six other big cats
at the Bronx Zoo in New York test positive for the coronavirus.
It’s thought the animals were infected by a zoo keeper.
Last year, Areema Nasreen fulfilled a lifelong
ambition of graduating from university to become
at Walsall Manor Hospital.
Last Friday, it was announced that she and a fellow nurse
Aimee O’Rourke had died.
Yesterday the Health Secretary said three nurses have
died so far duing this coronoavirus outbreak.
Areema Nasreen’s colleagues described her as an "amazing nurse"
who "put her patients first and herself last".
Hersister, Kazeema, said we’ve lost "an amazing person".
A rare girl.
Not just at work.
She put herself last in the community, back home.
Any time she’d find someone’s suffering back
home she’ll send money.
Someone wants to go to pilgrimage, it’s like a Muslim opportunity
just to go, if you’ve got money, you go, but she used
to pay for the poor to go.
She used to go with them.
We every year used to go to the pilgrimage, she’d help out
with everyone there.
A few people got ill.
We took them to the hospital, she was with them all night.
And it was notjust work.
She put herself last in every way, in the community she helped
everyone with everything.
I just...
We’ve lost an amazing nurse but we’ve lost also
an amazing person in life that’s affected everyone.
Everyone’s affected by this.
An amazing sister.
Mum.
She lived with me and Areema, my younger sister, lived together.
So close.
I spent five hours with her before she went on the ventilator.
We just sat and talked.
Shejust looked at me and she said, "Sit down.
I want to see you."
And I said, "I’mjust packing your stuff."
She said, "No, sit down."
I didn’t know she knew if she’d come back.
When did she first become ill, Kazeema?
She done the last shift, she came home. Tell her every evening what’s
home. Tell her every evening what’s going on. She had a slight leg ache
going on. She had a slight lag ache and I said,
going on. She had a slight leg ache and I said, yeah, you have had a 12
and Isaid, yeah, you have had a 12 hour shift,
and I said, yeah, you have had a 12 hour shift, that’s why. When she
hour shift, that’s why. when she text two
hour shift, that’s why. When she text two hours later again and said
text two hours later again and said the pain is coming up, I never
the pain is coming up, I never thought anything because you have
thought anything because you have got to understand the symptoms are
got to understand the symptoms are different. Everyone has totally
different. Everyone has totally different symptoms. Then she found
different symptoms. Then she found out this was happening and the
out this was happening and the shortage of staff, she booked a bank
shortage of staff, she booked a bank shift at the Walsall Manor Hospital.
shift at the Walsall Manor Hospital. It was a Monday when she woke me up
It was a Monday when she woke me up and said we are really short, come
and said we are really short, come on down. Because I’m a health care
on down. Because I’m a health rare assistant.
on down. Because I’m a health care assistant. So I did a shift, but
assistant. So I did a shift, but when I saw her I said, you don’t
when I saw her I said, you don’t look good. She said let’s do this
look good. She said let’s do this shift together and go home together.
shift together and go home together. I was checking her temperature while
I was checking her temperature while she was at work and it was going
she was at work and it was going higher and higher.
she was at work and it was going higherand higher. She
she was at work and it was going higher and higher. She never thought
higher and higher. She never thought anything of it because it was
anything of it because it was totally different. Then we ate
totally different. Then we ate together and she handed over with
together and she handed over with the night staff and that was the
the night staff and that was the last time... I’m really sorry,
last time... I’m really sorry, Kazeema. I can hear that this is
Kazeema. I ran hear that this is really
Kazeema. I can hear that this is really emotional for you. What did
really emotional for you. what did it mean
really emotional for you. What did it mean to your sister to be a
it mean to your sister to be a nurse? 0h
it mean to your sister to be a nurse? Oh my God, when she first
nurse? Oh my God, when she first looked after my Nan tu was only a
looked after my Man in was only a little girl
looked after my Nan tu was only a little girl herself but that
little girt herself but that inspired
little girl herself but that inspired her more and more. —— she
inspired her more and more. -- she was. She applied
inspired her more and more. —— she was. She applied for a health care
was. She applied for a health rare job and got
was. She applied for a health care job and got that, then a year later
job and got that, then a year later she got me there because me and my
she got me there because me and my sisters always did everything
sisters always did everything together. She worked in health care
together. She worked in health rare and from
together. She worked in health care and from that she said I want to do
and from that she said I want to do it but there is no one in our entire
it but there is no one in our entire family who had graduated. She was
family who had graduated. She was quite worried but I asked my dad,
quite worried but I asked my dad, her husband, and they said if you
her husband, and they said if you want to do it do it. She said, look,
want to do it do it. She said, look, I’m married now, I’ve got kids. Then
I’m married now, I’ve got kids. Then she went into nursing. That’s when I
she went into nursing. That’s when I said, look, go as a free woman,
said, look, go as a free woman, don’t worry
said, look, go as a free women, don’t worry about anything and come
don’t worry about anything and come back as a free woman. That’s what
back as a free woman. That’s what she did for four years,
back as a free woman. That’s what she did forfour years, she had no
she did for four years, she had no stress, nothing.
she did forfour years, she had no stress, nothing. We did everything
stress, nothing. We did everything together. When she graduated, I said
together. when she graduated, I said if it
together. When she graduated, I said if it wasn’t for my sister I
if it wasn’t for my sister I wouldn’t be standing here. Kazeema
wouldn’t be standing here. Kazeema Nasreen, paying tribute to her
Nasreen, paying tribute to her sister who died last week from
sister who died last week from coronavirus.
Turkey has one of the fastest growing outbreaks of Covid—19,
with a steeper rise in cases than Italy, Spain or the UK.
More restrictions on movement have been introduced,
but a full lockdown is not in place.
Over 27,000 cases have been confirmed, and 574 people have died.
Orla Guerin reports from Istanbul.
Police checkpoints at the edge of Istanbul.
The latest stage of Turkey’s fight against the virus.
31 cities now sealed off to all but essential traffic.
Still, President Erdogan says, the wheels of the economy
must keep turning.
So many are still going to work.
Wearing masks is now compulsory.
Staying home is not, except for those under 20 or over 65.
Istanbul’s mayor, a key opposition figure, has a lot on his hands.
His city has the highest number of cases.
He told me there should be a general lockdown before it’s too late.
TRANSLATION: When we counted, there were about 1.1 million people
using public transport on a workday, and we’ve seen a lot of private
cars out on the streets.
15% of the normal population is still on the move so between two
and 2.5 million people — equal to the population
of a European city.
Do you think it’s crazy that this number of people
are still being allowed to move around?
Absolutely.
Here, as elsewhere, the virus is killing those
trying to save others...
Like Dilek, whose relatives shared this video with us.
She was a nurse and an only child.
Turkey’s death toll is still in the hundreds, not thousands,
but its corona outbreak is one of the fastest growing in the world.
I can not sleep well.
I am so concerned.
My grandparents are old — 89, 90.
This Turkish molecular biologist, based in the US, is tracking
the virus in his homeland.
The cases are increasing very rapidly — much more rapid
than many countries, including Italy, Spain
and the US and China — so this is very alarming.
As the virus spreads, many of Istanbul’s storied
streets have fallen silent.
The Blue Mosque, a historicjewel, no longer open for communal worship.
The message now — pray at home.
Orla Guerin, BBC News, Istanbul.
There is a warning of a global surge in domestic violence due
to the Covid—19 restrictions.
The UN Secretary General is appealing for the prevention
of violence against women, to be made a key part of the world’s
response to the pandemic.
In Britain, a National Domestic Abuse helpline has seen a 25%
increase in cells and online requests over the past week
as Tomos Morgan reports.
It’s been bad.
I didn’t care if I didn’t wake up from the night before.
I just knew what was going to happen.
Ijust wanted the days to go past, but itjust got worse.
Tara told me she has been mentally and physically abused
by her partner for six months.
He deleted her social media account, stopped herfrom seeing herfamily,
and controlled all aspects of her life, and, since having to
isolate with him, things escalated.
You must stay at home.
It’s been getting worse since the lockdown, as well.
Mentally abusive, verbally.
Erm, been hitting me, just causing an argument from nothing.
If I fight back and say something wrong, he willjust hit me.
New figures seen by the BBC give a picture of the potential
consequence of lockdown for victims.
The national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells
and online requests over the past week.
Refuge, the country’s largest domestic abuse charity,
who run the line, say there has been a daily rise of 150% in people
visiting the website.
Tara has now fled her abuser and is being supported
by a charity in Wales.
But charities and campaigners have expressed concern that those
in violent relationships could be at serious risk as the
lockdown continues.
The homicide rate will go through the roof.
You can’t stop the perpetrator unless he’s visible.
Rachel Williams suffered violence from her husband for 18 years.
When she decided to leave, he shot her with a sewn—off shotgun.
She is now one of the country’s main campaigners battling on behalf
of those still suffering.
We will never do enough until we eradicate domestic
abuse and violance - end of.
We have an epidemic in the UK with a pandemic on top.
Police chiefs and both governments in Cardiff Bay and Westminster say
help is available for anyone experiencing domestic abuse,
and that people should contact if they need advice or feel
they are at risk.
Tomos Morgan, BBC News.
That number is... 08082000210.
The rate of infection in Italy may be showing promising
signs of stabilising, but authorities are nervous
about anything that could lead to a new outbreak.
Last week, they sealed off an entire villagejust outside Rome —
all its residents included — after a cluster of
cases was discovered.
Jean Mackenzie reports Rome.
Jean Mackenzie reports from Rome.
We are 1,900 people.
We are in quarantine.
Once a sleepy hilltop village, now a
militarised red zone.
Everything happened very quickly.
Army came and said nobody can enter, nobody can exit.
The town was sealed off after 77 cases of coronavirus
were discovered here last week.
How do you feel about this?
Very upset.
We are so confused.
People call me on the phone and say, are we sick?
Are we sick?
What is up?
The virus started in a care home and spread quickly,
without doctors realising.
Two people died.
The rest were taken to hospital.
How are you feeling?
TRSANLATION: "I’m feeling well, I don’t have a fever."
This doctor was also infected.
She is recovering in the next—door village.
TRANSLATION: At first it didn’t look like corona.
It all started with some people getting sick, as they usually do
because they are very old.
We even have a 104—year—old woman.
To quarantine an entire village is unusual.
But given everything Italy has gone through,
authorities were just so nervous about having an area
so contaminated and the thought it would be allowed to spread.
Now the village is being turned into a human coronavirus laboratory.
Everyone is to be tested and this is day one.
TRANSLATION: It’s an interesting place because it is a small
village and quite contained with a population of more than 1,800
people who could be tested quickly.
The researchers are trying to work out exactly how the virus spread
through a community and how many people display symptoms,
and then they will trial possible treatments.
Our sacrifice will be used for the entire scientific community.
This tiny microcosm may well provide significant answers on how this
virus lives and dies.
The organisation for economic coordination and development, a
coordination and development, a EWUP
coordination and development, a group of countries brought together
group of countries brought together to stimulate economic progress and
to stimulate economic progress and world trade, has revised down growth
world trade, has revised down growth forecasts and warned countries will
forecasts and warned countries will be dealing with the economic fallout
be dealing with the economic fallout of coronavirus for years to come.
We are joined by Angel Gurria who has been the OECD’s
Secretary—General since 2006.
So you were at the helm of the organisation in the last global
organisation in the last global crisis, so how does this compare? It
crisis, so how does this compare? It is different but it is worse. It is
is different but it is worse. It is going to affect the social, the
going to affect the social, the human side, the health side, but it
human side, the health side, but it will leave very big wounds and
will leave very big wounds and eventually scars, on the economic
eventually stars, on the economic side
eventually scars, on the economic side because of the perhaps hundreds
side because of the perhaps hundreds and thousands of SMEs whose
and thousands of SMEs whose livelihoods will be at stake. Then
livelihoods will be at stake. Then of course the very seriously hit
of course the very seriously hit sectors like tourism, like the
sectors like tourism, like the services sector, the hospitality
services sector, the hospitality sector, and all the businesses
sector, and all the businesses associated with that. Right now I
associated with that. Right now I had a very serious conference and UC
had a very serious conference and UC the explosion in the US, all these
the explosion in the US, all these unemployment claims happening by
unemployment claims happening by millions over a few days. I will
millions over a few days. I will just show you how dramatic, how
just show you how dramatic, how bmtal
just show you how dramatic, how brutal the problem will be. Sure.
bmtal the problem will be. Sure. Your
brutal the problem will be. Sure. Your organisation has revised down
Your organisation has revised down forecasts for global economic growth
forecasts for global economic growth for this year, but you have revised
for this year, but you have revised it down to 1.5% and you now say that
it down to1.5% and you now say that looks
it down to 1.5% and you now say that looks optimistic. Do you think the
looks optimistic. Do you think the economy will grow a little bit
economy will grow a little bit though in 2020? No, I think what is
though in 2020? No, I think what is going to happen is that for every
going to happen is that for every month of containment efforts, there
month of containment efforts, there will be an impact of about two
will be an impact of about two percentage points on the growth. If
percentage points on the growth. If this lasts on average let’s say
this lasts on average let’s say three months, then we will have an
three months, then we will have an impact of six percentage points of
impact of six percentage points of GDP. That means that practically
GDP. That means that practically every country... United States,
every country... United States, Europe, japan,
every country... United States, Europe, Japan, all of the OECD
Europe, Japan, all of the OECD countries and increasingly and very
countries and increasingly and very worrisome developing countries will
worrisome developing countries will be in the red. And the greatest
be in the red. And the greatest problem is not
be in the red. And the greatest problem is notjust the numbers, but
problem is not just the numbers, but also the
problem is notjust the numbers, but also the consequences. As I said,
also the consequences. As I said, the human side, the unemployment and
the human side, the unemployment and not all countries have the firepower
not all countries have the firepower in order to deal with the
in order to deal with the unemployed, the SMEs, etc. Even many
unemployed, the SMB, etc. Even many countries
unemployed, the SMEs, etc. Even many countries don’t have the firepower
countries don’t have the firepower to deal with the health crisis
to deal with the health crisis itself and the immediate need to
itself and the immediate need to attend to the sick and the people
attend to the sick and the peopla who
attend to the sick and the people who we want to keep away from dying.
who we want to keep away from dying. Yes, so let me ask you. You have
Yes, so let me ask you. You have laid it out dearty
Yes, so let me ask you. You have laid it out clearly what the
laid it out clearly what the economic impact could be, but also
economic impact could be, but also social and psychological and the
social and psychological and the rest of it. Therefore do you think
rest of it. Therefore do you think nations should be guided only by the
nations should be guided only by the epidemic curve or do we also have to
epidemic curve or do we also have to take into account the damage of
take into account the damage of lockdown is doing? That is a false
lockdown is doing? That is a false dilamma
lockdown is doing? That is a false dilemma because the sooner we deal
dilemma because the sooner we deal with the virus itself, the faster we
with the virus itself, the faster we ran get out of
with the virus itself, the faster we can get out of the economic
can get out of the economic consequences and it will be less
consequences and it will be less expensive. It will be very expensive
expensive. It will be very expensive in any rase, but
expensive. It will be very expensive in any case, but it will be less
in any use, but it will be less expensive if
in any case, but it will be less expensive if it lasts less.
expensive if it lasts less. Therefore this discussion between
Therefore this discussion between economics and, if you will, the
economic and, if you will, the ethical side,
economics and, if you will, the ethical side, the human side, the
ethical side, the human side, the moral side, all of that is
moral side, all of that is completely theoretical. You go and
completely theoretical. You go and you deal with the suffering, with
you deal with the suffering, with the people to save lives. You deal
the people to save lives. You deal with the virus, you deal with the
with the virus, you deal with the enemy, and then to the extent that
enemy, and then to the extent that 7°“-
enemy, and then to the extent that you, because of confinement efforts,
you, because of confinement efforts, because of isolation efforts, you
because of isolation efforts, you ran
because of isolation efforts, you can reduce the time that it takes.
ran reduce the time that it takes. Then it
can reduce the time that it takes. Then it will be easier to get out of
Then it will be easier to get out of the problem later, so this is a very
the problem later, so this is a very closely related, it is really one
closely related, it is really one single problem. Then you have the
single problem. Then you have the other problem which is the recovery
other problem which is the recovery going forward. Thank you for your
going forward. Thank you for your time today. We appreciate it. Good
time today. We appreciate it. Good health to your Prime Minister. That
health to your Prime Minister. That is very kind. He may well be
is very kind. He may well be watching from his hospital bed.
watching from his hospital bed. Thank you for talking to us.
Angel Gurria, the OECD’s
Secretary—General since 2006.
Clearly there is a lot to do, and
Cleariy there is a lot to do, and best
Clearly there is a lot to do, and best wishes to Prime Minister Boris
best wishes to Prime Minister Boris johnson who
best wishes to Prime Minister Boris Johnson who is in hospital having
Johnson who is in hospital having precautionary tests after he
precautionary tests after he developed Covid—19 symptom about ten
developed Covid-19 symptom about ten days ago and
developed Covid—19 symptom about ten days ago and then had a test which
days ago and then had a test which proved positive, but persistent
proved positive, but persistent symptoms hanging around so that’s
symptoms hanging around so that’s why he has been taken into hospital.
You are watching BBC News.
Japan’s Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe,
has proposed a stimulus package worth 1 trillion dollars.
It comes as he is preparing to declare a state of emergency
for the capital Tokyo and a number of other large cities.
The number of Covid—19 cases inJapan began
to grow rapidly last week.
In Tokyo there are now over a thousand confirmed cases,
more than double the number a week ago.
The number deaths in France has topped the 8,000 mark,
as previously undisclosed fatalities in care homes are
ta ken into account.
But the rate of infection is slowing.
France posted the smallest increase for two weeks,
with far more people now being tested.
Police forces across the country have been using a variety of
have been using a variety of measures to keep people at home.
measures to keep people at home. This is from Derbyshire police.
This is from Derbyshire police. # Stay at home whenever you can,
# Stay at home whenever you ran, don’t go out on
# Stay at home whenever you can, don’t go out on the streets with
don’t go out on the streets with your fam. . .
don’t go out on the streets with your fam... #
don’t go out on the streets with yourfam... # one local council in
your fam... # one [oral council in Derby praised
yourfam... # one local council in Derby praised police for using
Derby praised police for using language that people in the area
language that people in the area would understand. Let’s bring you a
would understand. Let’s bring you a look at the weather now with Carol
look at the weather now with Carol Kirkwood.
Hello again.
Yesterday was the warmest day of the year so far, 22.2
Celsius in Porthmadog in Wales.
As we go through the week, some of us could see
something higher than that.
Today, it is cooler than yesterday, sunny spells but also
a few scattered showers.
The rain we had this morning continuing to push away leaving
brighter skies behind.
Squeezing the isobars across the north west.
Still windy, 55 miles an hour.
In the afternoon, slowly coming down a little bit.
Behind the rain this morning, a lot of sunshine.
Behind the rain this morning, a lot of sunshine.
A few showers, some in Scotland and Northern Ireland
could be heavy and thundery.
In between, we will see some sunshine.
A top temperature up to 18 degrees.
Heading on through this evening and overnight,
under clear skies, the temperature will fall away quickly.
A few showers around, the winds across the north west easing.
We could see patchy mist and fog forming, that
should not be problematic.
These are the temperatures in towns and cities.
In rural areas, lower, and some will see a touch of frost.
A colder night than last night.
Tomorrow, there will be a lot of sunshine, some fairweather cloud
building through the day.
Not as windy across the north west.
This weather front will introduce thicker cloud and patchy rain.
Tomorrow’s temperatures ranging from nine in Lerwick,
up to 20 in London.
Tuesday into Wednesday, high pressure is still with us
but look at the isobars turning to a southerly direction.
Across the north west we have a weather front introducing
some cloud and rain.
Slowly slipping southwards.
That rain will be fairly patchy, some drizzle,
brighter skies follow on.
We hang on to a lot of sunshine especially across England and Wales.
Temperatures could get up to 2A degrees.
More likely around the London area.
By Thursday, still a lot of dry weather around.
Still our weather front as a weak feature producing
cloud across Scotland, Northern Ireland, northern
England, highs of 23.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
The British Prime Minister has spent the night in hospital,
ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
He’s said to be undergoing tests ‘as a precaution’.
I’m sure this is very frustrating for him, someone like Boris he wants
for him, someone like Boris he wants to be and mnning
for him, someone like Boris he wants to be and running from the front,
to be and mnning from the front, but
to be and running from the front, but nonetheless he is very much
but nonetheless he is very much still in charge.
Scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two
trips to her second home during the lockdown.
She made a mistake, she made a serious mistake,
and people are right to be angry about it.
She was right to apologise.
It was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be
the face of the public health advice campaign.
The US says it expects the rate of new infections to stabilise
in the coming days but the US surgeon general warns the number
of dead will continue to rise.
The next week is going to be our Pearl Harbor moment.
It’s going to be our 9/11 moment.
It’s going to be the hardest moment for many Americans
in their entire lives.
But it’s better news for South Korea —
as the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases falls
to its lowest level since the peak of the outbreak.
And a tiger — and six other big cats —
at the Bronx Zoo in New York test positive for the coronavirus.
It’s thought the animals were infected by a zoo keeper.
Hello and welcome to audiences in the UK and around the world.
We’re covering all the latest coronavirus developments
here in Britain and globally.
First, the UK’s Prime Minister BorisJohnson has spent
the night in hospital, where he was admitted for tests,
ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
Downing Street says it’s a precautionary
step as BorisJohnson continues
to show persistent symptoms of the virus.
He remains in charge of the government but the UK’s
Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab chaired this morning’s
coronavirus meeting.
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer has resigned after being criticised
for visiting her second home twice, against her own lockdown advice.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, initially defended
Catherine Calderwood, before agreeing that the doctor’s
behaviour risked undermining confidence in the government’s
public health message.
Elsewhere in the world, the US has had more than 9 thousand
600 deaths confirmed.
The country’s surgeon general warned people that the coming week
will be their ‘Pearl Harbor’ or ‘9/11’ moment with deaths
from Covid—19 expected to peak.
In Asia, the Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said the government
plans to declare a state of emergency as early as tomorrow.
He also proposed a stimulus package worth more than one trillion US
dollars as new infections from the virus spike in Tokyo.
Spain’s health ministry says that deaths have gone down for the fourth
deaths have gone down for the fourth consecutive day. Spain has the
consecutive day. Spain has the highest --
consecutive day. Spain has the highest —— second highest death toll
highest -- second highest death toll in the
highest —— second highest death toll in the world after Italy.
And Austria has announced plans to ease some coronavirus
restrictions, as many countries consider how to move
on from lockdowns to a new phase in fighting the pandemic.
Our first report on the situation here in the UK comes
from our political correspondent Chris Mason.
The man charged with leading the country’s response to this virus
is experiencing the unpleasant reality of it.
It was a week last Friday that we heard the Prime
Minister had coronavirus.
Hi, folks, I want to bring you up to speed with something
that’s happening today, which is that I have developed
mild symptoms of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature
and a persistent cough.
And on the advice of the Chief Medical Officer,
I have taken a test, that has come out positive,
so I am working from home.
I’m self isolating.
Number 10 made it clear BorisJohnson would continue to work
remotely from his Downing Street flat, and he chaired
what he described as the first ever digital cabinet meeting
from self isolation.
Last Thursday night, he joined millions of others
in expressing his gratitude to those working in the health service.

Citation: BBC News, 09:00 06/04/2020, BBC News 24, 120 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/15CFEDA6?bcast=131648418 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)