Very windy across the far north of Scotland,
otherwise the winds are lighter once again to end the week.
And those temperatures six degrees or
so for the northern half of the UK, still potentially double
figures in the sunshine in the south—east of England.
Now, once those weather fronts and those showers build away,
we’ve got this area of high pressure arriving from the Atlantic.
That’s the high pressure that I was talking about.
That’s going to stick around for a while.
We’ve still got some cooler winds, some stronger winds
blowing in across Scotland, perhaps Northern Ireland, northern England.
There’ll be some sunshine, there’ll be a few showers,
again wintry over the high ground in Scotland.
But elsewhere, it should be dry. Closer to the high pressure,
those temperatures typically six to eight degrees.
We may well start with a frost, actually, on Saturday morning,
and there could be a frost on Sunday morning, as well.
That’s because that high pressure is becoming more dominant,
always hanging on to some stronger winds across
Scotland, I suspect, even on Sunday.
But it looks like it will be dry for many parts of the country.
After a chilly start, it should be quite a sunny day, I think,
for the second half of the weekend once again.
But those temperatures again typically at six or seven.
Notice it’s milder in the far north—west of Scotland.
Now, this is thejet—stream pattern as we head into the early
part of next week, and with that sort of pattern
and that undulation, so we see an area of high pressure.
That’s going to be dominant for the first half of the week,
but there’s a strengthening jet moving across the Atlantic.
But for the early part of next week, Monday, Tuesday,
perhaps into Wednesday, for much of the country it’ll be dry,
a little bit chilly, maybe not quite so frosty at night.
Some uncertainty as to how strong the wind will get.
But from Wednesday onwards,
with that stronger jet stream propagating across the Atlantic,
our weather goes more zonal, and by that I mean it gets more changeable.
The winds start to pick up, there’ll be sunshine
and showers interspersed with bands of rain. 50 it changes,
and the high pressure doesn’t look like it will last.
If the high pressure is further north,
it may last a little bit longer.
We’re expecting from Wednesday things to change once again.
You can’t stop the future.
It’s already here.
2020 is the start of a new era.
Yesterday’s heroes, today’s benchmark.
The rising stars have been set ablaze...
Role models with a new role.
They’re taking over.
This new generation aren’t just here to play the game,
they’re here to raise it.
I’m the midwife in charge.
You’re unwell and we can help.
MUSIC: Turn! Turn! Turn! by the Byrds
The lift has got stuck. Could you please get help?
It’s the incubator fund for the maternity home.
You should be doing a fashion show.
Ow! Mrs Blair, your baby is coming.
We’re from the Saint Marie Police.
The victim is Donna Harman. She’s an artist.
There was something wrong about those two.
They brought out something in each other. Something really dark.
Sir, we’ve got another body.
I wasn’t expecting to meet anyone.
I really would like to get to know you some more.
Brand—new. ..
something cooler and something that’s gradually going to become
that’s gradually going to become more settled as we head onto
more settled as we head onto the weekend. 50 will start to see
weekend. So will start to see some sunshine
weekend. 50 will start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern
sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland, cooling here. England and
Ireland, cooling here. England and Walas,
Ireland, cooling here. England and Wales, thanks to those
Wales, thanks to those weather fronts, but also was scattering of
fronts, but also was scattering of showers, some of which will be
showers, some of which will be quite heavy. But notice the template
heavy. But notice the template is. The single figure values will even
The single figure values will even be across the South in the
be across the South in the south—east as well. So 5—9d. That
south-east as well. So 5-9d. That cool air
south—east as well. So 5—9d. That cool air invades across the whole
cool air invades across the whola country then
cool air invades across the whole country then late on Friday and
country then late on Friday and into the weekend. But, with high pressure
the weekend. But, with high pressure building in, it looks like
building in, it looks like conditions will settle down. So
conditions will settle down. So that we ran really
conditions will settle down. So that we can really will feel colder, but
we ran really will feel colder, but at least
we can really will feel colder, but at least it will be largely dry
at least it will be largely dry thanks to high pressure with
thanks to high pressure with light winds. Some sunshine around, but
winds. Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight
also a return to some overnight frosts.
I’m Kasia Madera with BBC World News.
Our top story: Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing—wen has told the BBC,
in an exclusive interview, that China needs to face reality
and show the island respect.
She was re—elected for a second term on Saturday, winning by a landslide
after a campaign in which she focused heavily on the rising
threat from Beijing.
The impeachment of Donald Trump finally moves forward.
The House of Representatives will vote on Wednesday to send
the charges against the President to the Senate, as both sides prepare
for a trial that could start in days.
And highly unusual wedding pictures are doing well on our website.
Of a couple getting married in the Philippines, just as the Taal
volcano came to life in the background.
They were only 10 kilometres away, but felt safe as the venue
was on higher ground.
That’s all.
Stay with BBC World News.
Now on BBC News — Hardtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
Though the fear of imminent war has receded, the Middle East has been
profoundly destabilised by the American assassination
of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani.
The unfolding US—Iran conflict will impact the whole not least
Iraq, where the Iranians are intent on hastening the end of America
military presence.
Much now depends on the strategic vision of the Trump administration.
My guest, Douglas Silliman, was US Ambassador in Iraq
until one year ago.
Does Trump have a strategy?
If so, what is it?
Ambassador Doug Silliman in Washington, DC,
welcome to HARDtalk.
Steven, I’m very happy to be here.
Well, you have a very special perspective of what’s happened over
the past ten days or so as the last retiring Ambassador in Baghdad,
you leftjust one year ago.
From your perspective, does the assassination
of Qasem Soleimani in Baghdad appear to you both lawful and wise?
I must say first of all, I’m not going to address
the question of whether it is lawful or unlawful because I’m not
an expert in international law or a particularly
good diplomatic historian.
Looking at this from the standpoint of President Trump and the Trump
administration, he seems to prefer shaking up the situation to see how
the chips fall and then try to make things go his way on the back end.
I think certainly with the killing of Qasem Soleimani, and also
the killing of the chief Iranian Lieutenant, Abu Mahdi
al—Muhandis, inside Iraq, he has certainly shuffled the deck
and made things a little bit more
interesting on the back end.
Shuffle the deck, you say — it’s a metaphor that implies
gambling.
Do you regard this move as a high—risk gamble?
I don’t know if this is a high—risk gamble,
because there’s certainly a lot of reason why an American
administration would want to take out Qasem Soleimani.
Especially since the US invasion of Iraq in 2003,
Soleimani has driven the Iranian expansion into Iraq,
into Syria, into Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan to some
extent and has consolidated the control of the Revolutionary
Guards inside Iran and planted sleeper cells and trained rebels
in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and other places in the region.
He has been one of the most destabilising figures and has
certainly been the mastermind behind the post—2003 hegemonic Iranian
expansion into the region and support for Lebanese Hezbollah.
So he was a very high level target to take out,
and I think Iranian strategy and probably some
of their implementation will suffer without him at the helm.
Interesting you rate it as that significant and I want to get back
to Soleimani and indeed the wider Iranian influence in Iraq a little
later in the interview, but one more point on the issue of lawfulness.
You very carefully say it’s really not for you to judge the lawfulness
or not, I would put it to you that as a US Ambassador long—standing,
it really does matter to you and now your successor
in Baghdad this question of whether it’s legal or not.
You are there not as Donald Trump’s representative but a representative
of the US government, a government that prides itself
by its abiding by international rules, international law.
When you hear the UN special raconteur on extrajudicial
executions, Agnes Callamard, concluding that in this case
the test of legality or illegality is unlikely to be met,
i.e it looks illegal to her, you must be worried, musn’t you?
I’m worried about the reputation of the United States but frankly
the reputation of the United States is still going to be shaky given
the policies of the Trump administration in many other places
in the world.
The reality is there’s also a strong argument to made for self—defence,
and that’s the argument the American administration is making.
I am personally aware from my time serving as a US diplomat
of what Qasem Soleimani and some of the groups he supported
and trained in Iraq and elsewhere have done to try to target American
diplomats, American servicemembers and other coalition members serving
in Iraq and in other places in the region.
I’m quite certain he was behind the escalating attacks in 2019,
the attacks on shipping outside the Strait of Hormuz,
attacks on Saudi civilian infrastructure, the downing
of an American drone and the attacks on Abqaiq,
the Saudi Arabian oil processing centre.
So there are a number of reasons how you can define this
as an act of self—defence.
Ambassador, if I may say so, when you put it like that it
makes me wonder why the Americans sat back so long and allowed
Qasem Soleimani to build his expansionist network inside Iraq.
You were sitting there as Ambassador for more than two years.
Were you constantly telling Washington they should be addressing
in really serious terms what Soleimani was building
inside Iraq with all of those popular militias, the popular
mobilisation units, the Shia forces at his disposal.
Should America have acted sooner?
I was telling Washington absolutely the threat I saw both to American
policy and America citizens serving in Iraq from the Iranian supported
Shia militias.
I will not paint the entire Popular Mobilization Forces units
with the same brush.
There are some that were very responsive to Soleimani and Tehran,
and there were others who are more Iraqi nationalist and even some
of the units were trained by the coalition military and later
absorbed into the Popular Mobilization Forces.
A number of Shia militias, most of them predated the rise
of Isis, and many of them cut their teeth in fighting American
forces in Iraq between 2008 and 2011, forming the backbone
of Soleimani’s Iraqi proxy forces.
They have been dangerous for a long time, and I was absolutely telling
Washington that they were dangerous.
How difficult is it as an Ambassador to represent a government that seems
so chaotic in its thinking?
Donald Trump in the last 48 hours has said he had direct information,
there were four attacks in train under Soleimani’s guidance on four
different embassies in the region.
The Defence Secretary, Mark Esper, said he didn’t see
any such evidence.
You’ve been at the sharp end working for the Trump administration
as an Ambassador, how difficult is it to make sense of what goes
on in Washington?
I would also say the Trump administration is not the first
administration that had contradictions, and as an Ambassador
or a morejunior diplomat, I generally triangulated different
statements and try to walk down the middle to try to make sure
I captured the message Washington was trying to convey.
What about when the message isn’t clear at all?
What about when the President is speaking off—the—cuff,
random quotes that don’t seem totally with the intelligence
and information coming from other parts of the security establishment.
What do you do then?
Well, in that case you go to the basic point that underlies
what everyone is saying, Qasem Soleimani and Iranian
supported forces and Iranian forces in some cases pose a danger
to American and coalition forces in Iraq and in the region,
and likely to American diplomats in embassies in the region as well.
Let us now consider what next in Iraq.
It’s a political situation you know very well.
You will have seen the acting Prime Minister, Adil Abdul—Mahdi,
has said this egregious violation of Iraq’s sovereignty must be met
with a response and he supports the parliamentary vote to expel US
troops from Iraqi soil.
Do you think that’s going to happen?
It’s a very good question and I honestly do not know yet.
I will also note when the Iraqi parliament took its vote,
theoretically there were 170 votes to zero, but nearly that many
members of the Parliament, mostly Kurdish and Sunni members,
but also some Shia members, boycotted the session
because they did not agree with the vote that was being taken.
I also heard many allegations of threats of physical harm to MPs
who did not come and vote for the resolution to ask
the Prime Minister to ask coalition forces to leave.
What you have seen since that vote is statements by prominent
politicians in the Kurdistan, a number of Sunnis and a couple
of fears in support of a continued coalition military presence,
focused on fighting Isis and focused on training and professionalising
the mainline Iraqi security forces, i.e the air force
and the counterterrorism forces.
You talk about the focus on the Islamic State group
but the truth is the 5,000 or so military personnel in Iraq
are completely hamstrung.
They have bunkered down and they are focused
on their own forced rejection, such is their own insecurity in Iraq
today, and they certainly aren’t doing any counter IS operations
in conjunction with the Iraqi military, who they don’t
seem to trust.
That entire IS strategy lies in ruins today.
I would actually take issue with your statement that the Iraqi
army or the US army do not trust the Iraqi army.
What you have in Iraq unfortunately is security forces that are split
in the middle.
You’ve got the mainline forces — the army, the air force
and the navy, and the counterterrorism service,
largely supplied and trained and mentored by coalition forces.
Then you have the Popular Mobilization Forces,
which have been dominated by Iran and Qasem Soleimani
throughout this period.
The impression I get from people who are still in Baghdad
is the personal and cooperative relationships between coalition
military and the Iraqi military remain strong.
There is, however, more tension with the Popular Mobilization Forces
forces, especially those more tied with Qasem Soleimani.
With respect...
No, no, to answeryour question, the violence of the past week
and a half has constrained what the Nato mission
and what the coalition has been able to do,
and it is incumbent upon the Prime Minister
and the Iraqi government to put in place methods to protect
coalition forces from attacks from other parts
of the Iraqi security forces.
This is an issue with which I’ve been most frustrated
throughout my period, both under the Obama administration
and Trump administration — the unwillingness or inability
of the Iraqi government to challenge the expansion of these Shia militias
to conduct activities, use force separate from the command
structure of Iraq with the Prime Minister at the top.
Surely another frustration is the apparent contradiction
in a US strategy which needs a strong relationship with the Iraqi
government, which of course right now is still headed up by acting
prime minister Adil Abdul—Mahdi.
And at the same time, Donald Trump has started issuing
threats toward the acting prime minister and his government,
saying that if they couldn’t make good on any attempt to remove forces
from Iraq, then the most punitive sanctions the Iraqis had ever seen
will be imposed.
And we’ve got one source today talking about the Americans telling
the acting prime minister’s office that the US is countenancing
blocking Iraqi’s account at the Federal Reserve Bank
in New York, which would effectively completely destroyed
Iraq’s oil economy.
What on earth is going on here?
What does Donald Trump want from the Iraqis?
Does he want to be their friend, or does he now see them as an enemy?
On the economic front, the Iraqi government has been
cooperating with the US treasury to prevent the flow of dollars
into Iran, as part of the sanctions, because we are afraid that
especially the Quds Force and the Revolution Guards use
the hard currency they earn to expand their activities
into and outside of the region.
Iraq has been very cooperative, and we think relatively few dollars
have gone into Iran from Iraq.
Now that I’m outside the administration, I don’t
want to speak of it too much.
But I know that when I was doing myjob in Baghdad,
we were concerned that if the cooperation of the Iraqi
treasury or the Iraqi central bank ended, it would be much easier
for Iran to get dollars to Iraq.
And I think that is one of the main fears.
Because the goal of Iran, of Soleimani, was not only
a security goal.
I mean, you keep telling me about all the concerns you had
as ambassador, and that continue,
about Iran’s various leverages inside Iraq.
Is it not your concern and the truth that the killing of Qasem Soleimani
has actually strengthened Iran’s hand in Iraq?
It has made it much more difficult for your US troop
presence to continue.
It has made it more difficult for those allies
of the United States inside Iraq to have their voices heard.
And what we see is an Iran which over the next few months
and years has every prospect of projecting more power
and control over Iraq.
What I think the killing of Qasem Soleimani has done has
a short—term impact that is sort of what you describe.
It is clear that those in Iraq who would like to see
a continuation, an increase, of Iranian influence in the country
now have more enthusiasm for that point.
It also has a short—term benefit to — or I should say provides
an opportunity to an Iraqi government that wants to be more
independent of Tehran, and for an international community
that would prefer to see Iraq plugged into the world community
and the world economy more effectively.
Let me tell you why.
Qasem Soleimani and his Iraqi lieutenant, Muhandis,
both accelerated expansion of Iranian influence,
attacks on coalition and other forces, and support for Shia
militias in Iraq.
They were also a brake on those activities when Tehran
and especially Soleimani saw that to be to the benefit of Iran.
What happened through Tehran, to Soleimani, to Muhandis,
I suspect what you will see inside Iraq over the coming year
or two will be something akin to a power struggle.
The Shia militias in Iraq are not unified.
They are made up of individual commanders, often brigade—sized
units, who have now lost their recognised command structure,
and I think they will now begin to struggle and jostle
for predominance among this group.
One thing seems clear, that as a result, again,
of the Soleimani assassination, Tehran is now intent on pushing
ahead with its nuclear programme.
They haven’t formally left the international agreement,
the so—called JCPOA, but they are now enriching uranium
to new levels.
They are to all intents and purposes back on the nuclear weapons
track — agree?
I think this is in fact correct, and there are actually three points
I want to make.
All of what has taken place in the past two weeks has shuffled
the deck, as I said, but it has not resolved any
of the underlying issues.
From the standpoint of Washington, and largely from the West,
there are still three big issues that Iran continues.
One is a support for proxy forces in the region.
The second is the now lack of commitment to theJCPOA,
the nuclear agreement.
And the third is Iran’s development and deployment of ballistic
missiles, and you saw the strategic use of Iranian ballistic missiles
in the attacks on coalition forces last week.
From the Iranian side, you still have the United States,
which is outside theJCPOA, and you have a United States
which hass not only supporting sanctions, but last week secretary
of state Pompeo and secretary of the treasury Mnuchin doubled down
on sanctions and imposed a number of other sanctions.
So the underlying questions and the reasons for the tension
will remain there.
But, if I may, I want to keep this as simple as possible.
Itjust seems to me and to many observers around the world
there is still a fundamental contradiction, a deep confusion,
in Trump’s strategic vision for Iran and the wider Mid East region.
And David Singer of the New York Times put it very well
the other day.
He said Mr Trump has yet to resolve the two conflicting instincts
that he has on national security.
That is, on the one hand, bellicosity, and on the other hand,
desire for disengagement.
So for you, as a 35—year—long diplomat who is recently out
of Baghdad, which is driving a strategic vision here?
Is it the gut bellicosity of Trump, or is it the desire,
as he has said so many times, to get US forces out of this
Mid East sand, where so much blood has been shed for so little?
Which is it?
I think it’s fundamentally the difficulty that the Trump
administration has in following and articulating a consistent set
of goals that they want to see on Iran.
The three that Ijust mentioned, ballistic missiles, nuclear weapons,
and support for proxies, are always in the mix.
But there are other members of the administration,
and I am not certain whether President Trump fits
in that, who would like to see regime change.
Although last week President Trump said very clearly in public remarks
that he did not seek regime change in Iran,
I think that there are still people in the administration hoping that
pressure on the Iranian economy, and perhaps now pressure
on the Quds Force and the military, will result in a revolution
from within, inside Iran.
If I may say so, Ambassador, that’s a very interesting answer,
‘cause you have just revealed to me your very deep confusion.
Because you have just left government, let’s not say
the administration, but you’ve been in Baghdad for a long time
representing the US government.
It sounds to me like you are deeply, deeply confused about who is really
driving policy in the White House, and what that strategy is.
Well, the day after, I believe, last week President Trump said
I do not seek regime change, former national security adviser
John Bolton tweeted that he supported regime change.
And if I were in Tehran, and I was not getting a consistent
message from Washington that we do not seek to pull down
the regime, I would be very reluctant to go into any
sort of negotiations.
I would also say that it appears to me that the Trump administration
seeks Iranian capitulation under pressure.
As I’ve said a couple of times in the media,
economic sanctions are a tactic.
They are not a strategy or a goal.
And I’m struggling to find out, what does the Trump administration
hope to achieve at the end of this road?
If it wishes negotiations, does it want to do negotiations
in conjunction with our traditional allies, as we did in theJCPOA,
plus the Security Council members?
Do we seek a smaller group?
And what is in it for Iran if they engage in negotiations?
Because the Trump administration has been unable to articulate
what the end result, the benefit for Iran would be,
were they to engage in serious negotiations on the three issues
I mentioned.
You say you are struggling to really comprehend
what the Trump endgame is.
Many other diplomats have quit, saying that they can no longer serve
a President that they don’t really respect, in terms of the way
he conducts foreign policy.
I’m mindful that Bill Burns served 35 years in the state department
and in diplomacy, just the same way you did with your 35 years,
and he left saying this.
He said, I’ve never seen an attack on diplomacy as damaging
as what we have seen under the Trump administration.
Notjust on the state department as an institution,
but our international influence.
Did you leave feeling the same, and is that frankly why
you were pleased to leave government?
I think that the Trump administration came in in 2017 not
quite knowing what to do with the state department.
First of all, the way that we are structured,
if you look at the top, with ambassadors, ambassadors
are the personal representatives of the presidents that appoint them,
as well as the representatives of the United States.
And I think that President Trump felt that all of the ambassadors
appointed by President Obama really represented Obama,
and did not represent him.
So you have seen a replacement of a lot of ambassadors,
and the departure of a lot of people, even though
they were career diplomats, who had been in senior positions
in the Obama administration.
So I think some of that is Trump not believing that a cadre of diplomats,
of civil servants who are committed to the constitution,
would be as committed to him as he would like,
and I think he wanted to see more of his own people in senior
positions at the state department.
And, to put it bluntly, were you glad to get out?
I should say I’m very happy now, being in the private sector,
and I enjoy the opportunity for the first time in 35 years
to say what I actually believe, as opposed to having to speak only
on behalf of the United States.
So I’ve found a bit of freedom in leaving the US government.
All right, well, ambassador Douglas Silliman, I thank you very
much indeed for being on HARDtalk.
Stephen, thank you very much.
It was a pleasure.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland.
with further heavy showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be happy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, eight or nine
in the south, 3 little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure is hurtling into Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we will see some of the heaviest of the rain,
too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head into the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
cooling here, England and Wales, thanks to those weather fronts,
but also a scattering of showers, some of which will be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
I’m Mariko Oi in Singapore, the headlines:
After her resounding election victory, Taiwan’s President
Tsai Ing—Wen tells the BBC China needs to "face reality".
A very strong message for the people of Taiwan.
That is, they don’t like the idea of being threatened all the time.
—— from the people of Taiwan.
The impeachment charges against President Trump
will be sent to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
I’m Kasia Madera in London.
Also in the programme:
Also in the programme:
The royal couple are welcome in Canada,
but the details of Prince Harry and Meghan’s new lives
are proving tricky.
And why this 91—year—old teacher in India
began her career at an age when most people have long retired.
Good morning.
It’s iam in London, 9am in Singapore and Taipei where Taiwan’s newly
re—elected President, Tsai Ing—Wen, says China needs to face reality
and respect the will of Taiwanese people.
Speaking exclusively to the BBC, President Tsai said the threat
from China, which considers the self—governing island as part
of its territory, was intensifying.
She was speaking to our China correspondent, John Sudworth.
Hello, President Tsai.
How do you expect them to react? This is a very strong message from
This is a very strong message from the people of Taiwan. That is they
the peopla of Taiwan. That is they don’t like
the people of Taiwan. That is they don’t like the idea of being
don’t like the idea of being threatened all the time.
We’re a successful democracy.
We have a pretty decent economy.
You know, we deserve respect from China.
You spoke after the result about your hope that they could be a
your hope that they could be a return to dialogue. What could you
return to dialogue. what could you offer Beijing
return to dialogue. What could you offer Beijing that might, in your
offer Beijing that might, in your view, open that door a little? I
view, open that door a littla? I think it
view, open that door a littia? I think it is
view, open that door a little? I think it is for the Chinese to have
think it is for the Chinese to have this preparedness to face reality.
this preparedness to face reality. That is the key. If they are not
That is the key. If they are not prepared to face reality, whatever
prepared to face reality, whatever we offer, won’t be satisfying
we offer, won’t be satisfying to them. why
we offer, won’t be satisfying to them. Why do you think China was
them. why do you think China was such an
them. Why do you think China was such an issue for voters? Over the
such an issue for voters? Over the last more than three years, we have
last more than three years, we have seen that China has been
seen that China has been intensifying its threat. They have
intensifying its threat. They have also actions, military exercises,
also actions, military exercises, and they have military vessels,
and they have military vessels, aircraft, cruising around the island
aircraft, cruising around the island and also with the things happening
and also with the things happening in Hong Kong. People get a real
in Hong Kong. People get a real sense that this threat is real and
sense that this threat is real and it is getting more and more serious.
it is getting more and more serious. without
it is getting more and more serious. Without an expression of good faith
without an expression of good faith on your side
Without an expression of good faith on your side and this is what your
on your side and this is what your critis say, that
on your side and this is what your critics say, that you are, in a way,
critis say, that you are, in a way, inviting China to
critics say, that you are, in a way, inviting China to react in a way
inviting China to react in a way that it is. I have been rather
that it is. I have been rather reasonable in terms of managing our
reasonabla in terms of managing our relationship
reasonable in terms of managing our relationship with China and we have
relationship with China and we have been friend —— refrain from doing
been friend -- refrain from doing things that
been friend —— refrain from doing things that make me be considered as
things that make me be considered as provocative to China, despite that
provocative to China, despite that there is so much pressure here that
there is so much pressure here that we should go further but in the last
we should go further but in the last more than three years, we have been
more than three years, we have been telling China that maintaining
telling China that maintaining status quo is remaining to be our
stems quo is remaining to be our policy. I
stems quo is remaining to be our policy. Ithink
status quo is remaining to be our policy. I think that is a very
policy. I think that is a very friendly gesture to China. Are you,
friendly gesture to China. Are you, in principle, at least, in favour of
in principle, at least, in favour of the idea of a formal Taiwanese
the idea of a formal Taiwanese independence? We don’t have the need
independence? We don’t have the need to declare ourselves an independent
to declare ourselves an independent state. We are an independent
state. We are an independent country. Already. We call ourselves
country. Already. We all ourselves Repubﬁc
country. Already. We all ourselves Republic of
country. Already. We call ourselves Republic of China, Taiwan, and we do
Republic of China, Taiwan, and we do have government. We have a military.
have government. We have a military. And we have elections. You spoke
And we have elections. You spoke about the rising threat from China.
about the rising threat from China. How serious in your view is the risk
How serious in your view is the risk of war today? You cannot exclude the
of war today? You cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time,
possibility of a war at any time, but, the thing is, you have to get
but, the thing is, you have to get yourself prepared and developed the
yourself prepared and developed the ability to defend yourself. But in
ability to defend yourself. But in addition to this military
addition to this military preparedness, what is more important
preparedness, what is more important is that you have to get
is that you have to get international support for your
international support for your rause.
international support for your cause. Do you believe you would be
cause. Do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military
able to stand up to a military action? I do think we have a pretty
action? I do think we have a pretty decent capability here. Invading
decent capability here. Invading Taiwan is something that is going to
Taiwan is something that is going to be very costly for China.
Taiwan’s newly re—elected President, Tsai Ing—Wen.
And we’ll get reaction to that interview in just a moment.
In other news, the impeachment trial of Donald Trump
has moved a step closer.
The Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, says a vote on sending
articles of impeachment to the Senate, will take
place on Wednesday.
The House will also vote on their impeachment managers,
that’s the Democratic team which will act as prosecutors.
Our correspondent Peter Bowes has more.
It looks like there have been some behind—the—scenes discussions
between the Democrats and Republicans after this three
week delay in sending the articles of impeachment from the House
of Representatives over to the Senate.
There are no guarantees on this crucial issue
as to whether they will be witnesses during the trial
or whether there will be additional documents shown to senators
during the trial.
These are issues that the Democrats feel strongly about although there
is the possibility of that happening.
It seems that the Republicans want opening statements of the trial
which is likely to happen early next week, probably next Tuesday
and at some point, maybe a couple of weeks into the trial,
there is likely to be a vote on whether there
will be some witnesses.
What about these impeachment managers Peter?
Impeachment managers chosen by the Democrats...
Imagine this is a criminal trial which it isn’t,
this is a political, political platform.
It isn’t a criminal trial in the sense that you would get
in a court of law.
Imagine it was, the managers will be the prosecutors.
They will be chosen by the Democrats.
They will go in at the Senate and the senators will hear the case
against the President.
They will do so as set out by impeachment managers.
Also making news today:
The UK, France and Germany have triggered an official dispute
process over violations of the Iran nuclear deal.
It’s the first step in a long process which could result in harsh
international sanctions being reimposed.
But the Europeans have stressed they want to preserve the agreement.
UK Prime Minister BorisJohnson said the deal could be replaced
by another one, negotiated by President Donald Trump.
At least 25 people have been injured after an airliner
apparently dumped fuel near a school
as it was approaching Los Angeles airport.
Officials say 17 children and nine adults were treated.
It happened at about the same time as a Delta Air Lines plane returned
to the airport after declaring an emergency shortly after takeoff.
The US Federal Aviation Administration says it’s looking
into reports that children are being treated for fuel exposure.
And would you ‘bung 3 bob for the Big Ben bongs’?
The British government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign
could be launched to raise money for Big Ben to chime on Brexit day.
The hell is currently being restored and it would cost half a million
pounds to ‘bring the bongs back’ on January the 31st.
Authorities are warning that the Taal volcano
in the Philippines could spew lava and ash
for weeks to come.
There’s also still the impending danger of an explosive eruption.
This latest warning from the authorities
leaves more than 20,000 people who fled the area in limbo.
Taal is situated on an island in the middle of a lake
and the declaration of a state of calamity still stands.
Earlier I spoke to Dr Renato Solidum,
head of the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology —
who gave me a detailed analysis of the eruption.
That volcano is still erupting, although the eruption looms not
as tall as the ten to 15 kilometre from
the first day.
It is still as high as one kilometre or less.
In the meantime, while the eruption is ongoing, residents would feel
earthquakes from time to time as hundreds of earthquakes erupt
in the vicinity due to the fact that we
think magma is still intruding from below and that produces
the earthquake and also a fissuring of the ground as it is deformed due
to the magma intrusion.
Are there any clues from the past eruptions
about what could happen next?
We have seen in the 1911 and 175A eruptions that prior
to the eruption, there were signs of large earthquake events and also
fissuring of the ground.
Similar to this, the fact that we have been
monitoring this large earthquake events on Sunday prompted us
to raise the alert level to four which warns
residents of possible hazardous eruption.
This is the fact that we are seen as in past
eruptions.
Is it fair to say though that it is quite difficult
to predict the volcano activity in the
ring of fire?
The Taal Volcano itself, so many styles of eruption.
What we’re trying to do at our alert system scheme is to make
sure that the people understand the level of activity that can
actually produce more dangerous and hazardous
eruptions.
Sometimes, it is very difficult to say when this
would exactly happen.
We’re trying to do is tell the public about the condition
of the volcano that matches the most likely activity in the future
and correspondingly, with the local government officials
to have actions that would make sure the people are at a safe distance
within the occurrence of the more hazardous explosions.
Although there is some unpredictability, we are flexible
enough to make sure that the alert level would ensure
the highest, conservative warning.
For people to be safe.
Canada’s Prime Minister says more talks are needed over who pays
for Prince Harry and Meghan’s security, given their planned move
to the country.
Justin Trudeau revealed that discussions are going on over
whether Canadian taxpayers will foot the bill.
On Monday the Queen agreed to a ‘period of transition’
for the couple, after they said they wanted to step back
from royal duties.
Our Royal Correspondent, Nicholas Witchell reports.
A new direction has been agreed.
Less than 20 months since their wedding,
the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Harry and Meghan, have been given
the go—ahead by the Queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans
to move out and to base themselves in part in Canada.
Harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
His Invictus Games was staged in Toronto in 2017, and Meghan lived
there for seven years as an actress.
There will be questions about their tax and immigration
status, but Canada’s Prime Minister appeared to be offering
a cautious welcome.
I think most Canadians are very supportive of having,
you know, royals be here.
But how that looks and what kind of costs are involved,
there’s still lots of discussions to have.
Here in Britain, the Prime Minister declined to offer a public view
on the Sussexes’ move.
I’m absolutely confident that they are going to
sort this out.
And do you know what?
I think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier
without any particular commentary from me.
Meghan believes she has been badly treated by the British media.
She is suing the Mail on Sunday over its publication of a letter
she wrote to her estranged father.
In its court submission, published today, the paper says...
To which Meghan might respond, from now on, I will not perform
royal duties, and it is our intention not
to receive public money.
But royal duties are what the royal family does.
Prince William was at Buckingham Palace today, bestowing honours.
It mis a staple of royal life, the life to which the Queen has
devoted herself, but from which Harry now wishes
to break free.
It is a parting over which the royal family feels great regret,
coupled with realism.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
Still to come on the programme:
We meet the 91—year—old who has no plans to
retire from teaching.
Also on the programme:
One of the world’s rarest eagles arrives in Singapore
in an effort to save them from extinction.
Day one of Operation Desert Storm to force the Iraqis out of Kuwait
has seen the most intense air attack since the Second World War.
Tobacco is America’s oldest industry and one of its biggest,
but the industry is nervous of this report.
This may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
There is not a street that is unaffected.
Huge parts of Kobe were simply demolished,
as buildings crashed into one another.
This woman said she had been given no help and no advice
by the authorities.
She stood outside the ruins of her business.
Tens of thousands of black children in South Africa have taken advantage
of laws passed by the country’s new multiracial government
and enrolled at formerly white schools.
Tonight sees the 9,610th performance
of the long—running play, The Mousetrap.
When they heard about her death today,
the management considered whether to cancel tonight’s performance,
but Agatha Christie would have been the last person
to want such a thing.
This is Newsday on the BBC.
I’m Mariko Oi in Singapore.
I’m Kasia Madera in London.
Our top stories:
In an exclusive interview, Taiwan’s newly elected president
tells the BBC the island is already independent and there’s no need
to declare it formally in comments likely to anger Beijing.
The impeachment charges against President Trump
will be sent to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
Let’s take a look at some front pages from around the world.
The Philippine Star leads on the volcano eruption —
there President Duterte has declared Taal Volcano Island no man’s land
after the volcano exploded on Sunday afternoon.
The New York Times has a story about the ongoing MeToo Movement —
AshleyJudd was one of the first women to accuse Harvery Weinstein
of sexual misconduct — but her account was too
old to bring to court.
And finally The Strait Times leads with the story that firms
in Singapore are to face stronger penalties for discrimination.
Politicianjosephine Teo said: In places where the workforce
is multinational — perceptions of discrimination
against locals are particularly toxic.
Let’s get more on our top story now the exclusive interview
with Taiwan’s newly elected president.
Our correspondent Cindy Sui is in Taipei.
Well, her critics would say that she is not only playing a risky
game, but also an irresponsible and dishonest game.
Because, while she asked Beijing to face the reality about Taiwan,
she’s actually not letting the world know of another reality,
which is that under her predecessor, relations were at the best
they were since the end of the civil war.
But she actually changed the status quo, which brought
about all the military, political and economic
pressures from Beijing.
And she changed the status quo by not accepting the one China
concept, under which, actually, her predecessor defined it
as the Republic of China, which is Taiwan’s official name.
So the two sides can actually define that one China the way they want,
and that was the solution to this very difficult issue
of Taiwan’s sovereignty.
But President Tsai has turned out that option.
She doesn’t accept that option, and many believe it’s
because her party stands for formal independence.
They don’t really like the Republic of China.
They see it as a colonial government that came overfrom mainland China
at the end of the Chinese civil war.
There is still a lot of historical resentment against the Republic
of China, and she is tapping into that.
Even though actually less than 30% of the population,
according to government polls, support formal independence,
most people are happy with the status quo.
Cindy, one thing briefly, if you would.
She stressed to John that Taiwan is growing more distinct from China.
Is that something that you are experiencing?
Can you see that?
Well, because of China’s actions, which have not been good,
of course, we all see that, in their own country and around
the world, and also the political — the politics in Taiwan,
that has actually fuelled a growing sense of Taiwanese identity.
So many more people now define themselves as Taiwanese instead
of Taiwanese and Chinese.
But she is also fuelling these sentiments, and many of her critics
say that there is a much better solution, which is to put aside
the differences between the two sides and just use the agreement
that I have just mentioned, where they each define China
as the way they wish, and build good relations,
and build peace and prosperity between the two sides.
They believe that is a much more responsible action,
and they have urged her to take it.
But I don’t think that she is going to go down that path.
That was simply speaking a little bit earlier and you can read more
bit eartier and you ran read more about john’s
bit earlier and you can read more aboutJohn’s exclusive interview
about john’s exclusive interview with
aboutJohn’s exclusive interview with the newly re—elected president
with the newly re-elected president on the
with the newly re—elected president on the website.
Have you heard of the Philippines Eagle?
It’s one of the world’s rarest raptors and there are just 400 pairs
left in the wild.
To try and save the species from extinction, two eagles have
been loaned to Singapore — the first breeding pair to ever
leave the Philippines.
Dr Luis Carlos Neves is Director of Zoology
for Wildlife Reserves Singapore.
He said these eagles have passports because they are VIP birds of prey.
They are extremely rare birds, and they are the national bird
of the Philippines, as well.
So when these two birds came to us, they actually came as ambassadors
for the species, and for the conservation programme,
so that definitely warrants them having their own passports,
which came with them when they came to us lastJune.
But, in all seriousness, why are there only 400 pairs left?
Well, the Philippine eagle is what we call an apex predator.
It’s a very large bird, bird of prey, one of the biggest
eagles in the world, and they need very large territories.
With all the fragmentation of habitat happening
in the Philippines, there is less and less space for each pair
to actually establish themselves.
And there’s also quite a bit of pressure from hunting,
so even the birds that actually manage to breed in the wild,
not all of the offspring actually survive.
So, in time, the numbers have gone down to 400.
So a very structured conservation and breeding programme started
in the Philippines first, and then we were lucky enough
and honoured to actually be the first partner outside
the Philippines to receive Sam, an injured eagle who came
to us last year.
And how optimistic are you that you will be successful?
And, if they manage to succeed, what happens next?
So we are quite confident we can get them to breed.
Philippine eagles do need to have some compatibility first.
So the females are bigger, and they can be quite dominant.
So right now Sam is being a bit of a lady.
She is kind of trying to push her partner aside.
So we’re hoping that by the next breeding season,
which is September, we can put them together,
and whatever offspring chicks we can get from them can go back
to the Philippines and be back into the wild.
Let’s hope so. . Nikki is a hugely popular make up artist and she has
popular make up artist and she has 12 million use YouTube subscribers
12 million use YouTube subscribers that is used to being around social
that is used to being around social media. In a very emotional post, she
media. In a very emotional post, she has come out as transgender and her
has come out as transgender and her fans have been reacting and they
fans have been reacting and they have been extremely supportive and
have been extremely supportive and have been champing her bravery. ——
have been champing her bravery. -- championing.
While most people are retiring, would you start
a new career as a teacher at the age of 67?
And how about continuing in the job until the age of 91?
Well that’s exactly what Lakshmi Sen from India has done.
We caught up with her at her school in Bangalore.
CLASS: Good morning, Ma’am.
I never worked, so I had all the energy, even to do it
at the age of 67.
Ijust wanted to get out and meet people.
19A8, this is...
First of all, I myself had all these aspirations.
First of all, I myself had all these aspirations.
I wanted to become a doctor and look after sick people,
but in those days, the girls had very, very limited rights.
But half the dream is being fulfilled, isn’t it?
But half the dream is being fulfilled, isn’t it?
I am helping these children who have no other.
I have to be satisfied with that, as you would say.
I am very, very happy.
Today, the women who want to come up, they have their independence.
Because we don’t have any men in my house.
I have three daughters, five granddaughters,
eight great—granddaughters.
——To make great granddaughters. ——
--To make great granddaughters. -- two.
Let me see what God thinks, you know?
Every night I pray, you know, that I will get up tomorrow morning.
Every morning I get up, make my coffee.
So that’s it.
Whatever God wills, that’s it, nothing else.
And I’m very happy with my family.
You have been watching Newsday.
This is the moment that a French daredevil flew through a mountain in
daredevil ﬂaw through a mountain in Yunnan
daredevil flew through a mountain in Yunnan province Noun as the Heaven’s
Yunnan province Noun as the Heaven’s Gate wearing just a jetpack. Crowds
Gate wearing just a jetpack. Crowds washed as two Frenchmen jumped out
washed as two Frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter before flying
of a helicopter before ﬂying through
of a helicopter before flying through this stone structure where
through this stone stmcture where they landed
through this stone structure where they [ended safely.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, 3 little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure is hurtling into Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on into the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here, England and Wales, thanks to those
weather fronts, but also a scattering of showers,
some of which will be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
in an effort to save them from extinction.
I’m Kasia Madera with BBC World News.
Our top story:
Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing—wen has told the BBC, in an exclusive
interview, that China needs to "face reality" and show
the island "respect".
She was re—elected for a second term on Saturday,
winning by a landslide after a campaign in which she focused
heavily on the rising threat from Beijing.
The impeachment of Donald Trump finally moves forward.
The House of Representatives will vote on Wednesday to send
the charges against the President to the Senate, as both sides prepare
for a trial that could start in days.
And highly unusual wedding pictures are doing well
on our website
of a couple getting married in the Philippines,
just as the Taal volcano came to life in the background.
They were only 10 kilometers away, but felt safe as the venue
was on higher ground.
That’s all.
Stay with BBC World News.
And the top story in the UK:
A deal to save Flybe, one of the biggest regional airlines
in Europe, has been agreed by government and private investors.
Ministers say they’ll review air passenger duty —
the news was welcomed by staff.
More on our web site BBC.co.uk/news and the News App.
Now on BBC News Live to Singapore for Asia Business Report
Now on BBC News Live to Singapore for Asia Business Report
Says for Asia Business Report one debut stop US and Ch
officials
Says one debut stop US and Chinese officials are said to sign part of a
officials are said to sign part of a significant trade deal. —— phase one
significant trade deal. -- phase one was not we
significant trade deal. —— phase one was not we will find out what impact
was not we will find out what impact it will have around the world.
it will have around the world. Amazon’s Jeff Bezos
it will have around the world. Amazon’sjeff Bezos arrives in India
Amazon’s jeff Bezos arrives in India for a three-day
Amazon’sjeff Bezos arrives in India for a three—day visit but is he
for a three-day visit but is he being
for a three—day visit but is he being greeted with open arms?
Good morning welcome to Asia Business Report. Live from Singapore
Business Report. Live from Singapore with me, Mariko Oi. It does begin in
with me, Mariko Oi. It does begin in the United States were a big
the United States were a big development with China is about to
development with China is about to take place. It has been nearly 600
take place. It has been nearty 600 days since the
take place. It has been nearly 600 days since the bruising trade war
days since the bmising trade war has
days since the bruising trade war has started but the two countries us
has started but the two countries us —— scheduled to call
has started but the two countries us —— scheduled to calla truce later
-- scheduled to all a tmce later today. During
—— scheduled to calla truce later today. During the stand—off, the US
today. During the stand-off, the US has imposed
today. During the stand—off, the US has imposed tariffs on more than
has imposed tariffs on more than $360 billion worth of Chinese goods,
$360 billion worth of Chinese goods, while China has tariffs on about
whila China has tariffs on about $110
while China has tariffs on about $110 billion worth of American
$110 billion worth of American products. With the signing of a
products. with the signing of a phase I
products. With the signing of a phase I trade deal, we are expecting
phase I trade deal, we are expecting to see a rollback on some of these
to see a rollback on some of these tariffs but of course the big
tariffs but of course the big question is, which ones and by how
question is, which ones and by how much? Our correspondence in New York
much? Our correspondence in New York and the Shanghai and Singapore tell
and the Shanghai and Singapore tell us what businesses are looking for
us what businesses are looking for in the deal. When the deal was first
in the deal. when the deal was first announced,
in the deal. When the deal was first announced, US financial markets and
announced, US financial markets and businesses breathed a sigh of
businesses breathed a sigh of relief. In their eyes, it put the
relief. In their eyes, it put the brakes on Trump’s trade war with
brakes on Trump’s trade war with China, stopping new duties from
China, stopping new duties from being introduced, even as it left
being introduced, even as it left many in place. As for the suggestion
many in place. As for the suggestion that China will buy $200 billion
that China will buy $200 billion worth of American goods over the
worth of American goods over the next two years, experts I speak to
next two years, experts I speak to 55V
next two years, experts I speak to say it is ambitious. That would
say it is ambitious. That would require US exports to China to
require US exports to China to double over the next 2A months. A
double over the next 24 months. A tall order.
double over the next 2A months. A tall order. And there is scepticism
tall order. And there is scepticism that a second deal in which China
that a second deal in which China surely changes its domestic policy
surely changes its domestic policy is possible at all. —— actually
is possibla at all. -- actually changes. Here
is possible at all. —— actually changes. Here in China, the
changes. Here in China, the government because my priority in
government because my priority in these negotiations has always been
these negotiations has always been to prevent the imposition of a
to prevent the imposition of a further tariffs from the US. 50 in
further tariffs from the US. So in this deal,
further tariffs from the US. 50 in this deal, Beijing has
this deal, Beijing has been successful. The big challenge now
successful. The big challenge now for some of China’s biggest
for some of China’s biggest manufacturers, particularly on the
manufacturers, particularly on the electrical side,
manufacturers, particularly on the electricalside, is
manufacturers, particularly on the electrical side, is how do they deal
elactriral side, is how do they deal with
electrical side, is how do they deal with the tariffs that stay in place?
with the tariffs that stay in place? Some are shifting production out of
Some are shifting production out of China. Others, though, are starting
China. Others, though, are starting to come to terms with a fall
to come to terms with a fall in orders which shows no signs of being
orders which shows no signs of being reversed. Here in Asia, what
reversed. Here in Asia, what companies want most from Beijing and
companies want most from Beijing and Washington and the uncertainty the
Washington and the uncertainty the trade war has created. Business
trade war has created. Business confidence has fallen and companies
confidence has fallen and companies are holding back on investment and
are holding back on investment and new jobs
are holding back on investment and newjobs because they are not sure
new jobs because they are not sure what is going
newjobs because they are not sure what is going to happen in the
what is going to happen in the future. So a truce is definitely
future. So a tmce is definitely positive for
future. So a truce is definitely positive for now but it won’t make
positive for now but it won’t make that much of a difference on the
that much of a difference on the ground, unless tariffs on both sides
ground, unless tariffs on both sides come down for good. But ahead of the
come down for good. But ahead of the anticipated signing just hours ago,
anticipated signing just hours ago, US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin
US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the US will keep in place
said the US will keep in place tariffs on Chinese goods until there
tariffs on Chinese goods until there is a phase two deal in place with
is a phase two deal in place with Beijing. What could today be a
Beijing. what could today be a beginning
Beijing. What could today be a beginning of the end of President
beginning of the end of President Tmmp’s
beginning of the end of President Trump’s trade war? We have been
Trump’s trade war? We have been speaking to some US companies which
speaking to some US companies which have been effect. Relief cannot come
have been effect. Relief cannot come soon enough for workers at this
soon enough for workers at this sawmill in Pennsylvania. With China
sawmill in Pennsylvania. with China slapped
sawmill in Pennsylvania. With China slapped tariffs on US ward,
slapped tariffs on US ward, retaliation against American tariffs
retaliation against American tariffs on Chinese goods, business he had
on Chinese goods, business he had dropped 4096.
on Chinese goods, business he had dropped A0%. This plant alone let go
dropped 4096. This plant alone let go of 15 peopla.
dropped A0%. This plant alone let go of 15 people. Now only runs one
of 15 peopla. Now only runs one shift today.
of 15 people. Now only runs one shift today. 67 —— 66 employees
shift today. 67 -- 66 employees here, this is
shift today. 67 —— 66 employees here, this is our lives. We come to
here, this is our lives. We come to work every day to make a great
work every day to make a great product to put out there and if we
product to put out there and if we can’t sell our product, you won’t be
can’t sell our product, you won’t be able to make our product. Northwest
able to make our product. Northwest hardwoods which operates the mill
hardwoods which operates the mill has had to close operations in
has had to dose operations in several
has had to close operations in several states. The CEO says if the
several states. The CEO says if the trade war doesn’t end soon, it could
trade war doesn’t end soon, it could be the end of the timber industry.
be the end of the timber industry. jobs that are
be the end of the timber industry. Jobs that are being severely
jobs that are being severely impacted
Jobs that are being severely impacted are those rural communities
impacted are those mral communities have been
impacted are those rural communities have been built these sawmills for
have been built these sawmills for decades. That will continue to feel
decades. That will continue to feel the bmnt,
decades. That will continue to feel the brunt, the impact, of a lack of
the bmnt, the impact, of a lack of trade
the hmnt, the impact, of a lack of trade with
the brunt, the impact, of a lack of trade with China. It wasn’t meant to
trade with China. It wasn’t meant to be like this. Donald Trump’s picture
be like this. Donald Trump’s picture the working men and women of states
the working men and women of states like Pennsylvania was that if he
like Pennsylvania was that if he imposed tariffs on imports from
imposed tariffs on imports from China, their
imposed tariffs on imports from China, theirjobs would be protect
China, theirjobs would be protect it. They and their employees ——
it. They and their employees -- employers
it. They and their employees —— employers would drive. Will I
it. They and their employees —— employers would drive. Will Ijust
employers would drive. Will Ijust announced they would increase
announced they would increase tariffs on China and we won’t back
tariffs on China and we won’t back down until China stops cheating our
down until China stops cheating our workers instilling our
down until China stops cheating our workers instilling ourjobs and that
workers instilling ourjobs and that is what is to happen. —— I have
workers instilling ourjobs and that is what is to happen. —— I havejust
is what is to happen. -- I have just announced.
is what is to happen. —— I havejust announced. We don’t have to do
announced. We don’t have to do business with them, we don’t have to
business with them, we don’t have to do business was not we can make the
do business was not we ran make the product right
do business was not we can make the product right here if we have to,
product right here if we have to, like we used to. Despite two years
like we used to. Despite two years of tit—for—tat tariffs, the US
of tit-for-tat tariffs, the US economy
of tit—for—tat tariffs, the US economy keeps growing and the ——
economy keeps growing and the —— unemployment rate has been at record
unemployment rate has been at record lows. But the trade war has met
lows. But the trade war has met damaged many industries,
damaged many industries, particularly in manufacturing and
particularty in manufacturing and agriculture
particularly in manufacturing and agriculture where so many of Trump’s
agriculture where so many of Trump’s supporters work. Finally, President
supporters work. Finally, President Tmmp and
supporters work. Finally, President Trump and President Xi have agreed
Tmmp and President Xi have agreed to at
Trump and President Xi have agreed to at least a truce which should be
to at least a tmce which should be good news for
to at least a truce which should be good news for companies like
good news for companies like north—west Hardwood. But executives
north-west Hardwood. But executives and
north—west Hardwood. But executives and workers across America may be
and workers across America may be left wondering if the end of the
left wondering if the end of the trade war was worth fighting it in
trade war was worth fighting it in the first place. Now to India where
the first place. Now to India where the boss of Amazonas Jeff
the first place. Now to India where the boss of Amazonasjeff Bezos has
the boss of Amazonas jeff Bezos has arrived in
the boss of Amazonasjeff Bezos has arrived in Delhi as he tweeted. He
arrived in Delhi as he tweeted. He highly anticipated visit comes at a
highly anticipated visit comes at a time when competition in the
time when competition in the e—commerce space is heating up and
e-commerce space is heating up and the Indian
e—commerce space is heating up and the Indian government has been
the Indian government has been scrutinised that make scrutinising
scrutinised that make scrutinising Amazon’s business. Jeff Bezos is
Amazon’s business. jeff Bezos is coming to
Amazon’s business. Jeff Bezos is coming to India at a difficult time
coming to India at a difficult time for his company. Just this week, the
for his company. just this week, the competition
for his company. Just this week, the competition organisation of India
competition organisation of India said it will launch an investigation
said it will launch an investigation into the steep discounts as well as
into the steep discounts as well as exclusive deals offered by Amazon.
exclusive deals offered by Amazon. This is based on a complaint filed
This is based on a complaint filed by retailars
This is based on a complaint filed by retailers Association here in
by retailers Association here in Delhi. Major
by retailers Association here in Delhi. Majortrading
by retailers Association here in Delhi. Major trading association has
Delhi. Major trading association has also threatened nationwide protests
also threatened nationwide protests against Amazon during Jeff Bezos’s
against Amazon during jeff Bezos’s visit.
against Amazon during Jeff Bezos’s visit. The all India traders
visit. The all India traders Association which represents about
Association which represents about 70 million traders has in the past
70 million traders has in the past taken issue with e—commerce
taken issue with e-commerce companies
taken issue with e—commerce companies offering steep discounts
companies offering steep discounts which they say affect and threatens
which they say affect and threatens their businesses. One retailer is
their businesses. One retailer is also being investigated for the same
also being investigated for the same reasons, as the in Delhi —— Indian
reasons, as the in Delhi -- Indian regulator says, it
reasons, as the in Delhi —— Indian regulator says, it threatens
regulator says, it threatens competition laws. It has been a
competition laws. It has been a tough week for Walmart, the world’s
tough week for Walmart, the world’s largest retailer in India as well,
largest retailer in India as well, as it decided to sack over 50 senior
as it decided to sack over 50 senior executives as part of a major
executives as part of a major restructuring plan. Will’s main
restructuring plan. Will’s main business in India is wholesale
business in India is wholesala trading and
business in India is wholesale trading and while it wants to expand
trading and whila it wants to expand its footprint
trading and while it wants to expand its footprint through it e—commerce
its footprint through it e-commerce venture, it
its footprint through it e—commerce venture, it has been held back
venture, it has been held back because of India’s strict rules
because of India’s strict mles meant
because of India’s strict rules meant to protect its local
meant to protect its local businesses. While in India, Amazon’s
businesses. whila in India, Amazon’s jeff Bezos is
businesses. While in India, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos is expected to meet Prime
jeff Bezos is expected to meet Prime Minister
Jeff Bezos is expected to meet Prime Minister at Narendra Modi and other
Minister at Narendra Modi and other senior government officials and he
senior government officials and he is expected to discuss those
is expected to discuss those e—commerce and FDI rules which are
e-commerce and FDI mles which are making it
e—commerce and FDI rules which are making it difficult for foreign eat
making it difficult for foreign eat tailors to expand in what is a very
tailors to expand in what is a very promising Indian market. ——
promising Indian market. -- eTraders.
promising Indian market. —— eTraders. Let us stay with Amazon
eTraders. Let us stay with Amazon berause
eTraders. Let us stay with Amazon because the company says it is
because the company says it is bringing back FedEx for delivered ——
bringing back FedEx for delivered —— deliveries for some of its prime
deliveries for some of its prime orders sold through third parties.
orders sold through third parties. It banned the freight service over
It banned the freight service over the holiday period because of its
the holiday period because of its performance and that court and
performance and that court and businesses offguard during the
businesses offguard during the busiest shopping season of the year.
busiest shopping season of the year. Now, did you know there is a list of
Now, did you know there is a list of peopla,
Now, did you know there is a list of people, companies and governments
people, companies and governments that are banned from the global
that are banned from the global financial system? Tracking those on
financial system? Tracking those on the blacklist is a full—time job.
the blacklist is a full-time job. For banks,
the blacklist is a full—time job. For banks, if their system were to
For banks, if their system were to let and transaction slip through,
let and transaction slip through, hefty fines and reputational damage
hefty fines and reputational damage could follow. 50 how can they stay
could follow. So how ran they stay ahead
could follow. 50 how can they stay ahead and prevent such a mistake?
ahead and prevent such a mistake? Eartier I spoke
ahead and prevent such a mistake? Earlier I spoke with the person who
Eadier I spoke with the person who works
Earlier I spoke with the person who works with financial crime screening
works with financial crime screening unit. We provide the assurance to
unit. We provide the assurance to the banks that they have the latest
the banks that they have the latest lists, are working on them,
lists, are working on them, monitoring the changes on a daily
monitoring the changes on a daily basis and making sure that it is
basis and making sure that it is indicated there rapidly to various
indicated there rapidly to various financial institutions. We also
financial institutions. We also provide the technology to digester
provide the technology to digester those lists, making sure they are
those lists, making sure they are implemented within a very fast
implemented within a very fast turnaround time. When these
turnaround time. When these sanctions are imposed, how quick
sanctions are imposed, how quick kill -- how
sanctions are imposed, how quick kill —— how quickly do they get
kill -- how quickly do they get imposed? Is
kill —— how quickly do they get imposed? Is it efficiently or other
imposed? Is it efficiently or other differences depending on different
differences depending on different governments and different
governments and different departments? Does vary based the
departments? Does vary based the source of the list, whether it be
source of the list, whether it be government entity or multi
government entity or multi government entity, but it is to go
government entity, but it is to go fast as possible. As far as
fast as possible. As far as implement in changes will stop the
implement in changes will stop the regulators are vague on purpose and
regulators are vague on purpose and just think everybody does their best
just think everybody does their best job. As a wrench mark, we think
job. As a wrench mark, we think banks have between 2A and 48 hours
banks have between 24 and 48 hours to make
banks have between 2A and 48 hours to make sure they are up—to—date.
to make sure they are up-to-date. Meaning
to make sure they are up—to—date. Meaning sensually updating the
Meaning sensually updating the systems
Meaning sensually updating the systems. --
Meaning sensually updating the systems. —— essentially. They could
systems. -- essentially. They could be a hefty fine
systems. —— essentially. They could be a hefty fine to pay? Mistakes are
be a hefty fine to pay? Mistakes are definitely high and the regulators
definitely high and the regulators are looking at not only do the banks
are looking at not only do the banks keep up but do they keep it in a
keep up but do they keep it in a very high sophisticated manner. It
very high sophisticated manner. It depends on the list but it also
depends on the list but it also depends on the data. That they
depends on the data. That they themselves ask the entities, let’s
themselves ask the entities, let’s say I transfer money across the
say I transfer money across the border to you, have they asked me
border to you, have they asked me the right questions to start with?
the right questions to start with? So it is really gathering the data
So it is really gathering the data from the list but also from the
from the list but also from the transaction itself. That is it for
transaction itself. That is it for the programme. Thank you for
the programme. Thank you for watching.
This is BBC News, the top stories this hour:
In an exclusive interview Taiwan’s newly elected president
tells the BBC the island is already independent and there’s no need
to declare it formally.
The impeachment charges against President Trump —
will be sent to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
Flybe, one of the biggest regional airlines in Europe,
has managed to strike a rescue deal with its investors
and the government.
Shareholders, including Virgin Atlantic, have agreed to put
more money into the loss—making airline and ministers have said
they’ll review air passenger duty which had added
to the firm’s losses.
Our business editor Simonjack has more.
Flybe lives to fly another day.
News that the airline will continue operating was greeted with
great relief by workers and travellers this
evening in Exeter.
Absolutely ecstatic, yeah.
I’m really happy, for myself and my partner works for Flybe so,
yeah, it’s really, really good news for everybody.
That’s amazing, that is good.
Yes, yes, definitely.
We all need these smaller airports and these smaller aeroplanes as well
so it’s wonderful.
Flybe’s shareholders, which include Virgin Atlantic,
have agreed to put in extra money in return for the government
reviewing — in other words cutting — taxes on domestic airlines.
Hearing that things like air passenger duty will be reviewed
was very interesting for them.
Of course it will be reviewed for everyone.
And ensuring that the way our regional connectivity works,
that we can level up communities, make sure our union is strengthened,
those individual, regional airports are easy to get to and properly
connected, those were the sorts of things which were concerning Flybe.
So, what happened to Flybe?
It has been struggling for years.
It over—ordered planes, had IT failures, and,
most damaging of all, saw fuel costs rise in dollar terms
while sterling fell amid Brexit uncertainty.
But what pressure will the government face given
its environmental targets?
Flying may be faster than road or rail but it emits a lot more
carbon so news the government is considering cutting taxes
on domestic airlines has angered climate activists.
Aviation is the highest carbon form of transport and we know
that we need to be cutting this because we are living
in a climate emergency.
We need to be moving away from that and cutting air passenger duty
is just going to make aviation relatively cheaper compared to other
forms of transport.
It’s absolutely the opposite of what we need to be doing.
So what is air passenger duty anyway?
Just check in your beg you don’t have any dangerous goods with you?
Well, it is a tax that every passenger pays when leaving
a UK airport.
It adds £13 to the price of every domestic flight.
Airlines claim it damages the industry and Flybe is tens
of millions of pounds in arrears.
Most controversially, in this deal the taxman has agreed
Hello, I’m Marc Edwards, and this is Sport Today,
live from the BBC Sport Centre.
Coming up on this programme:
Baseball’s sign—stealing scandal continues, as the Boston Red Sox
fire manager Alex Cora.
The Argentinianjob.
Lo Celso and Lamela combine to give Tottenham a hard—fought victory over
Middlesbrough in the FA Cup.
And Setien settling in nicely.
We hear from the new Barca boss as he takes training
for the first time.
Hello and Thanks forjoining us here on Sport Today on BBC World
News.
The last 2A hours or so have rocked Major League Baseball,
and now there has been a further twist.
The Boston Red Sox have fired manager Alex Cora,
a day after baseball commissioner Rob Manfred implicated him
in the sport’s sign—stealing scandal.
This comes after the Houston Astros were heavily sanctioned
after being found guilty of cheating on their way to the 2017 World
Series.
The team’s manager and coach were banned and then sacked.
Adam Wild explains the run up to this latest sacking.
ii
It is
It isa
It is a moment
It is a moment the Houston Astros will never forget. The
It is a moment the Houston Astros will neverforget. The Houston
will never forget. The Houston Astros
will neverforget. The Houston Astros are world champions! But
Astros are world champions! But now it is also a moment that baseball
it is also a moment that baseball will always remember, for the wrong
will always remember, for the wrong reasons. More than two years
reasons. More than two years on, that historic theory is being
that historic theory is being cast into the shadows. Astros found to
into the shadows. Astros found to have broken the rules. I was very
have broken the mles. I was very upset. We want
have broken the rules. I was very upset. We want to be known as
upset. We want to be known as playing by the rules. We broke the
playing by the mles. We broke the mles.
playing by the rules. We broke the rules. We accept the punishment.
mles. We accept the punishment. What
mles. We accept the punishment. what they
rules. We accept the punishment. What they did was steal signs. Put
what they did was steal signs. Put simply, they
What they did was steal signs. Put simply, they decoded the hand
simply, they decoded the hand signals made by the opposing catcher
signals made by the opposing catcher before relaying that to the batter,
before relaying that to the batter, and crucially, they use technology
and crucially, they use technology to do it. The ruling from Major
to do it. The mling from Major League
to do it. The ruling from Major League Baseball explains. One
League Baseball explains. One or more players watched the live
more players watched the live feed of the centrefield camera on the
of the centrefield camera on the monitor, and after decoding the
monitor, and after decoding the sign, a player would hang a nearby
sign, a player would hang a nearby trashran
sign, a player would hang a nearby trashcan with a bat
sign, a player would hang a nearby trashcan with a bet to communicate
trashran with a hat to communicate the upcoming
trashcan with a bet to communicate the upcoming pitch type to the
the upcoming pitch type to the batter.
the upcoming pitch type to the better. I have made the decision
batter. I have made the decision that to
better. I have made the decision that to dismiss Ajay Hench and Jeff
that to dismiss Ajay Hench and jeff Lew now,
that to dismiss Ajay Hench and Jeff Lew now, we need to move forward
Lew now, we need to move forward with a clean slate, and the Astros
with a clean slate, and the Astros will become stronger. In response to
will become stronger. In response to his sacking, Astros manager Ajay
his sacking, Astros manager Ajay Hench says while the evidence
Hench says while the evidence consistently shows I didn’t endorse
consistently shows I didn’t endorse or participate in the sign stealing
or participate in the sign stealing practices, I
or participate in the sign stealing practices, Ifailed to
or participate in the sign stealing practices, I failed to stop them,
practices, I failed to stop them, and I am deeply sorry —— AJ Hinch.
and I am deeply sorry -- A] Hinch. The general
and I am deeply sorry —— AJ Hinch. The general manager, for his part,
The general manager, for his part, apologised for the shame and
apologised for the shame and embarrassment this has caused,
embarrassment this has caused, but insisted I am not a cheater. Still,
insisted I am not a cheater. Still, there are many who will now look
there are many who will now look back on those 2017 Astros
back on those 2017 Astros celebrations and feel
celebrations and feel deeply aggrieved, none perhaps more so than
aggrieved, none perhaps more so than the LA Dodgers, the team that lost
the LA Dodgers, the team that lost at 2017 World Series. The front page
at 2017 World Series. The front page of the Los Angeles Times today
of the Los Angelas Times today proclaimed
of the Los Angeles Times today proclaimed Dodgers officially robbed
proclaimed Dodgers officially robbed of 2017 title. The Dodgers, though,
of 2017 tiﬂa. The Dodgers, though, have
of 2017 title. The Dodgers, though, have more than that to feel angry
have more than that to feel angry about. The Astros bench coach in
about. The Astros bench coach in 2017 was this man, Alex Cora.
about. The Astros bench coach in 2017 was this man, Alex Core. The
2017 was this man, Alex Cora. The following year,
2017 was this man, Alex Core. The following year, he was
2017 was this man, Alex Cora. The following year, he was manager of
following year, he was manager of the Boston red Sox when they won the
the Boston red Sox when they won the World Series, beating the LA
World Series, beating the LA Dodgers. The Red Sox are now also
Dodgers. The Red Sox are now also being investigated. But for now,
being investigated. But for now, the focus is on the Astros, and that
focus is on the Astros, and that when he 17 victory, celebrated,
when he 17 victory, celebrated, rewarded in the highest office
rewarded in the highest office office in the land. But now that
office in the land. But now that victory is painted. Baseball will
victory is painted. Baseball will try to recover, but there may be
try to recover, but there may be more punishments before it does. ——
more punishments before it does. -- victory is tainted.
Now to football, and the English FA Cup, where Tottenham Hotspur
survived a late scare to secure their place in the fourth
round after seeing off Middlesborough 2—1 in their replay
at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
Patrick Gearey was watching.
This was an evening Spurs could have done without —
a replay squeezed in after a relentless run of games.
Still, as good hosts, they put on the mood lighting
and sent out a strong team.
And Middlesbrough came with a gift — a stray pass from Tomas Mejias,
and the perfect chance for Giovani Lo Celso to settle any
early Spurs nerves.
There has been criticism of Tottenham this season for lacking
energy, for not doing often enough what Erik Lamela did here.
His recent career has been punctuated by injury frustration,
evident in the celebration.
There really ought to have been more.
What a moment this would have been for 20—year—old Japhet Tanganga.
His first Tottenham goal flashed before his eyes.
Maybe next time.
He is a centre—back by trade, but a right—back by command,
and here he did everything he could to set up Ryan Sessegnon,
who will never have been more thankful that he was offside.
Middlesbrough were somehow still in this.
They hadn’t lost a game in a month, and you could see that belief
personified in George Seville.
2—1, seven minutes to go.
Boro had given themselves too much to do.
Tottenham added another to their remarkable collection
of chances spurned, but by now the evening was over,
thejob done.
They worked so hard against such a dominant team, in the end, so we did
dominant team, in the end, so we did lots of things well, conceding a
lots of things well, conceding a goal is a bit frustrating, but I am
goal is a bit fmstrating, but I am more
goal is a bit frustrating, but I am more frustrated that we didn’t score
more fmstrated that we didn’t score three, four,
more frustrated that we didn’t score three, four, five. The
three, four, five. The crowd deserved it, a full stadium. In
deserved it, a full stadium. In these cup matches, with
these cup matches, with this emotion.
League One Shrewsbury in the third tier of English football scored
in the 89th minute to knock out Bristol City, and earn themselves
a glamour tie in the next round in the process.
Defender Aaron Pierre came up with the winner,
the goal that has secured a fourth—round tie, again at home,
against the mighty Liverpool.
Never was the customary FA Cup pitch invasion more deserved.
Well, Shrewsbury already knew they would be facing Liverpool
with a win.
But what happens when you are a team in the third tier of your country’s
football league, and you find out on live TV that you’ve drawn 3 Cup
tie against one of the country’s big guns?
That’s exactly what happened to Spanish third—tier football club
Unionistas de Salamanca.
They went wild on Tuesday after being drawn against giant
Real Madrid in the last 16 of the Copa del Rey.
The squad of the Segunda Division B club was watching the draw
on television, and the players clearly quite pleased
when Zinedine Zidane’s team was shown.
Imagine the celebrations if they end “P
Imagine the celebrations if they end up winning that
It was goals galore in Italy for the Coppa Italia round of 16.
Three matches on Tuesday, 11 goals in all.
There were comfortable wins for Lazio, who thrashed second—tier
Cremonese 4—0.
And Inter Milan who eased past fellow Serie A side Cagliari,
4—1, Romelu Lukaku with a brace.
Lorenzo Insigne also scored twice as Napoli beat Perugia.
It has been a whirlwind 2A hours at Barcelona.
The Spanish champions have a new manager in position.
Quique Setien says it is beyond his wildest dreams to have taken over
at the Nou Camp.
The former Real Betis boss took training for the first time
on Tuesday after Barca sacked Ernesto Valverde on Monday,
the man who had led them to back—to—back League titles,
and also leaves them top of La Liga.
TRANSLATION: Things went by very fast. Yesterday, I was walking with
fast. Yesterday, I was walking with the cows in the countryside outside
the cows in the countryside outside my village. And today, I was at FC
my village. And today, I was at FC Barcelona’s sport centre, coaching
Barcelona’s sport centre, coaching the best players in the world. An
the best players in the world. An extraordinary team. One team I will
extraordinary team. One team I will never be able to better, because
never be able to better, because this is as good as it gets.
The Cleveland Browns introduced Minnesota Vikings offensive
co—ordinator Kevin Stefanski as their new head coach on Tuesday.
Stefanski agreed to accept the position on Sunday,
a day after Minnesota were beaten by the San Francisco 49ers
in the NFC playoffs.
The 37—year—old has never been a head coach before,
at any level.
He is the sixth coach hired by Browns ownerJimmy Haslam
since he bought the team in 2012.
First and foremost, success starts with peopla,
First and foremost, success starts with people, and I know we will talk
with peopla, and I know we will talk a lot
with people, and I know we will talk a lot about culture, but it is
a lot about culture, but it is absolutely about the people. And
absolutely about the people. And everybody knows that Harry Truman
everybody knows that Harry Tmman quote, it’s
everybody knows that Harry Truman quote, it’s amazing what you can
quote, it’s amazing what you ran accomplish
quote, it’s amazing what you can accomplish when no—one cares who
accomplish when no-one fares who gets the
accomplish when no-one cares who gets the credit.
accomplish when no—one cares who gets the credit. And that’s what I
gets the credit. And that’s what I believe we have in our building. We
believe we have in our building. We have great people, and we’re going
have great peopla, and we’re going to add to
have great people, and we’re going to add to it. We will hire
have great people, and we’re going to add to it. We will hireJim here
to add to it. We will hire jim here in the next
to add to it. We will hireJim here in the next week or two, and we are
in the next week or two, and we are going to add to this culture that we
going to add to this culture that we are building here, and we have
are building here, and we have the right people.
Tens of millions of American football fans worldwide tuned
into one of the biggest annual events in the US sporting calendar,
which saw LSU Tigers cap off a perfect season by winning
the College Football Championship in New Orleans.
Widely tipped to be the top pick in the upcoming NFL draft,
Joe Burrows threw five touchdown passes and ran for another to score
himself in the 42—25 victory over last season’s champions,
the Clemson Tigers.
The win means LSU finish the season with 15 wins out of 15,
and end Clemson’s 29—game winning streak in the process.
Have you ever fancied flying?
Well, that’s what Frenchmen Fred Fugen and Vince Reffet did
in theirjet suits as part of Mission: Human Flight,
a programme that aims to achieve 100% autonomous human flight,
jumping out of a helicopter in China with carbon fibre wings and zooming
through Heaven’s Gate, watched by excited crowds and some
rather confused fishermen they flew through the break in the rocks
on Tianmen Mountain.
According to the organisers, they reached speeds of 400 km/h,
and did admit it was a bit scary.
That’s all the time we’ve got now.
But, from me and the rest of the Sport Today team, goodbye.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, 3 little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure is hurtling into Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on into the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here, England and Wales, thanks to those
weather fronts, but also a scattering of showers,
some of which will be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
I’m Mike Embley.
Our top stories:
Britain, France and Germany trigger a formal dispute process
over Iran’s violations of the international nuclear deal.
m:
We believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal
We believe it makes sense to save this nuclear dealfor
We believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal for the future
this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents Iran from
because it prevents Iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
The impeachment charges against President Trump
will be sent to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
After her resounding election victory, Taiwan’s President Tsai
Ing—Wen tells the BBC China needs to face reality.
A very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, they don’t like the idea of being threatened all the time.
The royal couple are welcome in Canada,
but the details of Prince Harry and Meghan’s new lives
are proving tricky.
Hello to you.
European nations have put Iran on notice over its breaches
of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
That deal was supposed to discourage Iran from building nuclear weapons.
The Trump administration unilaterally withdrew the US
from the deal.
France, Germany and the UK have been trying to maintain it,
but officials in Tehran have been lifting limits on enriched uranium
production, saying it’s a reasonable response to US sanctions
and rising tensions.
European nations disagree, and now an official dispute
mechanism has been triggered.
Gareth Barlow reports.
Preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term
nuclear weapons has been a long-term goal of Europe
nuclear weapons has been a long—term goal of Europe and the US, but the
goal of Europe and the US, but the landmark agreement that bound Tehran
landmark agreement that bound Tehran to strip limits is now in full
to strip limits is now in full dispute.
dispute. France, Germany and the UK reject
France, Germany and the UK reject Iran’s argument it can withdraw
Iran’s argument it ran withdraw production
Iran’s argument it can withdraw production limits on uranium used in
production limits on uranium used in nuclear powerplant and also weapons
nuclear powerplant and also weapons after America walked away from the
after America walked away from the deal. The aim of the dispute
deal. The aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not to
resolution mechanism is not to reimpose sanctions.
reimpose sanctions. The aim of this mechanism is to
The aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating to the
resolve issues relating to the implementation of the agreement.
implementation of the agreement. The beleaguered 2015 nuclear
The beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to
agreement was designed to curb Iran’s ability to build nuclear
Iran’s ability to build nuclear weapons. In 2018, President Donald
weapons. In 2018, President Donald Tmmp pulled
weapons. In 2018, President Donald Trump pulled out of the
Trump pulled out of the deal, calling it flawed and reimpose
calling it flawed and reimpose sanctions. Last year Tehran said it
sanctions. Last year Tehran said it would comply with
would comply with all its commitments and recently has gone
commitments and recently has gone further following increased
further following increased attention with the US. The three
attention with the US. The three European governments say these
European governments say these breaches have left them with no
breaches have left them with no choice but to trigger the dispute
choice but to trigger the dispute process is a first step towards
process is a first step towards reinstating international sanctions.
reinstating international sanctions. TRANSLATION: We call on Iran to
TRANSLATION: We call on Iran to constructively participate in these
constructively participate in these negotiations, the goal of which will
negotiations, the goal of which will be to safeguard the nuclear deal. We
be to safeguard the nuclear deal. We believe it makes sense to safeguard
believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear deal
believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear dealfor the
believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear deal for the future
this nuclear deal for the future because it prevents
because it prevents around from getting a nuclear bomb.
getting a nuclear bomb. The Iranian Foreign
The Iranian Foreign Minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, decried the
Mohammad javad Zarif, decried the dispute as a
Mohammad Javad Zarif, decried the dispute as a strategic mistake but
dispute as a strategic mistake but Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman
Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman said Iran was ready to maintain
said Iran was ready to maintain international agreements. All sides
international agreements. All sides have 15 days to resolve the issues
have 15 days to resolve the issues raised. If they fail, the EU
raised. If they fail, the EU countries can refer the matter to
countries ran refer the matter to the EU
countries can refer the matter to the EU Security Council which can
the EU Security Council which ran vote to
the EU Security Council which can vote to reimpose any sanctions on
vote to reimpose any sanctions on Iran. Gareth Barlow, BBC News.
The leader of the Republican majority in the US Senate,
Mitch McConnell, has said the impeachment trial
of President Trump is likely to begin there next Tuesday.
Democrats accuse the president
of abusing his power and obstructing Congress.
With regard to impeachment, our understanding is and I think your
understanding is and I think your understanding is as well that the
understanding is as well that the House is likely to send the articles
House is likely to send the articles over to us tomorrow, and we believe
over to us tomorrow, and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we
if that happens in all likelihood we will go through some preliminary
will go through some preliminary steps here this week which could
steps here this week which could well include the Chief
steps here this week which could well include the ChiefJustice
well include the Chief justice coming
well include the ChiefJustice coming over and swearing in members
coming over and swearing in members of the Senate and some other kind of
of the Senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures. We hope to be
housekeeping measures. We hope to be able to achieve that by consent,
able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up to begin the
which would set us up to begin the actual trial next Tuesday.
Mitch McConnell there.
One of the most contentious issues
not yet resolved is whether to have witnesses
in the Senate trial.
Democrats want to hear from current and former White House officials,
such as former national security adviserJohn Bolton.
Wejoin the
We join the American people in
We join the American peopla in wanting
We join the American people in wanting the truth, the whole truth,
wanting the tmth, the whola tmth, nothing but
wanting the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth to come out of
nothing but the truth to come out of the trial. If you want the truth,
the trial. If you want the tmth, you
the trial. If you want the truth, you have to have witnesses. You have
you have to have witnesses. You have to have documents. Who has ever
to have documents. who has ever heard of
to have documents. Who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses
heard of a trial without witnesses and documents? I’m pleased to some
and documents? I’m pleased to some of my Republican colleagues are now
of my Republican colleagues are now beginning to come around to our
beginning to come around to our position.
Our correspondent, Peter Bowes, joins us from Los Angeles.
m:
We have a likely start date but still uncertainty about the shape of
still uncertainty about the shape of the trial, whether there will be
the trial, whether there will be witnesses and also it seems the
witnesses and also it seems the possibility of new evidence?
possibility of new evidence? That’s what the Democrats want,
That’s what the Democrats want, that’s what they’ve wanted all along
that’s what therve wanted all along and
that’s what they’ve wanted all along and that’s really why there was this
and that’s really why there was this three—week delay over the Christmas
three-week delay over the Christmas and New
three—week delay over the Christmas and New Year period while seemingly
and New Year period while seemingly there were some behind—the—scenes
there were some behind—the—scenes discussions between the Democrats
discussions between the Democrats and Republicans, Democrats still
and Republicans, Democrats still have no guarantee they can bring any
have no guarantee they ran bring any new
have no guarantee they can bring any new evidence, any new documents or
new evidence, any new documents or indeed hear
new evidence, any new documents or indeed hearfrom any
new evidence, any new documents or indeed hear from any witnesses
indeed hear from any witnesses duﬂng
indeed hear from any witnesses during the trial. However,
during the trial. However, the Republicans, who will be in charge
Republicans, who will be in charge of the Senate trial, say after the
of the Senate trial, say after the opening statements they will be a
opening statements they will be a vote on whether to continue the
vote on whether to continue the process with witnesses, witnesses
process with witnesses, witnesses presumably from both sides. Most
presumably from both sides. Most significantly the Democrats really
significantly the Democrats really want to hear that new evidence or
want to hear that new evidence or see the documents they say contains
see the documents they say contains new evidence like just in the last
new evidence like just in the last 24 hours,
new evidence like just in the last 2A hours, documents that suggest an
24 hours, documents that suggest an associate
2A hours, documents that suggest an associate of Rudy Giuliani, the
associate of Rudy Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, was
president’s personal lawyer, was involved in talks to set up a
involved in talks to set up a meeting with resident Zelensky of
meeting with resident Zelensky of Ukraine and Rudy Giuliani, documents
Ukraine and Rudy Giuliani, documents that also perhaps shed new light on
that also perhaps shed new light on an attempt to ostracise the then US
an attempt to ostracise the then US Ambassador to Ukraine. There is a
Ambassador to Ukraine. There is a lot of detail there. Why is
lot of detail there. why is it important?
lot of detail there. Why is it important? What the Democrats want
important? what the Democrats want to do if
important? What the Democrats want to do if they can bring this
to do if they can bring this evidence is essentially
to do if they can bring this evidence is essentiallyjoin the
evidence is essentially join the dots
evidence is essentiallyjoin the dots to President Donald Trump and
dots to President Donald Tmmp and show
dots to President Donald Trump and show that he was involved in an
show that he was involved in an attempt to get a favour from the
attempt to get a favour from the president of Ukraine to investigate
president of Ukraine to investigate his likely political rival, Joe
his likely political rival, Joe Biden.
Biden. Peter, just to remind people,
Peter, just to remind people, against this backdrop of
against this backdrop of impeachment, the people who want to
impeachment, the people who want to fight Mr Tmmp
impeachment, the people who want to fight MrTrumpfor
impeachment, the people who want to fight Mr Trump for the White House
fight Mr Tmmp for the white House in the
fight Mr Trump for the White House in the election next year
fight Mr Trump for the White House in the election next yearjust
in the election next yearjust beginning a debate in Iowa right
beginning a debate in Iowa right now. The Democrat party’s top six
now. The Democrat party’s top six candidates, their seventh debate,
candidates, their seventh debate, the last until Iowa holds its
the last until Iowa holds its caucus earty in
the last until Iowa holds its caucus early in February. What is expected
earty in February. what is expected in this
early in February. What is expected in this debate and for the campaign
in this debate and for the campaign for Democrat candidates if they
for Democrat candidates if they asked senators called away to a
asked senators called away to a Senate trial? We can expect from
Senate trial? We ran expect from this
Senate trial? We can expect from this debate... We’ve had several
this debate... We’ve had several now, there will be an even more
now, there will be an even more intense debate between the leading
intense debate between the leading contenders. Elizabeth Warren and
contenders. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, for example, have
Bernie Sanders, for example, have been involved in a spat recently
been involved in a spat recently about whether Bernie Sanders
about whether Bernie Sanders actually said once that he didn’t
actually said once that he didn’t believe a woman could win the
believe a woman could win the presidency. That’s the kind of issue
presidency. That’s the kind of issue that’s likely to come up. Is also
that’s likely to come up. Is also very interesting with this Senate
very interesting with this Senate trial pending now, likely to start
trial pending now, likely to start on Tuesday, that those senators like
on Tuesday, that those senators like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren,
Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, who are vying for the job of taking
who are vying for the job of taking on President Donald Trump for their
on President Donald Tmmp for their party at the
on President Donald Trump for their party at the next election,
party at the next election, they will have to be at the Senate trial.
will have to be at the Senate trial. They will be there in the first
They will be there in the first couple of weeks not even allowed to
couple of weeks not even allowed to 55V
couple of weeks not even allowed to say anything, just to watch the
say anything, just to watch the proceedings. They won’t be out in
proceedings. They won’t be out in places like Iowa campaigning like
places like Iowa campaigning like the other contestants will be, like
the other contestants will be, like my
the other contestants will be, like may appear moody gauge, or
the other contestants will be, like may appear moody gauge, orJoe
may appear moody gauge, or joe Biden, they
may appear moody gauge, orJoe Biden, they will be free to campaign
Biden, they will be free to campaign while the Senators must be in the
while the Senators must be in the Senate for the trial. It
Senate for the trial. It is tricky for them because they want to be on
for them because they want to be on the streets meeting people but they
the streets meeting people but they have duties in the Senate.
have duties in the Senate. We will keep an eye on that debate,
We will keep an eye on that debate, which hasn’t quite got under way
which hasn’t quite got under way yet.
which hasn’t quite got under way yet, but thank you very much indeed,
yet, but thank you very much indeed, Peter.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
17 children and nine adults have been treated
for breathing problems and skin irritation after a commercial
airliner apparently dumped fuel near aschooljust before
an emergency landing at Los Angeles airport.
The Delta Airlines flight to Shanghai had just taken off
when an engine problem forced its return.
Government forces in the Sudanese capital,
Khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters
where security personnel loyal to the former president,
Omar al Bashir, were based.
The mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now
moved into the northern suburb of Kafouri.
There are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets,
and the international airport is closed.
Fire services in Catalonia in north—east Spain are saying
a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant,
has now been contained.
The blast, near the port city of Tarragona, killed one person
and injured eight others.
Some have severe burns.
One person is still missing.
Authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
40,000 people have now been moved from their homes
near the Taal volcano in the Philippines,
which authorities say could erupt at any moment.
Taal, one of the world’s smallest active volcanoes,
is in the middle of a lake about 45
miles south of the capital, Manila.
It’s been producing a cloud of ash and fountains of lava.
Harsh weather including avalanches and floods has killed
more than 130 people across Pakistan and Afghanistan in recent days.
Schools have shut and many villages have been left isolated.
Worst affected has been Pakistani Kashmir
with 62 people killed and 10 others missing.
More than 50 bodies have been recovered.
Olivia Crellin has the latest.
Buried in snow, villagers struggle to free a man completely submerged
to free a man completely submerged after an avalanche hit a Kashmiri
after an avalanche hit a Kashmiri village just
after an avalanche hit a Kashmiri villagejust north of
after an avalanche hit a Kashmiri village just north of Islamabad,
village just north of Islamabad, killing dozens and destroying more
killing dozens and destroying more than 50 homes.
than 50 homes. Extreme winter weather in recent
Extreme winter weather in recent days has killed more than 130 people
days has killed more than 130 peopla across
days has killed more than 130 people across Pakistan, Afghanistan and
across Pakistan, Afghanistan and Indian—administered Kashmir. Many
Indian-administered Kashmir. Many more are
Indian—administered Kashmir. Many more are injured or remain missing.
more are injured or remain missing. Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Imran
Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Imran Khan, Tweeted:
Referring to the part of Kashmir controlled by Pakistan.
controlled by Pakistan. Military helicopters exchange rescue
Military helicopters exchange rescue victims for supplies in the hope of
victims for supplies in the hope of providing relief to those cut off by
providing relief to those cut off by conditions as more heavy snow is
conditions as more heavy snow is forecast.
forecast. But there has been criticism from
But there has been criticism from some about the government response
some about the government response to the weather. Truck drivers
to the weather. Tmck drivers travelling
to the weather. Truck drivers travelling along key supply routes
travelling along key supply routes across the country were stranded.
across the country were stranded. TRANSLATION: I’m coming from
TRANSLATION: I’m coming from Taftan and I’m heading for Punjab.
and I’m heading for Punjab. It is snowing here and the roads are
It is snowing here and the roads are closed because the vehicles skid. I
closed because the vehicles skid. I asked the government to bring heavy
asked the government to bring heavy machines that will clear the snow in
machines that will clear the snow in between half—an—hour to an hour.
between half-an-hour to an hour. They have
between half—an—hour to an hour. They have brought small tractors
They have brought small tractors here that will not clear the snow
here that will not clear the snow for three days.
for three days. Pakistan’s national
Pakistan’s national disaster management agency also declared a
management agency also declared a state of emergency
state of emergency in the Balochistan Robbins in the south. It
Balochistan Robbins in the south. It has struck schools and brought trade
has stmck schools and brought trade with the
has struck schools and brought trade with the Afghan neighbours to a
with the Afghan neighbours to a halt. While such harsh weather is
halt. whila such harsh weather is common
halt. While such harsh weather is common and seasonal
halt. While such harsh weather is common and seasonalfor
common and seasonal for this region, the area’s embattled status and
the area’s embattled status and poverty means the heavy snow
poverty means the heavy snow comes with a heavy toll. Olivia Crellin,
with a heavy toll. Olivia Crellin, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Why wildfires such as those in Australia
could become common in other parts of the world by the end
of the century if global temperatures continue to rise.
Day one of Operation Desert Storm to force the Iraqis out of Kuwait
has seen the most intense air attack since the Second World War.
Tobacco is America’s oldest industry and one of its biggest,
but the industry is nervous of this report.
This may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
There is not a street that is unaffected.
Huge parts of Kobe were simply demolished,
as buildings crashed into one another.
This woman said she had been given no help and no advice
by the authorities.
She stood outside the ruins of her business.
Tens of thousands of black children in South Africa have taken advantage
of laws passed by the country’s new multiracial government
and enrolled at formerly white schools.
Tonight sees the 9,610th performance
of the long—running play, The Mousetrap.
When they heard about her death today,
the management considered whether to cancel tonight’s performance,
but Agatha Christie would have been the last person
to want such a thing.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
Iran has condemned France, Britain and Germany for triggering
a formal dispute process over Tehran’s violations
of its international nuclear deal.
The impeachment charges against President Trump will be sent
to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
China needs to face reality and respect the will
of the Taiwanese people according to Taiwan’s newly re—elected
President, Tsai Ing—Wen.
Speaking exclusively to the BBC, President Tsai said the threat
from China, which claims the self—governing island as part
of its territory, is intensifying,
but she warned that any military action could prove costly to China.
Our correspondentJohn Sudworth spoke to the president
in Taiwan’s capital, Taipei.
Hello, President Tsai. Hi.
It was her warnings about China that hit home with voters.
But now, she had something to say direct to Beijing.
This is a very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, you know, they don’t like the idea of being threatened
all the time.
We’re a successful democracy.
We have a pretty decent economy.
You know, we deserve respect from China.
Her critics say she is reckless, that she risks provoking China.
But her promise to stand up for Taiwan saw her re—elected
by a landslide in Saturday’s vote.
China has been intensifying its threat.
And they have all sorts of actions, military exercises,
and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising
around the island.
And also, with the things happening in Hong Kong,
people get a real sense that this threat is real.
Your predecessor, Ma Ying—jeou, was able to preserve Taiwanese
democracy whilst building stronger ties with China.
What’s not to like about that approach?
The situation has changed, so we’re facing a very
different situation now.
Taiwan is also changing.
The first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage,
it is, she says, growing ever more distinct from China.
We are an independent country already, and we call ourselves
Republic of China, Taiwan.
And we do have government, we have the military
and we have elections.
Few statements are likely to infuriate China more.
With pressure bound to increase, Taiwan’s military is
being beefed up.
You cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
Do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
I do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
Invading Taiwan is something that is going to be very
costly for China.
She says she plans to further strengthen Taiwan’s democracy.
The very thing that divides it from its authoritarian neighbour may
in the end prove its most powerful defence.
John Sudworth, BBC News, Taiwan.
Taiwan’s newly re—elected President, Tsai Ing—Wen taking to the BBC’s
John Sudworth.
Cindy Sui, our Taiwan correspondent, joins me now from Taipei.
Cindy Sui, our Taiwan correspondent, joins me now from Taipei.
Tsai joins me now from Taipei. Ing-wen, a big elaction
majority,
Tsai Ing-wen, a big elaction majority, she
Tsai Ing—wen, a big election majority, she is bound to be pretty
majority, she is bound to be pretty bullish. Work, do you think, to
bullish. Work, do you think, to antagonise a big powerful
antagonise a big powerful authoritarian neighbour like this?
authoritarian neighbour like this? Her critics would definitely say no,
Her critis would definitely say no, it is not
Her critics would definitely say no, it is not wise.
it is not wise. Potentially very dangerous. They believe that she is
dangerous. They believe that she is actually manipulating public opinion
actually manipulating public opinion by not presenting the reality which
by not presenting the reality which is that Beijing actually has never
is that Beijing actually has never asked her to accept a one country
asked her to accept a one country two system formula. It simply
two system formula. It simply asked her to accept the 1992 consensus was
her to accept the 1992 consensus was that anyone China concert. The
that anyone China concert. The Predators I was able to use that
Predators I was able to use that concept to define that when China is
concept to define that when China is simply the Republic of China which
simply the Republic of China which is Taiwan’s official name. She
is Taiwan’s official name. She refuses to do that because her party
refuses to do that because her party ultimately wants to create a new
ultimately wants to create a new country cold simply Taiwan with no
country cold simply Taiwan with no links to China. Her critics say this
links to China. Her critis say this is very
links to China. Her critics say this is very dangerous and she is
is very dangerous and she is pursuing her party’s own agenda
pursuing her party’s own agenda when the majority of people here want the
the majority of people here want the status quo and only less than 30%
status quo and only lass than 3096 want
status quo and only less than 30% went formal independence. You would
want formal independence. You would have to see how she plays this
have to see how she plays this out but right now, it is looking like a
but right now, it is looking like a very dangerous game because after
very dangerous game because after all, China spends more than ten
all, China spends more than ten times as much as Taiwan on military
times as much as Taiwan on military and it has want thousand missiles
and it has want thousand missilas targeted
and it has want thousand missiles targeted at Taiwan
targeted at Taiwan to warn it
against declaring formal independence. It could be very
independence. It could be very potentially dangerous for Taiwan,
potentially dangerous for Taiwan, not only economically but in terms
not only economically but in terms of stability and peace. Thank you
of stability and peace. Thank you very much for that Cindy.
The wildfires in Australia could become common in other parts
of the world by the end of the century if global
temperatures continue to rise.
That’s according to British scientists who say the average
temperature on Earth is on course to rise by three degrees Celsius
above pre—industrial levels by the end of the 21st century.
Our science editor David Shukman has more details.
Day after day, fire crews brave the front lines in a crisis
that’s still escalating.
Many of the blazes are out of control and beyond anyone’s
experience.
It’s the worst I’ve seen in 21 years.
This is honestly the worst I’ve seen, the most I’ve
actually been out.
It makes it very hard, especially when you’ve got family
and commitments and all the rest of it.
In Victoria, a ghostly scene — cars burnt and grey with ash.
Fires are a natural feature of Australia, but record heat has
made them more severe than usual.
Something that was predicted as temperatures have been rising
with climate change.
This graph shows how the average temperature in December in Australia
has risen over the past century.
2018 set one new record and then last year set another
that was far higher.
And you’d expect this kind of heat in a world that’s nearly three
degrees warmer than the pre—industrial level.
Climate scientists knew this was going to happen at some point,
whether it was now or ten years from now.
We were going to get this perfect storm,
and it was going to be pretty horrible.
We dodged a bullet a couple of years ago when we had a hot summer then.
But it was eventually going to transpire.
And this seems to be part of a pattern.
A new study of wildfires around the world, from the Amazon
rainforest to California, says human activity is raising
temperatures and adding to the threat, including in Europe
and many other regions.
This was Spain last year.
The aim of the study was to assess what we know
about the risk of wildfires.
The scientists found that the total area burnt has actually reduced over
recent decades, mainly because dense natural vegetation has been cleared
to make way for farmland.
But they also say that the length of the fire season, when conditions
are right for fire to take hold, has increased by 20% globally.
And they warn that if the average temperature rises by three degrees
Celsius, which at the moment looks likely, the area burned
will increase in size.
The scientists involved in the research say the key new
is to cut emissions of the gases that are heating the planet.
In terms of the urgency, it’s getting worse all the time.
So the sooner we can rain in emissions, the sooner we can slow
the increase in warming and increased climate change impacts.
Back in Australia, as human activity is linked to the fires,
it’s wildlife that’s suffering most.
This emergency food is for animals that survived the onslaught.
Millions of others are thought to have died.
The challenge now is to make sure there are systems in place to cope
with fires on this scale in future.
David Shukman, BBC News.
F.
Is still causing destruction was strong when sitting part of the UK.
strong when sitting part of the UK. A large section of a roof was blown
A large section of a roof was blown off a block of flats but nobody
off a block of ﬂats but nobody was hurt.
Canada’s Prime Minister is ready to welcome Prince Harry and his wife
Meghan to the commonwealth country, butJustin Trudeau does want to know
who will pay for the couple’s security.
On Monday, the Queen signed off on a period of transition
for the royals, but questions remain over how that will work.
Our royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell reports.
A new direction has been agreed.
Less than 20 months since their wedding,
the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Harry and Meghan, have been given
the go—ahead by the Queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans
to move out and to base themselves in part in Canada.
Harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
His Invictus Games was staged in Toronto in 2017, and Meghan lived
there for seven years as an actress.
There will be questions about their tax and immigration
status, but Canada’s Prime Minister appeared to be offering
a cautious welcome.
I think most Canadians are very supportive of having,
you know, royals be here.
But how that looks and what kind of costs are involved,
there’s still lots of discussions to have.
Here in Britain, the Prime Minister declined to offer a public view
on the Sussexes’ move.
I’m absolutely confident that they are going to
sort this out.
And do you know what?
I think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier
without any particular commentary from me.
Meghan believes she has been badly treated by the British media.
She is suing The Mail on Sunday over its publication of a letter
she wrote to her estranged father.
In its court submission, published today, the paper says...
To which Meghan might respond, from now on, I will not perform
royal duties, and it is our intention not
to receive public money.
But royal duties are what the Royal Family does.
Prince William was at Buckingham Palace today, bestowing honours.
It’s a staple of royal life, the life to which the Queen has
devoted herself, but from which Harry now wishes
to break free.
It is a parting over which the Royal Family feels great
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
And would you ‘bung 3 bob for the Big Ben bongs’?
The British government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign could be
launched to raise money for Big Ben to chime on Brexit day.
The hell is currently being restored and it would cost half a million
to bring the bongs back on January the 31st.
This is the moment
This is the momenta French daredevil flew through a mountain
daredevil ﬂaw through a mountain in China
daredevil flew through a mountain in China known as Heaven’s Gate wearing
China known as Heaven’s Gate wearing a jetpack. The crowds watched as the
a jetpack. The crowds watched as the Frenchmen jumped
a jetpack. The crowds watched as the Frenchmenjumped out
a jetpack. The crowds watched as the Frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter
Frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter before ﬂying
Frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter before flying through the stone
before flying through the stone structure wearing powered wings made
stmcture wearing powered wings made of carbon
structure wearing powered wings made of carbon fibre. They can reach
of carbon fibre. They ran reach speeds of
of carbon fibre. They can reach speeds of 400 converts per hour and
speeds of 400 converts per hour and is steered by the pilot moving the
is steered by the pilot moving the body.
And you can get in touch with me and most of the team on Twitter —
I’m @BBC Mike Embley.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure comes hurtling into Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on to the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here.
England and Wales, thanks to those weather fronts,
sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will
be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Iran has condemned a decision by Britain,
France and Germany to trigger a formal dispute process over
Iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
The Iranian Foreign Minister described the move as legally
baseless and a strategic mistake.
The Europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
The impeachment trial of Donald Trump has moved
a step closer.
The House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, says a vote on sending articles
of impeachment to the Senate will take place on Wednesday.
Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, says the trial
is likely to begin next Tuesday.
Taiwan’s President, Tsai Ing—wen, has told the BBC that the island has
no need to declare formal independence
because it already is an independent country.
Ms Tsai said last week’s presidential election,
in which she won a second term in office, showed Taiwanese people
did not like being threatened by China.
Now on BBC News, Tuesday in Parliament.
Hello and welcome to Tuesday in Parliament,
as the Foreign Secretary warns Iran it faces a stark choice.
The regime can take the steps to de—escalate tensions
and adhere to the basic rules of international law or sink deeper
and deeper into political and economic isolation.
But Labour wonder why the US
president does not like the current Iranian deal.
We all suspect that it is Trump the toddler’s main issue with it,
but can he confirm the Prime Minister was correct?
Also: No Big Ben bongs for Brexit, a peer called a truce.
People who have won the Brexit debate should not be triumphalist.
BorisJohnson has that Donald Trump will produce a replacement
for the Iran nuclear deal.
The comments came as the UK, France and Germany accused Tehran
of breaching the terms of the agreement.
The European allies which remain part of the troubled nuclear deal
despite the US President’s opposition said
Iran was meeting its commitments.
It eases sanctions in return for Iran agreeing to restrictions
on its activity in an effort to ensure Tehran did not acquire
a nuclear weapon.
In the Commons, the Foreign Secretary told MPs that the E3
referred the matter to the DRM.
He said they had no alternative.
Time and time again we’ve expressed our serious concerns
to Iran and urge them to come back to compliance.
Time and time again in its statements,
and more importantly through its actions,
it has as refused, undermining the very
integrity of the deal.
And ﬂouting its international commitments.
He said Iran had a choice.
The resume can take steps to adhere to the basic rules of international
law or sink deeper and deeper into political and economic isolation.
So Iran’s response to the DRM will be a crucial test
to its intentions and its goodwill.
We urge Iran to work with us, to save the deal.
We urge Iran to see this as an opportunity to assure
the world that it’s nuclear intentions are excessively peaceful.
And urge them to choose the alternative path
and have the full range of activities that flout
international law and destabilise the region.
They contrasted that statement with
what the Prime Minister had said.
President Trump is a great deal maker by his own account and others
let’s work together to replace theJC POA and get
the trumpet deal instead.
That’s what we need to see.
That would be a great way forward.
So in the space of two or three days the Prime Minister has gone
from signing a joint statement with France and Germany,
calling for the retention and restoration of theJC POA
calling for the retention and restoration of theJC POA
for calling for it to be scrapped and replaced by some
medical trump deal.
She had questions about the Prime Minister’s remarks.
Minister’s remarks. (“an
Minister’s remarks. Can he confirm that in his
Can he confirm that in his discussions with his American
discussions with his American counterparts that they have said
counterparts that they have said that one of the problems with the
that one of the problems with the jCPOA was
that one of the problems with the JCPOA was that, to quote the Prime
jCPOA was that, to quote the Prime Minister, ‘It
JCPOA was that, to quote the Prime Minister, "It was negotiated by
Minister, "It was negotiated by President Obama". We all suspect
President Obama’. We all suspect that is Tmmp
President Obama". We all suspect that is Trump the toddler’s main
that is Tmmp the toddler’s main issue
that is Trump the toddler’s main issue with but can he confirm the
issue with but ran he confirm the Prime
issue with but can he confirm the Prime Minister was correct? Based on
Prime Minister was correct? Based on what the Prime Minister said this
what the Prime Minister said this morning, are we now to understand
morning, are we now to understand that despite anything the Foreign
that despite anything the Foreign Secretary said in his statement
that despite anything the Foreign Secretary said in his statementjust
Secretary said in his statement just now and
Secretary said in his statementjust now and everything contained in the
now and everything contained in the joint statement at the weekend, it
joint statement at the weekend, it is now official policy of the UK
is now official policy of the UK government to replace the JCPOA
is now official policy of the UK government to replace theJCPOA and
government to replace the jCPOA and get a Tmmp
government to replace theJCPOA and get a Trump deal instead, and that
get a Tmmp deal instead, and that that
get a Trump deal instead, and that that would represent a great way
that would represent a great way forward. And if that is not official
forward. And if that is not official government policy, why did the Prime
government policy, why did the Prime Minister say it? And why is he
Minister say it? And why is he walking all over the Foreign
walking all over the Foreign Secretary’s patch?
Secretary’s patch? Dominic rather said the Prime
Dominic rather said the Prime Minister
Dominic rather said the Prime Ministerfully
Dominic rather said the Prime Minister fully supported the
Minister fully supported the agreement stop that is the clear
agreement stop that is the clear position, he said it on many
position, he said it on many occasions, and the honourable lady,
occasions, and the honourable lady, draw breath, allow me to respond to
draw breath, allow me to respond to her remarks, she then made a whole
her remarks, she then made a whole series of attacks, as usual, on the
series of attacks, as usual, on the US administration, which seems to
US administration, which seems to rather cloud her
US administration, which seems to rather cloud herjudgement in this
rather cloud her judgement in this area.
area. It’s not just President Donald Tmmp
It’s not just President Donald Tmmp but also
It’s notjust President Donald Trump but also President Macron that have
but also President Macron that have argued for a broader deal with Iran.
argued for a broader deal with Iran. Let’s go back to this morning’s
Let’s go back to this morning’s interview with the Prime Minister
interview with the Prime Minister where he said, and I think it bears
where he said, and I think it bears repetition, on Breakfast TV this
repetition, on Breakfast TV this morning he said let’s replace it,
morning he said let’s replace it, jCPOA, with
morning he said let’s replace it, JCPOA, with the Trump deal, that’s
jCPOA, with the Tmmp deal, that’s what we
JCPOA, with the Trump deal, that’s what we need to stop a President
what we need to stop a President Tmmp is a
what we need to stop a President Trump is a great deal maker by his
Tmmp is a great deal maker by his own
Trump is a great deal maker by his own account
Tmmp is a great deal maker by his own account by
Trump is a great deal maker by his own account by many others. Let’s
own account by many others. Let’s work together to replace the JCPOA
work together to replace the jCPOA and get the
work together to replace the JCPOA and get the Trump deal instead.
and get the Tmmp deal instead. Foreign
and get the Trump deal instead. Foreign Secretary, I’m very happy to
Foreign Secretary, I’m very happy to support you from these benches but
support you from these benches but you seem to be getting more support
you seem to be getting more support from the SNP than your own Prime
from the SNP than your own Prime Minister. How seriously do you think
Minister. How seriously do you think Tehran takes us all now?
Tehran takes us all now? I think the Prime Minister wants to
I think the Prime Minister wants to maintain this deal, or he is now
maintain this deal, or he is now advocating for its replacement.
advocating for its replacement. Cannot credibly hold both positions.
Cannot credibly hold both positions. which
Cannot credibly hold both positions. Which one is the policy of the
Which one is the policy of the government? The right honourable
government? The right honourable gentleman is
government? The right honourable gentleman isjust wrong. Of
government? The right honourable gentleman is just wrong. Of course
gentleman is just wrong. Of course you ran want to
gentleman is just wrong. Of course you can want to preserve this deal
you ran want to preserve this deal but be
you can want to preserve this deal but be ambitious if it is possible
but be ambitious if it is possibla to bring in the
but be ambitious if it is possible to bring in the United States and
to bring in the United States and Iran into a broader approach meant,
Iran into a broader approach meant, dealing not just
Iran into a broader approach meant, dealing notjust with the nuclear
dealing not just with the nuclear issue
dealing notjust with the nuclear issue but the wider disabling
issue but the wider disabling activities and that’s the positive
activities and that’s the positive we are pursuing. Agreeing the
we are pursuing. Agreeing the dispute resolution is a good thing
dispute resolution is a good thing but to be frank, only doing so after
but to be frank, only doing so after six months of, to use the Foreign
six months of, to use the Foreign Secretarrs
six months of, to use the Foreign Secretary’s own words, serious and
Secretarrs own words, serious and systematic
Secretary’s own words, serious and systematic non—compliance is weak.
systematic non-compliance is weak. The jCPOA is
systematic non—compliance is weak. TheJCPOA is time—limited. It would
The jCPOA is time-limited. It would never prevent
TheJCPOA is time—limited. It would never prevent Iran having a nuclear
never prevent Iran having a nuclear weapon. It would only delay the
weapon. It would only delay the chances of that happening, but it
chances of that happening, but it can’t do that if, to use the Foreign
can’t do that if, to use the Foreign Secretarrs own
can’t do that if, to use the Foreign Secretary’s own words, it’s just the
Secretarrs own words, it’s just the shell of
Secretary’s own words, it’s just the shell of an agreement stop me there
shell of an agreement stop me there are weaknesses to the JCPOA,
shell of an agreement stop me there are weaknesses to theJCPOA, it is
are weaknesses to theJCPOA, it is time—limited and there are other
time—limited and there are other weaknesses, we have never said it is
weaknesses, we have never said it is the perfect deal but it’s the only
the perfect deal but it’s the only deal in town which is restraining
deal in town which is restraining the behaviour of Iran and to the
the behaviour of Iran and to the extent that we’ve now got to the
extent that we’ve now got to the situation where Iran is not
situation where Iran is not complying with those restraints, we
complying with those restraints, we have to trigger the RM as a matter
have to trigger the RM as a matter of the credibility of the deal and
of the credibility of the deal and of us as the E3.
of us as the E3. Dominic Raab. Regional airline
of us as the B. Dominic Raab. Regional airtine ﬂybe
Dominic Raab. Regional airtine ﬂybe has
Dominic Raab. Regional airline flybe has struck a rescue deal with its
has struck a rescue deal with its investors and the government. The
investors and the government. The shareholders have agreed to put more
shareholders have agreed to put more money into the loss—making airline
money into the loss-making airtine and the
money into the loss—making airline and the government has agreed to
and the government has agreed to review air passenger duty. Flybe
review air passenger duty. Flybe carries about 8 million passengers a
rarries about 8 million passengers a year from
carries about 8 million passengers a year from airports including
year from airports including Birmingham, Cardiff and Southampton
Birmingham, Cardiff and Southampton to the rest of the UK and Europe.
to the rest of the UK and Europe. Boris johnson
to the rest of the UK and Europe. Boris Johnson told
to the rest of the UK and Europe. BorisJohnson told the BBC there was
Boris johnson told the BBC there was no
BorisJohnson told the BBC there was no doubt about the importance of the
no doubt about the importance of the airtine.
no doubt about the importance of the airline. There’s been talk of a cut
airtine. There’s been talk of a cut in air passenger
airline. There’s been talk of a cut in air passenger duty on domestic
in air passenger duty on domestic ﬂights to
in air passenger duty on domestic flights to help flybe, but
flights to help flybe, but environmental groups said that would
environmental groups said that would be reckless. The Transport Minister
be reckless. The Transport Minister emphasised that flybe was still a
emphasised that ﬂybe was still a growing
emphasised that flybe was still a growing concern.
growing concern. We are working very hard but there
We are working very hard but there are commercial limits to what a
are commercial limits to what a government can do to rescue any
government ran do to rescue any particular firm,
government can do to rescue any particularfirm, but be in no doubt.
particular firm, but be in no doubt. We
particularfirm, but be in no doubt. We understand the important role
We understand the important role ﬂybe plays
We understand the important role flybe plays in connectivity across
ﬂybe plays in connectivity across the
flybe plays in connectivity across the whole of the UK. This government
the whole of the UK. This government is committed to ensuring the country
is committed to ensuring the country has regional connectivity it needs.
has regional connectivity it needs. Several MPs with airports in their
Several MPs with airports in their constituency stressed the importance
constituency stressed the importance of ﬂybe to
constituency stressed the importance of flybe to the local economy. I
of ﬂybe to the [oral economy. I wanted
of flybe to the local economy. I wanted to mention air passenger
wanted to mention air passenger duty, I
wanted to mention air passenger duty, Idon’t
wanted to mention air passenger duty, I don’t want to put the
duty, I don’t want to put the minister in a corner but I want to
minister in a corner but I want to see him expand more on what can be
see him expand more on what ran be achieved
see him expand more on what can be achieved with APD, which has long
achieved with APD, which has long been a concern for airlines and
been a concern for airtines and operators.
been a concern for airlines and operators. We leave the EU at the
operators. We leave the EU at the end of the month, which might give a
end of the month, which might give a chance to consider what freedoms
chance to consider what freedoms there could be rain state aid rules
there could be rain state aid mles going forward.
there could be rain state aid rules going forward. I don’t expect the
going forward. I don’t expect the Minister to make any sweeping
Minister to make any sweeping announcement from the dispatch box
announcement from the dispatch box but hope he is closely considering
but hope he is closely considering this alongside his officials.
this alongside his officials. She tries to tempt me onto APD and
She tries to tempt me onto APD and it would help House if I start I
it would help House if I start I make it clear that Transport
make it clear that Transport ministers never talk about air
ministers never talk about air passenger duty, it is a matter for
passenger duty, it is a matter for the Treasury and I won’t change that
the Treasury and I won’t change that now, so no comment on—air passenger
now, so no comment on-air passenger duty.
duty. We have an uneven playing field,
We have an uneven playing field, minister, around APD and other
minister, around APD and other regulation around regional airlines
regulation around regional airtines and airports
regulation around regional airlines and airports which has, without
and airports which has, without doubt, contributed to flybe’s
doubt, contributed to flybe’s current
doubt, contributed to flybe’s current predicament so longer term
current predicament so longer term ran I ask
current predicament so longer term can I ask the Minister whether
ran I ask the Minister whether there’s any
can I ask the Minister whether there’s any appetite within
there’s any appetite within government to address this and the
government to address this and the crippling impact it’s having on the
crippling impact it’s having on the regional connectivity that he and
regional connectivity that he and the Prime Minister rightly referred
the Prime Minister rightly referred to this morning.
to this morning. Although I recognise what the
Although I recognise what the honourable gentleman has to say, our
honourable gentleman has to say, our regional airfields are crucial to
regional airfields are crucial to our regional collectivity and I’m
our regional collectivity and I’m acutely conscious of that and we are
acutely conscious of that and we are looking at all policy options.
looking at all policy options. Does he realise that air passenger
Does he realise that air passenger duty is a damaging tax to the
duty is a damaging tax to the economy, costs
duty is a damaging tax to the economy, costsjobs
duty is a damaging tax to the economy, costs jobs and there have
economy, costs jobs and there have been reports given to the Department
been reports given to the Department of transport and the Treasury that
of transport and the Treasury that show abolishing passenger duty would
show abolishing passenger duty would actually... Lead to an increase in
actually... Lead to an increase in tax income and have a beneficial
tax income and have a beneficial intake on the economy and jobs and
intake on the economy and jobs and will he look at those reports? I
will he look at those reports? I have heard the comments loud and
have heard the comments loud and dear.
clear. There’s
dear. There’s something of a pattern here,
There’s something of a pattern here, we had the collapse of Monarch,
we had the collapse of Monarch, Thomas Cook and now potentially the
Thomas Cook and now potentially the collapse of flybe. When we took
collapse of flybe. When we took evidence on the select in the last
evidence on the select in the last Parliament on the collapse of Thomas
Partiament on the collapse of Thomas Cook, the
Parliament on the collapse of Thomas Cook, the evidence we had from the
Cook, the evidence we had from the business and the trade unions was
business and the trade unions was the same, the government was asleep
the same, the government was asleep at the wheel. Can I ask the Minister
at the wheel. (“an I ask the Minister what
at the wheel. Can I ask the Minister what lessons they have learned from
what lessons they have learned from that collapse and what they are
that collapse and what they are doing to ensure passengers are
doing to ensure passengers are protected, critical routes that
protected, critical routes that connect regional towns and cities
connect regional towns and cities are supported and also that the
are supported and also that the taxpayer doesn’t end up footing the
taxpayer doesn’t end up footing the bill for another corporate failure?
bill for another corporate failure? Minister. I hear what the honourable
Minister. I hear what the honourable lady has to say. I am sure she will
lady has to say. I am sure she will know it is a highly volatile market.
know it is a highly volatile market. I don’t accept her comparison.
I don’t accept her comparison. With the Minister agree with me that
the Minister agree with me that firstly it is wrong to politicise
firstly it is wrong to politicise the ﬂybe
firstly it is wrong to politicise the flybe situation, as members
the ﬂybe situation, as members opposite
the flybe situation, as members opposite have managed to do so far
opposite have managed to do so far this afternoon, and also work to
this afternoon, and also work to include this vital airline
include this vital airline continuing to serve the south—west
continuing to serve the south-west and beyond
continuing to serve the south—west and beyond should happen? I would
and beyond should happen? Iwould encourage the
and beyond should happen? I would encourage the Minister to do
encourage the Minister to do all he ran to support
encourage the Minister to do all he can to support flybe, its workforce
ran to support ﬂybe, its workforce and protect
can to support flybe, its workforce and protect passengers, but can he
and protect passengers, but ran he assure
and protect passengers, but can he assure the House that his government
assure the House that his government will simultaneously and fully
will simultaneously and fully accepted its responsibilities to
accepted its responsibilities to protect the planet? Over the coming
protect the planet? Over the coming months it will become ever more
months it will become ever more apparent that tackling the climate
apparent that tackling the climate emergency means rapid changes to
emergency means rapid changes to high carbon sectors and aviation
high carbon sectors and aviation must decrease and are not increased,
must decrease and are not increased, so instead of bailing out polluting
so instead of bailing out polluting companies every time there’s a
companies every time there’s a crisis and in this instance doing so
crisis and in this instance doing so in a way that would increase
in a way that would increase emissions, does he agree that the
emissions, does he agree that the government should develop just
government should develop just transition plans for high carbon
transition plans for high carbon industries, retraining workers in
industries, retraining workers in new sustainable jobs, involving
new sustainable jobs, involving unions and local communities and in
unions and [oral communities and in this
unions and local communities and in this case enhancing rail
this case enhancing rail connectivity? I think she is
connectivity? I think she is overlooking what we are seeking to
overtooking what we are seeking to do with
overlooking what we are seeking to do with aviation playing its role in
do with aviation playing its rola in reaching the
do with aviation playing its role in reaching the 2050 target.
reaching the 2050 target. As I said, we will consult with the
As I said, we will consult with the Committee on Climate Change. The
Committee on Climate Change. The honourable member
Committee on Climate Change. The honourable memberfor
Committee on Climate Change. The honourable memberforfuture
honourable member for future transport is
honourable memberforfuture transport is working hard on
transport is working hard on diversifying the aeroplane market
diversifying the aeroplane market and bringing forward the
and bringing forward the consolidation plan. We are open
consolidation plan. We are open to good ideas about how we can
good ideas about how we can decarbonise transport in this
decarbonise transport in this department. Paul Maynard.
department. Paul Maynard. You’re watching Tuesday in
You’re watching Tuesday in Parliament with me, David Cornock.
Partiament with me, David Cornock. Don’t forget, if
Parliament with me, David Cornock. Don’t forget, if you miss our daily
Don’t forget, if you miss our daily round-up from
Don’t forget, if you miss our daily round—up from Westminster you can
round-up from Westminster you ran catch up via the
round—up from Westminster you can catch up via the BBC iPlayer.
Ministers have come under pressure to reverse cuts to legal 3, but
to reverse cuts to legal a, but Question
to reverse cuts to legal 3, but Question Time in the comments showed
Question Time in the comments showed Labour’s shadow
Question Time in the comments showed Labour’s shadowjustice
Question Time in the comments showed Labour’s shadow justice secretary
Labour’s shadow justice secretary said legal a
Labour’s shadow justice secretary said legal 3 human right and they
said legal a human right and they referred
said legal 3 human right and they referred to the UN report on poverty
referred to the UN report on poverty in Britain by the special
in Britain by the special rapporteur.
rapporteur. What people need as a basic
rapporteur. what people need as a basic right
what peopla need as a basic right from
what people need as a basic right from the
What people need as a basic right from the government ‘s action, not
from the government ‘s action, not words. The UN special raconteur said
words. The UN special raconteur said these cuts overly affected the poor
these cuts overty affected the poor and
these cuts overly affected the poor and disabled people —— raconteur.
and disablad peopla -- raconteur. labour is falling
and disabled people —— raconteur. Labour is calling for a return to
labour is falling for a return to all legal a
Labour is calling for a return to all legal a funded advice and this
all legal a funded advice and this would
all legal 3 funded advice and this would be a lifeline to the single
would be a lifeline to the singla mother
would be a lifeline to the single mother standing up to the lousy
mother standing up to the lousy landlord, the workers standing up to
landlord, the workers standing up to a bullying boss or the migrants
a bullying boss or the migrants fighting cruel Home Office policies.
fighting cruel Home Office policies. Doesn’t it say everything about
Doesn’t it say everything about whose side the government is on that
whose side the government is on that it is deliberately preventing these
it is deliberately preventing these people from defending their hard—won
people from defending their hard-won rights?
rights? Mr Speaker, I do not accept that and
Mr Speaker, I do not accept that and I go back to my earlier point, we
I go back to my eartier point, we believe in
I go back to my earlier point, we believe in access to justice and in
believe in access to justice and in particular to early legal support
particular to earty legal support for
particular to early legal support for those people who absolutely need
for those people who absolutely need it. We have pilots, we have the
it. We have pilots, we have the innovation fund coming forward and
innovation fund coming forward and this government remains firmly
this government remains firmly committed to helping those people
committed to helping those people who need early legal support and
who need early legal support and legal advice.
Several MPs raised the issue of domestic abuse where
the Government plans to toughen the law.
A Conservative said a key related factor lay in organised crime.
Cou nty
County lines drug gangs are involved
County lines dmg gangs are involved in the largest
County lines drug gangs are involved in the largest exploitation of our
in the largest exploitation of our children this country has ever
children this country has ever witnessed.
Children from all walks of life are being groomed by these gangs.
Given that women and girls are particularly at risk
of being abused and exploited, what steps is the Government taking
to ensure that the criminaljustice system is doing more
to protect our women and girls, in particular
using The Modern Slavery Act?
Thank you, I’m very grateful to my honourable friend,
a citizen of London and Westminster raising this point, Mr Speaker.
And I know she brings a huge amount of expertise in this knowledge
in this specific area.
Which is to be welcomed.
This government recognises the risk to girls and young women
who are exploited by these ruthless gangs, and that’s why
the Home Office provided £400,000 this financial year for young
people’s advocates in London, Manchester, and the West Midlands
to work directly with gang affected women and girls,
especially if they have been victims or at risk of sexual abuse by gangs
including county lines.
I can assure her that colleagues in the Home Office are also working
with the police, Crown Prosecution Service,
to take full advantage of powers in The Modern Slavery Act.
A Labour MP highlighted arise in domestic abuse at the time
of major sporting events.
With the Six Nations coming just in a few weeks’ time,
what work is the Minister doing to work with the Rugby Union
across the UK to try and explain at the front of stadiums,
to television programming, to working with the rugby players
themselves to explain that domestic abuse is clearly wrong
and there is never an excuse for it and there needs to be more
investment to tackle the causes of it which includes
these sporting events?
I think the honourable gentleman makes a very,
very good point highlighting the fact that domestic abuse is out
there in so many different areas, not always where we expect
to see it.
So, with regard specifically to rugby, I would need to go away
and ask a few questions.
But I thank him for raising it in the chamber today
and for highlighting the importance of why we need to bring forward
the Domestic Abuse Bill, and to really see and end
to these abhorrent crimes.
Another Labour MP raised the issue of convictions for rape.
In West Yorkshire, the number of rapes reported increased by 25%
last year, but just A.4% of those cases resulted
in someone being charged.
And the same is true across the country.
So, what is the Government doing to ensure that the criminaljustice
system is properly resourced and that it doesn’t let down victims
and add to the trauma that they have already experienced?
As I said Mr Speaker in my first response,
we are putting 20,000 extra officers into the system,
we are putting £85 million into the Crown Prosecution Service,
and we are increasing expenditure on both rape centres and ISVAs,
although I’m sure in those areas, there is more we can do.
There is also a review urgently under way to see what further steps
we can take.
But I believe those actions I’ve outlined already which are taking
place as we speak will move us back in a happier direction.
Chris Philip, and ISVAs are "Independent Sexual Violence
Advisers".
Now, the debate on last months Queen’s Speech setting out
the Government’s plans for new laws goes on.
The focus was on education and local government,
and several MPs took the opportunity to make their maiden speeches.
By convention, these are noncontroversial,
and focus on the new member’s constituency.
A newly—elected Conservative MP is a former chief executive
of the Social Mobility Foundation.
I’d like to bring social mobility back into the debate in this House
as much as I can because last year, it was referred to fewer than half
the times it was in 2016.
And yet, many of us in this House have stories of having been socially
mobile ourselves, we all represent parents in our constituency
who are concerned that their children may not have as good
a life as they had.
And that should be at the core of what I think we should
be doing here.
Rachel Hopkins took over from Gavin Shuker as MP for Luton
South.
They were both educated at the town schools.
My predecessor talked about the importance of access
to good quality comprehensive education for our young people
being integral to social mobility.
But I will go a little bit further to say that it’s actually vital
to tackle social injustice.
Another newly—elected Conservative said he’d be campaigning on behalf
of children with special educational needs.
When I was 12 years old, I was told I had a reading
and writing age of an eight—year—old but I risked leaving my school.
I was diagnosed with both dyslexia and dysrexia.
I was lucky I had great support around me and was lucky
to have a couple of key individuals who were with me at school who saw
something in me and help me turn the situation around.
The sad reality is that for far too many young people with special
educational needs, this is not the case through no fault
of their own.
As well as fighting for Ipswich, if there is one thing I can do
in public life, it’s dedicating myself to helping these children
to ensure that they have every opportunity to achieve
their full potential.
Another new Tory recalled his time as a barrister representing
the most vulnerable people.
I’d begun representing Matthew in court when he was 12
years of age.
He was a young man from a terrible background, but had more talent
in his finger than I have in my body.
He gave the best at 12 years of age mitigation in a courtroom that
I have ever heard.
For seven years, I tried to keep him out of prison,
and ultimately I didn’t succeed.
And it is one of the great indictments of my society,
or our society, that if Matthew had been born to a middle—class couple,
he would he stood where I am now.
And we must do everything to make sure that Matthews does not fall
through the net.
And a Scottish Liberal Democrat who took an SNP seat reflected
on her constituency.
My predecessor in his own maiden speech mentioned our whisky
distilleries, but I would also like to mention North East Fife’s
increasing number of gin distilleries such as Eden Mills,
Pilgrims, Darlings Of Kingsbarns, and Lundon Links.
Having come to this House directly from the drinks industry,
I hold a general certificate in distilling.
I would be more than happy to tutor members on distilling.
LAUGHTER.
Wendy Chamberlain from North East Fife, where you’re
unlikely to go thirsty.
Now, over in the Lords, Boris Johnson’s withdrawal agreement
is being studied in depth with opposition peers threatening
to try to amend it in the coming days.
At the beginning of the Bill’s committee stage, one Lib Dem said
this was happening in the context of triumphalism by Brexiteers,
including attempts to get Big Ben to bong at the moment of Brexit.
People who have won the Brexit debate now and we are going to be
leave the European Union have not got to be triumphalist
because if people go on being euphoric,
and what the Prime Minister again said in the Sunday Times referred
to as having paroxysms ofjoy",
and in this case it was that it was going to be baby boom as a result
of these paroxysms ofjoy, which is why I was wondering
what we if Big Ben was going to bong...
Nevertheless, if people behave like this, it will not do any good
in this country for bringing the country together,
and for healing the wounds, the very serious wounds
that have on.
—— that have been caused by the
-- that have been caused by the whole
—— that have been caused by the whole Brexits debate and that which
whola Brexits debate and that which go on.
There are many, many people in this country,
my lords, who are not full of paroxysms ofjoy,
sexual or otherwise.
But who are full of dismay, they are feeling a sense of loss
which is akin to bereavement, and a grieving process has
onlyjust begun.
Opposition peers tabled changes which would replace the Government’s
settled status scheme for EU nationals with a new system
which simply required them to declare rather than apply
for their right to stay in Britain.
They also want EU nationals to be issued with physical proof
of their right to stay here rather than just be given a code
from the Government website.
We ask that we shift to a declatory system in which eligibility
is the basis on which one has rights.
Not the application system.
And as we have set out in the amendment, it is perfectly
possible to continue to give incentives to registration whilst
establishing that declatory system which will ensure that a whole load
of vulnerable people are not criminalised on the registration
when that registration date passes in 2021.
My Lords, I beg to move.
One Green peer said the measures but why the measures that Dow
that they wanted to remain part of Europe.
I’d like to talk about a report from the 10th of October
when Brendan Lewis was quoted as saying that EU citizens who don’t
apply for settled status face deportation.
Now, I ask the noble lords to put themselves in the shoes
of an affected citizen here in the UK.
They’ve come quite, recently been here for many decades and thing
about which set of words you have heard more clearly.
Which set of words will be affecting your sentiment,
your understanding about your place in the United Kingdom.
And I think everyone knows that but people will be hearing worrying
about, fearing, are the words "Threatened with deportation".
This does risk creating confusion among employers and service
providers and will impede EU citizens’ rights to access services
to which they are entitled notwithstanding the protections
new clause seeks to provide.
Such an approach also needs to EU citizens who have not applied
for documentation suffering inadvertent discrimination compared
to those who had.
This is, my lords, this must be giving you deja vu because this
is exactly what happened to the Windrush Generation.
The Government is adamant that we must avoid the situation
where not now but years down the line, EU citizens
who built their lives find themselves here struggling
to prove their rights in the UK.
The Minister also said that so far the number of nationals
seeing their status refused was five and it was not enough to appease
opposition peers and there will be votes on these moments that make
and if you’re wondering what Ward proved was talking about Big Ben
bonking for present, it is out of action with the whisper
tower being mystery, his response was saying that it
would cost half—million pounds to get the hell to chime
in January the 31st.
50,000 pounds a bong as the Speaker put it.
The Prime Minister agreed that was too expensive but he is
too expensive but he is investigating a crowdfunding option
investigating a crowdfunding option or finding a
investigating a crowdfunding option orfinding a ball for a
investigating a crowdfunding option orfinding a ballfora big bang
or finding a ball fora big bang Bong.
or finding a ball for a big bang Bong. That is
orfinding a ballfora big bang Bong. That is it for Tuesday in
Bong. That is it for Tuesday in Parliament. I do hope you can
Bong. That is it for Tuesday in Parliament. I do hope you canjoin
Partiament. I do hope you ranjoin me at the
Parliament. I do hope you canjoin me at the same time tomorrow for
me at the same time tomorrow for Wednesday in Parliament, including
Wednesday in Partiament, including the
Wednesday in Parliament, including the Prime Minister’s questions.
the Prime Minister’s questions. Thank you for watching, by for now.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Taylor is a bit better with England and Wales seeing a bit of sunshine
and Wales seeing a bit of sunshine and a blustery day. It will remained
and a blustery day. It will remained windy across the north of Scotland
windy across the north of Scotland with strong winds and high clouds
with strong winds and high clouds across the area of low pressure.
across the area of low pressure. Slow to clear from the south—east
Slow to clear from the south-east and East
Slow to clear from the south—east and East Anglia. A wet start to
and East Anglia. A wet start to Wednesday but it will brighten up as
Wednesday but it will brighten up as it moves away. A of sunshine around.
it moves away. A of sunshine around. If few showers in the west. Most of
If few showers in the west. Most of these in the north—west of Scotland
these in the north-west of Scotland and
these in the north—west of Scotland and some heavy snow on the hills.
and some heavy snow on the hills. Damages ranging from seven to around
Damages ranging from seven to around nine or 10 degrees in the south—east
nine or 10 degrees in the south-east so a little
nine or 10 degrees in the south—east so a little cooler there. As we had
so a little cooler there. As we had through Thursday, and other wet and
through Thursday, and other wet and windy day on the cards, particularly
windy day on the cards, particularty windy across
windy day on the cards, particularly windy across the west of the country
windy across the west of the country where we will see Gail’s, gusts
where we will see Gail’s, gusts searching 240 or 50 or maybe 60 mph
searching 240 or 50 or maybe 60 mph exposure. Rain here as well with but
exposure. Rain here as well with but a bit dry in the east. A mild day
a bit dry in the east. A mild day for England and Wales and quite cool
for England and Walas and quite cool in the
for England and Wales and quite cool in the north.
Welcome to BBC News.
My name’s Mike Embley.
Our top stories:
Britain, France and Germany trigger a formal dispute process
over Iran’s violations of the international nuclear deal.
TRANSLATION: We believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal
for the future because it prevents Iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
The impeachment charges against President Trump
will be sent to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
After her resounding election victory, Taiwan’s President Tsai
Ing—wen tells the BBC China needs to face reality.
A very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, they don’t like the idea of being threatened all the time.
The royal couple are welcome in Canada,
but the details of Prince Harry and Meghan’s new lives
are proving tricky.
European nations have put Iran on notice over its breaches
of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
That deal was supposed to discourage Iran from building nuclear weapons.
The Trump administration unilaterally withdrew the US
from the deal.
France, Germany, and the UK have been trying to maintain it,
but officials in Tehran have been lifting limits on enriched uranium
production, saying it’s a reasonable response to US sanctions
and rising tensions.
European nations disagree, and now an official dispute
mechanism has been triggered.
Gareth Barlow reports.
Preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term
goal of Europe and the US, but the landmark agreement that
bound Tehran to strict limits is now in full dispute.
France, Germany and the UK reject Iran’s argument it can withdraw
production limits on uranium used in nuclear powerplant and also
weapons after America walked away from the deal.
The aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not
to reimpose sanctions.
The aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating
to the implementation of the agreement.
The beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to curb
Iran’s ability to build nuclear weapons.
In 2018, President Trump pulled out of the deal,
Last year Tehran said it wouldn’t comply with all its commitments
and recently has gone further following increased attention
with the US.
The three European governments say these breaches have left them
with no choice but to trigger the dispute process is a first step
towards reinstating international sanctions.
TRANSLATION: We call on Iran to constructively participate
in these negotiations, the goal of which will be
to safeguard the nuclear deal.
We believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear deal
for the future because it prevents Iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
The Iranian Foreign Minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif,
decried the dispute as a strategic mistake but Iran’s Foreign Ministry
spokesman said Iran was ready to maintain international agreements.
All sides now have 15 days to resolve the issues raised.
If they fail, the EU countries can refer the matter to the UN
Security Council, which could vote to reimpose any sanctions on Iran.
Gareth Barlow, BBC News.
The leader of the Republican majority in the US Senate,
Mitch McConnell, has said the impeachment trial
of President Trump is likely to begin there next Tuesday.
Democrats accuse the president
of abusing his power and obstructing Congress.
With regard to impeachment, our understanding is,
and I think your understanding is as well, that the House is likely
to send the articles over to us tomorrow,
and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we will go
through some preliminary steps here this week which could well
include the ChiefJustice coming over and swearing in members
of the Senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
We hope to be able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up
to begin the actual trial next Tuesday.
One of the most contentious issues
not yet resolved is whether to have witnesses
in the Senate trial.
Democrats want to hear from current and former White House officials,
such as former national security adviserJohn Bolton.
We join the American people in wanting the truth,
the whole truth, nothing but the truth to come out
of the trial.
If you want the truth, you have to have witnesses.
You have to have documents.
Who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses and documents?
I’m pleased that some of my Republican colleagues are now
beginning to come around to our position.
Chuck Schumer there for the Democrats.
Our correspondent, Peter Bowes, joins us from Los Angeles.
Our correspondent, Peter Bowes,
We joins us from Los Angelas. have a likely start date ‘
still
We have a likely start date and still uncertainty over the shape of
still uncertainty over the shape of this trial and whether or not they
this trial and whether or not they will be witnesses, a crucial matter
will be witnesses, a crucial matter I guess, and also whether there will
I guess, and also whether there will be new evidence.
be new evidence. It is still far from certain whether
It is still far from certain whether there will be witnesses and this is
there will be witnesses and this is why we’ve really had a delay for the
why we’ve really had a delay for the last three weeks or so, the
last three weeks or so, the Democrats were hoping to put
Democrats were hoping to put pressure on the Senate Republicans
pressure on the Senate Republicans to agree to witnesses and any new
to agree to witnesses and any new evidence, documents or digital
evidence, documents or digital evidence in the form of e—mails and
evidence in the form of e-mails and the
evidence in the form of e—mails and the Democrats will argue that since
the Democrats will argue that since the articles of impeachment were
the articles of impeachment were agreed before Christmas that new
agreed before Christmas that new evidence has emerged and there were
evidence has emerged and there were e-mails
evidence has emerged and there were e—mails before Christmas. In the
e-mails before Christmas. In the last 24
e—mails before Christmas. In the last 2A hours, documents the
last 2A hours, documents the Democrats say show an age to Rudy
Democrats say show an age to Rudy Giuliani, the president’s personal
Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer.
Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, was involved in setting up a
lawyer, was involved in setting up a meeting with Mr Giuliani and the
meeting with Mr Giuliani and the president of Ukraine. Why is all
president of Ukraine. why is all this
president of Ukraine. Why is all this significant? The Democrats will
this significant? The Democrats will be hoping to present that kind of
be hoping to present that kind of new evidence to prove, as they see
new evidence to prove, as they see it, that there’s a paper trail or
it, that there’s a paper trail or even a digital paper trail to link
even a digital paper trail to link President Donald Trump to what’s
President Donald Tmmp to what’s been
President Donald Trump to what’s been happening behind—the—scenes
been happening behind-the-scenes involving
been happening behind—the—scenes involving people like Rudy Giuliani
involving peopla like Rudy Giuliani and linking
involving people like Rudy Giuliani and linking President Donald Trump
and linking President Donald Tmmp to that
and linking President Donald Trump to that claim that he put pressure
to that claim that he put pressure on Ukraine to investigate his likely
on Ukraine to investigate his likely political rival, Joe Biden. Peter,
political rival, joe Biden. Peter, just to remind
political rival, Joe Biden. Peter, just to remind people, of course,
just to remind peopla, of course, against this
just to remind people, of course, against this backdrop of
against this backdrop of impeachment, the people wanting to
impeachment, the people wanting to fight Mr Tmmp
impeachment, the people wanting to fight MrTrumpfor
impeachment, the people wanting to fight Mr Trump for the White House
fight Mr Tmmp for the white House in the
fight Mr Trump for the White House in the presidential election next
in the presidential election next year are beginning
in the presidential election next yearare beginning a
in the presidential election next year are beginning a debate in Iowa
year are beginning a debate in Iowa right now, the Democrat party’s top
right now, the Democrat party’s top six candidate, their seventh debate,
six candidate, their seventh debate, the last until Iowa has its caucus
the last until Iowa has its caucus earty in
the last until Iowa has its caucus early in February. What are we
earty in February. what are we hearing from
early in February. What are we hearing from the debate? We don’t
hearing from the debate? We don’t have any material from it yet but
have any material from it yet but what do they candidates have to do
what do they candidates have to do and more generally in the campaign,
and more generally in the campaign, it is going to be tricky for the
it is going to be tricky for the candidates who are senators to have
candidates who are senators to have a Senate trial going on?
a Senate trial going on? It is going to be tricky for them
It is going to be tricky for them and of course there are several
and of course there are several senators who are vying for the role
senators who are vying for the rola of
senators who are vying for the role of candidate for the Democrats to go
of candidate for the Democrats to go “P
of candidate for the Democrats to go up against Donald Trump next year.
up against Donald Trump next year. Elizabeth Warren, Burnie, two of the
Elizabeth Warren, Burnie, two of the leading candidates if and when the
leading candidates if and when the trial in the Senate takes place,
trial in the Senate takes place, they will have to be there in the
they will have to be there in the chamber every single day taking part
chamber every single day taking part stop the in fact they won’t even be
stop the in fact they won’t even be allowed to speak for the early part
allowed to speak for the earty part of the
allowed to speak for the early part of the trial but what they won’t be
of the trial but what they won’t be doing is campaigning on the streets
doing is campaigning on the streets and in the states where there are
and in the states where there are upcoming caucuses and primary
upcoming caucuses and primary elections over the next few weeks,
elections over the next few weeks, that is where they will want to meet
that is where they will want to meet people and appear in local media.
people and appear in [oral media. They will be
people and appear in local media. They will be constrained by people
They will be constrained by peopla like joe
They will be constrained by people likeJoe Biden and the mayor E3Pete
like joe Biden and the mayor BPete Buttigieg
likeJoe Biden and the mayor E3Pete Buttigieg will be allowed to
Buttigieg will be allowed to campaign. It will be tough for them
campaign. It will be tough for them because they have other
because they have other responsibilities —— Pete Buttigieg.
responsibilities -- Pete Buttigieg. Two major
responsibilities —— Pete Buttigieg. Two major vying events over the next
Two major vying events over the next few weeks in the US, one is the
few weeks in the US, one is the first stage of the election and the
first stage of the election and the other is the trial in the Senate.
other is the trial in the Senate. Cleariy
other is the trial in the Senate. Clearly those are senators involved
Cleariy those are senators involved won the
Clearly those are senators involved won the emphasis to be on them
won the emphasis to be on them because they want to be chosen to
because they want to be chosen to represent their party —— want the
represent their party -- want the emphasis stop
represent their party —— want the emphasis stop Peter, thank you very
emphasis stop Peter, thank you very much that.
much that. —— wa nt
much that. —— want the
much that. -- want the emphasis stop the Peter,
-- want the emphasis stop the Peter, thank you very
—— want the emphasis stop the Peter, thank you very much for that. Want
thank you very much for that. Want the
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
More than A0 people, most of them children,
have been treated for breathing problems and skin irritation
after a commercial airliner apparently dumped fuel
near a school, just before an emergency landing at Los Angeles
airport.The Delta Airlines flight to Shanghai had just taken off
when an engine problem forced its return.
Government forces in the Sudanese capital,
Khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters
where security personnel loyal to the former president,
Omar al Bashir, were based.
The mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now
moved into the northern suburb of Kafouri.
There are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets,
and the international airport is closed.
40,000 people have now been moved from their homes
near the Taal volcano in the Philippines,
which authorities say could erupt at any moment.
Taal, one of the world’s smallest active volcanoes,
is in the middle of a lake about 45
miles south of the capital, Manila.
It’s been producing a cloud of ash and fountains of lava.
Fire services in Catalonia in north—east Spain are saying
a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant,
has now been contained.
The blast, near the port city of Tarragona, killed one person
and injured eight others.
Some have severe burns.
One person is still missing.
Authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
The wildfires in Australia could become common in other parts
of the world by the end of the century if global
temperatures continue to rise, according to British scientists.
And there is widespread consensus among scientists that average
temperatures on Earth are on course to rise by three degrees Celsius
above pre—industrial levels.
Our science editor, David Shukman, has more details.
Day after day, fire crews brave the front lines in a crisis
that’s still escalating.
Many of the blazes are out of control
and beyond anyone’s experience.
It’s the worst I’ve seen in 21 years.
This is honestly the worst I’ve seen,
the most I’ve actually been out.
It makes it very hard, especially when you’ve got family
and commitments and all the rest of it.
In Victoria, a ghostly scene — cars burnt and grey with ash.
Fires are a natural feature of Australia, but record heat has
made them more severe than usual.
Something that was predicted as temperatures have been rising
with climate change.
This graph shows how the average temperature in December in Australia
has risen over the past century.
2018 set one new record and then last year set another
that was far higher.
And you’d expect this kind of heat in a world that’s nearly
three degrees warmer than the pre—industrial level.
Climate scientists knew this was going to happen at some point,
whether it was now or ten years from now.
We were going to get this perfect storm,
and it was going to be pretty horrible.
We dodged a bullet a couple of years ago when we had a hot summer then.
But it was eventually going to transpire.
And this seems to be part of a pattern.
A new study of wildfires around the world, from the Amazon
rainforest to California, says human activity is raising
temperatures and adding to the threat, including in Europe
and many other regions.
This was Spain last year.
The aim of the study was to assess what we know
about the risk of wildfires.
The scientists found that the total area burnt has actually reduced
over recent decades,
mainly because dense natural vegetation has been cleared
to make way for farmland.
But they also say that the length of the fire season, when conditions
are right for fire to take hold, has increased by 20% globally.
And they warn that if the average temperature rises by three degrees
Celsius, which at the moment looks likely, the area burned
will increase in size.
The scientists involved in the research say the key new
is to cut emissions of the gases that are heating the planet.
In terms of the urgency, it’s getting worse all the time.
So the sooner we can rein in emissions,
the sooner we ran slow the increase in warming
and increased climate change impacts.
Back in Australia, as human activity is linked to the fires,
it’s wildlife that’s suffering most.
This emergency food is for animals that survived the onslaught.
Millions of others are thought to have died.
The challenge now is to make sure there are systems in place to cope
with fires on this scale in future.
David Shukman, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
More than 130 people
across Pakistan and Afghanistan are killed due to avalanches and floods.
Day one of Operation Desert Storm to force the Iraqis out of Kuwait
has seen the most intense air attack since the Second World War.
Tobacco is America’s oldest industry and one of its biggest,
but the industry is nervous of this report.
This may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
There is not a street that is unaffected.
Huge parts of Kobe were simply demolished,
as buildings crashed into one another.
This woman said she had been given no help and no advice
by the authorities.
She stood outside the ruins of her business.
Tens of thousands of black children in South Africa have taken advantage
of laws passed by the country’s new multiracial government
and enrolled at formerly white schools.
Tonight sees the 9,610th performance
of the long—running play, The Mousetrap.
When they heard about her death today,
the management considered whether to cancel tonight’s performance,
but Agatha Christie would have been the last person
to want such a thing.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
Iran has condemned France, Britain and Germany for triggering
a formal dispute process over Tehran’s violations
of its international nuclear deal.
The impeachment charges against President Trump will be sent
to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
China needs to face reality and respect the will
of the Taiwanese people according to Taiwan’s newly re—elected
President Tsai Ing—Wen.
Speaking exclusively to the BBC, President Tsai said the threat
from China, which claims the self—governing island as part
of its territory — is intensifying, but she warned that any military
action could prove costly to China.
Our correspondentJohn Sudworth spoke to the President
in Taiwan’s capital, Taipei.
Hello, President Tsai.
Hi.
It was her warnings about China that hit home with voters.
But now, she had something to say direct to Beijing.
This is a very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, you know, they don’t like the idea of being threatened
all the time.
We’re a successful democracy.
We have a pretty decent economy.
You know, we deserve respect from China.
Her critics say she is reckless, that she risks provoking China.
But her promise to stand up for Taiwan saw her re—elected
by a landslide in Saturday’s vote.
China has been intensifying its threat.
And they have all sorts of actions, military exercises,
and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising
around the island.
And also, with the things happening in Hong Kong,
people get a real sense that this threat is real.
Your predecessor, Ma Ying—jeou, was able to preserve Taiwanese
democracy whilst building stronger ties with China.
What’s not to like about that approach?
The situation has changed, so we’re facing a very
different situation now.
Taiwan is also changing.
The first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage,
it is, she says, growing ever more distinct from China.
We are an independent country already, and we call ourselves
Republic of China, Taiwan.
And we do have government, we have the military
and we have elections.
Few statements are likely to infuriate China more.
With pressure bound to increase, Taiwan’s military is
being beefed up.
You cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
Do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
I do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
Invading Taiwan is something that is going to be very
costly for China.
She says she plans to further strengthen Taiwan’s democracy.
The very thing that divides it from its authoritarian neighbour may
in the end prove its most powerful defence.
John Sudworth, BBC News, Taiwan.
Our correspondent Cindy Sui is in Taipei.
I asked her if it works to antagonise such a poweful neighbour?
Her critics would definitely say no, it is not wise.
Potentially very dangerous.
They believe that she is actually manipulating public opinion by not
presenting the reality which is that Beijing actually has never
asked her to accept a one country two system formula.
It simply asked her to accept the 1992 consensus which was that
one China concept.
The prior president was able to use that concept to define that one
China is simply the Republic of China which is Taiwan’s official
lﬂnl-F
She refuses to do that because her party ultimately wants
to create a new country called simply Taiwan with no
links to China.
Her critics say this is very dangerous and she is pursuing her
party’s own agenda when the majority of people here want the status quo
and only less than 30% went formal independence.
You would have to see how she plays this out but right now,
it is looking like a very dangerous game because after all,
China spends more than ten times as much as Taiwan on military and it
has 1,000 missiles targeted at Taiwan to warn it
against declaring formal independence.
It could be very potentially dangerous for Taiwan,
not only economically but in terms of stability and peace.
Harsh weather including avalanches and floods has killed more than 130
people across Pakistan and Afghanistan in recent days.
Schools have shut and many villages have been left isolated.
Worst affected has been Pakistani Kashmir with 62 people
killed and 10 others missing.
More than 50 bodies have been recovered.
Olivia Crellin has the latest.
Buried in snow, villagers struggle to free a man completely submerged
after an avalanche hit a Kashmiri village just north of Islamabad,
killing dozens and destroying more than 50 homes.
Extreme winter weather in recent days has killed more than 130 people
across Pakistan, Afghanistan and Indian—administered Kashmir.
Many more are injured or remain missing.
Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Imran Khan, tweeted:
..referring to the part of Kashmir controlled by Pakistan.
Military helicopters exchange rescued avalanche victims
for supplies in the hope of providing relief to those cut off
by conditions as more heavy snow is forecast.
But there has been criticism from some about the government
response to the weather.
Truck drivers travelling along key supply routes
across the country were stranded.
TRANSLATION: I’m coming from Taftan and I’m heading for Punjab.
It is snowing here and the roads are closed because the vehicles skid.
I asked the government to bring heavy
machines which will clean the snow in about half to one hour.
They have brought these small tractors here which will not clear
the snow for three days.
Pakistan’s disaster management authority also declared a state
of emergency in the south—east Balochistan province.
There the weather has isolated communities,
shut schools and brought trade
with their Afghan neighbours to a halt.
While such harsh weather is common and seasonal for this region,
the area’s embattled status and poverty means the heavy snow
comes with a heavy toll.
Olivia Crellin, BBC News.
Storm Brendan is still causing destruction, with strong winds
hitting parts of the UK.
A large section of a roof was blown off
a block of flats in Slough, in Berkshire.
It’s thought nobody was injured.
And would you ‘bung 3 bob for the Big Ben bongs’?
The British government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign could be
launched to pay for Big Ben to chime to mark Brexit day.
The hell is currently being restored and the official estimate is it
would cost half a million for temporary work to be done
to allow it to ring, for people who want to celebrate
Brexit, on January the 31st.
It seems Canada’s Prime Minister is ready to welcome Prince Harry
and his wife Meghan, butJustin Trudeau does want to know
who will pay for the royal couple’s security.
On Monday, Queen Elizabeth signed off on a ‘period of transition’
for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, but there are still questions over
how that will work.
Our Royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell reports.
A new direction has been agreed.
Less than 20 months since their wedding,
the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Harry and Meghan, have been given
the go—ahead by the Queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans
to move out and to base themselves in part in Canada.
Harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
His Invictus Games was staged in Toronto in 2017, and Meghan lived
there for seven years as an actress.
There will be questions about their tax and immigration
status, but Canada’s Prime Minister appeared to be offering
a cautious welcome.
I think most Canadians are very supportive of having,
you know, royals be here.
But how that looks and what kind of costs are involved,
there’s still lots of discussions to have.
Here in Britain, the Prime Minister declined to offer a public view
on the Sussexes’ move.
I’m absolutely confident that they are going to
sort this out.
And do you know what?
I think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier
without any particular commentary from me.
Meghan believes she has been badly treated by the British media.
She is suing the Mail on Sunday over its publication of a letter
she wrote to her estranged father.
In its court submission, published today, the paper says...
To which Meghan might respond, from now on, I will not perform
royal duties, and it is our intention not
to receive public money.
But royal duties are what the Royal Family does.
Prince William was at Buckingham Palace today, bestowing honours.
It mis a staple of royal life, the life to which the Queen has
devoted herself, but from which Harry now wishes
to break free.
It is a parting over which the Royal Family feels great
regret, coupled with realism.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
Let’s end on a high.
This is the momenta French daredevil flew through a mountain
in Hunan Province known as ‘Heaven’s Gate’ wearing
a jet pack.
Crowds watched as two Frenchmen jumped out of a helicopter before
flying through the stone structure wearing powered wings made
from carbon fibre.
Apparently the jet packs can reach speed of 400 kilometres an hour,
and are steered by the way the pilot moves their body.
A reminder of our top story:
Iran has condemned a decision by Britain, France and Germany
to trigger a formal dispute process over Iranian violations
of the international nuclear accord.
The Iranian Foreign Minister described the move as legally
baseless, and a strategic mistake.
The Europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
The United States unilaterally withdrew from it under President
withdrew from it under President Trump. Thank you for watching.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure comes hurtling into Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on to the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here.
England and Wales, thanks to those weather fronts,
sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will
be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Iran has condemned a decision by Britain,
France and Germany to trigger a formal dispute process over
Iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
The Iranian Foreign Minister described the move as legally
baseless, and a strategic mistake.
The Europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
The impeachment trial of Donald Trump
has moved a step closer.
The House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, says a vote on sending
articles of impeachment to the Senate
will take place on Wednesday.
Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, says the trial
is likely to begin next Tuesday.
Taiwan’s President, Tsai Ing—wen, has told the BBC
that the island has no need to declare formal independence
because it already is an independent country.
Ms Tsai said last week’s presidential election,
in which she won a second term in office, showed Taiwanese people
did not like being threatened by China.
Now on BBC News, Panorama.
Britain’s High Streets are in crisis...
Walking down here I can see lots of vacant shops.
And there is a very big one here.
We’ve lost more than a quarter of shops on our high streets
injust over a decade.
I haven’t been down the high street in a couple of months.
The new government has promised its help, with investment
for left behind towns, but how should that money be spent?
Retail has only ever been a part of the functions of a town.
So it’s time for a re—think.
I think it’s vital, actually, that the high street becomes
a place for community, for people to come together
somewhere in the centre of the high street, there could be
a key public space.
Tonight on Panorama, we’ll see how, in parts of the country,
things are already changing...
That has to increase footfall, that has to regenerate the area.
Stockton, sitting on the River Tees, in the North—East of England.
It has a proud heritage, but its High Street has been
struggling for a while.
In the last five years, the town centre has lost
more than 100 stores.
Hi, Richard. Hi, Adam.
This is a prime example of what’s happening in the retail market.
This was a former M&S unit which closed in August last year.
It’s been vacant since their departure.
It’s not a good sign, is it, if a big retailer like M&S is going,
"it’s just not working"?
That’s got to be disheartening.
It’s absolutely disheartening.
It’s frustrating.
It’s one in a long line of retailers who are consolidating
right across the UK and we are victims of that.
And we’ve got to step in and look at different uses
for our town centres.
I can see another vacancy up there.
But Debenhams ahead of us.
Debenhams have announced that Stockton will be one of many towns
where their stores will close and that leaves a very large retail
store with a problem not only for its owners but also
us as the council.
This week Debenhams is closing 19 of the 50 shops it plans to shut
in the next few years.
It’s part of what the company describes as a ?restructure’.
This one will close in a couple of days’ time.
As soon as you walk into the high street you see Debenhams.
We’re just going to have an empty shop welcoming us!
It employs a lot of people for this area, especially
with the unemployment in this area being really high.
It will be a big loss.
Every year I used to go and get the same Christmas present,
the same perfume from Debenhams for my mum.
Sorry, every year you get your mum the same present?
Ever think it’s time for a change?
She likes it, she knows it’s my present!
These local teenagers have already seen big changes.
Maybe a few years ago there was more to do,
a lot more shops were open, where new I tend to go elsewhere.
I haven’t been down the high street in a couple of months.
Why?
It doesn’t appeal to me.
I do tend to use it for, like, the music scene but that’s generally
all I really use it for.
Stockton has a reputation for being ahead of the curve
in rejuvenating its town centre, with the council planning
and investing in change.
Investment in our town centre started with the public realm
and this central fountains area.
We’ve created what we describe as a large outdoor room so that
we’ve got places for performers and our large sporting events
that we have right throughout the year here in Stockton.
It’s about creating that footfall.
So, the more people that we’ve got living in town,
working in town and coming and experiencing the fantastic
events program that we’ve got, then, they’re going to use the retail.
So, how much have you spent on the town centre?
Well, over recent years, particularly since 2010, 11,
we’ve spent £38 million.
And their plans don’t end there...
This is a very big site, built in the 19705, and it provides
a bit of a barrier to the river.
Stockton is on the short list for a share of a £1 billion pot
the government has committed to spend, helping town’s realize
plans for their high streets.
We’re investing in buildings that we can take control of.
We recognise that retail is a changing market.
It needs to contract to be fit for purpose for our town.
They’re looking at different development options.
The council says what matters most is that by owning these sites
they’ll be able to lead on regeneration of the area.
We started a conversation with our residents about
what they want to see for the future of their town.
Do they want to see more leisure based facilities,
more open space, more housing, more commercial development to help
with part of the town centre’s redevelopment?
The truth is, high streets have always had to adapt and change,
responding to the shifting demands of their communities.
It’s always good to look at maps like this cos you’ve got the history
of town centre and retail change in one place.
Professor Cathy Parker is one of the leaders
of the High Streets Task Force, set up by the government
last year, to support the transformation of town centres.
She’s an expert on the history of retail.
If you were going to go out and buy an outfit then you’d be
buying your gloves in one shop, and your dress in another
and petticoats in another, so yes, far, far more specialised.
But high streets were never just about shops.
They were also social hubs, bustling centres
for communities to live, work and play together.
Retail has only ever been a part of the functions of a town and city.
Perhaps, especially in the last century, the 19805 and ‘905,
we got a little bit fixated on retail, and we thought
that the whole town and the whole city
was all about retail.
And as we became more fixated, so high streets started
to lose their individuality.
Many once—distinctive town centres became home to the same
set of chain stores.
A lot of our prime space in our town and city centres
has been filled up by very boring retail, actually.
But with some chains going out of business,
and others re—structuring, there’s an inevitable
impact on high streets.
Last year nearly 6,000 chain stores closed their doors
for the last time.
That space is now an opportunity for other types of retail,
that’s really what people want, they want things a little bit
more exciting and new.
So, what about the future, then?
I think places need to understand their function and the things that
do draw people in to the town centre, some still have a very
important retailfunction, some are much more about an experience,
so they’re a mixture of heritage and culture.
Some places are just much more sort of everyday,
they’re multifunctional.
Then we have another category which is the sort of holiday town.
Southend—on—Sea — it’s been a holiday destination for East End
day trippers for generations and still attracts millions
of visitors a year.
Now, its challenge is to make its high street more of a draw
for locals and visitor alike.
# Ground floor for perfumery, stationery and leather goods...
Two of my wedding presents came from this shop.
I was asked to pick out something I wanted and I picked a set
of cutlery and a dinner service.
There was a glass cabinet there and I bought a little lady
from that glass cabinet all them years ago — it was lovely.
Us old ones, we like going to have a cup of tea
and a look around the shops.
Don’t know what we are going to do when they close them all.
This is Havens on Hamlet Court Road in the suburb of Westcliff—on—Sea.
Up here is my great grandfather, Rawlings....
This is my grandfather on his motorbike there,
and this is my father.
Nigel’s great—grandfather first opened a shop on this street
more than 100 years ago.
What was it like here then?
It was fantastic.
Families would on Saturdays come out and go on a shopping expedition.
They would stay in areas like this and not only use the shops,
but the cafes and restaurants.
They’d get dressed up for it, as well, so it was a pretty
good, grand day out.
Havens started out selling china and fancy glassware.
When I came in, we put in a stationery department
on the ground floor and a perfumery department, and then in letter days
we put in ladies fashion that worked for about three months and then
we started to see that become increasingly challenging.
So, we moved out of that and then back into
more housewares in that area.
Nigel and his family saw the writing on the wall and shut up the bricks
and mortar shop in 2018.
There comes a point when you think, "You know what?
"We’ve got to make changes, even more serious changes
than we’ve made."
And so that’s when you end up doing what we’ve done,
which is to cut yourself from the retail side of it,
and just purely trade online.
They now run that online business from the top floor of the building.
And the allure of internet shopping continues to be felt around
the country but it still only accounts for about
20% of total sales.
The problem for high streets like this is that it seems we have
decided to do much of our shopping out of town centres.
So, we might bemoan about the decline of the High Street,
but it’s happening because we choose not to shop here.
In December, the number of people visiting our high streets,
known in the trade as footfall, fell by 3.5% compared
to the year before.
It’s a trend that has marked the last decade.
Since 2009, footfall has fallen byjust over 20%.
Havens is just one of the many shops to have closed in this
suburban high street.
There’ll be a cafe here.
And all the tables will come out here.
So this is where they used to sell jewellery and makeup and smellys
and that type of thing.
So, it’s going to be totally transformed.
Local charity chief, Lin Boulter, has taken over most
of the building with plans for a service hub that she hopes
will help cover the cost of the rent.
You’ll come to this end of Haven, we’ve got our first, for feet,
a podiatrist here, public health doing flu jabs
and smoking cessation,
we’ve got a kitchen that is going to be serving the cafe.
Toilet block, very important.
And in here we’ve been working with a local day care provider
and we’re going to have a day centre that’s going to be available
for up to 15 people a day.
Lin’s hope, for this place to be buzzing by the end of January,
is going to take a lot of doing.
Just down the road on Southend’s main high street,
I’m meeting Cathy Parker again.
This is the entrance to the High Street.
What do you make of it?
Well, I only know it’s the entrance cos quite a few people
are walking up that way.
There’s nothing to tell me this is the grand entrance
to Southend—on—Sea.
This really should be welcoming people and attracting people
and drawing people in and it actually is just the back of some
very ugly retail units.
This is a high street facing challenges typical of many
others around the country.
So we’ve come into this space.
It’s opened up, certainly.
What do you make of this bit of the development?
Um, well, I think it’s very much of its time.
I suppose it’s anchored here by a shopping centre
and we’ve got some newer retail over this side
of the public space here, but itjust looks a bit sad.
I know the council is thinking of encouraging sort of food
and beverage into this area, market stalls selling
food.
Goodidea?
That’s definitely a good idea — the regeneration of a lot
of town centres now is coming from more temporary usage.
Things like food markets, farmers markets, small festivals.
The council is now investing in a major overhaul of the public
spaces around here, part of wider plans to draw people
and business back in.
The council would like to see a rich and evolving town centre,
so it’s not about setting a static vision but one that is dynamic.
So, that might be more residential, certainly looking
above existing retail units, but also thinking maybe
about theming areas of the high street, around residential
or cultural leisure activities, orfood and drinks, digital even.
Building on Southend’s heritage, they want to reduce the amount
of space given to shops and create a mix of offerings
on the high street.
Just a short walk from here, it has plans to transform areas it owns,
creating new homes and better connections to the high street.
And another for a privately—funded all—weather leisure scheme
including a cinema, restaurants and a hotel.
Hi...
EntrepreneurJohn Timpson chaired an expert panel tasked with advising
the Government on what can be done to help high streets
like this to thrive.
It seemed pretty obvious to me that we’ve got more shop
premises than we need.
So, why not change them into houses because we haven’t
got enough houses?
Put more people back in, that gives a bit more life.
But also put back in there what people need to do,
they want to do, like to do with leisure, to do with medical
services, libraries, all the things which will make sure
that people not only go into the town, but actually
meet other people.
Right.
Because my worry was that we’re losing that sense of community and,
actually, human beings need human contact.
And many people are putting ideas like this into practice.
James Hampton is an architect whose firm works with councils
to rejuvenate town centres.
Tell me what you think the philosophy for a good high
street — how it should work.
We came up with these four key design themes.
Resilience is the idea of flexibility and adaptability,
so in the design of the high street, you allow for different uses over
time, things can flex and change.
Local—ness is about the idea that whatever you do
in the ideal high street, it has to come from the local area.
It has to be specific to the local people and local needs.
Connectivity is critical, in a high street people can get
there, but can get there easily, through walking, cycling
and public transport.
The idea of greening — that the high street should be
a place of health and wellbeing, and greenery is a way
to do that.
It also helps to, you know, improve air
quality, and creates places that people want to be.
You’re going to show me what the elements are that go
into the ideal high street, are you?
Right, let’s get building.
Start off with an anchor building at one end of the high street,
something like an art gallery,
a community theatre, for example.
Something to attract visitors in.
That’s right.
And as you move along the high street, there will be buildings that
have work space or retail on the ground
floor, and probably residential uses above.
And somewhere in the centre of the high street is a key public
space.
So will be a flexible public space.
It could be a market or an event space
or a performance space.
Somewhere where people ran come and gather outside.
Crucial to have greenery.
They might be local parks that can connect to the high street.
But you can also have smaller parks, actually on the high street.
And then just continuing the high street with retail units
at the ground floor, and then more residential above.
The perfect high street.
It was easy.
Well, 0K.
Of course it’s not that easy when it comes to the real world.
There may be some agreement that change should happen.
It’s less clear who should create it.
Some local authorities are choosing to take the lead,
but that can come at a cost.
In the last three years, £775 million has been
spent by councils buying up shopping centres.
In some cases, borrowing money to do it.
So, is buying up properties the right thing to do?
I think each location needs to make their own choices
and decisions on that.
Some authorities clearly have.
They feel that’s the right thing, to be able to have ownership.
There’s no doubt that, if you own something,
it is far easier to regenerate it and do what you want to,
than if it’s owned by a third party.
So, I think it’s a case of horses for courses.
Councils are stepping in and buying properties
to redevelop them themselves.
Are you not worried that it’s placing councils at some
risk, with public money?
Well, there is always risk when you run a council,
and you have to do a risk assessment on whatever decision
it is that you’re making.
Back in Stockton, I’m getting my steel—capped
boots and hard hat on.
This is the newjewel in the crown of our town centre.
The council is renovating the town’s Art Deco theatre, the Globe.
The plan was to put £1 million of public money
into the building work.
But now the project has been revamped, and it’s set to cost them
more than £22 million — nearly £19 million of that borrowed.
How does this fit in to your strategy of
revitalising the town centre?
It’s part of our diversification strategy.
Town centre’s notjust about retail, but about evening
economy, leisure offer.
And this sits right at the heart of what we’re trying to achieve,
to bring new people into town for different reasons.
I mean, it is a huge gamble.
It’s a lot of money on the hope that people will come.
We’re very confident in that.
There is a strong market for venues of this size,
not only for audiences to come, but the acts that want to play here.
I am available for the opening night, if you need a performance.
Perhaps a double act!
The new Ant and Dec?
Indeed.
The better looking new Ant and Dec.
Absolutely.
The council says the Globe could attract 200,000 visitors a year,
generating £18 million for the local economy.
As part of its regeneration effort, the council also runs
this enterprise arcade.
It’s meant to help grow retail businesses.
They hope some will set up shop on the high street and prepare them
for the risks that entails.
How do you like your tea?
Do you like it weak, in the middle, or strong?
Karen runs a small cafe here.
After five years building the business, she’sjoined
by her mentor as she looks for somewhere more permanent.
You’ll see it’s split into two different parts.
Oh, wow, yep.
Perfect kitchen this, Karen.
I’d probably want the sink further back, right over there.
And then the rent?
What I’d hope is we can do something around about £1,000
a month on this shop, so that’s £12,000 a year.
Right, 0K.
£1,000 for the rent, that’s the rent, and then you’ve got
to pay the rates, and then you’ve got to pay the service charges.
And rates are a big issue for those on the high street.
Councils don’t set the rates, but they do collect them.
Half goes to the government, and they keep the rest.
But they can offer discounts.
Will I be allowed an oven?
Of course you will.
It’s your shop, you can have what you want.
A real oven, imagine that.
Even factoring in the discounts she’s entitled to, Karen would have
to pay around £7,000 a year in rates for this space and almost £2,500
more for the service charge.
That’s massive, isn’t it?
That’s a lot of money, that’s a lot of money.
I can see us fitting into this position, and making it something,
you know, it’sjust getting it to the right price.
The reason we’re seeing a lot of retailers go out of business
is because their their rates are very high.
So, if you had Boris on the phone, your plea to him on business
rates would be what?
That we need a thorough review of business rates.
If retailers are going to thrive on the high street, they need
lower business rates.
And we need a review, which will ultimately lead to online
retailers and physical retailers having a level playing field.
The Government has announced a review, but not
when it will happen, or exactly what it will look
at.
What it has committed to is cutting the rates bill
for small retail businesses,
by increasing their discount from one third to a half.
But that won’t be enough to answer all the challenges
our high streets face.
I’m standing between two iconic brands —
John Lewis and Debenhams.
ThisJohn Lewis has already closed, and this Debenhams
is scheduled for closure.
The new owners of what was theJohn Lewis building have grand
designs for its future, and shopping doesn’t
get much of a look in.
Thank you very much.
Quite a site.
Yes, very different to how it would have been before the store closed.
This’ll be the heart of the building.
So central reception here, where one can check in for hotel,
check in for office use, buy coffee.
All around the outside will be retail
units, florists, vinyl, barbers, etc.
OK, so first floor, Adam.
At the front, all the way along, facing the high
street, we have private offices for our work space members.
This multimillion—pound project will see the building transformed,
with office space for co—working, a bike workshop, pop—up stores,
a hotel, a cinema, and more.
Now, what makes you think this is going to work?
We look at a breakdown of the city, the population.
350,000 people live in Portsmouth.
The university — very large university
here, growing, cosmopolitan.
We have good corporate base in the city, so larger companies
where smaller companies can feed off and work with.
We need a very good micro location, where people want to work,
where you want to come and work because there’s shops,
bars, restaurants around, close to the sea, go
for a run at lunchtime.
All of that thrown together.
This ticks every box.
OK, on the roof, our new bar, rooftop bar,
with terrace, studio space, fitness.
I mean, this mixed—use sort of development,
do you think that is the future for the high street?
The more different uses you can find, gives you more options.
More chances to create value.
The sum of what you put together is greater
than the sum of the parts.
How long ‘til I can actually get a drink up here?
I’d very much hope by the autumn.
I’ll see you there.
Well, I’ve waited longer in pubs, but I’ll look forward to it.
Good for you.
Not bad.
Back in Southend, new attractions are popping up
in what were once shops,
and they’re helping to draw a new crowd into town.
This is kind of like the start of your experience.
It will feed through, and at the end you’ll go
into the restaurant.
We are crazy golf, but we combine it with food,
we combine it with beverages.
So it’s an interesting hybrid of three very distinctive businesses
that we’ve kind ofjust spliced together.
Caddy says around 120,000 visitors came through their doors
in theirfirst year.
Why we’ve survived 18 months and hopefully will survive three
years is that it is a hybrid.
People come and have a drink and a game of golf,
it goes hand—in—hand.
What works is all three together 7 if we took any of those away,
we probably would have closed down by now.
People that are travelling outside of Southend very much come
to us as a destination, but will then do a bit of shopping
and vice versa.
If everyone spent £5 a month on their high street,
and I think communities coming back and just spending that extra money,
even just £5 a month,
would see their high street change drastically.
Whilst the crazy golf on the high street is attracting a younger
crowd, a few miles down the road at the Haven...
..they seem to be doing well with a slightly more mature market.
There are activities such as tai—chi, snooker,
and darts that are happening all the time.
The classes — keep fit, like over here now,
we have stroller size, we have yoga.
Downstairs, the renovation is complete.
They’re loving the cafe.
We have a day centre that’s actually working with people
who are paying for our services.
We have social services, we’ve got our hairdressers.
We would hope, with all the services up and running, with the day centre
working, we’re talking anything between 500—1,000 a day,
which when you think, and Nigel I think would agree
with me, that he used to maybe have five or ten sometimes a day.
That has to increase the footfall, that has to regenerate the area
because those people will then go into the bakers
and the shops and buy.
Nigel’s father, Graham, who ran the family business here for years,
has come to see how it’s changed.
So, here we are.
Yes, a little tea/coffee shop.
Used to be the perfumery department over there,
do you remember?
It’s nice to see the building being put to good use.
And bringing the local community together, where they can enjoy
the autumn of their lives.
It’s always been about people.
You don’t have a business without people.
I reckon, by the end ofJanuary, all of this will be buzzing.
We will regenerate this area.
This is BBC News — welcome if you’re watching here in the UK,
on PBS in America or around the globe.
I’m Mike Embley.
Our top stories:
Britain, France and Germany trigger a formal dispute process
over Iran’s violations of the international nuclear deal.
TRANSLATION: We believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal
for the future because it prevents Iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
The impeachment charges against President Trump —
will be sent to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
After her resounding election victory, Taiwan’s President
Tsai Ing—Wen tells the BBC China needs to face reality.
A very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, they don’t like the idea of being threatened all the time.
The royal couple are welcome in Canada,
but the details of Prince Harry and Meghan’s new lives
are proving tricky.
European nations have put Iran on notice over its breaches
of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
That deal was supposed to discourage Iran from building nuclear weapons.
The Trump administration unilaterally withdrew the US
from the deal.
France, Germany, and the UK have been trying to maintain it.
But officials in Tehran have been lifting limits on enriched uranium
production, saying it’s a reasonable response to US sanctions
and rising tensions.
European nations disagree, and now an official dispute
mechanism has been triggered.
Gareth Barlow reports.
Preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term
goal of Europe and the US, but the landmark agreement that
bound Tehran to strict limits is now in full dispute.
France, Germany and the UK reject Iran’s argument it can withdraw
production limits on uranium used in nuclear powerplants and also
weapons after America walked away from the deal.
The aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not
to reimpose sanctions.
The aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating
to the implementation of the agreement.
The beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to curb
Iran’s ability to build nuclear weapons.
In 2018, President Trump pulled out of the deal,
calling it flawed, and reimposed sanctions.
Last year, Tehran said it wouldn’t comply with all its commitments
and recently has gone further following increased attention
with the US.
The three European governments say these breaches have left them
with no choice but to trigger the dispute process is a first step
towards reinstating international sanctions.
TRANSLATION: We call on Iran to constructively participate
in these negotiations, the goal of which will be
to safeguard the nuclear deal.
We believe it makes sense to safeguard this nuclear deal
for the future because it prevents Iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
The Iranian Foreign Minister, Javad Zarif,
decried the dispute as a strategic mistake but Iran’s Foreign Ministry
spokesman said Iran was ready to maintain international agreements.
All sides now have 15 days to resolve the issues raised.
If they fail, the EU countries can refer the matter to the UN
Security Council, which could vote to reimpose any sanctions on Iran.
Gareth Barlow, BBC News.
The leader of the Republican majority in the US Senate,
Mitch McConnell, has said the impeachment trial
of President Trump is likely to begin there next Tuesday.
Democrats accuse the president of abusing his power and obstructing
Congress.
With regard to impeachment, our understanding is,
and I think your understanding is as well, that the House is likely
to send the articles over to us tomorrow,
and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we will go
through some preliminary steps here this week which could well
include the ChiefJustice coming over and swearing in members
of the Senate and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
We hope to be able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up
to begin the actual trial next Tuesday.
One of the most contentious issues not yet resolved —
is whether to have witnesses in the Senate trial.
Democrats want to hear from current and former White House officials,
such as former national security adviserJohn Bolton.
We join the American people in wanting the truth,
the whole truth, nothing but the truth to come out
of the trial.
If you want the truth, you have to have witnesses.
You have to have documents.
Who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses and documents?
I’m pleased that some of my Republican colleagues are now
beginning to come around to our position.
Mr Trump’s own party has majority the Senate.
Mr Trump’s own party has majority the Senate.
Our correspondent Peter Bowes joins us from Los Angeles.
m:
We have uncertainty as to whether they will be witnesses. The
they will be witnesses. The Democrats are strong on this new
Democrats are strong on this new evidence because they say they
evidence because they say they believe that that should be part of
believe that that should be part of the trial and they want to see
the trial and they want to see witnesses as well. As for the
witnesses as well. As for the evidence, they say, even during this
evidence, they say, even during this delay of three weeks, that new
delay of three weeks, that new evidence has emerged, there were
evidence has emerged, there were e-mails
evidence has emerged, there were e—mails that came out
evidence has emerged, there were e—mails that came outjust before
e—mails that came outjust before Christmas and just in the past
Christmas and just in the past 24-hour,
Christmas and just in the past 24—hour, Democrats —— documents at
24-hour, Democrats -- documents at the
24—hour, Democrats —— documents at the Democrats show our key evidence,
the Democrats show our key evidence, they say it shows the top prosecutor
they say it shows the top prosecutor in Ukraine offered some damaging
in Ukraine offered some damaging information about
in Ukraine offered some damaging information aboutJoe Biden, the
information about joe Biden, the president’s
information aboutJoe Biden, the president’s likely or possible
president’s likely or possible candidate, opponent, at the next
candidate, opponent, at the next election. Damaging information about
elaction. Damaging information about joe Biden
election. Damaging information about Joe Biden which was offered to an
Joe Biden which was offered to an associate of Rudy Giuliani, the
associate of Rudy Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer who had
president’s personal lawyer who had been involved in talks for some time
been involved in talks for some time in Ukraine. It is kind of a
in Ukraine. It is kind of a convoluted story but goes to the
convoluted story but goes to the heart of the matter, the allegation
heart of the matter, the allegation from Democrats that this was going
from Democrats that this was going on. They believe that president
on. They believe that president should be held to account for this,
should be held to account for this, the apparent request for a favour
the apparent request for a favour investigate Joe
the apparent request for a favour investigatejoe Biden ahead of
the apparent request for a favour investigateJoe Biden ahead of the
investigate joe Biden ahead of the next
investigatejoe Biden ahead of the next election. We should save
next election. We should save because that pet —— President Trump
because that pet -- President Tmmp ﬂatly denies he
because that pet —— President Trump flatly denies he had done anything
ﬂatly denies he had done anything wrong. And it
flatly denies he had done anything wrong. And it may well be that the
wrong. And it may well be that the Republicans will call their own
Republicans will call their own chosen individuals that could be
Republicans will call their own chosen individuals that could beJoe
chosen individuals that could be joe Biden
chosen individuals that could beJoe Biden and that perhaps is something,
Biden and that perhaps is something, especially as he is campaigning
especially as he is campaigning along with other Democrats to become
along with other Democrats to become the candidate for the Democrats,
the candidate for the Democrats, that is probably something that he
that is probably something that he doesn’t want. Just to remind people,
doesn’t want. just to remind peopla, against this
doesn’t want. Just to remind people, against this backdrop, the people
against this backdrop, the peopla that
against this backdrop, the people that want to fight Mr Trump for the
that want to fight Mr Tmmp for the white
that want to fight Mr Trump for the White House in the presidential
White House in the presidential election next year are debating in
election next year are debating in Iowa. The last before Iowa holds its
Iowa. The last before Iowa holds its caucus earlier in February. —— later
caucus eartier in February. -- later in February for
caucus earlier in February. —— later in February for that what is coming
in February for that what is coming out of that debate? It is
out of that debate? It is fascinating because they have come
fascinating because they have come across the full gamut of issues, as
across the full gamut of issues, as you would affect. Healthcare,
you would affect. Healthcare, employment, Iran, clap —— trade,
employment, Iran, clap -- trade, climate change,
employment, Iran, clap —— trade, climate change, have all been on the
climate change, have all been on the agenda. Also a spat between two of
agenda. Also a spat between two of the leading candidates, Elizabeth
the leading candidates, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, over the
Warren and Bernie Sanders, over the question over whether Bernie Sanders
question over whether Bernie Sanders didn’t believe a woman could win the
didn’t believe a woman could win the presidency. It was put to him and he
presidency. It was put to him and he ﬂatly denied he ever said that and
ﬂatly denied he ever said that and in fact he strongly believes
flatly denied he ever said that and in fact he strongly believes that a
in fact he strongly believes that a woman could win a US presidential
woman could win a US presidential elaction.
woman could win a US presidential election. In fact,
woman could win a US presidential election. Infect, gave
woman could win a US presidential election. In fact, gave the example
election. In fact, gave the example of Hillary Clinton who rashly got
of Hillary (linton who rashly got more
of Hillary Clinton who rashly got more votes than Donald Trump. The
more votes than Donald Trump. The system in America meant that Donald
system in America meant that Donald Tmmp actually
system in America meant that Donald Trump actually won the election. ——
Tmmp actually won the elaction. -- actually got more
Trump actually won the election. —— actually got more votes. The
actually got more votes. The senators who are standing,
senators who are standing, potentially to be chosen as a
potentially to be chosen as a candidate, they want to keep on
candidate, they want to keep on debating, whereas, actually, they
debating, whereas, actually, they could be sitting in a Senate trial
could be sitting in a Senate trial as the judge
could be sitting in a Senate trial as thejudge and jury
could be sitting in a Senate trial as the judge and jury of the —— over
as the judge and jury of the -- over the next
as the judge and jury of the —— over the next few weeks. Thank you very
the next few weeks. Thank you very much, Peter.
Let’s get some of the days other news.
More than A0 people, most of them children,
have been treated for breathing problems and skin irritation
after a commercial airliner apparently dumped fuel
near a school, just before an emergency landing
at Los Angeles airport.
The Delta Airlines flight to Shanghai had just taken off
when an engine problem forced its return.
Government forces in the Sudanese capital,
Khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters
where security personnel loyal to the former president,
Omar al Bashir, were based.
The mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now
moved into the northern suburb of Kafouri.
There are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets,
but the international airport has now reopened.
Fire services in Catalonia in north—east Spain are saying
a huge blaze, the result of an explosion at a chemical plant,
has now been contained.
The blast, near the port city of Tarragona, killed one person
and injured eight others.
Some have severe burns.
One person is still missing.
Authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
To the Philippines now —
Taal volcano continues to spew ash with plumes of steam
reaching almost a kilometre into the sky.
Volcanologists say the alert level remains at 4 which means a dangerous
eruption could happen within hours or days.
More than 50,000 people have evacuated the area —
but despite the warnings some have returned to their homes today,
to check on the livestock they left behind.
Howard Johnson sent this report from Tagaytay,
Cavite.
They have declared a state of calamity here and it is clear to see
calamity here and it is clear to see why. But despite the continued
why. But despite the continued threat of a hazardous eruption, some
threat of a hazardous eruption, some peopla are
threat of a hazardous eruption, some people are returning to their family
peopla are returning to their family homes.
people are returning to their family homes. These two people own a small
homes. These two people own a small plot of land in the centre of the
plot of land in the centre of the volmno. They
plot of land in the centre of the volcano. They raise chickens for a
volmno. They raise chickens for a living and plant
volcano. They raise chickens for a living and plant vegetables at their
living and plant vegetablas at their lands --
living and plant vegetables at their lands —— their lives turned upside
lands -- their lives turned upside down
lands —— their lives turned upside down after Taal volcano.
down after Taal volcano. TRANSLATION: We could smell
TRANSLATION: We could smell something awful, ash began falling
something awful, ash began falling with small stones and soil.
with small stones and soil. Evacuated because some people said
Evacuated because some people said they would be a tsunami. We
they would be a tsunami. We became stared.
they would be a tsunami. We became scared. Nowell said he wanted to
stared. Nowell said he wanted to return to
scared. Nowell said he wanted to return to his house today to check
return to his house today to check on his livestock but he found that
on his livestock but he found that many of his birds were in a sorry
many of his birds were in a sorry state. They are assuring me a
state. They are assuring me a fighting Kok is as —— sport here in
fighting Kok is as -- sport here in the Philippines
fighting Kok is as —— sport here in the Philippines and the bird is
the Philippines and the bird is covered in dirt and ash. He said a
covered in dirt and ash. He said a lot of the birds were left ear and
lot of the birds were left ear and other chickens were in a bad state.
other chickens were in a bad state. I saw one in the back that looks
I saw one in the back that looks like it has a broken wing. The
like it has a broken wing. The Philippine Department of agriculture
Philippine Department of agriculture 5575
Philippine Department of agriculture says that the ash has caused more
says that the ash has caused more than $10 million worth of damage to
than $10 million worth of damage to livestock and crops. He is
livestock and crops. He is showing us his vegetable patch where he
us his vegetable patch where he grows squash but he says the
grows squash but he says the condition of these plants now are so
condition of these plants now are so bad that he can’t harvest them and
had that he can’t harvest them and that he
bad that he can’t harvest them and that he can’t take them to
that he can’t take them to market for sale. Today’s monitors say that
for sala. Todars monitors say that although the
for sale. Today’s monitors say that although the eruptions in the main
although the eruptions in the main crater have been weaker in the last
crater have been weaker in the last 24 hours,
crater have been weaker in the last 2A hours, residents evacuating from
24 hours, residents evacuating from the 14
2A hours, residents evacuating from the 1A kilometre danger zone should
the 14 kilometre danger zone should not be
the 1A kilometre danger zone should not be lulled into a false sense of
not be lulled into a false sense of security and return to their homes.
security and return to their homes. Howard Johnson, BBC News, Tagaytay.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: We meet the 91—year—old who has no plans
to retire from teaching.
Day one of Operation Desert Storm to force the Iraqis out of Kuwait
has seen the most intense air attack since the Second World War.
Tobacco is America’s oldest industry and one of its biggest,
but the industry is nervous of this report.
This may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
There is not a street that is unaffected.
Huge parts of Kobe were simply demolished, as buildings crashed
into one another.
This woman said she had been given no help and no advice
by the authorities.
She stood outside the ruins of her business.
Tens of thousands of black children in South Africa have taken advantage
of laws passed by the country’s new multiracial government
and enrolled at formerly white schools.
Tonight sees the 9,610th performance of the long—running play,
The Mousetrap.
When they heard about her death today, the management considered
whether to cancel tonight’s performance, but Agatha Christie
would have been the last person to want such a thing.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
Iran has condemned France, Britain and Germany for triggering
a formal dispute process over Tehran’s violations
of its international nuclear deal.
The impeachment charges against President Trump will be sent
to the Senate on Wednesday.
A trial could start within days.
China needs to face realityand respect the will of the Taiwanese
people, according to Taiwan’s newly re—elected President,
Tsai Ing—wen.
Speaking exclusively to the BBC, President Tsai said the threat
from China, which claims the self—governing island as part
of its territory, is intensifying.
But she warned that any military action could prove costly to China.
But she warned that any military action could prove costly to China.
Our correspondentJohn Sudworth spoke to the President
in Taiwan’s capital, Taipei.
How do you expect Beijing to react to your victory?
They should have serious thoughts about the people’s expectation
as expressed by the election result.
And this is a very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, you know, they don’t like the idea
of being threatened all the time.
We’re a successful democracy.
We have a pretty decent economy.
You know, we deserve respect from China.
You spoke after the result about your hope that there could be
a return to dialogue.
What can you offer Beijing that might, in your view,
open that door a little?
I think it’s for the Chinese to have this preparedness
to face the reality.
That is the key.
If they are not prepared to face reality, whatever we offer won’t be
satisfying to them.
Why do you think China was such an issue for voters?
Because over the last three — more than three years,
we’ve seen that China has been intensifying its threat.
And they have all sorts of actions, military exercises,
and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising around
the island.
And also, with the things happening in Hong Kong,
people get a real sense that this threat is real,
and it’s getting more and more serious.
Without an expression of good faith on your side,
and this is what your critics say, that you in a way
are inviting China to react
in a way that it is.
I have been rather reasonable in terms of managing our
relationship with China and we have been refrained from doing things
that may me be considered as provocative to China.
Despite that, there’s so much pressure here that we should go
further, but in the last more than three years,
we have been telling China that maintaining status quo remains
to be our policy.
And I think that is a very friendly gesture to China.
Are you, in principle at least, in favour of the idea of a formal
Taiwanese independence?
We don’t have a need to declare ourself an independent state.
We are an independent country already.
And we call ourselves Republic of China, Taiwan,
and we do have government, and we have the military,
and we have elections.
You’ve spoken about the rising threat from China.
How serious in your view is the risk of war today?
You cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
But the thing is, you have to get yourself prepared and develop
the ability to defend yourself.
But in addition to this military preparedness,
I mean, what is more important is that you have to get
international support for your cause.
Do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
I do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
Invading Taiwan is something that is going to be very
costly for China.
Taiwan’s newly re—elected President, Tsai Ing—Wen, taking to the BBC’s
John Sudworth.
Harsh weather including avalanches and floods has killed more than 130
people across Pakistan and Afghanistan in recent days.
Schools have shut and many villages have been left isolated.
Worst affected has been Pakistani Kashmir, with 62 people
killed and ten others missing.
More than 50 bodies have been recovered.
Olivia Crellin has the latest.
Buried in snow, villagers struggle to free a man completely submerged
after an avalanche hit a Kashmiri village just north of Islamabad,
killing dozens and destroying more than 50 homes.
Extreme winter weather in recent days has killed more than 130 people
across Pakistan, Afghanistan and Indian—administered Kashmir.
Many more are injured or remain missing.
Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Imran Khan, tweeted:
..referring to the part of Kashmir
controlled by Pakistan.
Military helicopters exchange rescued avalanche victims
for supplies, in the hope of providing relief to those cut off
by conditions as more heavy snow is forecast.
But there has been criticism from some about the government
response to the weather.
Truck drivers travelling along key supply routes
across the country were stranded.
TRANSLATION: I am coming from Taftan and I’m heading for Punjab.
It is snowing here, and the roads are closed
because the vehicles skid.
I asked the government to bring heavy machines which will clean
the snow in about half to one hour.
They have brought these small tractors here which will not clear
the snow for three days.
Pakistan’s disaster management authority also declared a state
of emergency in the south—east Balochistan Province.
There, the weather has isoltaed communities,
shut schools and brought trade with their Afghan neighbours
to a halt.
While such harsh weather is common and seasonal for this region,
the area’s embattled status and poverty means that the heavy
snow comes with a heavy toll.
Olivia Crellin, BBC News.
Storm Brendan is still causing disruption. A large section of roof
disruption. A large section of roof was blown off a block of
was blown off a block of ﬂats. Despite
was blown off a block of flats. Despite the way it looks, it seems
Despite the way it looks, it seems nobody was hurt.
It seems Canada’s Prime Minister is ready to welcome Prince Harry
and his wife, Meghan, butJustin Trudeau does want to know
who will pay for the royal couple’s security.
On Monday, Queen Elizabeth signed off on a period of transition
for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, but there are still questions over
how that will work.
Our royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell reports.
A new direction has been agreed.
Less than 20 months since their wedding,
the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Harry and Meghan, have been given
the go—ahead by the Queen to seek a new life, and they’re making plans
to move out and to base themselves in part in Canada.
Harry has visited the country on a number of occasions.
His Invictus Games were staged in Toronto in 2017, and Meghan lived
there for seven years as an actress.
There will be questions about their tax and immigration
status, but Canada’s Prime Minister appeared to be offering
a cautious welcome.
I think most Canadians are very supportive of having,
you know, royals be here.
But how that looks and what kind of cost is involved,
there’s still lots of discussions to have.
Here in Britain, the Prime Minister declined to offer a public view
on the Sussexes’ move.
I’m absolutely confident that they are going to
sort this out.
And do you know what?
I think they’re probably going to be able to sort it out all the easier
without any particular commentary from me.
Meghan believes she has been badly treated by the British media.
She is suing the Mail on Sunday over its publication of a letter
she wrote to her estranged father.
In its court submission, published today, the paper says...
To which Meghan might respond, from now on, I will not perform
royal duties, and it is our intention not
to receive public money.
But royal duties are what the royal family does.
Prince William was at Buckingham Palace today, bestowing honours.
It is a staple of royal life, the life to which the Queen has
devoted herself, but from which Harry now wishes
to break free.
It is a parting over which the royal family feels great regret,
coupled with realism.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
At a time of life when many people are retiring,
would you start a new career as a teacher at the age of 67?
And how would you feel about continuing in the job
until you’re 91?
That is exactly what Lakshmi Sen has done in India.
We caught up with her at her school in Bangalore.
CLASS: Good morning, Ma’am.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I never worked, so I had all the energy, even to do it
at the age of 67.
Ijust wanted to get out and meet people.
How old were you?
19A8, this is.
First of all, I myself had all these aspirations.
First of all, I wanted to become a doctor and look after sick people,
but in those days, the girls had very, very limited rights.
But half the dream is being fulfilled, isn’t it?
I am helping these here children who have no other disdain.
I have to be satisfied with that, as you would say.
I am very, very happy.
Today, women who want to come up, they have their independence.
Because we don’t have any problems in my house.
I have three daughters, five granddaughters,
eight great—granddaughters.
The youngest granddaughter, she beats everybody.
Let me see what God thinks, you know?
Every night I pray, you know, that I will get up tomorrow morning.
Every morning I get up, make my coffee.
So that is it.
Whatever God wills, that’s it, nothing else.
And I’m very happy with my family.
And I’m very happy with my family.
Thank you so much for watching.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure comes hurtling into Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on to the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here.
England and Wales, thanks to those weather fronts,
sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will
be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frosts.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Iran has condemned a decision by Britain,
France and Germany to trigger a formal dispute process over
Iranian violations of the international nuclear accord.
The Iranian Foreign Minister described the move as legally
baseless, and a strategic mistake.
The Europeans say they hope the agreement can still be saved.
The impeachment trial of Donald Trump has moved
a step closer.
The House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, says a vote on sending articles
of impeachment to the Senate will take place on Wednesday.
Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, says the trial
is likely to begin next Tuesday.
Taiwan’s President, Tsai Ing—wen, has told the BBC that the island has
no need to declare formal independence
because it already is an independent country.
Ms Tsai said last week’s presidential election,
in which she won a second term in office, showed Taiwanese people
did not like being threatened by China.
Now on BBC News, HARDtalk’s Stephen Sackur speaks
to Douglas Silliman, former US ambassador to Iraq.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
Though the fear of imminent war has receded, the Middle East has been
profoundly destabilised by the American assassination
of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani.
The unfolding US—Iran conflict will impact the whole not least
Iraq, where the Iranians are intent on hastening the end
of America military presence.
Much now depends on the strategic vision of the Trump administration.
My guest, Douglas Silliman, was US Ambassador in Iraq
until one year ago.
Does Trump have a strategy?
If so, what is it?
Ambassador Doug Silliman in Washington, DC,
welcome to HARDtalk.
Steven, I’m very happy to be here.
Well, you have a very special perspective of what’s happened over
the past ten days or so as the last retiring Ambassador in Baghdad,
you leftjust one year ago.
From your perspective, does the assassination
of Qasem Soleimani in Baghdad appear to you both lawful and wise?
I must say first of all, I’m not going to address
the question of whether it is lawful or unlawful because I’m not
an expert in international law or a particularly
good diplomatic historian.
Looking at this from the standpoint of President Trump and the Trump
administration, he seems to prefer shaking up the situation to see how
the chips fall and then try to make things go his way on the back end.
I think certainly with the killing of Qasem Soleimani, and also
the killing of the chief Iranian Lieutenant, Abu Mahdi
al—Muhandis, inside Iraq, he has certainly shuffled the deck
and made things a little bit more interesting on the back end.
Shuffle the deck, you say — it’s a metaphor that implies
gambling.
Do you regard this move as a high—risk gamble?
I don’t know if this is a high—risk gamble,
because there’s certainly a lot of reason why an American
administration would want to take out Qasem Soleimani.
Especially since the US invasion of Iraq in 2003,
Soleimani has driven the Iranian expansion into Iraq,
into Syria, into Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan to some
extent and has consolidated the control of the Revolutionary
Guards inside Iran and planted sleeper cells and trained rebels
in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and other places in the region.
He has been one of the most destabilising figures and has
certainly been the mastermind behind the post—2003 hegemonic Iranian
expansion into the region and support for Lebanese Hezbollah.
So he was a very high level target to take out,
and I think Iranian strategy and probably some
of their implementation will suffer without him at the helm.
Interesting you rate it as that significant and I want to get back
to Soleimani and indeed the wider Iranian influence in Iraq a little
later in the interview, but one more point on the issue of lawfulness.
You very carefully say it’s really not for you to judge the lawfulness
or not, I would put it to you that as a US Ambassador long—standing,
it really does matter to you and now your successor
in Baghdad this question of whether it’s legal or not.
You are there not as Donald Trump’s representative but a representative
of the US government, a government that prides itself
by its abiding by international rules, international law.
When you hear the UN special raconteur on extrajudicial
executions, Agnes Callamard, concluding that in this case
the test of legality or illegality is unlikely to be met,
i.e it looks illegal to her, you must be worried, musn’t you?
I’m worried about the reputation of the United States but frankly
the reputation of the United States is still going to be shaky given
the policies of the Trump administration in many other places
in the world.
The reality is there’s also a strong argument to made for self—defence,
and that’s the argument the American administration is making.
I am personally aware from my time serving as a US diplomat
of what Qasem Soleimani and some of the groups he supported
and trained in Iraq and elsewhere have done to try to target American
diplomats, American servicemembers and other coalition members serving
in Iraq and in other places in the region.
I’m quite certain he was behind the escalating attacks in 2019,
the attacks on shipping outside the Strait of Hormuz,
attacks on Saudi civilian infrastructure, the downing
of an American drone and the attacks on Abqaiq,
the Saudi Arabian oil processing centre.
So there are a number of reasons how you can define this
as an act of self—defence.
Ambassador, if I may say so, when you put it like that it
makes me wonder why the Americans sat back so long and allowed
Qasem Soleimani to build his expansionist network inside Iraq.
You were sitting there as Ambassador for more than two years.
Were you constantly telling Washington they should be addressing
in really serious terms what Soleimani was building
inside Iraq with all of those popular militias, the popular
mobilisation units, the Shia forces at his disposal.
Should America have acted sooner?
I was telling Washington absolutely the threat I saw both to American
policy and America citizens serving in Iraq from the Iranian supported
Shia militias.
I will not paint the entire Popular Mobilization Forces units
with the same brush.
There are some that were very responsive to Soleimani and Tehran,
and there were others who are more Iraqi nationalist and even some
of the units were trained by the coalition military and later
absorbed into the Popular Mobilization Forces.
A number of Shia militias, most of them predated the rise
of Isis, and many of them cut their teeth in fighting American
forces in Iraq between 2008 and 2011, forming the backbone
of Soleimani’s Iraqi proxy forces.
They have been dangerous for a long time, and I was absolutely telling
Washington that they were dangerous.
How difficult is it as an Ambassador to represent a government that seems
so chaotic in its thinking?
Donald Trump in the last 48 hours has said he had direct information,
there were four attacks in train under Soleimani’s guidance on four
different embassies in the region.
The Defence Secretary, Mark Esper, said he didn’t see
any such evidence.
You’ve been at the sharp end working for the Trump administration
as an Ambassador, how difficult is it to make sense of what goes
on in Washington?
I would also say the Trump administration is not the first
administration that had contradictions, and as an Ambassador
or a morejunior diplomat, I generally triangulated different
statements and try to walk down the middle to try to make sure
I captured the message Washington was trying to convey.
What about when the message isn’t clear at all?
What about when the President is speaking off—the—cuff,
random quotes that don’t seem totally with the intelligence
and information coming from other parts of the security establishment.
What do you do then?
Well, in that case you go to the basic point that underlies
what everyone is saying, Qasem Soleimani and Iranian
supported forces and Iranian forces in some cases pose a danger
to American and coalition forces in Iraq and in the region,
and likely to American diplomats in embassies in the region as well.
Let us now consider what next in Iraq.
It’s a political situation you know very well.
You will have seen the acting Prime Minister, Adil Abdul—Mahdi,
has said this egregious violation of Iraq’s sovereignty must be met
with a response and he supports the parliamentary vote to expel US
troops from Iraqi soil.
Do you think that’s going to happen?
It’s a very good question and I honestly do not know yet.
I will also note when the Iraqi parliament took its vote,
theoretically there were 170 votes to zero, but nearly that many
members of the Parliament, mostly Kurdish and Sunni members,
but also some Shia members, boycotted the session
because they did not agree with the vote that was being taken.
I also heard many allegations of threats of physical harm to MPs
who did not come and vote for the resolution to ask
the Prime Minister to ask coalition forces to leave.
What you have seen since that vote is statements by prominent
politicians in the Kurdistan, a number of Sunnis and a couple
of fears in support of a continued coalition military presence,
focused on fighting Isis and focused on training and professionalising
the mainline Iraqi security forces, i.e the air force
and the counterterrorism forces.
You talk about the focus on the Islamic State group
but the truth is the 5,000 or so military personnel in Iraq
are completely hamstrung.
They have bunkered down and they are focused
on their own forced rejection, such is their own insecurity in Iraq
today, and they certainly aren’t doing any counter IS operations
in conjunction with the Iraqi military, who they don’t
seem to trust.
That entire IS strategy lies in ruins today.
I would actually take issue with your statement that the Iraqi
army or the US army do not trust the Iraqi army.
What you have in Iraq unfortunately is security forces that are split
in the middle.
You’ve got the mainline forces — the army, the air force
and the navy, and the counterterrorism service,
largely supplied and trained and mentored by coalition forces.
Then you have the Popular Mobilization Forces,
which have been dominated by Iran and Qasem Soleimani
throughout this period.
The impression I get from people who are still in Baghdad
is the personal and cooperative relationships between coalition
military and the Iraqi military remain strong.
There is, however, more tension with the Popular Mobilization Forces
forces, especially those more tied with Qasem Soleimani.
With respect...
No, no, to answeryour question, the violence of the past week
and a half has constrained what the Nato mission
and what the coalition has been able to do,
and it is incumbent upon the Prime Minister
and the Iraqi government to put in place methods to protect
coalition forces from attacks from other parts
of the Iraqi security forces.
This is an issue with which I’ve been most frustrated
throughout my period, both under the Obama administration
and Trump administration — the unwillingness or inability
of the Iraqi government to challenge the expansion of these Shia militias
to conduct activities, use force separate from the command
structure of Iraq with the Prime Minister at the top.
Surely another frustration is the apparent contradiction
in a US strategy which needs a strong relationship with the Iraqi
government, which of course right now is still headed up by acting
prime minister Adil Abdul—Mahdi.
And at the same time, Donald Trump has started issuing
threats toward the acting prime minister and his government,
saying that if they couldn’t make good on any attempt to remove forces
from Iraq, then the most punitive sanctions the Iraqis had ever seen
will be imposed.
And we’ve got one source today talking about the Americans telling
the acting prime minister’s office that the US is countenancing
blocking Iraqi’s account at the Federal Reserve Bank
in New York, which would effectively completely destroyed
Iraq’s oil economy.
What on earth is going on here?
What does Donald Trump want from the Iraqis?
Does he want to be their friend, or does he now see them as an enemy?
On the economic front, the Iraqi government has been
cooperating with the US treasury to prevent the flow of dollars
into Iran, as part of the sanctions, because we are afraid that
especially the Quds Force and the Revolution Guards use
the hard currency they earn to expand their activities
into and outside of the region.
Iraq has been very cooperative, and we think relatively few dollars
have gone into Iran from Iraq.
Now that I’m outside the administration, I don’t
want to speculate too much.
But I know that when I was doing myjob in Baghdad,
we were concerned that if the cooperation of the Iraqi
treasury or the Iraqi central bank ended, that it would be much easier
for Iran to get dollars to Iraq.
And I think that is one of the main fears.
Because the goal of Iran, of Qasem Soleimani, was not only
a security goal.
I mean, you keep telling me about all the concerns you had
as ambassador, and that continue, about Iran’s various
leverages inside Iraq.
Is it not your concern and the truth that the killing of Qasem Soleimani
has actually strengthened Iran’s hand in Iraq?
It has made it much more difficult for your US troop
presence to continue.
It has made it more difficult for those allies
of the United States inside Iraq to have their voices heard.
And what we see is an Iran which over the next few months
and years has every prospect of projecting more power
and control over Iraq.
What I think the killing of Qasem Soleimani has done has
a short—term impact that is sort of what you describe.
It is clear that those in Iraq who would like to see
a continuation, an increase, of Iranian influence in the country
now have more enthusiasm for that point.
It also has a short—term benefit to — or I should say provides
an opportunity to an Iraqi government that wants to be more
independent of Tehran, and for an international community
that would prefer to see Iraq plugged into the world community
and the world economy more effectively.
Let me tell you why.
Qasem Soleimani and his Iraqi lieutenant, Abu Mahdi al—Muhandis,
both accelerated expansion of Iranian influence,
attacks on coalition and other forces, and support for Shia
militias in Iraq.
They were also a brake on those activities when Tehran
and especially Soleimani saw that to be to the benefit of Iran.
What happened through Tehran, to Soleimani, to Muhandis,
I suspect what you will see inside Iraq over the coming year
or two will be something akin to a power struggle.
The Shia militias in Iraq are not unified.
They are made up of individual commanders, often brigade—sized
units, who have now lost their recognised command structure,
and I think they will now begin to struggle and jostle
for predominance among this group.
One thing seems clear, that as a result, again,
of the Soleimani assassination, Tehran is now intent on pushing
ahead with its nuclear programme.
They haven’t formally left the international agreement,
the so—called JCPOA, but they are now enriching uranium
to new levels.
They are to all intents and purposes back on the nuclear weapons
track — agree?
I think this is in fact correct, and there are actually three points
I want to make.
All of what has taken place in the past two weeks has shuffled
the deck, as I said, but it has not resolved any
of the underlying issues.
From the standpoint of Washington, and largely from the West,
there are still three big issues that Iran continues.
One is a support for proxy forces in the region.
The second is the now lack of commitment to theJCPOA,
the nuclear agreement.
And the third is Iran’s development and deployment of ballistic
missiles, and you saw the strategic use of Iranian ballistic missiles
in the attacks on coalition forces last week.
From the Iranian side, you still have United States
which is outside theJCPOA, and you have a United States
which hass not only supporting sanctions, but last week secretary
of state Pompeo and secretary of the treasury Mnuchin doubled down
on sanctions and imposed a number of other sanctions.
So the underlying questions and the reasons for the tension
remain there.
But, if I may, I want to keep this as simple as possible.
Itjust seems to me and to many observers around the world
there is still a fundamental contradiction, a deep confusion,
in Trump’s strategic vision for Iran and the wider Mid East region.
And David Singer of the New York Times put it very well
the other day.
He said Mr Trump has yet to resolve the two conflicting instincts
that he has on national security.
That is, on the one hand, bellicosity, and on the other hand,
desire for disengagement.
So for you, as a 35—year—long diplomat who is recently out
of Baghdad, which is driving a strategic vision here?
Is it the gut bellicosity of Trump, or is it the desire,
as he has said so many times, to get US forces out of this
Mid East sand, where so much blood has been shed for so little?
Which is it?
I think it’s fundamentally the difficulty that the Trump
administration has in following and articulating a consistent set
of goals that they want to see on Iran.
The three that Ijust mentioned, ballistic missiles, nuclear weapons,
and support for proxies, are always in the mix.
But there are other members of the administration,
and I am not certain whether President Trump fits
in that, who would like to see regime change.
Although last week President Trump said very clearly in public remarks
that he did not seek regime change in Iran,
I think that there are still people in the administration hoping that
pressure on the Iranian economy, and perhaps now pressure
on the Quds Force and the military, will result in a revolution
from within, inside Iran.
If I may say so, Ambassador, that’s a very interesting answer,
‘cause you have just revealed to me your very deep confusion.
Because you have just left government, let’s not say
the administration, but you’ve been in Baghdad for a long time
representing the US government.
It sounds to me like you are deeply, deeply confused about who is really
driving policy in the White House, and what that strategy is.
Well, the day after, I believe, last week President Trump said
I do not seek regime change, former national security adviser
John Bolton tweeted that he supported regime change.
And if I were in Tehran, and I was not getting a consistent
message from Washington that we do not seek to pull down
the regime, I would be very reluctant to go into any
sort of negotiations.
I would also say that it appears to me that the Trump administration
seeks Iranian capitulation under pressure.
As I’ve said a couple of times in the media,
economic sanctions are a tactic.
They are not a strategy or a goal.
And I’m struggling to find out, what does the Trump administration
hope to achieve at the end of this road?
If it wishes negotiations, does it want to do negotiations
in conjunction with our traditional allies, as we did in theJCPOA,
plus the Security Council members?
Do we seek a smaller group?
And what is in it for Iran if they engage in negotiations?
Because the Trump administration has been unable to articulate
what the end result, the benefit for Iran would be,
were they to engage in serious negotiations on the three issues
I mentioned.
You say you’re struggling to really comprehend
what the Trump endgame is.
Many other diplomats have quit, saying that they can no longer serve
a President that they don’t really respect, in terms of the way
he conducts foreign policy.
I’m mindful that Bill Burns served 35 years in the state department
and in diplomacy, just the same way you did with your 35 years,
and he left saying this.
He said, I’ve never seen an attack on diplomacy as damaging
as what we have seen under the Trump administration.
Notjust on the state department as an institution,
but our international influence.
Did you leave feeling the same, and is that frankly why
you were pleased to leave government?
I think that the Trump administration came in in 2017 not
quite knowing what to do with the state department.
First of all, the way that we are structured,
if you look at the top, with ambassadors, ambassadors
are the personal representatives of the presidents that appoint them,
as well as the representatives of the United States.
And I think that President Trump felt that all of the ambassadors
appointed by President Obama really represented Obama,
and did not represent him.
So you have seen a replacement of a lot of ambassadors,
and the departure of a lot of people, even though
they were career diplomats, who had been in senior positions
in the Obama administration.
So I think some of that is Trump not believing that a cadre of diplomats,
of civil servants who are committed to the constitution,
would be as committed to him as he would like,
and I think he wanted to see more of his own people in senior
positions at the state department.
And, to put it bluntly, were you glad to get out?
I should say I’m very happy now, being in the private sector,
and I enjoy the opportunity for the first time in 35 years
to say what I actually believe, as opposed to having to speak only
on behalf of the United States.
So I’ve found a bit of freedom in leaving the US government.
All right, well, ambassador Douglas Silliman, I thank you very
much indeed for being on HARDtalk.
Stephen, thank you very much.
It was a pleasure.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy with snow
on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure comes hurtling in for Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on to the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here.
England and Wales, thanks to those weather fronts,
sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will
be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frost.
This is The Briefing.
I’m Sally Bundock.
Our top stories:
The remaining contenders to take on Donald Trump
clash in the final debate before the selection process begins.
Iran condemns Britain, France and Germany for triggering
a dispute over Tehran’s violations of the nuclear deal.
Schoolchildren are treated after a plane dumps fuel over
Los Angeles before making an emergency landing.
In Business Briefing, US and Chinese officials are set
to sign the first part of a significant trade deal.
Good to have you with us. This is Wednesdays
Good to have you with us. This is Wednesday’s app briefing.
—— Wednesday’s Briefing.
A warm welcome to the programme, briefing you on all you need to know
in global news, business and sport.
Also in the programme, Rutland in the UK will lose its status
as the only county without a McDonald’s as plans
for a new drive—thru restaurant have been approved.
So, we’d like to know where you live, are there
many global chains?
If so, is it good for your local community, for businesses?
Get in touch — just use the hashtag #BBCTheBriefing.
In the last few hours, the candidates to take
on Donald Trump in this year’s presidential election have squared
off in the final debate before the selection process begins.
There were lively exchanges as the former vice president
Joe Biden tussled with progressive favourite Bernie Sanders over
the Iraq war.
And Mr Sanders was assailed by Elizabeth Warren over his alleged
comment that a woman couldn’t win in 2020.
From Iowa, here’s our correspondent Gary O’Donoughue.
Here in the spin room, all of the campaigns are trying to hone their
campaigns are trying to hone their message to the waiting journalist,
message to the waiting journalist, trying to argue that their candidate
trying to argue that their candidate alone was the outright winner. But
alone was the outright winner. But in tmth,
alone was the outright winner. But in truth, no—one delivered a
in truth, no—one delivered a knockout below —— blow tonight, but
knockout below -- blow tonight, but there have
knockout below —— blow tonight, but there have been some palpable
there have been some palpable tension between Elizabeth Warren and
tension between Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders. They have failed to
Bernie Sanders. They have failed to shake hands on the debate stayed at
shake hands on the debate stayed at the end of proceedings. Unusual for
the end of proceedings. Unusual for one of these baits, there was a
one of these baits, there was a discussion of foreign affairs and
discussion of foreign affairs and attentions of the run and the
attentions of the mn and the killing of
attentions of the run and the killing of Qasem Soleimani. Some
killing of Qasem Soleimani. Some of the candidates want to bring troops
the candidates want to bring troops home straightaway. Others want to
home straightaway. Others want to leave some in the Middle East for
leave some in the Middle East for the time being. There were
the time being. There were six candidates on the stage tonight,
candidates on the stage tonight, but in tmth,
candidates on the stage tonight, but in truth, there was a seventh. A
in tmth, there was a seventh. A seventh
in truth, there was a seventh. A seventh presence, that of Donald
seventh presence, that of Donald Tmmp. And a
seventh presence, that of Donald Trump. And a big question, who could
Trump. And a big question, who could best beat him in the November
best beat him in the November election? Joe Biden will feel he
elaction? joe Biden will feel he has made
election? Joe Biden will feel he has made his case once again for that
made his rase once again for that claim.
made his case once again for that claim. But there is still a long way
claim. But there is still a long way to go.
Gary O’Donoghue.
Before that debate took place in Iowa, another event with big
implications for the US election.
The Republican leader of the US Senate has said the impeachment
trial of President Trump is likely to begin next Tuesday.
Here’s Mitch McConnell.
With regard to impeachment, our understanding is,
and I think your understanding is as well, that the House is likely
to send the articles over to us tomorrow,
and we believe if that happens in all likelihood we will go
through some preliminary steps here this week,
which could well include the ChiefJustice coming over
and swearing in members of the Senate
and some other kind of housekeeping measures.
We hope to be able to achieve that by consent, which would set us up
to begin the actual trial next Tuesday.
Democrats accuse the President
of abusing his power and obstructing Congress.
And as part of the trial,
Democrats want to hear from current and former White House officials,
such as former national security adviserJohn Bolton.
We join the American people in wanting the truth,
the whole truth, nothing but the truth
to come out of the trial.
If you want the truth, you have to have witnesses.
You have to have documents.
Who has ever heard of a trial without witnesses and documents?
I’m pleased that some of my Republican colleagues
are now beginning to come around to our position.
The Senate Democratic leader on the impeachment trial.
President Trump has already pulled the United States out
of the Iran nuclear deal.
And now, European nations have put Iran on notice
over breaches of the 2016 nuclear agreement.
That deal was supposed to discourage Iran from building nuclear weapons.
Gareth Barlow reports.
Preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons has been a long—term
goal of Europe and the US, but the landmark agreement that
bound Tehran to strict limits is now in full dispute.
—— formal dispute.
France, Germany and the UK reject Iran’s argument it can withdraw
—— ignore production limits on uranium used
in nuclear powerplants and also
weapons after America walked away from the deal.
The aim of the dispute resolution mechanism is not
to reimpose sanctions.
The aim of this mechanism is to resolve issues relating
to the implementation of the agreement.
The beleaguered 2015 nuclear agreement was designed to curb
Iran’s ability to build nuclear weapons.
In 2018, President Trump pulled out of the deal,
calling it flawed, and reimposed sanctions.
Last year, Tehran said it wouldn’t comply with all its commitments
and recently has gone further
following increased tension with the US.
The three European governments say these breaches have left them
with no choice but to trigger the dispute process as a first step
towards reinstating international sanctions.
TRANSLATION: We call on Iran to constructively participate
in these negotiations,
the goal of which will be to safeguard the nuclear deal.
We believe it makes sense to save this nuclear deal
for the future because it prevents Iran from getting a nuclear bomb.
The Iranian Foreign Minister, javad Zarif,
decried the dispute as a strategic mistake,
but Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman said
Iran was ready to maintain international agreements.
All sides now have 15 days to resolve the issues raised.
If they fail, the EU countries can refer the matter to the UN
Security Council, which could vote to reimpose any sanctions on Iran.
Gareth Barlow, BBC News.
Let’s brief you on some of the other stories making the news.
Government forces in the Sudanese capital,
Khartoum, have overrun the intelligence headquarters
where security personnel loyal to the former president,
Omar al—Bashir, were based.
The mutineers had negotiated a surrender, and soldiers have now
moved into the northern suburb of Kafouri.
There are still tanks and armoured vehicles on the streets,
but the international airport has now reopened.
Fire services in Catalonia are saying a huge blaze,
the result of an explosion at a chemical plant,
has now been contained.
The blast, near the port city of Tarragona, killed one person
and injured eight others.
Some have severe burns. One person is still missing.
Authorities say no toxic substances have been found.
Police in Peru have detained six foreign tourists for vandalising
a temple wall in the ruins of Machu Picchu,
the ancient city built by the Inca empire.
One of them, an Argentine national, allegedly tried to remove a stone
that fell on the floor and caused damage to the site.
He’ll be tried in Peru and could be sentenced to jail.
The other five tourists will be deported.
Mexico’s president says that his government has so far
failed to sell his predecessor’s $130 million aircraft.
The Boeing 787 Dreamliner
was acquired by former president Enrique Pena Nieto eight years ago.
But current leader Andres Lopez Obrador says
it’s a hangover from what he called an out—of—touch ruling elite.
The Mexican government is also selling
70 other government helicopters and planes.
President Trump and the Chinese vice premier will sit down and sign
a trade deal that could signal the beginning of the end
of their bruising battle over the price of everything
from soybeans to iPhones.
But don’t expect tariffs to be lifted soon.
The White House says that won’t happen until "phase two"
is in the bag.
Jeremy Thomson Cook, founder of Complete Currency Consulting,
joins me now.
Good morning. Nice to see you. Finally we have arrived where the US
Finally we have arrived where the US and China will be in the same room
and China will be in the same room in Washington, pens in hand,
in Washington, pens in hand, signing something. Narrative for pens. Phase
something. Narrative for pens. Phase one is now complete, and this will
one is now complate, and this will see China
one is now complete, and this will see China locked into or agreeing to
see China locked into or agreeing to buy many billions of
buy many billions of agricultural goods, energy goods but also things
goods, energy goods but also things like planes and cars from the US,
like planes and cars from the US, which they were not beholden to do
which they were not beholden to do previously. Some people are
previously. Some peopla are saying this is a
previously. Some people are saying this is a win for the Trump
this is a win for the Trump administration there is
administration there is obviously still a lot of road to travel
still a lot of road to travel because a lot of issues around the
because a lot of issues around the US trying to trade have
US trying to trade have been addressed. To get to this
addressed. To get to this point, sign phase one, they have put the
sign phase one, they have put the controversial tricky stuff one
controversial tricky stuff one side, which in a way, it is a good way of
which in a way, it is a good way of doing things, because you have to
doing things, because you have to make some progress. You have to take
make some progress. You have to take baby steps. And this is progress.
baby steps. And this is progress. The trickier things
The trickier things like intellectual property, which really
intellectual property, which really comes to the heart of the US—China
comes to the heart of the US—China investment flow, which is the
investment ﬂow, which is the largest in
investment flow, which is the largest in the world, has to be done
largest in the world, has to be done in phase two by the end of the year.
in phase two by the end of the year. As you say, still a long road ahead.
As you say, still a long road ahead. In terms of the impact of all of
In terms of the impact of all of this so far, could you some of it
this so far, could you some of it has been like with your mark it has
has been like with your mark it has dominated business, it has dominated
dominated business, it has dominated global trade.
dominated business, it has dominated globaltrade. Financial
dominated business, it has dominated global trade. Financial markets
global trade. Financial markets since Tmmp
global trade. Financial markets since Trump began this war.
since Tmmp began this war. Basically
since Trump began this war. Basically one of the first
Basically one of the first things that he did when he came into the
that he did when he came into the presidency was to take on China,
presidency was to take on China, taking on their currency, taking
taking on their currency, taking on the economy and saying the US is not
the economy and saying the US is not getting a fair deal
the economy and saying the US is not getting a fair dealfor
the economy and saying the US is not getting a fair deal for the economy
getting a fair deal for the economy and for its consumers. So many
and for its consumers. So many billions, 250, $275 billion of
billions, 250, $275 billion of tariffs levied on Chinese
tariffs levied on Chinese goods coming into the US economy. This is
coming into the US economy. This is the first step. Those tariffs are
the first step. Those tariffs are still in place and will be in place
still in place and will be in place until at least after the election,
until at least after the election, but this is a phase one approach to
but this is a phase one approach to maybe just deescalating the risk of
maybe just deesralating the risk of the
maybe just deescalating the risk of the US—China trade pact. Thank
the US-China trade pact. Thank you for now. jeremy
the US—China trade pact. Thank you for now. Jeremy returned later. When
for now. jeremy returned later. when it comes to
for now. Jeremy returned later. When it comes to the story on Washington,
it comes to the story on Washington, we will discuss it further in
we will discuss it further in Business Briefing as well.
An investigation is under way after a passenger plane dumped fuel
over the grounds of several schools while coming in for an emergency
landing at Los Angeles airport.
More than A0 people, most of them children,
were treated for minor injuries.
The Delta Airlines flight had reported engine trouble.
Richard Forrest reports.
Thousands of litres of aviation fuel raining down onto a school below.
raining down onto a school below. The Delta airlines flight which had
The Delta airtines ﬂight which had just left LA
The Delta airlines flight which had just left LA International
just left LA International Airport and was destined for Shanghai dumped
and was destined for Shanghai dumped the fuel before making an
the fuel before making an emergency landing shortly after takeoff.
landing shortly after takeoff. Schools across the region, children
Schools across the region, children and adults required treatment for
and adults required treatment for skin irritation and breathing
skin irritation and breathing issues. Although nobody was
issues. Although nobody was hospitalised, over 70 firefighters
hospitalised, over 70 firefighters and paramedics were dispatched.
and paramedic were dispatched. Pupils at
and paramedics were dispatched. Pupils at Park elementary school,
Pupils at Park elementary school, some 26 kilometres from the airport,
some 26 kilometres from the airport, were outside under the flight class
were outside under the ﬂight class -- path as the
were outside under the flight class —— path as the plane
—— path as the plane crossed overhead. Delta, the flood public
overhead. Delta, the ﬂood public operators,
overhead. Delta, the flood public operators, said pilots reduced ——
operators, said pilots reduced -- release
operators, said pilots reduced —— release the fuel to reduce the
release the fuel to reduce the aircraft was Nic weight ahead of
aircraft was Nic weight ahead of the emergency landing. Federal aviation
emergency landing. Federal aviation regulation reveals date that while
regulation reveals date that while fuel may be dumped in emergencies,
fuel may be dumped in emergencies, it may only be done so
it may only be done so over designated areas and at high
designated areas and at high altitude because of an
altitude because of an investigation is under way.
Still to come: they call themselves the jetmen —
two French daredevils fly through heaven’s gate in China.
Day one of Operation Desert Storm to force the Iraqis out of Kuwait
has seen the most intense air attack since the Second World War.
Tobacco is America’s oldest industry and one of its biggest,
but the industry is nervous of this report.
This may tend to make people want to stop smoking cigarettes.
There is not a street that is unaffected.
Huge parts of Kobe were simply demolished
as buildings crashed into one another.
This woman said she had been given no help and no advice
by the authorities.
She stood outside the ruins of her business.
Tens of thousands of black children in South Africa have taken advantage
of laws passed by the country’s new multiracial government
and enrolled at formerly white schools.
Tonight sees the 9,610th performance
of the long—running play, The Mousetrap.
When they heard of her death today,
the management considered whether to cancel tonight’s performance,
but Agatha Christie would have been the last person
to want such a thing.
You’re watching The Briefing.
Our headlines:
The remaining contenders to take on Donald Trump have clashed
in the final debate before the selection process begins.
Iran has condemned France, Britain and Germany
for triggering a dispute over Tehran’s violations
of the nuclear deal.
China needs to face reality and respect the will
of the Taiwanese people according to Taiwan’s newly re—elected
President, Tsai Ing—wen.
Speaking exclusively to the BBC, President Tsai said the threat
from China, which claims the self—governing island as part
of its territory, is intensifying, but she warned that any military
action could prove costly to China.
Our correspondentJohn Sudworth spoke to the President
in Taiwan’s capital, Taipei.
Hello, President Tsai.
Hi.
It was her warnings about China that hit home with voters.
But now, she had something to say direct to Beijing.
This is a very strong message from the people of Taiwan.
That is, you know, they don’t like the idea of being threatened
all the time.
We’re a successful democracy.
We have a pretty decent economy.
You know, we deserve respect from China.
Her critics say she is reckless, that she risks provoking China.
But her promise to stand up for Taiwan saw her re—elected
by a landslide in Saturday’s vote.
China has been intensifying its threat.
And they have all sorts of actions, military exercises,
and they have their military vessels, aircraft, cruising
around the island.
And also, with the things happening in Hong Kong,
people get a real sense that this threat is real.
Your predecessor, Ma Ying—jeou, was able to preserve Taiwanese
democracy whilst building stronger ties with China.
What’s not to like about that approach?
The situation has changed, so we’re facing a very
different situation now.
Taiwan is also changing.
The first place in Asia to legalise gay marriage,
it is, she says, growing ever more distinct from China.
We are an independent country already, and we call ourselves
Republic of China, Taiwan.
And we do have government, we have the military
and we have elections.
Few statements are likely to infuriate China more.
With pressure bound to increase, Taiwan’s military is
being beefed up.
You cannot exclude the possibility of a war at any time.
Do you believe you would be able to stand up to a military action?
I do think we have a pretty decent capability here.
Invading Taiwan is something that is going to be very
costly for China.
She says she plans to further strengthen Taiwan’s democracy.
The very thing that divides it from its authoritarian neighbour may
in the end prove its most powerful defence.
John Sudworth, BBC News, Taiwan.
Here’s our briefing on some of the key events happening later.
Now it’s time to get all the latest from the BBC Sports Centre.
Hello I’m Marc Edwards and this is your Wednesday Sport Briefing.
We start with the English FA Cup where Tottenham Hotspur
are through to the fourth round after seeing off
Middlesborough 2—1 in their replay in London.
The Argentinian job if you will, Giovani Lo Celso opened the scoring
for the home side after a dreadful pass from Boro keeper,
Tomas Mejias.
The Argentine international finishing well afterjust 2 minutes
for his first goal at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
And it was his fellow countrymen Erik Lamela,
who doubled Tottenhams lead after a quarter of an hour.
Boro did pull one back with 7 minutes to go but it’s Tottenham
who go marching on into the next round where they will face
Southampton.
They worked so hard against such a dominant team, in the end,
so we did lots of things well.
Conceding a goal is a bit frustrating, but I am more
frustrated that we didn’t score three, four, five.
The crowd deserved it, a full stadium in these Cup matches,
with this emotion.
The magic of the cup is still alive and well,
the chance for a David and Goliath encounter.
Let’s paint the picture: You’re a team in the third tier
of your country’s football league and you draw a cup tie against one
of the world’s biggest clubs — cue pandemonium.
That’s exactly what happened to Spanish third division football
club Unionistas de Salamanca — here they are going wild on Tuesday
after being drawn against giants Real Madrid in the last 16
of the Copa del Rey.
Imagine the celebrations if they end up winning!
There’s more cup action on Wednesday — this time it’s Manchester United
up against Wolves in an all Premier League clash at Old Trafford
for their FA Cup 3rd round replay.
With United off the pace in the English Premier League
and needing to overturn a 3—1 first—leg deficit to rivals
Manchester City in League Cup — the FA Cup is perhaps the one real
prospect they have of domestic silverware this season.
m:
We wa nt to
We want to make sure that we go through. I’m sure that they want to
through. I’m sure that they want to go through as well because this
go through as well because this tournament is one that we all dream
tournament is one that we all dream about winning when you are young. I
about winning when you are young. I have loved my time in the finals and
have loved my time in the finals and lifting the trophies. We want to go
lifting the trophies. We want to go first. -- through.
Also later on Wednesday — the three—time world
Champion Mark Williams is in action at the Alexandra Palace
in London.
The Welshman has won this competition twice before
and he’ll be hoping to add to his trophy cabinet when he takes
on the 2015 World Champion Stuart Bingham in theirfirst
round matchup.
The invitational event features the world’s top 16 players.
And finally — she packed my bags last night pre flight.
The first line of course to Eltonjohn’s smash hit
Rocketman.
And perhaps the song listened to by two intrepid daredevils known
as the jet men who performed some mind—blowing stunts in China.
Jumping out of a helicopter before flying with carbon fibre
wings through Heaven’s Gate as part of ‘Mission: Human Flight’ —
a programme that aims to achieve 100 percent autonomous human
ﬂight.
Watched by some rather confused fishermen they flew
through the break in the rocks on Tianmen Mountain.
According to the organisers they reached speeds of 400
kilometres per hour and did admit it was a bit scary.
You won’t find me and what of those.
You can get all the latest sports news at our website —
that’s bbc.com/sport.
But from me and the rest of the sport team, goodbye.
Our thanks to Mark and the team.
The Taal Volcano continues to spew ash
and plumes of steam reaching almost a kilometre into the sky.
Volcanologists say the alert level remains at four which means
a dangerous eruption could happen within hours or days.
More than 50,000 people have evacuated the area —
but despite the warnings some have returned to their homes,
to check on the livestock they left behind.
Howard Johnson sent this report from the Phillipines.
They’ve declared a state of calamity
Therve declared a state of calamity here and
They’ve declared a state of calamity here and it is clear to see why. But
here and it is clear to see why. But despite the continued threat of a
despite the continued threat of a hazardous eruption, some people are
hazardous eruption, some peopla are returning to
hazardous eruption, some people are returning to their family homes.
returning to their family homes. They own a small plot of land in the
They own a small plot of land in the vicinity of the volcano and grow
vicinity of the volmno and grow vegetablas
vicinity of the volcano and grow vegetables and bread chickens for a
vegetablas and bread chickens for a living.
vegetables and bread chickens for a living. There lives were turned
living. There lives were turned upside down on Sunday when Taal
upside down on Sunday when Taal began erupting. TRANSLATION: Around
began erupting. TRANSLATION: Around 4pm, there
began erupting. TRANSLATION: Around Apm, there was panic. We saw a few
4pm, there was panic. We saw a few smoke
Apm, there was panic. We saw a few smoke cloud coming from the volcano
smoke cloud coming from the volmno and could
smoke cloud coming from the volcano and could smell something awful. Ash
and could smell something awful. Ash began following with small stones
began following with small stones and soil. We were evacuated them
and soil. We were evacuated them because some people said there would
because some people said there would be a soon army in the lake next to
be a soon army in the lake next to the house. We became scared. He says
the house. We became stared. He says he wanted
the house. We became scared. He says he wanted to return home to his
he wanted to return home to his house today to check on his
house today to check on his livestock and he found that many of
livestock and he found that many of his birds were in a sorry state. He
his birds were in a sorry state. He was showing me a fighting Cox here,
was showing me a fighting Cox here, it is a popular sport in the
it is a popular sport in the Philippines. The bird here is
Philippines. The bird here is covered in dust and ash. He said a
covered in dust and ash. He said a lot of the birds were affected when
lot of the birds were affected when he left his farmer to seek safety in
he left his farmer to seek safety in a shelter in an evacuation centre.
a shelter in an evacuation centre. other
a shelter in an evacuation centre. Other chickens are in a bad state. I
other chickens are in a bad state. I saw
Other chickens are in a bad state. I saw wanted the back with what looks
saw wanted the back with what looks like a broken wing. The Philippine
like a broken wing. The Philippine Department of agriculture says the
Department of agriculture says the thick ash has caused more than $10
thick ash has caused more than $10 million worth of damage to livestock
million worth of damage to livestock and crops. He is showing us his
and crops. He is showing us his vegetable patch where he grows
vegetable patch where he grows squash. He says the condition of
squash. He says the condition of these plants now are so bad that he
these plants now are so had that he can’t
these plants now are so bad that he can’t harvest them and he can’t take
ran’t harvest them and he can’t take them to
can’t harvest them and he can’t take them to market for sale. Today,
them to market for sala. Today, seismologists
them to market for sale. Today, seismologists say that although the
seismologists say that although the eruptions in the main way to have
eruptions in the main way to have been weak in the last 2A hours,
been weak in the last 2A hours, residents evacuated from the 1A
residents evacuated from the 1A kilometre danger zone it should not
kilometre danger zone it should not be lulled into a false sense of
be lulled into a false sense of security and return to their homes.
security and return to their homes. Howard Johnson, BBC News.
And would you ‘bung 3 bob for the Big Ben bongs’?
In the words of the UK Prime Minister.
The British government has suggested a crowdfunding campaign
could be launched to pay for Big Ben to chime to mark Brexit day.
The hell is currently being restored and the official estimate is it
would cost half a million pounds for temporary work to be done
to allow it to ring, for people who want to celebrate
Brexit, on January the 31st.
Apparently, we’ve been having a look and there is a crowdfunding site on
and there is a crowdfunding site on the go and apparently so far they
the go and apparently so far they have raised £205 so a little way off
have raised £205 so a little way off and the clock is ticking so we will
and the dock is ticking so we will see how
and the clock is ticking so we will see how that progresses.
And, tell me what you think about our talking point today.
They are about the news that McDonald’s is actually now going to
McDonald’s is actually now going to be in Rutland which was the only
be in Ruﬂand which was the only county in
be in Rutland which was the only county in the UK without a
county in the UK without a McDonald’s. Local planning has given
McDonald’s. Local planning has given the go-ahead
McDonald’s. Local planning has given the go—ahead for a drive—through
the go-ahead for a drive-through stops on there
the go—ahead for a drive—through stops on there are happy and others
stops on there are happy and others are not. And were protesting about
are not. And were protesting about it. We ask you, how do global chains
it. We ask you, how do global chains in your area
it. We ask you, how do global chains in yourarea impact
it. We ask you, how do global chains in your area impact your community,
in your area impact your community, [oral
in your area impact your community, local businesses, many of you have
[oral businesses, many of you have been in
local businesses, many of you have been in touch. We heard from sky, if
been in touch. We heard from sky, if that is yours with to handle, he
that is yours with to handle, he 5575
that is yours with to handle, he says there are several big chains
says there are several big chains and they bring in what people want
and they bring in what peopla want and
and they bring in what people want and need and jobs. People say, local
and need and jobs. People say, local businesses are better but they all
businesses are better but they all have their place in the community.
have their place in the community. He says why not give small business
He says why not give small business owners the chance to open a
owners the chance to open a restaurant instead of a McDonald’s.
restaurant instead of a McDonald’s. They ran offer
restaurant instead of a McDonald’s. They can offer healthier eating.
They ran offer healthier eating. There
They can offer healthier eating. There are more objections to the
There are more objections to the McDonald’s opening but yet the
McDonald’s opening but yet the council still approves it.
council still approves it. Corruption on so many levels. That
Cormption on so many levels. That is not the
Corruption on so many levels. That is not the allegation against
is not the allegation against Rutland by the way I might add.
Ruﬂand by the way I might add. Dexter
Rutland by the way I might add. Dexter says, they are good for the
Dexter says, they are good for the community because they create jobs
community because they create jobs for people but I think it is about
for peopla but I think it is about time at global
for people but I think it is about time at global businesses are made
time at global businesses are made to pay taxes in the country where
to pay taxes in the country where they are doing business. Thank you
they are doing business. Thank you for your comments.
they are doing business. Thank you foryour comments. I’ll
they are doing business. Thank you for your comments. I’ll be back with
for your comments. I’ll be back with business briefing.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
It will remain windy across the north of Scotland
with strong winds and high clouds across the area of low pressure.
You can see low pressure to the
You ran see low pressure to the north of
You can see low pressure to the north of the UK which will bring
north of the UK which will bring further frequent showers to Scotland
further frequent showers to Scotland and northern parts of Northern
and northern parts of Northern Ireland. Some of these went on the
Ireland. Some of these went on the hills. Sunshine further south. The
hills. Sunshine further south. The overnight weather front which will
overnight weather front which will be slow to clear from the south—east
be slow to clear from the south-east so a bit of a
be slow to clear from the south—east so a bit of a wet start here.
so a bit of a wet start here. Eventually, it will do and we will
Eventually, it will do and we will see planty of
Eventually, it will do and we will see plenty of sunshine for England
see planty of sunshine for England and
see plenty of sunshine for England and Wales. One or two showers in the
and Wales. One or two showers in the west, fairty
and Wales. One or two showers in the west, fairly breezy and strong winds
west, fairty breezy and strong winds for
west, fairly breezy and strong winds for Scotland. Lots of showers here
for Scotland. Lots of showers here and these will hit the high grounds.
and these will hit the high grounds. Temperatures, a few degrees up on
Temperatures, a few degrees up on the ones we had on Tuesday. And
the ones we had on Tuesday. And feeling a little cool further south.
feeling a little cool further south. Unless you have the sunshine to
Unless you have the sunshine to compensate. That window a fine
compensate. That window a fine weather is short lived. The next
weather is short lived. The next area of low pressure moves in for
area of low pressure moves in for Thursday to bring another wet and
Thursday to bring another wet and windy day. We will see lots of
windy day. We will see lots of isobars on the charts those isobars
isobars on the charts those isobars dose
isobars on the charts those isobars close together further west so those
close together further west so those western areas will see the strongest
western areas will see the strongest of the winds. Heavy rain as well
of the winds. Heavy rain as well sweeping northwards, crossing across
sweeping northwards, crossing across much of the UK and a bit of rain
much of the UK and a bit of rain getting into the east later in the
getting into the east later in the day like I mentioned. A very
day like I mentioned. A very blustery date for gusts of maybe 50,
blustery date for gusts of maybe 50, 60 mph into the Irish seacoast into
60 mph into the Irish seamst into the
60 mph into the Irish seacoast into the afternoon. Rain will continue to
the afternoon. Rain will continue to be happy as well. With the wet and
be happy as well. with the wet and windy
be happy as well. With the wet and windy weather comes the milder air
windy weather comes the milder air once again. England and Wales ten to
once again. England and Walas ten to 12
once again. England and Wales ten to 12 degrees but still on the cool
12 degrees but still on the cool side. Scotland and Northern Ireland.
side. Scotland and Northern Ireland. That wet and windy weather sweeps
That wet and windy weather sweeps northwards during Thursday night. We
northwards during Thursday night. We will start to see more of a westerly
will start to see more of a westerty or
will start to see more of a westerly or north—westerly chicken for
or north-westerty chicken for Friday. just a
or north—westerly chicken for Friday. Just a few weather fronts
Friday. just a few weather fronts ringing
Friday. Just a few weather fronts ringing showers or longer spells of
ringing showers or longer spells of rain. Friday is a transitional phase
rain. Friday is a transitional phase from the wet and windy weather to
from the wet and windy weather to something more settled which will
something more settled which will arrive for the weekend. While not to
arrive for the weekend. while not to see a bit
arrive for the weekend. While not to see a bit more sunshine for
see a bit more sunshine for Scotland, Northern Ireland, while
Scotland, Northern Ireland, whila two
Scotland, Northern Ireland, while two showers. Most of the showers
two showers. Most of the showers across England and Wales and a bit
across England and Walas and a bit of
across England and Wales and a bit of sunshine in between. The
of sunshine in between. The temperature is five to nine degrees
temperature is five to nine degrees and will be turning cooler. They
and will be turning coolar. They have it, blue
and will be turning cooler. They have it, blue colours invade later
have it, blue colours invade later into Friday and the weekend. But,
into Friday and the weekend. But, with high pressure building, it
with high pressure building, it should be fine and settled for
should be fine and settled for Saturday and Sunday stop lighter
Saturday and Sunday stop lighter winds for many of us. More on the
winds for many of us. More on the “Y
winds for many of us. More on the way of sunshine but it will be
way of sunshine but it will be noticeably colder with a return to
noticeably colder with a return to overnight frosts.
in Taiwan’s capital, Taipei.
This is the Business Briefing.
I’m Sally Bundock.
The first phase: US and Chinese officials are set to sign
the initial part of a significant trade deal.
We’ll find out what impact it’ll have around the globe.
Amazon’sjeff Bezos arrives in India for a 3—day visit.
But is he being greeted with open arms?
And Asian financial markets are seeing their first declines
for five days with concerns US—China trade tensions will go
beyond today’s signing of an initial deal in Washington.
Let’s discuss in more detail now that significant step that is being
that significant step that is being taken in Washington.
President Trump and the Chinese Vice Premier will sit down and sign
a trade deal that could signal the beginning of the end
of their bruising battle over the price of everything
from soybeans to iPhones.
Since the start of the trade war, the two sides have raised import
taxes on $470 billion worth of each other’s goods,
more than half of what they buy and sell from each other every year.
While US and Chinese consumers have borne the brunt of this,
the two countries account for more than 40% of the world’s economy
and there’s no doubt the trade war has hurt global growth.
The so—called ‘phase one deal’ is expected to include a commitment
by China to spend an extra $200 billion on American made goods,
while the US will rollback some tariffs.
However, under the deal tariffs, worth billions of dollars,
will remain in place.
Here’s US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
These tariffs will stay in place until there is a phase two. If the
until there is a phase two. If the president gets a phase too quickly,
president gets a phase too quickly, he will consider releasing tariffs
he will consider releasing tariffs as part of phase two. If not, there
as part of phase two. If not, there will not be any tariff relief.
Let’s get more on this story from Anahita Thorns,
head of International Trade Practice at Baker McKenzie, who joins
me from Brussels.
Welcome to Business Briefing. How optimistic are you about this phase
optimistic are you about this phase one deal being done? It certainly
one deal being done? It certainly means deescalation, it is a truce,
means deesralation, it is a truce, but it is
means deescalation, it is a truce, but it is not a comprehensive deal.
but it is not a comprehensive deal. But certainly a step in the right
But certainly a step in the right direction because it means that
direction because it means that two of the biggest players will sit down
of the biggest players will sit down and strike a deal, even if it is
and strike a deal, even if it is just phase one. When you look at the
just phase one. when you look at the detail we
just phase one. When you look at the detail we know about in terms of the
detail we know about in terms of the compromises made to get to this
compromises made to get to this point, it looks like China
point, it looks like China is getting a lot more than the US. ——
getting a lot more than the US. -- giving. Certainly,
getting a lot more than the US. —— giving. Certainly, both countries
giving. Certainly, both countries are not entirely happy with this.
are not entirely happy with this. Also, the US, because the US wanted
Also, the US, because the US wanted to have comprehensive struck your
to have comprehensive stmck your reforms
to have comprehensive struck your reforms and phase one is certainly
reforms and phase one is certainly not that. And China, China
not that. And China, China wanted certainly to have no tariffs at all,
certainly to have no tariffs at all, so both sides think this is a
so both sides think this is a compromise and certainly, phase
compromise and certainly, phase two and maybe phase three and four will
and maybe phase three and four will have to follow. And talk us through
have to follow. And talk us through the winners and losers. For example,
the winners and losers. For example, in a moment we will hear from
in a moment we will hear from American business owners who
American business owners who have really lost out. But some countries
really lost out. But some countries like Vietnam and others have
like Vietnam and others have benefited, haven’t they? Trade wars
benefited, haven’t they? Trade wars produce losers. Certainly, the US
produce losers. Certainly, the US has lost because of higher costs for
has lost because of higher costs for its consumers. China has lost
its consumers. China has lost because of lost trade. Some have
because of lost trade. Some have benefited, certainly you mentioned
benefited, certainly you mentioned Vietnam is one country that has
Vietnam is one country that has benefited, but these are short—term
benefited, but these are short-term benefits
benefited, but these are short—term benefits and we have to see mid term
benefits and we have to see mid term what happens. Certainly, long—term,
what happens. Certainly, long-term, we will all
what happens. Certainly, long—term, we will all lose because of have
we will all lose because of have indicated, global growth is
indicated, global growth is implicated when two of the biggest
implicated when two of the biggest countries have a trade war
countries have a trade war ongoing for almost two years. Do you
for almost two years. Do you think this trade war was necessary?
this trade war was necessary? You think that we have a fairer playing
think that we have a fairer playing field between the US and China now?
field between the US and China now? For now, phase one doesn’t strike a
For now, phase one doesn’t strike a deal in a comprehensive way.
deal in a comprehensive way. The goal was in the beginning, you are
goal was in the beginning, you are talking about forced technology
talking about forced technology transfer, but most importantly,
transfer, but most importantly, regarding market access and
regarding market access and subsidies. So when you speak about a
subsidies. So when you speak about a comprehensive deal, we are not there
comprehensive deal, we are not there yet. Already, before President
yet. Already, before President Tmmp,
yet. Already, before President Trump, people have tried to reach a
Tmmp, peopla have tried to reach a compromise, but
Trump, people have tried to reach a compromise, but we are
compromise, but we are definitely not there yet. All right. A long way
not there yet. All right. A long way to go. Thank you very much indeed.
Now, today is the beginning of the end of President Trump’s
trade war, some say.
Samira Hussain spoke to some US companies that have been affected.
Relief cannot come soon enough at the sawmill. When China slapped
the sawmill. when China slapped tariffs
the sawmill. When China slapped tariffs on US wood, retaliation
tariffs on US wood, retaliation against American tariffs on Chinese
against American tariffs on Chinese goods, business he had dropped A0%.
goods, business he had dropped 4096. This plant
goods, business he had dropped A0%. This plant alone let go of 15 people
This plant alone let go of 15 peoplo stop it now
This plant alone let go of 15 people stop it now only runs one shift per
stop it now only mns one shift per day. 66
stop it now only runs one shift per day. 66 employees here. This is
day. 66 employees here. This is their lives, this is our lives. We
their lives, this is our lives. We come to work every day to make a
come to work every day to make a great product to put out there,
great product to put out there, and if we can’t sell our product, we
if we can’t sell our product, we won’t be able to make our product.
won’t be able to make our product. North—west hardwoods, which
North-west hardwoods, which operates the mill, has
North—west hardwoods, which operates the mill, has had to close
the mill, has had to dose operations
the mill, has had to close operations in several states. The
operations in several states. The CEO says if the trade war does not
CEO says if the trade war does not end soon, it could be the end of the
end soon, it could be the end of the American timber industry. Jobs
American timber industry. jobs that are being
American timber industry. Jobs that are being severely impacted are
are being severely impacted are those rural communities that
those mral communities that have been
those rural communities that have been built around these sawmills a
been built around these sawmills a decade that will continue to
decade that will continue to feel the brunt of the impact of a lack of
the bmnt of the impact of a lack of trade
the hmnt of the impact of a lack of trade with
the brunt of the impact of a lack of trade with China. It wasn’t meant to
trade with China. It wasn’t meant to be like this. Donald Trump’s
be like this. Donald Trump’s pitch to the working men and women of
to the working men and women of states like Pennsylvania if he
states like Pennsylvania if he imposed tariffs on imports from
imposed tariffs on imports from China, their
imposed tariffs on imports from China, theirjobs would be
China, theirjobs would be protected. They and their employers
protected. They and their employers would thrive. I
protected. They and their employers would thrive. Ijust announced
would thrive. Ijust announced it will increase tariffs in China, and
will increase tariffs in China, and we won’t back down until China stops
we won’t back down until China stops cheating our workers and
cheating our workers and stealing their
cheating our workers and stealing theirjobs, and that is what
theirjobs, and that is what is going to happen. Otherwise we don’t
going to happen. Otherwise we don’t have to do business with them, we
have to do business with them, we don’t have to do business. We can
don’t have to do business. We ran make the
don’t have to do business. We can make the product right here if we
make the product right here if we have to, like we used to. Despite
have to, like we used to. Despite two years of tit—for—tat tariffs,
two years of tit-for-tat tariffs, the US
two years of tit—for—tat tariffs, the US economy keeps growing, the
the US economy keeps growing, the unemployment rate is at record lows
unemployment rate is at record lows in financial markets have been
in financial markets have been eating all time highs. Other trade
eating all time highs. Other trade war has damaged many industries,
war has damaged many industries, particularty in
war has damaged many industries, particularly in manufacturing and
particularty in manufacturing and agriculture
particularly in manufacturing and agriculture where so many of Trump’s
agriculture where so many of Trump’s supporters work. Finally, presidents
supporters work. Finally, presidents have to at least a truce, which
have to at least a truce, which should be good news for
should be good news for companies like Hardwood. But executives and
like Hardwood. But executives and workers across America may be left
workers across America may be left wondering if the end of the trade
wondering if the end of the trade war was with fighting it in the
war was with fighting it in the first place --
war was with fighting it in the first place —— Northwest Hardwood.
Now, let’s brief you on some other business stories.
The American planemaker Boeing has revealed that 2019 was its worst
year for orders in decades.
And plane deliveries in 2019 hit their lowest level in 11 years.
The drop in fortunes is of course attributed to the 737 MAX,
which has been grounded after two fatal crashes.
Citigroup beat analysts’ estimates for fourth—quarter
profits, boosted by growth in its credit card business
and a jump in trading revenue.
The third—largest US bank by assets has
been leveraging its robust card business to help grow deposits
by pitching, checking and savings accounts to card holders.
The e—commerce giant Amazon says it’s bringing back FedEx
for deliveries of some of its Prime orders sold through third parties.
It banned the freight service during the holiday period
amid concerns over its performance.
The National Security Agency, the NSA, has discovered
a vulnerability in Microsoft’s Windows operating system that
provides a backdoor for hackers.
Both the NSA and Microsoft say they had no evidence that the flaw
had previously been abused.
This is the first time the NSA has publicly taken credit for finding
a security flaw, prompting a software update.
Let’s now tell you more.
Amazon founderJeff Bezos arrived in India as thousands of small
traders across 300 cities planned protests, claiming the firm
is distorting the local retail market.
Arunoday Mukharji has more from Delhi.
Jeff Bezos landed here in India on
jeff Bezos landed here in India on Tuesday and
Jeff Bezos landed here in India on Tuesday and one of the first steps
Tuesday and one of the first steps -- stops he
Tuesday and one of the first steps —— stops he made was a memorial to
-- stops he made was a memorial to pay his respects.
—— stops he made was a memorial to pay his respects. Amazon have been
pay his respects. Amazon have been fairty
pay his respects. Amazon have been fairly tightlipped about the
fairly tightlipped about the programme of
fairly tightlipped about the programme ofJeff Bezos, we know he
programme of jeff Bezos, we know he will be
programme ofJeff Bezos, we know he will be attending this event today
will be attending this event today as well as tomorrow. He is expected
as well as tomorrow. He is expected to be speaking here. His visit comes
to be speaking here. His visit comes in a difficult time for Amazon when
in a difficult time for Amazon when the competition commission of
the competition commission of India has launched an investigation into
has hunched an investigation into the steep
has launched an investigation into the steep discounts as well as
the steep discounts as well as exclusive offers on mobile phones at
exclusive offers on mobile phones at Amazon has had to offer. There
Amazon has had to offer. There have been complaints by local retailers
been complaints by [oral retailars that
been complaints by local retailers that affect local businesses. Even
that affect [oral businesses. Even as we speak,
that affect local businesses. Even as we speak, a big trading
as we speak, a big trading association has called for protests
association has rallad for protests across
association has called for protests across the country. They will be
across the country. They will be protecting between 1130 and 1230
protecting between 1130 and 1230 against discounts affecting their
against discounts affecting their own businesses. Writer is expected
own businesses. Writer is expected to meet the Prime Minister to
to meet the Prime Minister to discuss various issues of his trip.
That’s it for The Business Briefing this hour.
Now, let’s bring you more detail on the story that is our talking point
the story that is our talking point today.
England’s smallest county, Rutland, boasts two historic towns,
a large lake and a population of 38,000 people.
But there’s one thing it doesn’t have,
and that’s a branch of McDonald’s.
It’s the only county in England
not to have a branch of the fast—food chain.
But that could soon change.
Councillors will be meeting shortly to consider allowing a drive—thru
outlet asJohn Maguire reports.
This is Rutland, England’s smallest
This is Ruﬂand, England’s smallest county and
This is Rutland, England’s smallest county and the only one where
county and the only one where chicken nuggets are not on the menu.
chicken nuggets are not on the menu. Chartie blogged
chicken nuggets are not on the menu. Charlie blogged with pride about the
Chartie blogged with pride about the county of her
Charlie blogged with pride about the county of her birth and is
county of her birth and is very protective of its status. Our
protective of its status. Our county is the last one in England without
is the last one in England without one, and I think that is
one, and I think that is really special and it is
one, and I think that is really special and it isjust
one, and I think that is really special and it is just a great point
special and it is just a great point about our really quirky county, our
about our really quirky county, our high streets are scattered with
high streets are scattered with wonderful independence that offer
wonderful independence that offer something unique and there really is
something unique and there really is so me local businesses you can go
so me [oral businesses you ran go into and get a
so me local businesses you can go into and get a real special service
into and get a real special service at a special experience, I think we
at a special experience, I think we don’t need a McDonald’s and I think
don’t need a McDonald’s and I think that the fact that McDonald’s is
that the fact that McDonald’s is everywhere in the world, I think it
everywhere in the world, I think it is really unique the fact that we
is really unique the fact that we don’t have one here and I would kind
don’t have one here and I would kind of like to keep that for our special
of like to keep that for our special little county. But Rutland is a
little county. But Ruﬂand is a claim
little county. But Rutland is a claim to fame that is under threat.
claim to fame that is under threat. Tonight, counsellors are
Tonight, counsellors are recommended to grant planning permission for a
to grant planning permission for a 24-hour
to grant planning permission for a 24—hour drive—through at this
24-hour drive-through at this site just outside
24—hour drive—through at this site just outside Oakham. McDonald’s is
just outside Oakham. McDonald’s is promising more than 60 jobs,
promising more than 60 jobs, much—needed here. If counsellors
much-needed here. If counsellors give the
much—needed here. If counsellors give the go—ahead tonight, the last
give the go-ahead tonight, the last bastion
give the go—ahead tonight, the last bastion of resistance in England
bastion of resistance in England will fall and Oakham will host one
will fall and 0.1ka will host one of the
will fall and Oakham will host one of the McFlurry which McDonald plans
of the McFlurry which McDonald plans to open. --
of the McFlurry which McDonald plans to open. —— McDonald’s plans
to open. -- McDonald’s plans to open.
They did approve the move to have a McDonald’s in Rutland last night.
This is The Briefing from BBC News.
The latest headlines:
The remaining contenders to take on Donald Trump have clashed
in the final debate before the selection process begins.
Iran has condemned Britain, France and Germany for triggering
a dispute over Tehran’s violations of the nuclear deal.
Schoolchildren had to be treated after a plane dumped fuel over
Los Angeles before making an emergency landing.
Now, it’s time to look at the stories that are making
the headlines in the media across the World.
We begin with Japan Times and its headline
"China not a currency cheat."
A US declaration, it says, necessary for the two countries
to clear a path to sign a trade deal
and overcome their battles over tariffs.
Singapore’s Strait Times says lifting the stigma of being labiled
a currency manipulator was key to ending the stand—off
between Beijing and Washington.
On our US news feed,
we’re reporting on President Trump’s latest attack on Apple.
It comes as the company refuses to unlock the phone of a shooter
who carried out an attack on a US base.
The Financial Times looks into the rescue package offered
by the government to save Flybe
after a £100 million investment plan failed.
And as we have just said, a Rutland
And as we have just said, a Ruﬂand drive-through
And as we have just said, a Rutland drive—through has been a proof
drive—through has been a proof of McDonald’s. It is the one county in
McDonald’s. It is the one county in England that is yet to have the
England that is yet to have the golden arches.
And finally, the Daily Expressjoins the Prime Minister’s plea for crowd
funders to finance the cost of ensuring Big Ben Bongs For Brexit.
With me isJeremy Thomson Cook Founder of Complete Currency
With me isJeremy Thomson Cook Founder of Complete Currency
Consulting.
And you are the perfect gas for this morning because it is all about the
morning because it is all about the currency for many new paper is
currency for many new paper is today. japan
currency for many new paper is today. Japan Times has it on its
today. japan Times has it on its front page. The
today. Japan Times has it on its front page. The Straits Times as
front page. The Straits Times as well. What do you make of their
well. what do you make of their coverage
well. What do you make of their coverage because they’re sort of
coverage because therre sort of talking a lot
coverage because they’re sort of talking a lot about the fact that
talking a lot about the fact that this is all about politics. It has
this is all about politic. It has nothing to do
this is all about politics. It has nothing to do with technicalities
nothing to do with technicalities and yet, this is a semi—annual
and yet, this is a semi-annual report to
and yet, this is a semi—annual report to Congress which is supposed
report to Congress which is supposed to be a technical report of our
to be a technical report of our currencies. It is as you say, every
currencies. It is as you say, every six months we see the US way in on
six months we see the us my in on what they
six months we see the US way in on what they believe certain countries
what they believe certain countries are doing with our currencies and
are doing with our currencies and for the first five reports of the
for the first five reports of the Tmmp
for the first five reports of the Trump administration, they didn’t
Tmmp administration, they didn’t label
Trump administration, they didn’t label China as a currency
label China as a currency manipulator. And yet he said he
manipulator. And yet he said he would do it on day one in office.
would do it on day one in office. That was one of his pre—election
That was one of his pre-election promises. That
That was one of his pre—election promises. That is right. He said it
promises. That is right. He said it was the first thing he would do but
was the first thing he would do but it took him over two years to do so
it took him over two years to do so and only really happen in August
and only really happen in August last year after we saw a big move
last year after we saw a big move lower in the value of the Chinese
lower in the value of the Chinese yuan. The Chinese yuan X1 currency
yuan. The Chinese yuan x1 currency that is actively
yuan. The Chinese yuan X1 currency that is actively managed by the
that is actively managed by the government. It doesn’t freely float
government. It doesn’t freely ﬂoat like the
government. It doesn’t freely float like the pound of the Japanese yen
like the pound of the japanese yen or the
like the pound of the Japanese yen or the euro for example. They were
or the euro for example. They were saying that China now has got to a
saying that China now has got to a point where it is continuing to
point where it is continuing to weaken its currency on the basis
weaken its currency on the basis that that will help its exports. In
that that will help its exports. In the grand scheme of things now, the
the grand scheme of things now, the fact that the US is now saying that
fact that the US is now saying that China is no longer a currency
China is no longer a currency manipulator. Maybe because they’ve
manipulator. Maybe because therve just agreed to
manipulator. Maybe because they’ve just agreed to what the US has asked
just agreed to what the US has asked them to on agricultural purchases or
them to on agricultural purchases or purchases of aeroplanes in the
purchases of aeroplanes in the future as a result of this phase I
future as a result of this phase I trade deal, it begs the question,
trade deal, it begs the question, just how, just how sacrosanct are
just how, just how sacrosanct are these technical... Of whether they
these technical. . . Of whether they will be
these technical... Of whether they will be seen as legitimate going
will be seen as legitimate going forward whether it is just a tool of
forward whether it is just a tool of the Tmmp
forward whether it is just a tool of the Trump administration to get to
the Tmmp administration to get to their end
the Trump administration to get to their end goals. What do you think?
their and goals. what do you think? It used to be,
their end goals. What do you think? It used to be, it used to be a
their end goals. What do you think? It used to be, it used to be 3 lots
It used to be, it used to be a lots more of a
It used to be, it used to be 3 lots more of a market mover, these
more of a market mover, these currency decisions but since the
currency decisions but since the Tmmp
currency decisions but since the Trump administration and as you
Tmmp administration and as you said, since
Trump administration and as you said, since the campaigning, he said
said, since the campaigning, he said it was the first thing he would do
it was the first thing he would do when he gets into the oval office he
when he gets into the oval office he would Labour China a cheat. Was it
would labour China a cheat. Was it fair to say that
would Labour China a cheat. Was it fair to say that China was
fair to say that China was ventilating its currency? Not at
ventilating its currency? Not at that point. It is widely agreed that
that point. It is widely agreed that between two thousand and three. And
between two thousand and three. And 2014 that China was debating its
2014 that China was debating its currency --
2014 that China was debating its currency —— 2003. The moves last
currency -- 2003. The moves last year were more a
currency —— 2003. The moves last year were more a result of market
year were more a result of market forces. Nine other countries are on
forces. Nine other countries are on their radar according to the report
their radar according to the report and on the list is Germany.
and on the list is Germany. Singapore is on there, Ireland,
Singapore is on there, Ireland, Italy, japan,
Singapore is on there, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia,
Italy, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Switzerland and Vietnam. We are
Switzertand and Vietnam. We are looking at
Switzerland and Vietnam. We are looking at the Japanese press and
looking at the japanese press and the
looking at the Japanese press and the Singapore press today. To say
the Singapore press today. To say that the US has large trading
that the US has large trading relations of a lot of those
relations of a lot of those countries. It is interesting that 3
countries. It is interesting that 3 euros zone countries are in the
euros zone countries are in the because obviously that don’t have
because obviously that don’t have independent means. Were not there.
independent means. Were not there. Exactly but Brexit has weakened the
Exactly but Brexit has weakened the currency dramatically. It has
currency dramatically. It has indeed. Good for some above others.
indeed. Good for some above others. Let’s look at ABC online, a story
Let’s look at ABC online, a story that was posted just an hour ago
that was posted just an hour ago talking about trumpet launching a
talking about tmmpet launching a fresh
talking about trumpet launching a fresh attack on Apple over privacy.
fresh attack on Apple over privacy. This is a difficult ethical debate
This is a difficult ethical debate isn’t it about when is a government
isn’t it about when is a government is allowed to access encrypted
is allowed to access encrypted information about an individual and
information about an individual and Apple is in the middle. Is
Apple is in the middle. Is interesting because we just talked
interesting because we just talked about currency and what the
about currency and what the government wants for doing
government wants for doing something. This is very, it is
something. This is very, it is almost like the quick pro quo of the
almost like the quick pro quo of the Tmmp
almost like the quick pro quo of the Trump administration writ large once
Tmmp administration writ large once again. Donald
Trump administration writ large once again. Donald Trump has tweeted that
again. Donald Tmmp has tweeted that obviously,
again. Donald Trump has tweeted that obviously, given how well he is
obviously, given how well he is doing for Apple and how well he’s
doing for Apple and how well he’s doing for US businesses,
doing for US businesses, specifically on trade that therefore
specifically on trade that therefore he should be able to and the
he should be able to and the government should be able to look
government should be able to look into the phones of killers, drug
into the phones of killers, dmg dealers
into the phones of killers, drug dealers and other violent criminal
dealers and other violent criminal elements and obviously this goes
elements and obviously this goes back to 2015 with the San Bernardino
back to 2015 with the San Bernardino terrorist attack and the fact that
terrorist attack and the fact that the government had to outsource the
the government had to outsource the cracking of said phone to be able to
cracking of said phone to be able to look into the private details of
look into the private details of that. It is a difficult want to
that. It is a difficult want to answer isn’t it because on the
answer isn’t it because on the 1—handed, you want governments to
1-handed, you want governments to keep us safe
1—handed, you want governments to keep us safe and if that means they
keep us safe and if that means they need information and they need
need information and they need intelligence but on the other hand,
intelligence but on the other hand, where is the line? Where does the
where is the line? where does the slow creep
where is the line? Where does the slow creep actually end. We are
slow creep actually end. We are saying this, obviously talking about
saying this, obviously talking about the US and China, so filters
the US and China, so filters into the argument about Huawei as well
the argument about Huawei as well and the ability of the Chinese
and the ability of the Chinese telecommunications industry to
telacommunirations industry to obviously
telecommunications industry to obviously pass details about what is
obviously pass details about what is going on with their cellular
going on with their cellular networks to the national
networks to the national government there. Financial
networks to the national government there. FinancialTimes
networks to the national government there. Financial Times looking at
there. Financial Times looking at the deal to keep Flybe in the air
the deal to keep Flybe in the air and obviously wonder that provides
and obviously wonder that provides passengers all over the UK and it is
passengers all over the UK and it is a lifeline for some. People want to
a lifeline for some. People want to get to Northern Ireland quickly for
get to Northern Ireland quickly for example from the south of England.
example from the south of England. This is their only means of doing
This is their only means of doing that. What do you make of help for
that. what do you make of help for Flybe, regional
that. What do you make of help for Flybe, regional transport which in
Flybe, regional transport which in many countries is heavily subsidised
many countries is heavily subsidised because it is hard to make a profit.
because it is hard to make a profit. It is heavily subsidised. And Flybe
It is heavily subsidised. And Flybe is one of the few internal operators
is one of the few internal operators in the UK aviation market that does
in the UK aviation market that does serve certain areas which aren’t
serve certain areas which aren’t particularty
serve certain areas which aren’t particularly well served by the rail
particularly well served by the rail network for example. If you want to
network for example. If you want to get from Cornwall to Newcastle for
get from Cornwall to Newcastle for example which is a common this of
example which is a common this of the United States, not a
the United States, not a particularly large distance but here
particularty large distance but here in the
particularly large distance but here in the UK it is obvious we are big
in the UK it is obvious we are big move. It takes six or seven hours on
move. It takes six or seven hours on a train and it is a very infrequent
a train and it is a very infrequent service. I was talking to a just
service. I was talking to a just eartier
service. I was talking to a just earlier this week who said that to
eartier this week who said that to get to London,
earlier this week who said that to get to London, no problem but to get
get to London, no problem but to get from Harrogate to across the
from Harrogate to across the northern England via public
northern England via public transport takes forever. It is so
transport takes forever. It is so expensive and there are real issues
expensive and there are real issues when it comes to getting around the
when it comes to getting around the UK. It was a manifesto pledge on the
UK. It was a manifesto pledge on the part of the Conservative government.
part of the Conservative government. Yes, absolutely. Is this the job of
Yes, absolutely. Is this the job of government to bail out Flybe? I
government to bailout Flybe? I think
government to bail out Flybe? I think it is the job of government to
think it is the job of government to ensure that local transport links
ensure that [oral transport links are upheld
ensure that local transport links are upheld and while Flybe other
are upheld and whila Flybe other peopla who
are upheld and while Flybe other people who are doing that, that
peopla who are doing that, that should
people who are doing that, that should be done but there should be a
should be done but there should be a better alternative and obviously
better alternative and obviously from a green point of view,
from a green point of view, subsidising airlines, cutting air
subsidising airtines, cutting air passenger
subsidising airlines, cutting air passenger duty, that actually
passenger duty, that actually happens as well. Because that is
happens as well. Because that is seen as a green tax on passengers
seen as a green tax on passengers but maybe there is another way of
but maybe there is another way of supporting regional trouble
supporting regional trouble without. .. Labour was
supporting regional trouble without... Labour was saying for
without... labour was saying for example
without... Labour was saying for example there may be a way to do it
example there may be a way to do it for frequent flyers but in the grand
for frequent ﬂyers but in the grand scheme
for frequent flyers but in the grand scheme of things, as long as the
scheme of things, as long as the rail network is holding up that end
rail network is holding up that end of the bargain, the social contract
of the bargain, the social contract of getting people from place a to
of getting people from place a to place be, they Flybe will do that.
place be, they Flybe will do that. Let’s move onto the Rutland
Let’s move onto the Rutland MacDonnell scandal. I knew it well.
MacDonnell scandal. I knew it well. Maybe over exaggerating a bit.
Maybe over exaggerating a bit. Donald has got Rutland for
Donald has got Rutland for breakfast. I grew up new here and I
breakfast. I grew up new here and I know it really well. It is a
know it really well. It is a beautiful country and Oakham is a
beautiful country and 0.1ka is a lovely town
beautiful country and Oakham is a lovely town so they will be a
lovely town so they will be a drive—through. The one day county
drive-through. The one day county that has
drive—through. The one day county that has never had the golden arches
that has never had the golden arches until now in England. They have held
until now in England. They have held “P
until now in England. They have held up for so long and now counsellors
up for so long and now counsellors have given. The given end. There are
have given. The given end. There are two ways of looking at it, obviously
two ways of looking at it, obviously there is the local element as you
there is the [oral element as you said. It is
there is the local element as you said. It is beautiful, unspoiled,
said. It is beautiful, unspoiled, there are loads of local businesses
there are loads of [oral businesses but the
there are loads of local businesses but the other side of things is that
but the other side of things is that how many
but the other side of things is that how manyjobs is going to create. 65
how manyjobs is going to create. 65 it says. But a huge number. 30
it says. But a huge number. 30 full-time
it says. But a huge number. 30 full—time and 35 part—time. The one
full-time and 35 part-time. The one thing about retail
full—time and 35 part—time. The one thing about retail and obviously
thing about retail and obviously McDonald’s is a retail business, is
McDonald’s is a retail business, is a retail restaurant, is that the
a retail restaurant, is that the employees, 16 years old but also
employees, 16 years old but also employ 60 —year—olds. Certainly
employ 60 -year-olds. Certainly outside
employ 60 —year—olds. Certainly outside of cities, and large towns,
outside of cities, and large towns, you’re starting to see unemployment
you’re starting to see unemployment for younger people and
for younger peopla and older peopla a lot higher. It
for younger people and older people a lot higher. It is tricky though
a lot higher. It is tricky though when you see your local town as you
when you see your [oral town as you go around the
when you see your local town as you go around the community, you can’t
go around the community, you can’t see your [oral
go around the community, you can’t see your local independent coffee
see your [oral independent coffee shop for the
see your local independent coffee shop for the Starbucks, McDonald’s,
shop for the Starbucks, McDonald’s, KFC, whatever it may be. Because
KFC, whatever it may be. Because obviously local independents find a
obviously local independents find a really hard
obviously local independents find a really ha rd to
obviously local independents find a really hard to compete. It is true.
really hard to compete. It is tme. More
really hard to compete. It is true. More expensive. I live in the part
More expensive. I live in the part of south—east London that has seen
of south-east London that has seen quite a few
of south—east London that has seen quite a few independent businesses
quite a few independent businesses go out of business recently as a
go out of business recently as a result of rent increases for example
result of rent increases for example Avenue business rates in things like
Avenue business rates in things like that. Only the larger high—street
that. Only the larger high-street chains
that. Only the larger high—street chains can pay those rates that
chains can pay those rates that landlords are asking... Huge
landlords are asking... Huge American dollars in the case of
American dollars in the case of McDonald’s. And this is obviously
McDonald’s. And this is obviously not what we want. We want a strong
not what we want. We want a strong [oral
not what we want. We want a strong local vibrant economy.
Are you going to stump up some cash
Are you going to stump up some rash though Big Ben
Are you going to stump up some cash though Big Ben can strike midnight
though Big Ben ran strike midnight when
though Big Ben can strike midnight when the Brexit happens. But things
when the Brexit happens. But things to spend my money on. What is it an
to spend my money on. what is it an ingenious idea
to spend my money on. What is it an ingenious idea from the Prime
ingenious idea from the Prime Minister to say on BBC exclusively,
Minister to say on BBC exclusively, come on, if you want this to happen
come on, if you want this to happen than crowd funded. That is what is
than crowd funded. That is what is it all about. I like the idea that
it all about. I like the idea that it isn’t coming out of taxpayers
it isn’t coming out of taxpayers money and if people actually wanted
money and if peopla actually wanted and are
money and if people actually wanted and are happy to pay for it than
and are happy to pay for it than fine. It is a bell ringing. I can’t
fine. It is a bell ringing. I can’t really get that. . .
fine. It is a bell ringing. I can’t really get that... Is at a dead
really get that... Is at a dead ringer? It will ring at 11pm on the
ringer? It will ring at 11pm on the 31st. It is
ringer? It will ring at 11pm on the Sist. It is midnight, midnight in
31st. It is midnight, midnight in Brussels. 50 there some were saying
Bmssels. So there some were saying that if it rings at
Brussels. 50 there some were saying that if it rings at 11pm, takes 50
that if it rings at 11pm, takes 50 seconds. That is £10,000 a second
seconds. That is £10,000 a second that it will cost to ring those
that it will cost to ring those bells which is twice as much as a
bells which is twice as much as a cost to find the NHS per second.
cost to find the NHS per second. There you go. You have same I don’t
There you go. You have same I don’t think. Thank you very much
There you go. You have same I don’t think. Thank you very muchJeremy
think. Thank you very much jeremy for being the
think. Thank you very muchJeremy for being the briefing. And thank
for being the briefing. And thank you also for your comments as well.
you also for your comments as well. Many of you have been in touch with
Many of you have been in touch with the guards to the story of
the guards to the story of McDonald’s and Rutland. Quite a
McDonald’s and Ruﬂand. Quite a view, a lot
McDonald’s and Rutland. Quite a view, a lot of you are for but some
view, a lot of you are for but some of you say it’s not a good idea over
of you say it’s not a good idea over and you don’t like the presence of
and you don’t like the presence of McDonald’s, Starbucks, et cetera on
McDonald’s, Starbucks, et cetera on your high—street. Keep the comments
your high-street. Keep the comments coming. A really
your high—street. Keep the comments coming. A really good day and I will
coming. A really good day and I will see you soon.
Hello there.
Tuesday was another very windy day across the board,
particularly England and Wales, which saw another area of low
pressure move up from the south.
Early on Wednesday it looks like the strongest of the winds,
heaviest of the rain, becoming confined to the south—east
corner of the country.
Elsewhere, clearer skies to start Wednesday, but it will be another
blustery one, very windy for Scotland, with further heavy
showers here, some snow on the hills.
50 Wednesday looks like being a bright day for many.
Lots of sunshine around, but there will be plenty of showers,
particularly across Scotland, close to this area of low pressure.
And you can see the isobars closer together here,
so it will be another windy day for Scotland.
Less so for England and Wales, but we’ll have this weather front,
which will continue to bring some rain through the morning
across East Anglia and the south—east.
So a bit of a wet start here, but then that should clear away
into the afternoon.
It should brighten up nicely, and there should be quite a bit
of sunshine around across the country.
But western areas see a few showers, most of these, though,
though,
across the north—west of Scotland, where some will be heavy,
with snow on the hills.
Temperatures range from seven or so in the north, 8—9
in the south, so a little bit cooler across the south
than what we had on Tuesday.
So it is a brief window of fine weather.
The next area of low pressure comes hurtling in for Thursday.
You can see lots of isobars on the chart, but the strongest
of the winds we think will tend to be further west once again,
where we’ll see some of the heaviest of the rain, too, here.
Elsewhere, a bit of early brightness, but then the clouds
will tend to build in.
Could see a few showers across eastern areas,
but generally speaking, it’s going to be another windy day
across the board, and I can mention the strongest of the winds perhaps
around some Irish Sea coasts.
50 to maybe 60 mph in some of the worst affected areas,
and some of that rain will be quite heavy and persistent too.
The milder air returns with this wet and windy weather.
10—12 degrees for England and Wales, single—figure digits in the north.
That area of low pressure sweeps northwards.
We see a tangle of weather fronts move in for Friday,
but Friday is a transitional day to something cooler,
and something that’s gradually going to become more settled
as we head on to the weekend.
So we’ll start to see some sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
turning colder here.
England and Wales, thanks to those weather fronts,
sunshine but also a scattering of showers, some of which will
be quite heavy.
But notice the temperatures.
The single—figure values will even be across the south
and the south—east too, so 5—9 degrees.
That cooler air invades across the whole country,
then, late on Friday and into the weekend.
But, with high pressure building in, it looks like conditions
will settle down.
So the weekend really will feel colder, but at least it’ll be
largely dry, thanks to high pressure, with light winds.
Some sunshine around, but also a return to some overnight frost.
I’m the midwife in charge.
You’re unwell and we can help.
MUSIC: Turn! Turn! Turn! by the Byrds
The lift has got stuck. Could you please get help?
It’s the incubator fund for the maternity home.
You should be doing a fashion show.
Ow! Mrs Blair, your baby is coming.
Eight minutes ago, a sunbeam struck out into the vast vacuum of space.
It did not bounce off course, as so many others do.
It was not absorbed.
When it reached our atmosphere,
it continued, unfazed.
This particular sunbeam came to you.
And you were ready for it.
To know what’s coming, check the BBC Weather app.
It’s the first time, I’d say, in my life that I’ve worn the same thing
that everybody else is wearing but still felt horrendously embarrassed.
It was at that point that the session very much got away from me.
But they were nice. They were very friendly.
CROWD STOMPS AND CLAPS
HE LAUGHS
OVER HEADPHONES: But, no, I genuinely didn’t want to come on.
Mate, the offer’s there.
Oh, God, I’m funny.
That Peter Crouch Podcast —
it’s back, stronger and funnier than ever.
Ed Balls is taking the plunge... THEY CHEER
..to meet the men and women behind Europe’s populist revolution.
Are any of the politicians listening to you? Quatsch!
First the middle, the right, to the far right.
We’re defending Europe. Totally normal.
We’re from the Saint Marie Police.
The victim is Donna Harman. She’s an artist.
There was something wrong about those two.
They brought out something in each other. Something really dark.
Sir, we’ve got another body.
I wasn’t expecting to meet anyone.
I really would like to get to know you some more.
Brand—new. ..
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Dan Walker and Mega Munchetty.
Our headlines today:
The Duchess of Sussex is seen in public for the first time
since she and Prince Harry decided to step back from royal duties.
Flybe is saved for now, but environmentalists
are criticising the Government’s pledge to review Air Passenger Duty.
BIG BEN BONGS
will it bong for Brexit?
The campaign to get Big Ben ringing again is ramped up.
The cost of borrowing goes up again.
Santander becomes the latest bank to announce it’s raising
overdrafts charges and cutting interest on savings.
I’ll look at why banks are changing what they charge.
FA Cup magic for Shrewsbury —
a late winner gives them victory over Bristol City
and a fourth round meeting with Liverpool.
Good morning. We got some heavy rain and blustery winds to move away from
and blustery winds to move away from the south—east, then most of us will
the south-east, then most of us will have a dry and
the south—east, then most of us will have a dry and bright day, except
have a dry and bright day, except the far north, where we continue
the far north, where we continue with gales and also some showers.
with galas and also some showers. I’ll have
with gales and also some showers. I’ll have more in 15 minutes.
It’s Wednesday the 15th of January.
Our top story:
The Duchess of Sussex has made her first public appearance
The Duchess of Sussex has made her first public appearance
since she and Prince Harry announced their intention to step
down as senior members of the Royal Family.
The Downtown Eastside centre, 3 women’s refuge in Vancouver,
posted a picture of Meghan with staff and visitors on Facebook.
Sophie Long reports from Vancouver Island.
The Duchess of Sussex pictured smiling at a women’s centre, the
smiling at a women’s centre, the first time she’s been seen in public
first time she’s been seen in public since the so—called Sandringham
since the so—called Sandringham Summit. It’s not hard to see why the
Summit. It’s not hard to see why the Duke and Duchess of Sussex might
Duke and Duchess of Sussex might want to spend more time here, and if
want to spend more time here, and if they did, it seems they’d be more
they did, it seems therd be more than
they did, it seems they’d be more than welcome. Very exciting! Well, I
than welcome. Very exciting! Well, I think, you know, maybe it’s a nice
think, you know, maybe it’s a nice break for
think, you know, maybe it’s a nice breakfor them to
think, you know, maybe it’s a nice break for them to come to Canada and
break for them to come to Canada and share it with nice Canadians. I
share it with nice Canadians. I think it’s a nice move, beautiful
think it’s a nice move, beautiful place. I know they visited before
place. I know they visited before and really liked it. Happy to have
and really liked it. Happy to have them obviously. But some question
them obviously. But some question weather they would be afforded the
weather they would be afforded the privity they seek. Should leave them
privity they seek. Should leave them alone but they can’t, radio and TV
alone but they can’t, radio and TV stations are talking about it. It
stations are talking about it. It can’t stop and it’s really
can’t stop and it’s really unfortunate, they won’t let people
unfortunate, they won’t let peopla live
unfortunate, they won’t let people live their lives the way they want
live their lives the way they want to live it.
to live it. Everyday for 112 years the Empress
Everyday for 112 years the Empress hotel, named after Queen Victoria,
hotel, named after Queen Victoria, has served high tea. On special
has served high tea. On special occasions they do so in China given
occasions they do so in China given to them by the Queen. People here
to them by the Queen. People here say they would welcome the couple
say they would welcome the couple even if Canadians have to cover the
even if Canadians have to cover the cost of their security.
cost of their security. Canadians are truly a very lovely
Canadians are tmly a very lovely peopla. I
Canadians are truly a very lovely people. I think there obviously will
peopla. I think there obviously will be a
people. I think there obviously will be a faction of backlash, there’s no
be a faction of backlash, there’s no question about that, but as a whole
question about that, but as a whola we would
question about that, but as a whole we would welcome them into our
we would welcome them into our national community.
national community. It’s thought Prince Harry may come
It’s thought Prince Harry may come here to be reunited with his wife in
here to be reunited with his wife in the coming days, but that remains a
the coming days, but that remains a private matter for an increasingly
private matter for an increasingly private couple. Sophie Long, BBC
private couple. Sophie Long, BBC News, Vancouver Island.
We’ll speak to Sophie, who is in Vancouver Island,
just after 6:1Sam.
Environmental groups have expressed their anger at plans
to review Air Passenger Duty as part of a rescue deal
to save the struggling domestic airline flybe.
Green campaigners say cutting the tax
would hamper efforts to tackle carbon emissions.
The Government’s proposal was driven by its election pledge to improve
connectivity outside of London.
Jon Donnison reports.
Flybe will fly again. Good news for
Flybe will ﬂy again. Good news for its
Flybe will fly again. Good news for its passengers and huge relief for
its passengers and huge relief for the company’s more than 2000
the company’s more than 2000 workers. Absolutely ecstatic, yeah,
workers. Absolutely estatic, yeah, really happy
workers. Absolutely ecstatic, yeah, really happy for myself and my
really happy for myself and my partner works for flybe so yeah,
partner works for ﬂybe so yeah, really good
partner works for flybe so yeah, really good news for everybody. The
really good news for everybody. The Exeter based airline survives coz
Exeter based airtine survives no: its
Exeter based airline survives coz its shareholders, which include
its shareholders, which include Virgin Atlantic, have agreed to put
Virgin Atlantic, have agreed to put in extra muggy, but only in return
in extra muggy, but only in return for the government agreeing to
for the government agreeing to consider cutting taxes on domestic
consider cutting taxes on domestic airtines.
consider cutting taxes on domestic airlines. Hearing that things like
airtines. Hearing that things like Air
airlines. Hearing that things like Air Passenger Duty will be reviewed
Air Passenger Duty will be reviewed was very interesting for them, of
was very interesting for them, of course it will be reviewed for
course it will be reviewed for everyone, and ensuring the way that
everyone, and ensuring the way that our regional connectivity works,
our regional connectivity works, that we can level up communities,
that we ran level up communities, make sure
that we can level up communities, make sure our union is strengthened.
make sure our union is strengthened. Cutting Air Passenger Duty, which
Cutting Air Passenger Duty, which adds about £13 to the price of every
adds about £13 to the price of every domestic flight, would make it
domestic ﬂight, would make it cheaper for
domestic flight, would make it cheaper for people to fly. The air
cheaper for peopla to ﬂy. The air industry says
cheaper for people to fly. The air industry says such a move would
industry says such a move would provide a boost but
provide a boost but environmentalists are not happy.
environmentalists are not happy. Aviation is the highest carbon form
Aviation is the highest carbon form of transport, and cutting Air
of transport, and cutting Air Passenger Duty is just going to make
Passenger Duty is just going to make aviation

Citation: BBC News, 00:25 15/01/2020, BBC1 London, 335 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/15228A81?bcast=131052143 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)