This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
The British government says it’s confident it’s target
of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
Setting a challenging target was the right thing to do because it
galvanised government and got thejob done
but there’s a lot more to
be done.
Ryanair announces it plans to cut 3,000 jobs,
as part of restructuring because of the virus.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
South Africa starts easing its coronavirus restrictions
after five weeks of lockdown.
F5
# You are the champions, you are the
You are the champions, you are the champions!
And a musical tribute for
the champions of the pandemic — Queen say the proceeds will go
to global health charities.
Hello and welcome to viewers on BBC News in the UK and around the world.
News in the UK and around the world. I’m Annita McVeigh.
The UK government says they are confident that they have
hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus
tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline —
as the Prime Minister told the nation that the UK
was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
The target of 100,000 daily
coronavirus tests —
to be met by the end of April — had been set by the UK’s health
secretary, Matt Hancock.
Over 81,000 tests were carried
out on Wednesday — according to figures
from the Department of Health and Social Care.
Budget airline
Ryanair has announced they are cutting up
to 3,000 jobs — mainly pilots and cabin crew —
as they restructure to cope with the coronavirus
pandemic.
Meanwhile in the US — President Trump said he’s seen
evidence coronavirus originated in a Chinese laboratory,
but provided no details.
The US national intelligence director’s office say Covid—19
"was not manmade or genetically modified" and China rejects
the theory.
South Africa has started easing coronavirus
restrictions — after five weeks of lockdown.
Some businesses are reopening, restaurants can deliver food
and families will be allowed to leave home to exercise.
We’ll have more on the global response
to the pandemic shortly — but first this report
from our news correspondent - Dan johnson.
For a nation cut off, closed down, hurting...
APPLAUSE.
..This is notjust about gratitude.
It has become a regular act
of communion, in the name of the carer, the medic,
and the vital key worker, kind, helping hands that have kept
the country on its feet and saved lives.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
And here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus,
heroes can be patients too.
You saved my life.
West Midlands Police Chief Superintendent, Phil Dolby,
spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
See ya, bye!
PUPPIES WHIMPER.
Now, the next generation training for the front line are being named
after the miracle workers of our NHS.
Also bouncing back, the Prime Minister,
with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope...
I can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past
the peak of this disease.
We are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
That may be but hundreds are still dying every day.
674 in the last 2A hours.
Across the UK, the virus has taken someone special
from 26,771 families.
More than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
So it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
The infection rate and the number of people each of us passes
the virus to must stay below one.
More detail on that next week, but here is a hint
of what our future may hold...
Face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons but also
for giving confidence to people that they can go back to work.
Testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
And we’ll find out later today whether the 100,000 target was met.
Wednesday’s latest figures were still 18,000 short.
At the beginning of the week, we only had 5000 home tests
available, this is new 20,000 available and it is the reason why
we are quite likely to get very close to or meet the 100,000 target.
MUSIC: The Bare Necessities.
Our worries and our strife are shared in this new
expression of community.
Thursday, eight o’clock, is about togetherness,
through torrid times.
Humanity’s challenge means more pain, more
suffering and more fear but as nature inflicts its worst,
it can reflect our very best, and there are signs
of better days ahead.
Dan Johnson, BBC News.
The UK Transport Secretary, Grant Shapps, has said
the government is "quite likely" to have either reached —
or come close to meeting — the target of 100,000
daily coronavirus tests.
Official figures are expected later.
Ministers had said they wanted to achieve the aim by yesterday.
We can speak to professor Sian Griffiths who chaired
the inquiry into the Hong Kong government’s response
to the SARS outbreak.
Very good to have you with this, professor. Whether or not the
professor. whether or not the government
professor. Whether or not the government here in the UK has reach
government here in the UK has reach that 100,000 target for the daily
that 100,000 target for the daily number of tests yesterday, it’s
number of tests yesterday, it’s very, very quickly going to have to
very, very quickly going to have to refocus and talk about increasing
refocus and talk about increasing that capacity much further, isn’t
that capacity much further, isn’t it? Exactly. Testing is going to be
it? Exactly. Testing is going to be key to the release of lockdown and
key to the release of lockdown and we need to continue to push to have
we need to continue to push to have more tests, I think 100,000 was a
more tests, I think 100,000 was a target. But the real question is
target. But the real question is what tests are using, when are we
what tests are using, when are we using it and we have enough test to
using it and we have enough test to do contact tracing we need to in the
do contact tracing we need to in the community once we start to lift
community once we start to lift lockdown. Because what we are going
lockdown. Because what we are going to need to know is whether or not
to need to know is whether or not any sporadic outbreaks of the
any sporadic outbreaks of the infection occur, to make sure that
infection occur, to make sure that we ran very
infection occur, to make sure that we can very quickly act on that
we can very quickly act on that information and stop the spread
information and stop the spread going further. Absolutely, we have
going further. Absolutely, we have already heard that today as well,
already heard that today as well, "TY
already heard that today as well, very much testing alongside that
very much testing alongside that contact tracing to make both parts
contact tracing to make both parts of that approach effective. We have
of that approach effective. We have any idea what sort of number of
any idea what sort of number of tests we are talking about? You
tests we are talking about? You know, we heard the NHS providers
know, we heard the NHS providers here in the UK yesterday say that
here in the UK yesterday say that NHS, other
here in the UK yesterday say that NHS, otherfront line
here in the UK yesterday say that NHS, other front line workers,
here in the UK yesterday say that NHS, otherfront line workers, would
NHS, other front line workers, would need to
NHS, otherfront line workers, would need to be tested every single week?
need to be tested every single week? That’s right we don’t really know
That’s right we don’t really know how many tests we are going to need,
how many tests we are going to need, we are going to have to ramp up the
we are going to have to ramp up the testing because if, for example, we
testing because if, for example, we had a single case that was
had a single case that was identified through testing, you
identified through testing, you would then need to contact trace and
would then need to contact trace and it would depend on the number of
it would depend on the number of people that person had been in
people that person had been in contact with, it would depend on a
contact with, it would depend on a whola
contact with, it would depend on a whole set of factors so you need to
whole set of factors so you need to keep producing the testing come up
keep producing the testing come up with a monitoring system which tells
with a monitoring system which tells us, a lot of the information we need
us, a lot of the information we need to know. This is a dynamic
to know. This is a dynamic situation, testing as part of the
situation, testing as part of the response and the creating of the
response and the creating of the right conditions for releasing
right conditions for releasing lockdown. What are the absolute gold
lockdown. What are the absolute gold standard examples then, of this
standard examples then, of this being put into practice, if we look
being put into practice, if we look at the responses of various
at the responses of various countries around the world and what
countries around the world and what we ran
countries around the world and what we can learn from those? Well, if we
we ran learn from those? Well, if we look to the
we can learn from those? Well, if we look to the Far East, Taiwan and
look to the Far East, Taiwan and South Korea usually held up as the
South Korea usually held up as the best examples of work testing has
best examples of work testing has been one of the key arms of keeping
been one of the key arms of keeping the numbers low. Both time and and
the numbers low. Both time and and South Korea, Time and in particular,
South Korea, Time and in particular, has managed to keep the numbers very
has managed to keep the numbers very low, the numbers of cases and deaths
low, the numbers of rases and deaths "TY
low, the numbers of rases and deaths very low, South
low, the numbers of cases and deaths very low, South Korea has shown that
very low, South Korea has shown that by using testing, they’ve been able
by using testing, therve been able to identify
by using testing, they’ve been able to identify the clusters and then
to identify the clusters and then focus huge effort on testing and
focus huge effort on testing and once you get a positive test, you
once you get a positive test, you make sure you isolate that case and
make sure you isolate that rase and in some
make sure you isolate that case and in some cases, that means going to a
in some rases, that means going to a government
in some cases, that means going to a government facility but if you go
government facility but if you go for home isolation, that also means
for home isolation, that also means that you are monitored for being at
that you are monitored for being at home and so the other arm of the
home and so the other arm of the human side of contact tracing,
human side of contact tracing, actually contact races themselves,
actually contact races themselves, finding where cases had dispersed to
finding where rases had dispersed to come at
finding where cases had dispersed to come at the other arm of this is the
come at the other arm of this is the use of apps and so in South Korea,
use of apps and so in South Korea, for example, there is a
for example, there is a triangulation between your mobile
triangulation between your mobile phone, your credit card details and
phone, your credit card details and also some implication of involving
also some implication of involving CCTV cameras. In Taiwan, there is
CCTV cameras. In Taiwan, there is also a triangulation of data and use
also a triangulation of data and use of the app. So
also a triangulation of data and use of the app. 50 both those
also a triangulation of data and use of the app. So both those countries
of the app. So both those countries that have
of the app. 50 both those countries that have managed to keep both the
that have managed to keep both the numbers down and both the deaths and
numbers down and both the deaths and rases,
numbers down and both the deaths and cases, have been very rigorous in
rases, have been very rigorous in their
cases, have been very rigorous in their contact tracing of both using
their contact tracing of both using the human side and using the
the human side and using the development of apps and I think this
development of apps and I think this is something that is being looked
is something that is being looked out across Europe, the development
out across Europe, the development of how you use apps along with
of how you use apps along with contact tracing. Sorry to interrupt
contact tracing. Sorry to intermpt full stop I was
contact tracing. Sorry to interrupt full stop I was just about to say,
full stop I was just about to say, presumably, the use of an app as a
presumably, the use of an app as a tool in this way is only going to be
tool in this way is only going to be as effective as the number of
as effective as the number of people, the percentage of the
people, the percentage of the population that actually downloads
population that actually downloads the app. Exactly. And in Singapore,
the app. Exactly. And in Singapore, they found the penetration of the
they found the penetration of the 3PP
they found the penetration of the app they use there was only about
app they use there was only about 20%. Which isn’t actually high
2096. which isn’t actually high enough to
20%. Which isn’t actually high enough to give you the security that
enough to give you the security that you need. What percentage of people
you need. what percentage of people do you need to
you need. What percentage of people do you need to have downloading it
do you need to have downloading it to be effective? I’m not sure of the
to be effective? I’m not sure of the absolute figure here in the UK
absolute figure here in the UK because it will depend on the type
because it will depend on the type of app you use, it will depend,
of app you use, it will depend, the use of apps is a very new science
use of apps is a very new science here in contact tracing and so what
here in contact tracing and so what we are going to be seeing is
we are going to be seeing is development of apps, because it’s
development of apps, because it’s going to be a question of what
going to be a question of what method you use. So, for example,
method you use. So, for example, only last week Germany are going to
only last week Germany are going to have a centralised system and then
have a centralised system and then they decided they were going to
they decided they were going to decentralise to federal level to
decentralise to federal level to collect the information so this is a
collect the information so this is a discussion in progress at the
discussion in progress at the moment, it will depend on the types
moment, it will depend on the types of apps available, how they fit best
of apps availabla, how they fit best with our
of apps available, how they fit best with our society and our systems.
with our society and our systems. And how we agree to share data, how
And how we agree to share data, how data ran be
And how we agree to share data, how data can be safely shared, how long
data ran be safely shared, how long it will be kept
data can be safely shared, how long it will be kept for and all those
it will be kept for and all those sorts of issues. 50 this is work in
sorts of issues. So this is work in progress, very
sorts of issues. 50 this is work in progress, very rapid I understand.
progress, very rapid I understand. But it will be the development of
But it will be the development of the app, along with a robust testing
the app, along with a robust testing strategy, which from my point of
strategy, which from my point of view, needs to have very strong
view, needs to have very strong [oral
view, needs to have very strong local engagement because I think you
[oral engagement because I think you need
local engagement because I think you need local knowledge to make sure
need [oral knowledge to make sure you ran make
need local knowledge to make sure you can make this system work. Given
you ran make this system work. Given your experience
you can make this system work. Given your experience in working in Hong
your experience in working in Hong Kong in terms of the response to the
Kong in terms of the response to the SARS outbreak there, I’d be really
SARS outbreak there, I’d be really interested to get your take on how
interested to get your take on how our government builds confidence in
our government builds confidence in a population after an outbreak, a
a population after an outbreak, a pandemic. We heard Boris
a population after an outbreak, a pandemic. We heard Borisjohnson,
pandemic. We heard Boris johnson, the UK
pandemic. We heard Borisjohnson, the UK Prime Minister mentioning
the UK Prime Minister mentioning yesterday that masks might be
yesterday that masks might be useful, even though the government
useful, even though the government admits that the science around the
admits that the science around the use of masks, the effectiveness, is
use of masks, the effectiveness, is fairty modest.
use of masks, the effectiveness, is fairly modest. They are talking
fairty modest. They are talking about
fairly modest. They are talking about the use of masks might be
about the use of masks might be useful to build confidence in the
useful to build confidence in the population because clearly people
population because dearty peopla and
population because clearly people and we’ve seen surveys about this,
and we’ve seen surveys about this, people are nervous about the idea of
people are nervous about the idea of exiting a lockdown? What experience
exiting a lockdown? what experience do you have
exiting a lockdown? What experience do you have about that from Hong
do you have about that from Hong Kong and SARS? In 2003, the SARS
Kong and SARS? In 2003, the SARS outbreak was similar timing as we
outbreak was similar timing as we are going through new and in the
are going through now and in the summer, I
are going through new and in the summer, I was part of the inquiry,
summer, I was part of the inquiry, co-chair of
summer, I was part of the inquiry, co—chair of the inquiry team that
co-chair of the inquiry team that looked at
co—chair of the inquiry team that looked at what lessons could we
looked at what lossons could we learn
looked at what lessons could we learn and so we were very rapidly
learn and so we were very rapidly brought in to look back, because all
brought in to look back, because all the way through the first SARS
the way through the first SARS outbreak in 2003, there was a sort
outbreak in 2003, there was a sort of sense about, because people don’t
of sense about, because people don’t know and because it was new, people
know and because it was new, people were going, that could have been
were going, that could have been done better, lots of uncertainty.
done better, lots of uncertainty. What the inquiry team did was look
what the inquiry team did was look at what
What the inquiry team did was look at what was done. Point out where it
at what was done. Point out where it could have been done better and say,
could have been done better and say, for the future, these are the things
for the future, these are the things you need to do. So the SARS inquiry
you need to do. So the SARS inquiry was then used for example, to build
was then used for example, to build “P
was then used for example, to build up the public health system which
up the public health system which had been rather neglected,
had been rather neglected, particularly the infectious disease
particularty the infectious disease side of
particularly the infectious disease side of it so Hong Kong now has a
side of it so Hong Kong now has a very robust infectious disease
very robust infectious disease system, the Centre for health
system, the Centre for health protection, which enables them to
protection, which enables them to respond extremely quickly when they
respond extremely quickly when they have any other outbreaks. In terms
have any other outbreaks. In terms of the wearing of masks, wearing of
of the wearing of masks, wearing of masks is and has grown culturally
masks is and has grown culturally following SARS and as soon as this
following SARS and as soon as this coronavirus outbreak was announced,
coronavims outbreak was announced, peopla in Hong
coronavirus outbreak was announced, people in Hong Kong immediately
people in Hong Kong immediately queued to go and buy masks so that
queued to go and buy masks so that they had their own supply of masks
they had their own supply of masks because wearing a mask has become,
because wearing a mask has become, as you say, not necessarily the
as you say, not necessarily the science, it’s the reassurance,
science, it’s the reassurance, reassurance issue. Because we don’t
reassurance issue. Because we don’t want to take masks away from the
want to take masks away from the peopla who
want to take masks away from the people who really need them in
people who really need them in clinical situations, other forms of
clinical situations, other forms of base covering, face cloth covering,
base covering, face cloth covering, cloth face covering as the Centre
doth face covering as the Centre for
cloth face covering as the Centre for disease control concert, are
for disease control concert, are being recommended which gives both
being recommended which gives both the person who wears it confidence
the person who wears it confidence but also contributes in some way to
but also contributes in some way to diminishing the spread of the
diminishing the spread of the infection, as long as they are used
infection, as long as they are used correctly. 0K, professor, thank you
correctly. 0K, professor, thank you very much for your thoughts on all
very much for your thoughts on all of those questions today.
US President Donald Trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests
coronavirus originated in a Chinese laboratory.
He provided no details.
His own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating
how the virus began, but have determined
Covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
David Willis reports.
The PA pathogen lab at Wuhan’s Institute of Virology.
Did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
China strenuously denies such suggestions.
The President of the United States believes otherwise.
Mr Trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab,
although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
He told reporters either China couldn’t stop the virus
from spreading, or it didn’t try to.
This is something that could have been contained at the original
location, and I think it could have been contained relatively easily.
China is a very sophisticated country and they could
have contained it.
They were either unable to or they chose not
to and the world is suffering greatly.
Whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy
theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed
as a biological weapon, the US intelligence community didn’t
contradict the President’s theory, saying:
This country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus
than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more
than 60,000 deaths.
The virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy,
leading to long lines in cities such as Houston,
as people queue for free food.
Although he’s avoided direct criticism of China’s President Xi,
with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, President Trump has
talked of making China pay for the harm the virus has caused
to the American economy and, by extension, to his
chances of re—election.
Relations between the world’s two largest economies could get
very frosty indeed.
David Willis, BBC News.
Let’s get some reaction from Beijing now.
With me is Emily Feng — the Beijing Correspondent
for NPR.
That is an independent, nonprofit media organisation. Emily, good
media organisation. Emily, good morning, let’s begin with Chinese
morning, let’s begin with Chinese reaction to those latest comments
reaction to those latest comments from President Trump. Unsurprisingly
from President Trump. Unsurprisingly there’s been anger and this led
there’s been anger and this led China to be able to give credence to
China to be able to give credence to an alternative conspiracy theory of
an alternative conspiracy theory of their own, the US was the one that
their own, the US was the one that originated the virus, the foreign
originated the virus, the foreign Ministry saying US politicians are
Ministry saying US politicians are accusing the Wuhan lab of
accusing the Wuhan lab of intentionally licking the virus is a
intentionally licking the vims is a lie, it’s
intentionally licking the virus is a lie, it’s been fabricated for
lie, it’s been fabricated for American political ambitions.
American political ambitions. Yesterday on the main evening
Yesterday on the main evening broadcast, they broadcast footage of
broadcast, they broadcast footage of the Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
the Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and had the words lie written all
and had the words lie written all over his face. —— licking the virus.
That being said, Chinese state diplomats have put out their own
diplomats have put out their own theory, the US military brought the
theory, the US military brought the virus to China and it’s a conspiracy
virus to China and it’s a conspiracy theory that there is no evidence for
theory that there is no evidence for but many people in China believe.
but many people in China believe. Effectively both the US and China
Effectively both the US and China doubUng
Effectively both the US and China doubling down on these conspiracy
doubling down on these conspiracy theories? You’ve seen this diversion
theories? You’ve seen this diversion of narratives of what happens and
of narratives of what happens and that’s very dangerous because we are
that’s very dangerous because we are facing a global pandemic but we have
facing a global pandemic but we have these different camps are people who
these different ramps are people who believe
these different camps are people who believe wholly different, what they
believe wholly different, what they think are facts. Do you think people
think are facts. Do you think peopla in Beijing,
think are facts. Do you think people in Beijing, ordinary people in
in Beijing, ordinary peopla in Beijing
in Beijing, ordinary people in Beijing and around China, are
Beijing and around China, are worried about the suggestions of the
worried about the suggestions of the virus originating from a lab in
virus originating from a lab in Wuhan? They are not and actually, I
Wuhan? They are not and actually, I was in Wuhan two weeks ago, I mean
was in Wuhan two weeks ago, I mean home quarantine now, which is a
home quarantine now, which is a stipulation from coming back to
stipulation from coming back to Beijing from Wuhan. People were
Beijing from Wuhan. People were worried about a second wave of
worried about a second wave of infections but not the fact they
infections but not the fact they were so close to this bio lab at the
were so close to this bio lab at the US had accused of leaking the virus.
US had accused of leaking the vims. They very much
US had accused of leaking the virus. They very much believe, many people
They very much believe, many people I talk to, the US was the one that
I talk to, the US was the one that brought the virus to China. Emily,
brought the virus to China. Emily, thank you very much for that.
thank you very much for that. Breaking news coming to us on
Breaking news coming to us on coronavirus from Northern Ireland.
coronavirus from Northern Ireland. New statistics show around 40% of
New statistis show around 4096 of deaths
New statistics show around 40% of deaths linked to COVID 19 in
deaths linked to COVID 19 in Northern Ireland have occurred in
Northern Ireland have occurred in rare
Northern Ireland have occurred in care homes. The weekly figures
rare homes. The weekly figures published
care homes. The weekly figures published by the Northern Ireland
published by the Northern Ireland statistics and research agency
statistics and research agency records all debts in which COVID 19
records all debts in which COVID 19 is listed on the death certificate,
is listed on the death certificate, so it provides a fuller picture of
so it provides a fuller picture of coronavirus mortality rate. That is
coronavirus mortality rate. That is the key statistic coming out of this
the key statistic coming out of this latest weekly publication, new
latest weekly publication, new statistics showing around 40% of
statistics showing around 40% of deaths linked to COVID 19 in
deaths linked to COVID 19 in Northern Ireland have occurred in
Northern Ireland have occurred in rare
Northern Ireland have occurred in care homes. And of course, more
rare homes. And of course, more broadly around
care homes. And of course, more broadly around the UK, there is a
broadly around the UK, there is a very big concern about how many
very big concern about how many deaths are happening in care homes
deaths are happening in rare homes and that they
deaths are happening in care homes and that they are properly recorded
and that they are property recorded and
and that they are properly recorded and acknowledged in figures. 50 that
and acknowledged in figures. So that breaking news
and acknowledged in figures. 50 that breaking newsjust
and acknowledged in figures. 50 that breaking news just coming to us from
breaking news just coming to us from the Northern Ireland statistics and
the Northern Ireland statistics and research agency. Also just coming in
research agency. Also just coming in from the World Health Organisation
from the World Health Organisation in the last few seconds. The WHO
in the last few seconds. The WHO 5575
in the last few seconds. The WHO says it’s hoping that China will
says it’s hoping that China will invite it to take part in its
invite it to take part in its investigations into the animal
investigations into the animal origins of the new coronavirus. A
origins of the new coronavims. A spokesman
origins of the new coronavirus. A spokesman saying you a choke would
spokesman saying you a choke would be keen to work with international
be keen to work with international partners and at the invitation of
partners and at the imitation of the
partners and at the invitation of the Chinese government, to
the Chinese government, to participate in investigations around
participate in investigations around the animal origins, the so—called
the animal origins, the so-ralled zoonotic
the animal origins, the so—called zoonotic diseases, diseases that
zoonotic diseases, diseases that jump from other animals to humans.
jump from other animals to humans. So the
jump from other animals to humans. 50 the WHO saying it is hoping China
So the WHO saying it is hoping China will invite it to take part in its
will invite it to take part in its investigations. In another sign of
investigations. In another sign of the huge impact of coronavirus on
the huge impact of coronavirus on Heathrow Airport.
normally the busiest in Europe, has said it expects passenger
numbers to have fallen 97% in April.
Meanwhile European Budget airline Ryanair has said it may shed up
to 3,000 jobs as it restructures to cope with the pandemic.
It said the posts under threat were mainly pilot
and cabin crewjobs, and that remaining staff
Boss Michael O’Leary spoke to the BBC earlier.
The situation we face new is we’ve carried almost no
passengers for the last three months.
We carried less than 140,000 passengers in April, May and June
against originally, the budget of 42 million passengers.
For the full year we will carry less than 100 million
passengers, the budget was originally 155 million,
we will carry only about a third less passengers than we planned for
this year and while we expect to be back flying some services inJuly
and August, we think the buildup will be slow, passengers will be
wearing face masks, temperature checks at airports, there will be
those kind of controls.
We are cutting, we announced this morning
we are cutting 15% of our staff, we think that’s
the minimum we need just to survive the next 12 months.
If a vaccine is found clearly the recovery
will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have
to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
We feel we have no choice this morning but to announce
3000 job cuts, that’s about 15% of our workforce.
We will be closing some bases in the UK and Spain and
other places across Europe.
Because by the time we get out of this, we
will be into the winter schedule anyway.
And it’s going to be very difficult.
Oliver Richardson is National Officer for Unite
the Union who represents some sectors of the airline industry.
Good to have you with us to get some reaction to all of this, Oliver.
reaction to all of this, Oliver. Busy day when it comes to aviation
Busy day when it comes to aviation and many airlines talking about the
and many airtines talking about the predicament
and many airlines talking about the predicament they find themselves in.
predicament they find themselves in. Your chief concern, of course, will
Your chief concern, of course, will be for the jobs of employees. Let’s
be for the jobs of employees. Let’s talk about Ryanair first of all.
talk about Ryanair first of all. Michael O’Leary talking about
Michael O’Leary talking about possibly
Michael 0’Leary talking about possibly 3000 jobs going. Do you
possibly 3000 jobs going. Do you think it’s going to come to that or
think it’s going to come to that or ran some
think it’s going to come to that or can some of these he saved? Well, we
ran some of these he saved? Well, we think it’s a very
can some of these he saved? Well, we think it’s a very premature
think it’s a very premature announcement. We don’t know the
announcement. We don’t know the details yet, he’s talked about 3000
details yet, he’s talked about 3000 jobs across Europe, he’s talked
jobs across Europe, he’s talked about basis closing and mention the
gié’; Tit t fifi :: T :i [17 j; i : i’ j? , W,
M "' _"' "'" _" ;""""""' —_ have
- "' “I— “Igavean’y
-ﬁ--|- ﬁ"" Ff"'"i| "H ;-----|-.--- =-|-- _ have any detail yet.
UK but we don’t have any detail yet. Again, we think this is premature,
Again, we think this is premature, we have a job retention scheme up
we have a job retention scheme up and mnning in
we have a job retention scheme up and running in the UK, many European
and mnning in the UK, many European countries
and running in the UK, many European countries have a number of
and running in the UK, many European countries have a number ofjob
countries have a number ofjob retention schemes as well. So the
retention schemes as well. So the job retention scheme is
retention schemes as well. So the job retention scheme isjust
retention schemes as well. So the job retention scheme is just that,
job retention scheme is just that, to retain
job retention scheme is just that, to retainjobs, not to
job retention scheme is just that, to retain jobs, not to shed jobs.
to retain jobs, not to shed jobs. Ryanair is not in financial
Ryanair is not in financial difficulty, is one of the wealthiest
difficulty, is one of the wealthiest airtines
difficulty, is one of the wealthiest airlines within Europe, it should be
aidines within Europe, it should be able to
airlines within Europe, it should be able to ride out the storm and it
able to ride out the storm and it should be able to take a more
should be able to take a more measured view and we should be
measured view and we should be protecting jobs,
measured view and we should be protectingjobs, but
measured view and we should be protecting jobs, but most
protecting jobs, but most importantly, protecting the aviation
importantly, protecting the aviation sector and that’s why the UNITE
sector and that’s why the UNITE union has called for a government
union has called for a government package which has been promised to
package which has been promised to make sure we retain the expertise
make sure we retain the expertise within the sector, that we retain
within the sector, that we retain the functioning of the sector, we
the functioning of the sector, we are an island, after all, so we need
are an island, after all, so we need to be connected and we should be
to be connected and we should be focusing on that, not on trying to
focusing on that, not on trying to cut jobs but on
focusing on that, not on trying to cutjobs but on trying to support
cut jobs but on trying to support the
cutjobs but on trying to support the sector. We will come back to
the sector. We will come back to that point in just a second. But the
that point in just a second. But the Ryanair employees, are they
Ryanair employees, are they currently protected under the job
currently protected under the job retention scheme? Yes, Ryanair in
retention scheme? Yes, Ryanair in the UK, all of the employees that I
the UK, all of the employees that I represent, the cabin crew, or under
represent, the cabin crew, or under furlough, claiming
represent, the cabin crew, or under furlough, claimingjob
represent, the cabin crew, or under furlough, claiming job retention
furlough, claiming job retention scheme, obviously that’s now been
scheme, obviously that’s now been extended until
scheme, obviously that’s now been extended untilJune. We don’t know
extended until june. We don’t know whether
extended untilJune. We don’t know whether that will be extended
whether that will be extended further, we’ve sought support from
further, we’ve sought support from the government particularly with
the government particularty with regards to
the government particularly with regards to certain sectors including
regards to certain sectors including aviation, to continue that because
aviation, to continue that because they will be slow at coming out of
they will be slow at coming out of any lockdown measures than any other
any lockdown measures than any other sector so we think there’s a
sector so we think there’s a possibility that it will be
possibility that it will be extended, hence we think it’s a very
extended, hence we think it’s a very premature announcement. Do you think
premature announcement. Do you think that given the UKpos macro position
that given the UKpos macro position more broadly, ultimately there will
more broadly, ultimately there will be state aid coming forward to
be state aid coming forward to ensure as we eventually move out of
ensure as we eventually move out of this lockdown, and as we eventually
this lockdown, and as we eventually get back to something resembling
get back to something resembling normal air traffic, that there are
normal air traffic, that there are enough providers, that there is
enough providers, that there is competition, more than one airline,
competition, more than one airtine, for example,
competition, more than one airline, for example, flying to certain
for example, ﬂying to certain routes?
for example, flying to certain routes? Absolutely, that’s what
routes? Absolutely, that’s what needs to happen, there needs to be a
needs to happen, there needs to be a government package of support. We
government package of support. We are not saying this won’t be repaid
are not saying this won’t be repaid in the future or it is throwing good
in the future or it is throwing good money after bad. This is absolutely
money after bad. This is absolutely fundamental to ensure that air
fundamental to ensure that air traffic management services survived
traffic management services survived and they ran
traffic management services survived and they can be up and running and
and they ran be up and mnning and support
and they can be up and running and support aviation and as we say,
support aviation and as we say, we’ve got enough airlines and routes
we’ve got enough airtines and routes that are open
we’ve got enough airlines and routes that are open to keep us connected.
that are open to keep us connected. And do not force monopolies such as
And do not force monopolies such as Ryanair or British Airways, to take
Ryanair or British Airways, to take over certain airports and routes and
over certain airports and routes and hype the prices up for their own
hype the prices up for their own benefit. Aviation is for the benefit
benefit. Aviation is for the benefit of everybody, not
benefit. Aviation is for the benefit of everybody, notjust for a few
of everybody, not just for a few companies.
of everybody, notjust for a few companies. We’ve been talking today
companies. We’ve been talking today about whether the public might feel
about whether the public might feel nervous about emerging from
nervous about emerging from lockdown, about starting to travel
lockdown, about starting to travel again. what
lockdown, about starting to travel again. What about the people that
again. what about the peopla that you
again. What about the people that you represent, the cabin crew and so
you represent, the cabin crew and so on? They must feel nervous about
on? They must feel nervous about that as well. We’ve heard the boss
that as well. We’ve heard the boss of Heathrow today saying there has
of Heathrow today saying there has to be a global standard in place to
to be a global standard in place to give peopla
to be a global standard in place to give people confidence, that
give people confidence, that confidence has got to apply to
confidence has got to apply to employees in the airline industry as
employees in the airline industry as well, doesn’t it? Absolutely
well, doesn’t it? Absolutely fundamentally and at the moment we
fundamentally and at the moment we have real concerns about some of the
have real concerns about some of the measures, we are still flying and
measures, we are still ﬂying and still
measures, we are still flying and still operating. There are
still operating. There are repatriation flights that are
repatriation flights that are members in different companies are
members in different companies are operating. And it’s a very anxious
operating. And it’s a very anxious and very nervous time for them. Do
and very nervous time for them. Do you think people can fly safely
you think peopla ran ﬂy safely though and
you think people can fly safely though and how long might it take
though and how long might it take for peopla to
though and how long might it take for people to think that they can
for peopla to think that they ran ﬂy safely if,
for people to think that they can fly safely if, as we heard today,
ﬂy safely if, as we heard today, social
fly safely if, as we heard today, social distancing simply isn’t a
social distancing simply isn’t a practical prospect on airlines?
practical prospect on airtines? Well,
practical prospect on airlines? Well, there are some measures that
Well, there are some measures that you ran take in
Well, there are some measures that you can take in terms of airlines,
you ran take in terms of airtines, social
you can take in terms of airlines, social distancing is more
social distancing is more problematic and that’s why there
problamatic and that’s why there would
problematic and that’s why there would need to be support because she
would need to be support because she wouldn’t be filling our craft up.
wouldn’t be filling our craft up. There’s also questions about
There’s also questions about protective equipment, so whether
protective equipment, so whether that’s face masks, gloves etc, these
that’s face masks, gloves etc, these are all sorts of different measures
are all sorts of different measures that we need to sit down, the
that we need to sit down, the government and the industry and
government and the industry and discuss and look at the impact on
discuss and look at the impact on the industry and what support is
the industry and what support is going to be needed to build that
going to be needed to build that confidence back up. It’s going to be
confidence back up. It’s going to be a slower industry coming out of
a slower industry coming out of lockdown than any other. It needs
lockdown than any other. It needs the support and most importantly, as
the support and most importantly, as you 5“-
the support and most importantly, as you say, it needs to build the
you say, it needs to build the confidence and therefore we need to
confidence and therefore we need to look at these measures about social
look at these measures about social distancing, PPE, the people who work
distancing, PPE, the peopla who work in the industry
distancing, PPE, the people who work in the industry and how it will
in the industry and how it will affect them, as well as the
affect them, as well as the passengers travelling. Oliver
passengers travelling. Oliver Richardson, from the UNITE union,
Richardson, from the UNITE union, thank you for your time.
The United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres has
expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership
from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
In an interview with the BBC, he said there was a failure
to combine leadership and power — comments which appeared to be
directed at Washington and Beijing.
Here’s our correspondent, Nick Bryant talking to the UN
Secretary General in New York.
You have described Covid—19 as the
biggest challenge facing the world since the Second World War.
Have you been surprised and shocked by the
immense scale of death and the immense scale of economic
disruption?
Shocked, obviously, yes.
I mean, it’s dramatic to see so many people dying and it’s dramatic
to see this devastating impact on economies and societies,
especially on the most vulnerable people.
But not surprised.
Unfortunately what is true is that the world was not able
to come together and to face Covid—19 in an articulated,
coordinated way.
Each country went with its own policy, different countries with
different perspectives, different strategies.
And this has allowed the virus to spread.
Who do you blame for that?
Are you talking about the great power rivalry
between the United States and China, this propaganda war that has erupted
since Covid—19 became a pandemic?
I think it’s obvious we lack leadership, that can only be
possible if the key countries in the world,
the key powers in the world, are able to come together.
When you say about the lack of global leadership are you talking
about Washington, are you talking about President
Trump, are you talking about Beijing?
I think there is a dysfunctionality in today’s world.
Leadership and power are not associated.
There are examples of leadership, there are of
course powers, what we have not yet been able to combine in the world,
power and leadership in a way that could move the whole of
the international community to solve our dramatic problems.
And to do it effectively.
There have been criticisms of the World Health Organisation for
World Health Organisation for failing to sound the alarm early
failing to sound the alarm earty enough.
failing to sound the alarm early enough. Have you been satisfied with
enough. Have you been satisfied with the performance of the WHO? It’s a
the performance of the WHO? It’s a remarkable organisation. An
remarkable organisation. An organisation that in my opinion is
organisation that in my opinion is absolutely crucial at the present
absolutely crucial at the present moment and needs to be supported. It
moment and needs to be supported. It is also tme
moment and needs to be supported. It is also true that when all this
is also tme that when all this ends, in my
is also true that when all this ends, in my opinion, we need to look
ends, in my opinion, we need to look seriously, as an international
seriously, as an international community, how this pandemic
community, how this pandemic emerged, how it spread so quickly,
emerged, how it spread so quickly, and all the different actors that
and all the different actors that were involved, behaved. In order to
were involved, behaved. In order to learn our lessons and to be able in
learn our lessons and to be able in the future not to have the same
the future not to have the same mistakes. Do you think the Trump
mistakes. Do you think the Trump administration was wrong to suspend
administration was wrong to suspend its funding of the WHO? I believe it
its funding of the WHO? I believe it is essential to keep as maximum as
is essential to keep as maximum as possible resources within the WHO
possible resources within the WHO because in the present situation,
because in the present situation, for the reasons I invoked, it’s
for the reasons I invoked, it’s impossible to replace it in
impossible to replace it in providing support especially to
providing support especially to developing countries and today, my
developing countries and today, my main concern is in the developing
main concern is in the developing world.
Hello, this is BBC News with Annita McVeigh.
The headlines:
The British Government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000
daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
Setting a challenging target was the right thing to do,
because it galvanised government and got thejob done,
but there’s a lot more to be done.
Budget airline Ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs
as part of restructuring because of the virus.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated
in a Chinese laboratory but gives no details.
And South Africa starts easing its coronavirus restrictions
after five weeks of lockdown.
after five weeks of lockdown.
India has had more than 35,000 cases of coronavirus so far,
and more than 1,100 people have died of the infection.
The country has been in lockdown for nearly six weeks now.
And while doctors say it has slowed the spread of Covid—19,
it’s also meant that millions who depend on daily wages
are facing extreme difficulty.
From Mumbai, the BBC’s India correspondent Yogita Limaye reports.
Small triumphs are celebrated.
This man has recovered from Covid in the southern state of Kerala.
Thanks for everything!
More populous than Canada, the region had the first coronavirus
infections in March, but it curbed the spread,
and its strategy is giving hope to the rest of the country.
Our idea was to trace as many people as possible in the shortest amount
possible, and in the intial A—S days, we were able
to trace 1,254 persons.
Once we identified all of them, the next strategy
was to ensure home quarantine in the strictest possible sense.
But each grave is a reminder that, for many parts of India,
the threat is far from being contained.
And it doesn’t even allow goodbyes.
A four—month—old baby girl laid to rest from the arms of strangers.
Dozens are losing their lives every day.
And while the real scale is hard to assess, doctors say Covid
would have spread a lot more quickly if India had not imposed
a lockdown relatively early.
Checkpoints like these have been set up in cities around the country.
People are only allowed to go out to buy essential items,
and you could even get arrested for violating the lockdown,
which is perhaps one of the most stringent in the world.
For the first time in the history of India,
the government halted trains.
Flights, interstate buses, public transport
have all been stopped as well.
That’s left millions of daily wage earners
without money for food or shelter.
This is a queue for lunch in Delhi nearly 3km long,
a common sight now in many parts of India.
Shaik Mufazul worked as a labourer.
Now he’s living on the streets of his family.
"On the days they distribute food, we eat."
"Otherwise, we go hungry."
"They’ve taken away our life line."
"It feels like we’re dying slowly," he says.
Calls to ease the restrictions are growing louder.
I asked the WHO’S chief scientist how it should be done.
As you go out of lockdown, it has to be first of all a phased
release after lockdown, and many countries are now putting in place
systems of how they will do that, and the monitoring testing
is going to be extremely important so at any time if there is an alert
or a red flag that things are not looking so good, again,
more strict measures may have to be put in place.
The nationwide lockdown is due to end soon.
India is waiting to hear what lies ahead.
Yogita Limaye, BBC News, Mumbai.
Breaking news from the courts, the lady in the later case, the
lady in the later case, the posthumous appeal brought by
posthumous appeal brought by relatives of Gordon Parker was
relatives of Gordon Parker was convicted in 1976 of the murder of
convicted in 1976 of the murder of his wife, whose remains were found
his wife, whose remains were found in Coniston water in Cumbria. Now,
in Coniston water in Cumbria. Now, three senior
in Coniston water in Cumbria. Now, three seniorjudges have rejected a
three senior judges have rejected a posthumous
three seniorjudges have rejected a posthumous appeal brought by his
posthumous appeal brought by his relatives, saying, we have no doubt
relatives, saying, we have no doubt as to the safety of the conviction.
as to the safety of the conviction. Gordon Park killed himself in
as to the safety of the conviction. Gordon Park killed himself injail
Gordon Park killed himself injail in 2010, and it is all to do with,
in 2010, and it is all to do with, as it came to be known, the lady in
as it came to be known, the lady in the lake rase,
as it came to be known, the lady in the lake case, where Gordon Park was
the lake use, where Gordon Park was convicted
the lake case, where Gordon Park was convicted of the murder in 1976 of
convicted of the murder in 1976 of his wife Carol, whose remains were
his wife Carol, whose remains were found in Coniston Water in Cumbria
found in Coniston Water in Cumbria 21 years later, judges saying they
21 years later, judges saying they have no doubt as to the safety of
have no doubt as to the safety of the original conviction.
From today residents in the state of Illinois must
cover theirfaces in public spaces
when social distancing is not possible.
To encourage people to observe safety measures,
some iconic landmarks in Chicago have been given face masks.
The [ions at the Art Institute have had their noses and mouths covered
with the Chicago flag, and the famed Picasso sculpture
in a central plaza has also had a masked makeover.
South Africa has begun to ease
what was one of the world’s most severe coronovirus lockdowns.
President Ramaphosa drew international praise
for his swift action,
which was announced before a single death had been recorded.
In the early stages of the pandemic, both Britain and South Africa
followed a near identical path of infections.
But with just over 100 so far dead,
and no more than a few hundred patients infected in hospital,
its death rate has been staggeringly low in comparison to the UK.
InJohannesburg, the BBC’s Africa correspondent Andrew Harding has
been finding out why.
ii
It seemed inevitable. In a land of furious inequality and habitual
furious inequality and habitual mismla,
furious inequality and habitual misrule, the virus was always going
mismla, the virus was always going to cause
misrule, the virus was always going to cause chaos here in South Africa.
to cause chaos here in South Africa. How could it possibly be otherwise?
How could it possibly be otherwise? In the overcrowded townships around
In the overcrowded townships around johannesburg,
In the overcrowded townships around Johannesburg, news of Covid—19’s
johannesburg, news of Covid-19’s rival, the
Johannesburg, news of Covid—19’s rival, the first confirmed case was
rival, the first confirmed rase was March
rival, the first confirmed case was March the 5th, prompted dread. There
March the 5th, prompted dread. There was were, are understandable —
was fears were, are understandable - neighbourhoods
was fears were, are understandable — neighbourhoods sharing taps and
neighbourhoods sharing taps and toilets, people already weakened by
toilets, people already weakened by malnutrition and illness. But South
malnutrition and illness. But South Africa had an advantage, it had
Africa had an advantage, it had time, weeks to watch the virus
time, weeks to watch the virus spread around the rest of the world,
spread around the rest of the world, and to watch other countries’
and to watch other countries’ mistakes. Now, the government here
mistakes. Now, the government here has a hard earned reputation for
has a hard earned reputation for dithering, for being talk, but last
dithering, for being talk, but last month it took a firm decision to act
month it took a firm decision to act earty and
month it took a firm decision to act early and aggressively. And so, just
earty and aggressively. And so, just ten days after
early and aggressively. And so, just ten days after that first case,
ten days after that first use, South
ten days after that first case, South Africa declared a state of
South Africa declared a state of disaster. Schools and restaurants
disaster. Schools and restaurants would be closed, foreign travel
would be closed, foreign travel tightly restricted. At this stage in
tightly restricted. At this stage in South Africa, the virus was
South Africa, the virus was spreading slowly. But soon South
spreading slowly. But soon South Africa did start to see an
Africa did start to see an exponential rise, just like Britain,
exponential rise, just like Britain, although here the government was
although here the government was already reacting much quicker,
already reacting much quicker, imposing a lockdown
already reacting much quicker, imposing a lockdownjust
already reacting much quicker, imposing a lockdown just eight days
imposing a lockdown just eight days after recording the 100th infection.
after recording the 100th infection. And South Africa’s lockdown was far
And South Africa’s lockdown was far stricter too.
And South Africa’s lockdown was far strictertoo. Enforced
And South Africa’s lockdown was far stricter too. Enforced by soldiers.
stricter too. Enforced by soldiers. But soon more tests confirmed the
But soon more tests confirmed the slowdown was genuine. The Department
slowdown was genuine. The Department of Health is here... Is the reason,
of Health is here... Is the reason, dearty, was that
of Health is here... Is the reason, clearly, was that early
clearly, was that early interventions were now paying off
interventions were now paying off and the next stage was equally
and the next stage was equally impressive -
and the next stage was equally impressive — because it spent years
impressive - because it spent years dealing with
impressive — because it spent years dealing with HIV and TB, this
dealing with HIV and TB, this country already has an army of some
country already has an army of some 30,000 community health workers.
30,000 community health workers. Therve now
30,000 community health workers. They’ve now screened more than 3
Therve now screened more than 3 million people
They’ve now screened more than 3 million people for the new virus.
million peopla for the new vims. Tomorrow,
million people for the new virus. Tomorrow, South Africa will start to
Tomorrow, South Africa will start to ease its lockdown. And so a five
ease its lockdown. And so a five stage strategy has now been
stage strategy has now been published, explaining how, in
published, explaining how, in theory, the nation can be nudged
theory, the nation ran be nudged towards
theory, the nation can be nudged towards normality, perhaps by year’s
towards normality, perhaps by year’s end. So, yes, South Africa has
end. So, yes, South Africa has played a blinder so far,
played a blinder so far, particularly the president, but
particularty the president, but lower
particularly the president, but lower down the ranks, the key
lower down the ranks, the key institutions that are going to have
institutions that are going to have to keep waging this battle against
to keep waging this battle against the virus for months to come have
the virus for months to come have been weakened by years of corruption
been weakened by years of corruption and cronyism. In other words, South
and cronyism. In other words, South Africa is not out of the woods yet.
Africa is not out of the woods yet. So planty of
Africa is not out of the woods yet. So plenty of uncertainty ahead here
So plenty of uncertainty ahead here - just look at
So plenty of uncertainty ahead here — just look at this massive queue
- just look at this massive queue for food
— just look at this massive queue forfood hand—outs near Pretoria.
for food hand-outs near Pretoria. And as the
forfood hand—outs near Pretoria. And as the lockdown softens, the
And as the lockdown softens, the near certainty that the infection
near certainty that the infection rate will start to climb. Andrew
rate will start to climb. Andrew Harding, BBC News, South Africa.
More than seven million children are at risk of hunger
in Afghanistan, says the international charity
Save the Children, as food prices soar during a coronavirus lockdown.
The charity says a third of all Afghans will face food
shortages this month due to the pandemic.
Afghanistan has so far recorded nearly 2,200 cases
of Covid—19 and 64 deaths.
But in a war—torn country with a weak health system and little
testing, it’s feared the real numbers may be much higher.
Our chief international correspondent
Lyse Doucetjoins me now.
She was last in Afghanistan in january.
She was last in Afghanistan in January. Even before Covid—19,
january. Even before Covid-19, Afghanistan
January. Even before Covid—19, Afghanistan was deemed to be one of
Afghanistan was deemed to be one of the most dangerous places in the
the most dangerous places in the world to be a child — with this
world to be a child - with this pandemic,
world to be a child — with this pandemic, what is it like now? Yes,
pandemic, what is it like now? Yes, I mean everywhere in the world,
I mean everywhere in the world, including in the UK, we all feel
including in the UK, we all feel that we are in the midst, and we are
that we are in the midst, and we are in the midst of a global health
in the midst of a global health crisis of unprecedented proportions.
crisis of unprecedented proportions. But countries like Afghanistan have
But countries like Afghanistan have been on a permanent state of crisis
been on a permanent state of crisis for decades, besieged by war that
for decades, besieged by war that has gone on for decades, extreme
has gone on for decades, extreme malnutrition, and even before the
malnutrition, and even before the coronavirus struck, the United
coronavirus stmck, the United Nations
coronavirus struck, the United Nations was predicting that M
Nations was predicting that M million Afghans would face what they
million Afghans would face what they all
million Afghans would face what they call food insecurity this winter.
all food insecurity this winter. And
call food insecurity this winter. And then when the virus struck, and
And then when the virus stmck, and when you have a
And then when the virus struck, and when you have a lockdown in a place
when you have a lockdown in a place like Afghanistan, with so much of
like Afghanistan, with so much of the population, including working
the population, including working street children, they depend on
street children, they depend on daily wages, $1
street children, they depend on daily wages, $13 day, and when they
daily wages, $1 a day, and when they don’t get that, no
daily wages, $13 day, and when they don’t get that, no money
daily wages, $1 a day, and when they don’t get that, no money means no
don’t get that, no money means no food to eat, and so therefore that
food to eat, and so therefore that is why this warning is being sounded
is why this warning is being sounded that a third of the population,
that a third of the population, including 7 million children, could
including 7 million children, could go hungry and could die of
go hungry and could die of starvation. I mean, that is the
starvation. I mean, that is the enormity of it. As we reflected in
enormity of it. As we reﬂacted in our
enormity of it. As we reﬂected in our report from
enormity of it. As we reflected in our report from India, a lot of
our report from India, a lot of peopla,
our report from India, a lot of people, including children,
people, including children, depending on daily labour wages,
depending on daily labour wages, those jobs,
depending on daily labour wages, thosejobs, that
depending on daily labour wages, those jobs, that employment is not
those jobs, that employment is not there any more, and combined with
there any more, and combined with outcome of the World Food Programme
outcome of the World Food Programme 5575
outcome of the World Food Programme says the prices of basic foods are
says the prices of basic foods are going up and up, so what help is
going up and up, so what help is there to try to, you know, deal with
there to try to, you know, deal with this? Save the Children certainly
this? Save the Children certainly want a lot of international aid to
want a lot of international aid to help these people in serious threat
help these people in serious threat of hunger. Yes, in countries like
of hunger. Yes, in countries like Afghanistan, and you mentioned
Afghanistan, and you mentioned India, the majority of the
India, the majority of the population is not going to
population is not going to supermarkets and stocking up on the
supermarkets and stocking up on the favourite foods. They basically rely
favourite foods. They basically rely on bread that they eat, a bit of
on bread that they eat, a bit of rice and cooking oil, and when, in
rice and cooking oil, and when, in this use, the
rice and cooking oil, and when, in this case, the price of cooking oil
this use, the price of cooking oil and
this case, the price of cooking oil and wheat flow has rocketed up by
and wheat ﬂow has rocketed up by 23%,
and wheat ﬂow has rocketed up by 2396, and your
and wheat flow has rocketed up by 23%, and your wages have gone from
2396, and your wages have gone from $2 per day to
23%, and your wages have gone from $2 per day to $1
23%, and your wages have gone from $2 per day to $13 day, I mean,
23%, and your wages have gone from $2 per day to $1 a day, I mean, that
$2 per day to $1 a day, I mean, that is the detail
$2 per day to $13 day, I mean, that is the detail of what it comes down
is the detail of what it comes down to, so it is such a precarious
to, so it is such a precarious existence. The government has
existence. The government has started to distribute free bread and
started to distribute free bread and bakeries in Capitol, and it has said
bakeries in Capitol, and it has said it will expand this, but on Thursday
it will expand this, but on Thursday there were angry crowds saying, I am
there were angry crowds saying, I am poor, how come you didn’t include
poor, how come you didn’t include me? This is not enough, I cannot
me? This is not enough, I cannot live on bread alone, but for many it
live on bread alone, but for many it will be bread alone, and for some
will be bread alone, and for some not even bread. So if aid comes in,
not even bread. So if aid comes in, whether within the country or from
whether within the country or from outside, is there an effective
outside, is there an effective distribution system for that, and
distribution system for that, and how concerned are international
how concerned are international charities like Save the Children
charities like Save the Children that, in this time of pandemic, when
that, in this time of pandemic, when many peopla are
that, in this time of pandemic, when many people are worried about where
many peopla are worried about where wages will be
many people are worried about where wages will be coming from, whether
wages will be coming from, whether peopla are
wages will be coming from, whether people are willing to donate? There
peopla are willing to donate? There is a
people are willing to donate? There is a question of willing to donate,
is a question of willing to donate, if airports are closed, and
if airports are closed, and Afghanistan’s case, the
borders with Iran, and Afghanistan is still in the midst of war, there
is still in the midst of war, there is a leadership crisis in Kabul, so
is a leadership crisis in Kabul, so they are all converging at the same
they are all converging at the same time, and as always, when they do,
time, and as always, when they do, it is the most vulnerable, the
it is the most vulnerable, the children, who suffer the most. That
children, who suffer the most. That Save the Children report out, our
Save the Children report out, our chief international correspondent,
chief international correspondent, Lyse Doucet, thank you very much.
The headlines on BBC News:
The British Government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000
daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
Ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs
as part of restructuring because of the virus.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
We may find out more today
about whether the football season can restart in Britain.
The Government is hosting a video call with the Football Association
and Premier League, along with medical experts from
rugby union, cricket and racing,
to discuss when and how to return to sporting action.
It’s the biggest dilemma facing the Premier League in its history,
as Austin Halewood reports.
It has been seven weeks
since a Premier League ground looked like this.
Now organisers are keen to get the season back up and running
behind closed doors on the 8th ofJune,
but are the players on board?
The Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero told Argentinian media
that the majority of players are scared to return
because they have children and families.
And he is not the only one who is worried.
It would be hindering ourselves with certain things,
like face masks and things, it’s going to be off—putting.
It’s not going to be natural. It’s quite farcical.
I understand why people are desperate to get football on,
I am one of those people, I’m desperate,
but I think it’s got to be done in a sensible way.
There is also concern about the availability of testing
and whether a return will place
unnecessary extra pressure on public services.
With Liverpool on the brink of a first title in 30 years,
even the city’s own mayor is not keen on a restart.
I would guess that a lot people would turn up outside Anfield
to celebrate, and I can understand the police’s concerns around that,
even if it was at a neutral venue.
It would be really difficult for the police to keep people apart
and maintain social distancing, so I think it is a nonstarter.
The club, though, have distanced themselves from that point of view,
and the Government thinks a restart would give the country
a much—needed boost, while the league’s organisers know
the huge financial implications of not restarting.
They’d have to pay three £750 million back to rights holders.
With other competitions around Europe already cancelled,
the Government and the Premier League
know whatever move they make next, they will have to get it right.
Around 70,000 babies have been born in the UK
since the lockdown began nearly six weeks ago.
And while bringing a child into the world
should be a moment ofjoy,
the shadow of Covid—19 has loomed large.
Keeley Donovan has been speaking to new parents
about their experiences.
Born into a changed world. Babies Bria, Nelly and Hope.
The happiest of moments at the most difficult of times.
Currently, pregnant women in the UK
are allowed one birthing partner in the labour suite with them,
provided they are not showing any symptoms.
We first met Clare on BBC Breakfast a month ago.
She is part of the Mums and Bumps Club
we are following for the next few months.
She had planned for her mum to be her birthing partner,
but because her mum is vulnerable, she has had to self—isolate.
Claire was induced earlier than planned
and gave birth to little Eliana by emergency C—section.
She was without her family but in good hands.
It was scary, but also I think there was a sense of everyone
is trying to do their best,
and you kind of want to be in and out as quick as possible.
Everything really I was focusing on
was about whatever is the safest for me and her.
I feel more for my parents, because I think they struggle
more than I do, because I get to hold her at the end of the day.
These are special moments
that families everywhere are missing out on.
This is how Matt’s parents met baby Oshen for the first time.
It has been really difficult, we both have big families.
It has been really hard.
We’ve got lots of friends as well we have not been able to see.
It has been really difficult.
It is obviously a really emotional time for new parents,
and nothing is going to replace face—to—face contact,
but there are lots of virtual alternatives.
This morning I am joining a new Bumps and Babies class,
set up by midwife Louise.
Louise, why is it important to have sessions online like this
when new parents cannot meet face to face at the moment?
What is really important both before and after you have had your baby
is some sort of continuity and a feeling
that you are not necessarily going through this alone.
All these electronic things have just been a godsend.
While critical checks on newborns in the UK are continuing,
maternity services are offering
a combination of face to face and remote postnatal follow—ups,
according to the woman and baby’s needs.
It is nice that not everything about lockdown
has been negative for these new parents.
I went into hospital,
and I had the most amazing experience in hospital.
They just went above and beyond.
It has been lovely because Andy has been off work.
We have been together six weeks now, having a nice family unit,
because we will never get this time all together again.
Babies will continue to be born in lockdown,
and while for now they must wait to see grandparents,
extended family and friends, we will have stories too
to tell our little ones about their moment in history.
Most people in the UK would not want to go out,
even if the Government officially ends the lockdown in a month’s time,
according to a new survey.
60% of those asked said they would be uncomfortable
about going to bars and restaurants or using public transport.
And more than 40% would still be reluctant to go shopping
or send their children to school, according to the poll by Ipsos Mori.
Victims of domestic abuse can seek help
at all Boots pharmacies across the UK from today.
Consultation rooms will be used as safe spaces
where victims will be put in touch with specialist services.
Tributes have been paid to the Nigerian drummer Tony Allen,
who’s died suddenly at the age of 79.
Allen teamed up with Fela Kuti in the ‘605
to create a new musical style, Afrobeat.
The rock bassist Flea from the Red Hot Chili Peppers
called him one of the greatest drummers ever to walk the earth.
Scientists in the UK have identified the highest levels of microplastics
ever recorded on the seafloor, after studying sediment
pulled from the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea.
The analysis, led by the University of Manchester, found nearly
two million plastic pieces per square metre of sea bed.
Our science correspondent Victoria Gill reports.
A simulation of the deep ocean.
This experiment in a large tank in a lab in the Netherlands shows
how ocean currents and push mounds of sediment across the seafloor.
Mixed into those mounds are millions of tiny pieces of plastic,
and scientists have now measured the extent
of this sea—bed pollution.
We are all worried about the plastic that is floating in the ocean,
but this only represents 1% of it.
The rest is somewhere in the deep sea.
We’ve found in this area the highest accumulations ever recorded
in the global oceans, and they are 1.9 million particles
— pieces, small pieces — per square metre.
So we are going to scoop up those fine sediments that
were all brought into suspension.
Studies in 2018 by some of the same researchers revealed just how much
plastic pollution was locked in UK riverbeds
then flushed out to during floods.
These latest experiments in the Mediterranean extracted
chunks of sea floor from depths of up to one kilometre.
That enable scientists to track how the currents
carry plastic waste out to sea, where it breaks down.
The deep currents then accumulate these millions of fragments
into what researchers call microplastic hotspots.
The majority of the particles they found were tiny fibres
from textiles and clothing that simply slip through
the filtration systems in waste—water treatment plants.
We’re filling in part of the gaps of our understanding
of this 99% of the plastic.
The fragile ecosystems on the seafloor
depend on the nutrients and oxygen flushed
in through the ocean currents.
These currents transport microplastics to the same places
where these fragile ecosystems exist.
Scientist from the British Antarctic Survey, in another study published
this week, reveal plastic pollution was reaching the shores of some
of the most remote islands.
In recent years, we’ve finally started to the impact our plastic
waste has on the oceans.
This research has started to uncover the invisible
long—term consequences.
Victoria Gill, BBC News.
The rock band Queen has released a new charity single to honour
the world’s health care workers.
It resembles the classic hit We Are The Champions
but with a slight change in the lyrics.
The BBC’s Freya Cole has more.
# We’ll keep on fighting to the end...
It’s an anthem known around the world,
and now, with the one word changed, the song has taken on a new meaning.
# You are the champions, my friends. . .
# And you’ll keep on fighting to the end...
Its focused to all those on the front line all around the world.
All the people risking their lives to save us and save our loved ones.
The tribute song will aid the World Health Organization’s
solidarity fund to fight Covid—19.
Queen and their front man, Adam Lambert, each filmed
their parts in isolation — a far cry from the recording studios
they are all used to.
My wife recorded it on her iPhone.
Taking the shift a lyric is a bold move for Queen,
because they are so iconic,
but this is the type of event that warranted such a change.
# No time for losers...
The original 1977 hit song, written by Freddie Mercury,
celebrated worldwide success.
# Because you are the champions...
It’s hoped the remake will help inspire front line workers
as they lead the struggle against this pandemic.
Freya Cole, BBC News.
Martine Croxall will be here in a
Martine Cronll will be here in a few
Martine Croxall will be here in a few minutes, but now time for a look
few minutes, but now time for a look at the weather with Sarah
at the weather with Sarah Keith—Lucas.
It’s another day of sunshine and showers out there today,
the recipe for lots of rainbows.
Some of the showers through the day are going to be heavy and thundery.
Some hail and gusty winds mixed in with some
of the downpours as well.
But we won’t all see them, a bit of dry weather
with some sunshine around, too.
But low pressure is still driving the weather at the moment.
It’s gradually going to be easing away towards the east over
the next 2A hours or so.
So the showers will slowly start to fade away as we head
on into the weekend.
But for the here and now, the most frequent heavy showers
today will be across parts of the Midlands, northern England,
central and southern Scotland as well.
It’s here that we’re likely to see some of those thunderstorms,
hail and squally winds.
Showers fewer and further between elsewhere, and temperatures
for most of us in the mid—teens, a little bit warmer
than it was yesterday.
Now, through into this evening and overnight,
the showers will start to ease and fade, but some heavy ones
will continue overnight across parts of eastern England and northern
and eastern Scotland as well.
Clear skies and lighter winds further south.
So although it will be a largely frost—free start to Saturday,
it’ll be quite chilly first thing with temperatures around
five to eight degrees.
Still one or two showers on the cards for the weekend,
but we won’t all see them.
The areas most likely to see the showers on Saturday
are across northern and eastern Scotland and the far north
east of England as well.
Elsewhere, a lot of dry weather with some blue sky
and spells of sunshine.
But the cloud will increase from the southwest,
perhaps the odd spot of light rain down towards
the Channel Isles, for instance.
But most of us in the sunshine and lighter winds, it’ll feel quite
pleasant out there with temperatures around 1A to 18 degrees
through the day on Saturday and Sunday set to be
a pretty similar day.
Once again, a lot of dry weather with light winds and some sunshine,
cloud amounts increasing, I think, through the course
of the day on Sunday and a few showers typically for eastern
Scotland, northeast England, perhaps one or two for
the far southwest as well.
But temperatures between about ten to 18 degrees or so on Sunday.
And then things continue to turn a little bit warmer
and drier as we look towards the new week as well.
50 high pressure starts to build its way in across the United Kingdom
through the course of Sunday night and into Monday as well.
So a largely dry outlook into next week,
and things will be turning brighter and warmer
than they have been in recent days. Bye for now.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
The British government says it’s confident it’s target
of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
Setting a challenging target was the right thing to do,
because it galvanised Government and got thejob done,
but there is a lot more to be done.
The pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry —
European budget carrier Ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
European budget carrier Ryanair announces 3,000 job losses.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
The UN Secretary General criticises the world’s major powers for failing
to provide leadership during the crisis.
F5
# You are the champions # You are the champions! #.
And a musical tribute for
the champions of the pandemic — Queen say the proceeds will go
to global health charities.
to global health charities.
The UK Government says they are confident that they have
hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus
The UK Government says they are confident that they have
hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus
tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline —
as the Prime Minister told the nation that the the UK
was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
The target of 100,000 daily
coronavirus tests —
to be met by the end of April — had been set by the the UK’s
Health Secretary, Matt Hancock.
Over 81,000 tests
were carried out on Wednesday — according to figures
from the Department of Health and Social Care.
Worldwide — the aviation industry has been
hugely affected by the global lockdown — with budget airline
Ryanair announcing they are cutting up to three thousand pilot
and cabin crewjobs — as they restructure to cope
with the coronavirus pandemic.
Meanwhile in the US — President Trump said he’s seen
evidence coronavirus originated in a Chinese laboratory,
but provided no details.
The US national intelligence director’s office say Covid—19
"was not manmade or genetically modified" and China
rejects the theory.
In other developments — The United Nations Secretary General
Antonio Guterres has expressed his disappointment
at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus
pandemic.
In an interview with the BBC, he said
there was a failure to combine leadership and power —
comments which appeared to be directed at Washington and Beijing.
We’ll have more on the global response
to the pandemic shortly — but first this report
from our News Correspondent - Dan johnson.
For a nation cut off, closed down, hurting...
APPLAUSE.
..This is notjust about gratitude.
It has become a regular act
of communion, in the name of the carer, the medic,
and the vital key worker, kind, helping hands that have kept
the country on its feet and saved lives.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
And here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus,
heroes can be patients too.
You saved my life.
West Midlands Police Chief Superintendent, Phil Dolby,
spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
See ya, bye!
Now, the next generation training for the front line are being named
after the miracle workers of our NHS.
Also bouncing back, the Prime Minister,
with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope...
I can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past
the peak of this disease.
We are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
That may be but hundreds are still dying every day.
674 in the last 2A hours.
Across the UK, the virus has taken someone special
from 26,771 families.
More than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
So it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
The infection rate and the number of people each of us passes
the virus to must stay below one.
More detail on that next week, but here is a hint
of what our future may hold...
Face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons but also
for giving confidence to people that they can go back to work.
Testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
And we’ll find out later today whether the 100,000 target was met.
Wednesday’s latest figures were still 18,000 short.
At the beginning of the week, we only had 5000 home tests
available, this is new 20,000 available and it is the reason why
we are quite likely to get very close to or meet the 100,000 target.
Our worries and our strife are shared in this new
expression of community.
Thursday, eight o’clock, is about togetherness,
through torrid times.
Humanity’s challenge means more pain, more
suffering and more fear but as nature inflicts its worst,
it can reflect our very best, and there are signs
of better days ahead.
Dan Johnson, BBC News.
Our political correspondent Leila Nathoo joins
us from Westminster.
The Government is confident they may have reached this target, but it’s
have reached this target, but it’s what you do with those numbers and
what you do with those numbers and results? A change of tone early in
results? A change of tone earty in the week.
results? A change of tone early in the week. It looked unlikely the
the week. It looked unlikely the Government would meet that 100,000
Government would meet that 100,000 target. Remember
Government would meet that 100,000 target. Rememberwhere
Government would meet that 100,000 target. Remember where this all
target. Remember where this all started, it was Matt Hancock wanting
started, it was Matt Hancock wanting to get testing up because at the
to get testing up because at the start it was about NHS patients,
start it was about NHS patients, staff, etc, so that people could go
staff, etc, so that peopla could go back to
staff, etc, so that people could go back to work. Then it was about
back to work. Then it was about getting the capacity broadened. Now
getting the capacity broadened. Now eligibility for testing has expanded
eligibility for testing has expanded quite widely to key workers. The
quite widely to key workers. The latest figures were about 80,000.
latest figures were about 80,000. They had always been talk of the
They had always been talk of the numbers going up quite significantly
numbers going up quite significantly in the final
numbers going up quite significantly in the finalfew
numbers going up quite significantly in the final few days. But now the
in the final few days. But now the role of testing sort of changes as
role of testing sort of changes as we go into the next phase. This is
we go into the next phase. This is now having a mass testing
now having a mass testing infrastructure in place so that when
infrastmcture in place so that when the
infrastructure in place so that when the current lockdown measures ease
the current lockdown measures ease mass testing can be used eventually
mass testing ran be used eventually to stop
mass testing can be used eventually to stop outbreaks spreading rapidly
to stop outbreaks spreading rapidly and widely from communities. 50
and widely from communities. 50 individual patients with coronavirus
individual patients with coronavirus ran be
individual patients with coronavirus can be isolated, their context
ran be isolated, their context taste, and
can be isolated, their context taste, and testing can then be put
taste, and testing ran then be put into place.
taste, and testing can then be put into place. That is why this is
into place. That is why this is important. The Government will say
important. The Government will say that the target was all about
that the target was all about getting the machine rolling and
getting the machine rolling and getting the testing capacity up.
getting the testing capacity up. Here is what Robert
getting the testing capacity up. Here is what RobertJen Rick had to
Here is what Robert jen Rick had to 55V
Here is what Robert jen Rick had to say about this
Here is what RobertJen Rick had to say about this target early this
say about this target earty this morning. --
say about this target early this morning. —— Robert
say about this target early this morning. —— RobertJenrick.
It looks like we’ll either meet the target or come close, and
so we will have very significantly increased
It looks like we’ll either meet the target or come close, and
so we will have very significantly increased the amount of testing
in this country I think from 2000 tests a day at the end of February
to 10,000 tests a day at the end of March to either 100,000
at the end of April or quite close to it.
That’s an important stepping stone.
I don’t want to overstate this, because this is just a stepping
stone to more.
We’ve got the Prime Minister back in post after he recovered from
post after he recovered from coronavirus. A lot of questions
coronavirus. A lot of questions facing him about how, if not one,
facing him about how, if not one, the lockdown will be lifted. What is
the lockdown will be lifted. what is he saying?
the lockdown will be lifted. What is he saying? The message from the
he saying? The message from the Prime Minister yesterday was that
Prime Minister yesterday was that next week was going to be the point
next week was going to be the point where we hear more detail about a
where we hear more detail about a strategy for how we get out of
strategy for how we get out of lockdown. Now remember that
lockdown. Now remember that officially the measures have to be
officially the measures have to be reviewed every three weeks by law.
reviewed every three weeks by law. The next decision point, the next
The next decision point, the next review point, is next Thursday, and
review point, is next Thursday, and that is when we are promised we will
that is when we are promised we will hear more about this road map. He
hear more about this road map. He said it was a menu of options to get
said it was a menu of options to get the economy moving again, to get
the economy moving again, to get people back to work, how get
people back to work, how get children back to school stop we
children back to school stop we didn’t get any detail on what we can
didn’t get any detail on what we ran expect from
didn’t get any detail on what we can expect from that, but we have the
expect from that, but we have the example of other countries. We have
example of other countries. We have the Scottish and Welsh Government
the Scottish and Welsh Government here has published their own
here has published their own frameworks and their own thinking in
frameworks and their own thinking in their own lines. Boris
frameworks and their own thinking in their own lines. BorisJohnson
their own lines. Boris Johnson mentioned
their own lines. BorisJohnson mentioned yesterday that face masks
mentioned yesterday that face masks are going to be a useful way out,
are going to be a useful way out, and a useful tool in the next stage
and a useful tool in the next stage of lockdown, because he said they
of lockdown, because he said they could give people the confidence to
could give people the confidence to go back to work. I think that will
go back to work. I think that will be an interesting aspect of how to
be an interesting aspect of how to convince people that even if the
convince people that even if the data says the virus isn’t
data says the virus isn’t transmitting widely, and that it is
transmitting widely, and that it is actually safe to go out again, will
actually safe to go out again, will peopla obey
actually safe to go out again, will people obey those instructions? We
people obey those instructions? We are getting hints of what could
are getting hints of what could come. Talk of quarantine measures
come. Talk of quarantine measures being introduced at airports. Talk
being introduced at airports. Talk of how schools and businesses will
of how schools and businesses will have to follow social distancing
have to follow social distancing mles
have to follow social distancing rules in the same way as essential
mles in the same way as essential services
rules in the same way as essential services and schools, schools are
services and schools, schools are still open for key workers, at the
still open for key workers, at the moment. Little noises about what’s
moment. Little noises about what’s to come but certainly I don’t think
to come but certainly I don’t think a detailed plan until next week.
a detailed plan until next week. Thank you.
The US President Donald Trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests
coronavirus originated in a Chinese laboratory.
He provided no details.
His own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating
how the virus began, but have determined
Covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
David Willis reports.
The PA pathogen lab at Wuhan’s Institute of Virology.
Did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
China strenuously denies such suggestions.
The President of the United States believes otherwise.
Mr Trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab,
although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
He told reporters either China couldn’t stop the virus
from spreading, or it didn’t try to.
This is something that could have been contained at the original
location, and I think it could have been contained relatively easily.
China is a very sophisticated country and they could
have contained it.
They were either unable to or they chose not
to and the world is suffering greatly.
Whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy
theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed
as a biological weapon, the US intelligence community didn’t
contradict the President’s theory, saying:
This country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus
than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more
than 60,000 deaths.
The virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy,
leading to long lines in cities such as Houston,
as people queue for free food.
Although he’s avoided direct criticism of China’s President Xi,
with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, President Trump has
talked of making China pay for the harm the virus has caused
to the American economy and, by extension, to his
chances of re—election.
Relations between the world’s two largest economies could get
very frosty indeed.
David Willis, BBC News.
Let’s hear more now on theories as to how
the coronavirus originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
The Institute of Virology there studies infectious diseases
linked to bats and China says any allegations of a leak are unfounded.
But it is notjust President Trump who says the possibility
should be investigated.
Here’s the Australian Prime Minister.
There’s nothing that we have that would indicate
that was the likely source.
You can’t rule anything out in these environments.
We know it started in China.
We know it started in Wuhan.
The most likely scenario that has been canvassed relates
to wildlife wet markets, but that’s a matter that would have
to be thoroughly assessed.
This is one of the reasons why it is important that we just
have an objective, independent assessment of how this originated,
and learn the lessons from how this occurred.
I think it is an entirely sensible suggestion.
Monitoring speculation about the laboratory is the BBC’s
Security corrrespondent, Gordon Corera.
Just how big is the gap, Gordon, between what President Trump is
between what President Tmmp is saying and
between what President Trump is saying and what his intelligence
saying and what his intelligence community think? Well... It was very
community think? Well... It was very interesting yesterday, because we
interesting yesterday, because we had a statement early in the day
had a statement earty in the day from the
had a statement early in the day from the US intelligence community,
from the US intelligence community, which said they were investigating
which said they were investigating this. They ruled out that this was a
this. They mled out that this was a man-made
this. They ruled out that this was a man—made virus, that it was some
man-made virus, that it was some sort of bio
man—made virus, that it was some sort of bio weapon that had been
sort of bio weapon that had been unleashed or escaped, but they
unleashed or escaped, but they carefully said that they were still
carefully said that they were still looking at other possibilities,
looking at other possibilities, including that it was an entirely
including that it was an entirely natural outbreak, in other words
natural outbreak, in other words from a market or it was a leak from
from a market or it was a leak from a lab. A lab which had been
a lab. A lab which had been studying, if you like, the natural
studying, if you like, the natural vims.
studying, if you like, the natural virus. Later Donald Trump asked, do
vims. Later Donald Tmmp asked, do you think it could
virus. Later Donald Trump asked, do you think it could have been ——
you think it could have been -- later
you think it could have been —— later Donald Trump was asked, do you
later Donald Tmmp was asked, do you think it
later Donald Trump was asked, do you think it could have been leaked from
think it could have been leaked from a lab and he said yes but did not
a lab and he said yes but did not produce evidence even though he said
produce evidence even though he said he had seen evidence. White House
he had seen evidence. white House officials
he had seen evidence. White House officials have been pushing
officials have been pushing intelligence officials to look at
intelligence officials to look at this theory that it was escaped from
this theory that it was escaped from a lab. There is a reason they want
a lab. There is a reason they want to do that because there is a lot of
to do that because there is a lot of pressure from the White House to
pressure from the white House to deﬂect
pressure from the White House to deflect blame and to turn attention
deﬂact blame and to turn attention onto
deflect blame and to turn attention onto China and what it may have done
onto China and what it may have done wrong. And that may well be a big
wrong. And that may well be a big political issue this year, an
political issue this year, an election issue, and Donald Trump is
elaction issue, and Donald Tmmp is betraying
election issue, and Donald Trump is betraying himself as tough on China.
betraying himself as tough on China. And trying to say that
betraying himself as tough on China. And trying to say thatJoe Biden is
And trying to say that joe Biden is weak.
And trying to say thatJoe Biden is weak. The intelligence community is
weak. The intelligence community is saying, simply we are looking at the
saying, simply we are looking at the evidence and being very careful
evidence and being very careful about it. And the president wants to
about it. And the president wants to push people towards a particular
push people towards a particular conclusion. Now, the question is,
conclusion. Now, the question is, will peopla
conclusion. Now, the question is, will people take Donald Trump’s
will people take Donald Trump’s statement at face value? Will they
statement at face value? will they expect to see
statement at face value? Will they expect to see more evidence? We will
expect to see more evidence? We will have to wait and see but there is
have to wait and see but there is certainly potential for more real
certainly potential for more real tension between Donald Trump...
tension between Donald Trump... Reminiscent of that story about Iraq
Reminiscent of that story about Iraq and the weapons of mass destruction
and the weapons of mass destruction 18 years ago when the White House
18 years ago when the white House had a
18 years ago when the White House had a clear conclusion that there
had a dear conclusion that there were
had a clear conclusion that there were weapons of mass destruction and
were weapons of mass destruction and the intelligence community was being
the intelligence community was being moved in that direction but some
moved in that direction but some were cautious about it. You can
were cautious about it. You ran sense
were cautious about it. You can sense some of the same potential
sense some of the same potential strain, I
sense some of the same potential strain, Ithink
sense some of the same potential strain, I think on this issue. Talk
strain, I think on this issue. Talk to us about the story there could be
to us about the story there could be espionage on the way, regarding the
espionage on the way, regarding the research into a vaccine for
research into a vaccine for coronavirus. Well, that’s right, I
coronavirus. Well, that’s right, I spoke to a US intelligence official
spoke to a US intelligence official yesterday, the head of a national
yesterday, the head of a national counter intelligence and Security
counter intelligence and Security Centre. His
counter intelligence and Security Centre. Hisjob is to protect
Centre. His job is to protect America
Centre. Hisjob is to protect America against foreign spies. He
America against foreign spies. He said they had seen a reconnaissance,
said they had seen a reconnaissance, an attempt to get into some of the
an attempt to get into some of the research labs, which were working on
research labs, which were working on vaccines and other treatments by
vaccines and other treatments by foreign spy agents. Basically, there
foreign spy agents. Basically, there is a race going on internationally
is a race going on internationally to try and make this vaccine and
to try and make this vaccine and understand what might be able to use
understand what might be able to use to treat the coronavirus. And there
to treat the coronavirus. And there were different attempts by different
were different attempts by different countries. In some cases they are
countries. In some rases they are collaborating,
countries. In some cases they are collaborating, but there is a
collaborating, but there is a competition here. Some states see it
competition here. Some states see it as in their advantage to be first to
as in their advantage to be first to be able to get hold of the detail
be able to get hold of the detail and information. And it seems
and information. And it seems intelligence agencies have, if you
intelligence agencies have, if you like, unleash this to get
like, unleash this to get information. They are seeing this as
information. They are seeing this as cyber espionage. They are trying to
cyber espionage. They are trying to strengthen the defences of some of
strengthen the defences of some of those centres. Security sources in
those centres. Security sources in the UK say they have seen similar
the UK say they have seen similar activity. There is a lot of
activity. There is a lot of intelligence going on behind the
intelligence going on behind the scenes. We talked about the US
scenes. We talked about the US intelligence community trying to
intelligence community trying to understand what’s going on in China.
understand what’s going on in China. No doubt China understand what data
No doubt China understand what data the Chinese leadership have about
the Chinese leadership have about this. China and other states perhaps
this. China and other states perhaps also trying to understand what the
also trying to understand what the US and what other countries are
US and what other countries are doing in terms of research on
doing in terms of research on vaccines. A lot of that is going on
vaccines. A lot of that is going on behind the scenes. And that’s from
behind the scenes. And that’s from the intelligence agencies. Thank
the intelligence agencies. Thank you.
The Headlines on BBC News...
The Headlines on BBC News...
The British government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000
daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
The pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry —
European budget carrier Ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
In another sign of the huge impact of corornavirus
on the world’s airline industry, London’s Heathrow airport,
normally the busiest in Europe, has said it expects passenger
numbers to have fallen 97% in April.
Meanwhile European Budget airline Ryanair has said it may shed up
to 3,000 jobs as it restructures to cope with the pandemic.
It said the posts under threat were mainly pilot
and cabin crewjobs, and that remaining staff
would all take a 20% pay cut.
Boss Michael O’Leary spoke to the BBC earlier...
The situation we face new is we’ve carried almost no passengers
for the last three months.
We carried less than 140,000 passengers in April,
May and June against originally, the budget of 42 million passengers.
For the full year we will carry less than 100 million passengers,
the budget was originally 155 million, we will carry only
about a third less passengers than we planned for this year
and while we expect to be back flying some services inJuly
and August, we think the buildup will be slow, passengers
will be wearing face masks, temperature checks at airports,
there will be those kind of controls.
We are cutting, we announced this morning we are cutting 15%
of our staff, we think that’s the minimum we need just
to survive the next 12 months.
If a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger,
if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper
cuts into the future.
We feel we have no choice this morning but to announce 3000 job
cuts, that’s about 15% of our workforce.
We will be closing some bases in the UK and Spain and other
places across Europe.
Because by the time we get out of this, we will be
into the winter schedule anyway.
And it’s going to be very difficult.
Let’s speak to the Independent’s travel editor, Simon Calder.
Good to see you. Ryanair are not alone in this by any means. No,
Good to see you. Ryanair are not alone in this by any means. No,15%
alone in this by any means. No, 1596 of staff at
alone in this by any means. No,15% of staff at Ryanair face losing
of staff at Ryanair face losing their jobs.
of staff at Ryanair face losing theirjobs. The rest of them can
theirjobs. The rest of them ran face pay cuts
theirjobs. The rest of them can face pay cuts of up to 20%. Michael
face pay cuts of up to 2096. Michael O’Leary
face pay cuts of up to 20%. Michael O’Leary himself is going to be
O’Leary himself is going to be taking half pay for the rest of the
taking half pay for the rest of the financial year, although he will
financial year, although he will still be rather better paid than the
still be rather better paid than the average Ryanair employee. However,
average Ryanair employee. However, it is British Airways, their pilots,
it is British Airways, their pilots, their cabin crew, their ground staff
their cabin crew, their ground staff who are really suffering right now.
who are really suffering right now. The airline wants to cut 29% of its
The airline wants to cut 29% of its workforce. That amounts to 12,000
workforce. That amounts to 12,000 peopla. And it
workforce. That amounts to 12,000 people. And it appeared in a letter
peopla. And it appeared in a letter I saw last night
people. And it appeared in a letter I saw last night that British
I saw last night that British Airways had sent to the trade unions
Airways had sent to the trade unions that the base at Gatwick Airport
that the base at Gatwick Airport which has been served by British
which has been served by British Airways since the airline was
Airways since the airline was founded in 1974, well, it closed at
founded in 1974, well, it closed at the moment and it may never reopen.
the moment and it may never reopen. And for the many thousands of
And for the many thousands of aviation professionals that is just
aviation professionals that is just absolutely shocking news. What sort
absolutely shocking news. what sort of help our
absolutely shocking news. What sort of help our governments around the
of help our governments around the world offering to the aviation
world offering to the aviation industry? In Europe, and this is
industry? In Europe, and this is something Michael O’Leary of Ryanair
something Michael O’Leary of Ryanair is very exercised about, they are
is very exercised about, they are actually, well he calls them
actually, well he calls them enormous bungs to aviation
enormous bungs to aviation companies. There are billions of
companies. There are billions of euros going towards European
euros going towards European airtines,
euros going towards European airlines, which Ryanair says they
airtines, which Ryanair says they will be
airlines, which Ryanair says they will be subsidising airfares with
will be subsidising airfares with taxpayers“
will be subsidising airfares with taxpayers’ money for the next few
taxpayers“ money for the next few years. But, of
taxpayers’ money for the next few years. But, of course, other
years. But, of course, other aidines
years. But, of course, other airlines here are taking advantage
airtines here are taking advantage of the job
airlines here are taking advantage of thejob retention
airlines here are taking advantage of the job retention scheme. That is
of the job retention scheme. That is certainly helping easyjet and
certainly helping easyjet and British Airways at the moment,
British Airways at the moment, although very sadly a number of
although very sadly a number of those British Airways staff who are
those British Airways staff who are currently being furloughed may find
currently being furloughed may find they are made permanently redundant.
they are made permanently redundant. But the industry is really
they are made permanently redundant. But the industry is reallyjust
But the industry is really just wanting
But the industry is reallyjust wanting clarity more than anything
wanting clarity more than anything else on what happens when we start
else on what happens when we start again. I have
else on what happens when we start again. I havejust spoken
else on what happens when we start again. I have just spoken to the
again. I have just spoken to the boss of Heathrow Airport, as you
boss of Heathrow Airport, as you mentioned passenger numbers down 97%
mentioned passenger numbers down 9796 in April. They are
mentioned passenger numbers down 97% in April. They are very keen to
in April. They are very keen to start up, but they also realise
start up, but they also realise passengers are going to be very
passengers are going to be very short of confidence, and how on
short of confidence, and how on earth do you enforce social
earth do you enforce social distancing at an airport, and on
distancing at an airport, and on board a plane? It is a really,
board a plane? It is a really, really tricky time. Are the airlines
really tricky time. Are the airtines are
really tricky time. Are the airlines are struggling, so our passengers,
are struggling, so our passengers, aren’t they, trying to get their
aren’t they, trying to get their money back, being offered vouchers
money back, being offered vouchers rather than cash which is not what
rather than rash which is not what they are
rather than cash which is not what they are entitled to? Know, the US
they are entiﬂad to? Know, the US aidines
they are entitled to? Know, the US airlines have said, well, the US
airtines have said, well, the US Department
airlines have said, well, the US Department of transportation, has
Department of transportation, has told its airlines you have got to
told its aidines you have got to give back
told its airlines you have got to give back cash. —— no. That is
give back rash. -- no. That is almost certainly
give back cash. —— no. That is almost certainly the same rule in
almost certainly the same mle in the UK.
almost certainly the same rule in the UK. The Civil Aviation Authority
the UK. The Civil Aviation Authority is warning airlines they have to
is warning aidines they have to adhere
is warning airlines they have to adhere to the rules. And in Europe,
adhere to the mles. And in Europe, the European
adhere to the rules. And in Europe, the European Commission has told
the European Commission has told aidines they
the European Commission has told airlines they cannot offer vouchers
airtines they cannot offer vouchers instead.
airlines they cannot offer vouchers instead. The rules for
airlines they cannot offer vouchers instead. The rules forﬂights
airlines they cannot offer vouchers instead. The rules for flights are
instead. The mles for ﬂights are absolutely
instead. The rules for flights are absolutely clear, if your flight
absolutely clear, if your flight doesn’t take off you are entitled to
doesn’t take off you are entiﬂad to your rash back
doesn’t take off you are entitled to your cash back within a week. The
your rash back within a week. The aidines
your cash back within a week. The airlines tell me that is completely
aidines tell me that is completely impossibla.
airlines tell me that is completely impossible. They have gone from
impossible. They have gone from organisations which said millions of
organisations which said millions of us -- send
organisations which said millions of us —— send millions of us away on
us -- send millions of us away on holidays to
us —— send millions of us away on holidays to businesses whose
holidays to businesses whose operations are almost closed down.
operations are almost closed down. Michael O’Leary said if you were
Michael O’Leary said if you were booked in May on a Ryanair flight
booked in May on a Ryanair ﬂight you could be
booked in May on a Ryanair flight you could be waiting up to six
you could be waiting up to six months for a refund. Of course, the
months for a refund. Of course, the Civil Aviation Authority will be
Civil Aviation Authority will be watching that, as will other
watching that, as will other authorities around the world, but
authorities around the world, but your entitlement to cash hasn’t
your entitlement to cash hasn’t disappeared. You just won’t be able
disappeared. You just won’t be able to expect it back in your bank
to expect it back in your bank account a week after the flight
account a week after the ﬂight failed
account a week after the flight failed to depart. How likely is it,
failed to depart. How likely is it, do you think, Simon, that the
do you think, Simon, that the airtine
do you think, Simon, that the airline industry will return to what
airtine industry will return to what it was
airline industry will return to what it was before the pandemic? That a
it was before the pandemic? That a really good question. It’s not going
really good question. It’s not going to return to what it was before. ——
to return to what it was before. -- that’s a really
to return to what it was before. —— that’s a really good question.
that’s a really good question. Passenger numbers may build up again
Passenger numbers may build up again but the whole shape of the industry
but the whole shape of the industry is going to change. Business travel,
is going to change. Business travel, for example, may simply halve or dry
for example, may simply halve or dry “P
for example, may simply halve or dry up almost completely because, of
up almost completely because, of course, the sort of in executives
course, the sort of in executives who have bankrolled European
who have bankrollad European airtines,
who have bankrolled European airlines, paying big amounts for
airlines, paying big amounts for business class travel, well they’ve
business class travel, well therve just
business class travel, well they’ve just discovered that you can hold
just discovered that you ran hold meaningful
just discovered that you can hold meaningful meetings via online
meaningful meetings via online platforms. Their companies will be
platforms. Their companies will be looking to save money because they
looking to save money because they will be skint. Leisure travellers
will be skint. Leisure travellers will want to be reassured that it’s
will want to be reassured that it’s OK to travel, that not only will
0K to travel, that not only will they be safe while they are
they be safe while they are travelling, but the destination
travelling, but the destination country is going to welcome them in.
country is going to welcome them in. Eadier
country is going to welcome them in. Earlier this morning I mentioned
Eadier this morning I mentioned that UK
Earlier this morning I mentioned that UK travellers might be keen to
that UK travellers might be keen to go to the Republic of Ireland
go to the Republic of Ireland initially. And you should see the
initially. And you should see the social media messages I have been
social media messages I have been taking from people in Ireland
taking from peopla in Ireland saying,
taking from people in Ireland saying, actually, we don’t want you
saying, actually, we don’t want you Brits here, thanks. But you are so
Brits here, thanks. But you are so lovely, Simon!
lovely, Simon! CHUCKLES
CHUCKLES We can’t wait to see back in here
We can’t wait to see back in here when you are allowed back in. Thank
when you are allowed back in. Thank you.
India has more than 35,000 cases
of coronavirus so far, and more than 1100 people
have died of the infection.
The country has been in lockdown for nearly six weeks now.
And while doctors say it has slowed the spread of covid—19,
it’s also meant that millions who depend on daily wages
in the country are facing extremely difficult times.
From Mumbai, the BBC’s India correspondent
Yogita Limaye reports.
Small triumphs are celebrated.
This man has recovered from Covid in the southern state of Kerala.
Thanks for everything!
More populous than Canada, the region had the first coronavirus
infections in March, but it curbed the spread,
and its strategy is giving hope to the rest of the country.
Our idea was to trace as many people as possible in the shortest amount
possible, and in the intial A—S days, we were able
to trace 1,254 persons.
Once we identified all of them, the next strategy
was to ensure home quarantine in the strictest possible sense.
But each grave is a reminder that, for many parts of India,
the threat is far from being contained.
And it doesn’t even allow goodbyes.
A four—month—old baby girl laid to rest from the arms of strangers.
Dozens are losing their lives every day.
And while the real scale is hard to assess, doctors say Covid
would have spread a lot more quickly if India had not imposed
a lockdown relatively early.
Checkpoints like these have been set up in cities around the country.
People are only allowed to go out to buy essential items,
and you could even get arrested for violating the lockdown,
which is perhaps one of the most stringent in the world.
For the first time in the history of India,
the government halted trains.
Flights, interstate buses, public transport
have all been stopped as well.
That’s left millions of daily wage earners
without money for food or shelter.
This is a queue for lunch in Delhi nearly 3km long,
a common sight now in many parts of India.
Shaik Mufazul worked as a labourer.
Now he’s living on the streets of his family.
TRANSLATION:
On the days they distribute food, we eat.
Otherwise, we go hungry.
They’ve taken away our life line.
It feels like we’re dying slowly.
Calls to ease the restrictions are growing louder.
I asked the WHO’S chief scientist how it should be done.
As you go out of lockdown, it has to be first of all a phased
release after lockdown, and many countries are now putting in place
systems of how they will do that, and the monitoring testing
is going to be extremely important so at any time if there is an alert
or a red flag that things are not looking so good, again,
more strict measures may have to be put in place.
The nationwide lockdown is due to end soon.
India is waiting to hear what lies ahead.
Yogita Limaye, BBC News, Mumbai.
South Africa has begun to ease what was one of the world’s most
severe coronovirus lockdowns. President Ramaphosa drew
international praise for his swift action,
which was announced before a single death had been recorded.
In the early stages of the pandemic, both Britain and South Africa
followed a near identical path of infections.
But with just over 100 so far dead and no more than a few hundred
patients infected in hospital, its death rate has been staggeringly
low in comparison to the UK.
InJohannesburg, the BBC’s Africa correspondent Andrew Harding has
been finding out why.
It seemed inevitable.
In a land of furious inequality and habitual
misrule the virus was always going to cause chaos
here in South Africa.
How could it possibly be otherwise?
In the overcrowded townships around Johannesburg, news of Covid—19’s
arrival, the first confirmed case was March the 5th, prompted dread.
Those fears were, are, understandable.
Neighbours sharing taps and toilets.
People already weakened by malnutrition and illness.
But South Africa had an advantage.
It had time.
Weeks to watch the virus spread around the
rest of the world, and to watch other countries’ mistakes.
Now, the Government here has a hard earned reputation for dithering,
for being all talk.
But last month it took a firm decision to act
early and aggressively.
And so just ten days after that first case,
South Africa declared a state of disaster.
Schools and restaurants would be closed, foreign
travel tightly restricted.
At this stage in South Africa, the virus was spreading slowly.
But soon South Africa did start to see an exponential
rise, just like Britain, although here the Government
was already reacting much quicker, imposing a lockdown just eight days
after recording the hundredth infection.
And South Africa’s lockdown was far stricter, too.
Enforced by soldiers.
But soon more tests confirmed that the slowdown was genuine.
Community, community, the Department of Health is here.
The reason clearly was that South Africa’s early
interventions were now paying off.
And the next stage was equally impressive.
Because it spent years dealing with HIV and TB this country already
has an army of some 30,000 community health workers.
They’ve now screened more than 3 million people for the new virus.
Tomorrow, South Africa will start to ease its lockdown.
And so a five stage strategy has now been published explaining how,
in theory, the nation can be nudged towards normality.
Perhaps by year’s end.
So, yes, South Africa has played a blinder, so far,
particularly the president.
But lower down the ranks of the key institutions that are going to have
But lower down the ranks the key institutions that are going to have
to keep waging this battle against the virus for months to come
have been weakened by years of corruption and cronyism.
In other words, South Africa is not out of the woods yet.
So, plenty of uncertainty ahead here, just look at this
massive queue for food hand—outs near Pretoria.
And as the lockdown softens, the near certainty
that the infection rate will start to climb.
Andrew Harding, BBC News, South Africa.
Hello this is BBC News.
I’m Martine Croxall.
The Headlines.
The British government says it’s confident it’s target
of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
Setting a challenging target was the right thing to do because it
galvanised government and got thejob done
but there’s a lot more to be done.
The European budget airline Ryanair announces it
plans to cut 3000 jobs, as part of restructuring
because of the virus.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
And the UN Secretary General criticises the world’s major powers
forfailing to provide leadership during the crisis.
Covid—19 is absolutely no laughing matter —
but a group of doctors in Germany has managed to raise
a smile nevertheless, whilst making a deadly serious point
Covid—19 is absolutely no laughing matter —
but a group of doctors in Germany has managed to raise
a smile nevertheless, whilst making a deadly serious point
about the lack of personal protective equipment.
They posed naked to draw attention to how vulnerable they feel
without sufficient PPE.
Joining me from Schweigern in south—western Germany
where he runs a local surgery, is Dr Christian Rechtenwald.
I’m pleased to say he is fully dressed. So far anyway. Thank
dressed. So far anyway. Thank you for joining us.
dressed. So far anyway. Thank you forjoining us. What was
for joining us. what was your protest
forjoining us. What was your protest originally about? No mark.
protest originally about? No mark. Thank you for inviting me. Our
protest originally about? No mark. Thank you for inviting me. Our
process was for unnecessary regulations in Germany and to see
regulations in Germany and to see what the patients don’t
what the patients don’t actually need to see doctors. All patients
need to see doctors. All patients need to sharpen surgery. That might
need to sharpen surgery. That might show up in surgery. When did it
show up in surgery. when did it become
show up in surgery. When did it become about personal
become about personal protective equipment? Very quickly because
equipment? Very quickly because obviously we should be with an
obviously we should be with an expedited position. And that we
expedited position. And that we don’t have the personal
don’t have the personal protective appointment we need which is an
appointment we need which is an international problem how has the
international problem how has the Government responded? It is amusing
Government responded? It is amusing in tumours but you’re making a
in tumours but you’re making a very serious point of these photographs.
serious point of these photographs. The Government responded because the
The Government responded because the problem was on the agenda. It is
problem was on the agenda. It is slowly getting better and Germany
slowly getting better and Germany and there was a plan for providing
and there was a plan for providing us over a period of time because we
us over a period of time because we don’t need competition, we need
don’t need competition, we need a joint effort and a long—term plan.
joint effort and a long-term plan. How
joint effort and a long—term plan. How much better provided for and
How much better provided for and organised on your surgeries now that
organised on your surgeries now that you know better what you are doing
you know better what you are doing this? It took some time but now we
this? It took some time but now we have organised ourselves and the
have organised ourselves and the federal system in Germany, in the
federal system in Germany, in the small counties we establish a
small counties we establish a history only as much surgeries with
history only as much surgeries with only Covid-19
history only as much surgeries with only Covid—19 patients. We want
only Covid-19 patients. We want to make
only Covid—19 patients. We want to make sure that patients with chronic
make sure that patients with chronic disease can still return to us. How
disease ran still return to us. How keen were
disease can still return to us. How keen were fellow doctors and other
keen were fellow doctors and other health care practitioners to share
health rare practitioners to share their
health care practitioners to share their latest photos with you? It was
their latest photos with you? It was easier than expected. I got
easier than expected. I got the first shot from a colleague. He
first shot from a colleague. He showed me a colleague from France
showed me a colleague from France were done a similar protest in
were done a similar protest in France. Quickly afterwards I
France. Quickly afterwards I had some others
France. Quickly afterwards I had some othersjoin and
France. Quickly afterwards I had some others join and then went viral
some others join and then went viral and now I am here. What will you
and now I am here. what will you do with the
and now I am here. What will you do with the pictures? Are people still
with the pictures? Are peopla still sending
with the pictures? Are people still sending them to you? We are keeping
sending them to you? We are keeping on publishing the photos. We
on publishing the photos. We also have nurses involved and we are
have nurses involved and we are seeing a similar protest from the
seeing a similar protest from the dentists in France which is maybe
dentists in France which is maybe a bit more stylish than our
bit more stylish than our German process. We also seem processed in
process. We also seem processed in Spain which was really affected by
Spain which was really affected by the coronavirus especially in
the coronavirus especially in health rare. The
the coronavirus especially in health care. The British people tend to
rare. The British peopla tend to regard
care. The British people tend to regard Germans as being a little
regard Germans as being a little more open to the idea of nudity that
more open to the idea of nudity that we are traditionally so how many
we are traditionally so how many British doctors and nurses have
British doctors and nurses have contributed their own native
contributed their own native photographs? So far the protest is
photographs? So far the protest is being restricted to Germany but
being restricted to Germany but British colleagues are free to join
British colleagues are free to join because the British health system is
because the British health system is also widely affected. We have our
also widely affected. We have our own conversations about
own conversations about personal protective equipment. You make a
protective equipment. You make a very important point but do it in a
very important point but do it in a very amusing way. Dr Rechtenweld,
very amusing way. Dr Rechtenweld, thank you to
very amusing way. Dr Rechtenweld, thank you tojoining us.
The United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres has
expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership
from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
In an interview with the BBC, he said there was a failure
to combine leadership and power — comments which appeared to be
directed at Washington and Beijing.
Here’s our correspondent, Nick Bryant talking to the UN
Secretary General in New York.
You have described Covid—19 as the biggest challenge facing
the world since the Second World War.
Have you been surprised and shocked by the immense scale of deaths
and the immense scale of the economic disruption?
Shocked, obviously, and it is dramatic to see so many
people dying and dramatic to see this devastating impact
on economies and societies, especially on the most vulnerable
people, but not surprised because, unfortunately, what is true
is that the world was not able to come together and to face
Covid—19 in an articulated, co—ordinated way.
Each country went with its own policy.
Different countries with different perspectives, different strategies
and this has allowed the virus to spread.
Who do you blame for that?
Are you talking about the great power rivalry between
the United States and China, this propaganda war that has erupted
since Covid—19 became a pandemic?
I think it is obvious that we lack leadership.
That can only be possible if the key powers in the world
are able to come together.
When you say about the lack of global leadership,
are you talking about Washington?
Are you talking about President Trump?
Are you talking about Beijing?
I think there is a dysfunctionality in today’s world.
I think leadership and power are not associated.
There are examples of leadership, there are, of course, powers,
what we have not yet been able to combine in the world,
power and leadership in a way that could move the whole
of the international community to solve our dramatic problem
and to do it effectively.
Fred Carver is Head of Policy at the United Nations Association.
It is an independent think tank which exists to push
for an effective UN.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. I rebuke,
Thank you for joining us. I rebuke, but how
Thank you forjoining us. I rebuke, but how much more soon United
but how much more soon United Nations be doing in your view? I
Nations be doing in your view? I think we are the United Nations
think we are the United Nations or really come into force will be the
really come into force will be the post Covid-19
really come into force will be the post Covid—19 recovery. The
post Covid-19 recovery. The crisis has
post Covid—19 recovery. The crisis has demonstrated problems of
has demonstrated problems of pre—existing economy, with the
pre-existing economy, with the lagitimacy
pre—existing economy, with the legitimacy of our international
legitimacy of our international institutions and of course without
institutions and of course without failure to combat climate change by
failure to combat climate change by the United Nations will help
the United Nations will help convene and coordinate and enable that
and coordinate and enable that better recovery. It was notable
better recovery. It was notable wellies spoke about the absence of
wellies spoke about the absence of leadership and I think it is
leadership and I think it is really good to see that the ship
good to see that the ship coming from the Secretary General. One of
from the Secretary General. One of the things we had to learn about the
the things we had to learn about the major powers step back from a
major powers step back from a global leadership role as other powers
leadership role as other powers need to step up so it is
to step up so it is coaxing Secretary General taking a step that
Secretary General taking a step that direction. Were those candidates, if
direction. Were those candidates, if he is having a bit of a pop at the
he is having a bit of a pop at the United States and China, who
United States and China, who steps into the vacuum? I think we are
into the vacuum? I think we are moving into a situation where
moving into a situation where rather than having big power rivalries we
than having big power rivalries we have a dozen or 20 or 30 different
have a dozen or 20 or 30 different top-level
have a dozen or 20 or 30 different top—level powers as opposed to the
top-level powers as opposed to the more
top—level powers as opposed to the more traditional one are two
more traditional one are two major superpowers. That leads to members
superpowers. That leads to members of the Security Council not getting
of the Security Council not getting our needs very little is
our needs very little is achieved these days that is not to say the
these days that is not to say the United Nations cannot change things.
United Nations cannot change things. They general secretary and acting
They general secretary and acting Secretary General and the General
Secretary General and the General Assembly have shown leadership. We
Assembly have shown leadership. We are not looking for the sake from
are not looking for the sake from one country or another, what we have
one country or another, what we have to do is share the burden
to do is share the burden of responsibility and of leadership. I
responsibility and of leadership. I would like to see hundred 98 country
would like to see hundred 98 country step up and not
would like to see hundred 98 country step up and notjust one or two.
step up and not just one or two. Some are
step up and notjust one or two. Some are much better place to be
Some are much better place to be able to do that. Is it not also to
able to do that. Is it not also to be the richer countries that need
be the richer countries that need to quit the wheel in a more meaningful
quit the wheel in a more meaningful “Y
quit the wheel in a more meaningful way than many of the poor countries?
way than many of the poor countries? We are in the 75th anniversary year
We are in the 75th anniversary year of the United Nations and it is a
of the United Nations and it is a time and the Covid—19 crisis has
time and the Covid—19 crisis has concentrated minds on what
concentrated minds on what United Nations is four and one of the
Nations is four and one of the things to do is provide
things to do is provide provide burden sharing process where there
burden sharing process where there was more able to put the shoulders
was more able to put the shoulders to the wheel can that should not
to the wheel ran that should not mean
to the wheel can that should not mean there is a crisis of legitimacy
mean there is a crisis of legitimacy that comes with those more able to
that comes with those more able to contribute the only ones seem to be
contribute the only ones seem to be able to make decisions that
able to make decisions that shape the organisation. Yes, they will
the organisation. Yes, they will always have most power and the
always have most power and the United Nations does not make things
United Nations does not make things equal but it creates a forum
equal but it creates a forum in which states are able to talk
which states are able to talk to each other in terms which are closer
each other in terms which are closer to equality. The criticism that the
to equality. The criticism that the United Nations are somewhat
United Nations are somewhat toothless at times will still stand,
toothless at times will still stand, will it not? There’s no way
will it not? There’s no way of comparing those countries that are
comparing those countries that are more able to help to actually do so.
more able to help to actually do so. Like the United Nations as also
Like the United Nations as also existed to enable states to
existed to enable states to coordinate more closely and in times
coordinate more closely and in times like the Covid sea and if that and
like the Covid sea and if that and when different countries. A province
when different countries. A province in different ways. When states fail
in different ways. when states fail the
in different ways. When states fail the United Nations cannot but
the United Nations cannot but reﬂect
the United Nations cannot but reflect that failure. There’s the
reﬂect that failure. There’s the famous
reflect that failure. There’s the famous E that blaming the United
famous E that blaming the United Nations when massacres occur is like
Nations when massacres occur is like blaming Madison Square Gardens when
blaming Madison Square Gardens when the New York Mets lose. Thank you
the New York Mets lose. Thank you very much. I note from France where
very much. I note from France where President Macron has been talking
President Macron has been talking about the end of the lot which
about the end of the lot which is due to take place on May the 11th.
due to take place on May the 11th. He is saying that will not signal
He is saying that will not signal a return to normality and sister Mary
return to normality and sister Mary to say that the crisis is over. The
to say that the crisis is over. The impact on the thing the restrictions
impact on the thing the restrictions on the infection rate of Covid—19
on the infection rate of Covid-19 through the
on the infection rate of Covid—19 through the French population ——
through the French population -- might earty to
through the French population —— might early to say that the crisis
might earty to say that the crisis is over.
In China, the country where the global coronavirus crisis
first hit, the authorities are now lifting restrictions
on people’s movements at an ever more rapid rate.
Stephen McDonell reports from Beijing.
For this May Day break, the Chinese transport
ministry is predicting 170
million trips.
That sounds like a lot.
It is actually only a third of the movements you would normally
expect for this holiday in China.
It shows that people are still worried about
the possibility of contracting
the coronavirus.
Here in Beijing we have been living under the virus
for so long, more than three months, these changes now feel a little
sudden.
For example, in the open now I don’t
have to wear a mask.
I’ve still got mine in my pocket, though.
That’s because if I was to go into one of these
buildings, a cafe or something like that, I would still have
to put it on again.
Traffic is also returning.
And the residents of Beijing are having to get used to yet again
something they haven’t seen for months, trafficjams.
In those buildings behind me, those apartment
blocks, up until now, it’s only been residents that
have been allowed in.
Now people who live here can go and have a meal
with their family members.
Crucially, if somebody comes into Beijing from another part
of China, apart from these hotspots like Wuhan where
coronavirus started, they don’t have to do two weeks’
quarantine any more.
That is not to say that all instructions
have gone.
For example, the Forbidden City has opened again but the
numbers are capped and you have to keep your distance.
It’s like tourism with social distancing.
The same with cafes, the same with restaurants,
the same with offices.
Numbers capped, keep your distance.
However, right now we do have a feeling here that
China is hurtling at some speed back towards some sort of sense of
normality, at least much more quickly than it has been in
recent months.
What everybody is worried about, though, is the
possibility of a second wave of the viruss coming along
and swamping all of this freedom.
and swamping all of this freedom.
The headlines on BBC News...
The British Government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000
The pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry —
European budget carrier Ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
Yemen has recorded its first two deaths linked to coronavirus,
raising fears of a devastating outbreak in the war—ravaged country.
According to local media, the victims were brothers who died
in the same hospital in the separtist
controlled port of Aden.
The UN has warned there’s a high chance other cases
are circulating undetected.
Tim Neilson reports.
Silence in the centre of Aden.
The southern port city has been put into a three—day lockdown,
after the first reported deaths of Covid—19.
Markets are closed, the streets are near deserted,
residents fear the worst.
TRANSLATION: There is no state and there is no
legitimate government, there is nobody you
can seek help from.
If this epidemic spreads here, we will die like locusts.
The curfew will be enforced by the Southern
Transitional Council, a separatist group which
took control of the city last weekend.
At major checkpoints, soldiers have been telling
residents to wear face masks.
But aid agencies fear Yemen is on the brink of catastrophe.
After six years of civil war, 20 million Yemenis
do not have access to adequate health care,
famine is rife, and hospitals are ill—equipped to deal
with a full—blown pandemic.
In the capital city, Sana’a, the streets are
being disinfected.
The UN has warned there is a high chance the virus
is circulating in crowded areas undetected,
but the rebel Houthi movement which controls
the city says all suspected cases have returned negative.
Official cases are still low, but the Saudi—backed
government has issued a plea to all citizens, regardless
of their political alliance, to take the outbreak seriously.
TRANSLATION: We are calling on Yemenis to take preventative
measures and to stop gatherings in public markets
and attending Friday prayers during these exceptional
circumstances.
Meanwhile, the United Nations has called for the coalition
ceasefire to resume in a desperate attempt for unity.
Tim Neilson, BBC News.
UK scientists have identified the highest levels of microplastics
ever recorded on the seafloor.
The contamination was found in sediments pulled from the bottom
of the Mediterranean Sea.
Victoria Gill reports.
A simulation of the deep ocean.
This experiment in a large tank in a lab in the Netherlands shows
how ocean currents and push mounds of sediment across the seafloor.
Mixed into those mounds are millions of tiny pieces of plastic,
and scientists have now measured the extent
of this sea—bed pollution.
We are all worried about the plastic that is floating in the ocean,
but this only represents 1% of it.
but this only represents 1% of the whole amount.
The rest is somewhere in the deep sea.
We’ve found in this area the highest accumulations ever recorded
in the global oceans, and they are 1.9 million particles
— pieces, small pieces — per square metre.
So we are going to scoop up those fine sediments that
were all brought into suspension.
Studies in 2018 by some of the same researchers revealed just how much
plastic pollution was locked in UK riverbeds
then flushed out to sea during floods.
These latest experiments in the Mediterranean extracted
chunks of sea floor from depths of up to one kilometre.
That enabled scientists to track how the currents
carry plastic waste out to sea, where it breaks down.
The deep currents then accumulate these millions of fragments
into what researchers call microplastic hotspots.
The majority of the particles they found were tiny fibres
from textiles and clothing that simply slip through
the filtration systems in waste—water treatment plants.
We’re filling in part of the gaps in our understanding
of this 99% of the plastic.
There are fragile ecosystems on the sea floor
that depend on the nutrients and oxygen flushed
in through the ocean currents.
These currents transport microplastics to the same places
where these fragile ecosystems exist.
Scientists from the British Antarctic Survey,
in another study published
this week, reveal plastic pollution was reaching the shores of some
of the most remote islands.
In recent years, we’ve finally started to the impact our plastic
waste has on the oceans.
This research has started to uncover the invisible
long—term consequences.
Victoria Gill, BBC News.
We may find out more today about whether the football
season can restart.
The UK government are hosting a video call with the FA
and Premier League along with medical experts from rugby
union, cricket and racing to discuss the aspects of a return
to sporting action.
It’s the biggest dilemma facing the premer league, in its history,
as Austin Halewood reports.
It has been seven weeks since a Premier League
ground looked like this.
Now organisers are keen to get the season back up and running
behind closed doors on the 8th ofJune,
but are the players on board?
The Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero told Argentinian media
that the majority of players are scared to return
because they have children and families.
And he is not the only one who is worried.
It would be hindering ourselves with certain things,
like face masks and things, it’s going to be off—putting.
It’s not going to be natural. It’s quite farcical.
I understand why people are desperate to get football on,
I am one of those people, I’m desperate,
but I think it’s got to be done in a sensible way.
There is also concern about the availability of testing
and whether a return will place unnecessary extra pressure
on public services.
With Liverpool on the brink of a first title in 30 years,
even the city’s own mayor is not keen on a restart.
I would guess that a lot people would turn up outside Anfield
to celebrate, and I can understand the police’s concerns around that,
even if it was at a neutral venue.
It would be really difficult for the police to keep people apart
and maintain social distancing, so I think it is a nonstarter.
The club, though, have distanced themselves from that point of view,
and the Government thinks a restart would give the country
a much—needed boost, while the league’s organisers know
the huge financial implications of not restarting.
They’d have to pay three £750 million back to rights holders.
With other competitions around Europe already cancelled,
the Government and the Premier League know
whatever move they make next, they will have to get it right.
The rock band Queen has released a new charity single
to honour the world’s healthcare workers.
It resembles the classic hit
We are the Champions
but with a slight change in the lyrics.
The BBC’s Freya Cole has more.
# We’ll keep on fighting till the end...
It’s an anthem known around the world,
and now, with the one word changed, the song has taken on a new meaning.
# You are the champions, my friends. . .
# And you’ll keep on fighting to the end...
It’s focused to all those on the front line
all around the world.
All the people risking their lives to save us and save our families.
The tribute song will aid the World Health Organization’s
solidarity fund to fight Covid—19.
Queen and their front man, Adam Lambert, each filmed
their parts in isolation — a far cry from the recording studios
they are all used to.
My wife recorded it on her iPhone.
Taking the step to shift a lyric is a bold move for Queen,
because they are so iconic,
but this is the type of event that warranted such a change.
# No time for losers...
The original 1977 hit song, written by Freddie Mercury,
celebrated worldwide success.
# Because you are the champions...
It’s hoped the remake will help inspire front line workers
as they lead the struggle against this pandemic.
Freya Cole, BBC News.
ii
It was so catchy that my floor
It was so catchy that my ﬂoor manager
It was so catchy that my floor manager Pauline was singing along.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather
with Sarah Keith—Lucas.
Hello.
It’s another day of sunshine and showers out there today,
the recipe for lots of rainbows.
Some of the showers through the day are going to be
heavy and thundery.
Some hail and gusty winds mixed in with some
of the downpours as well.
But we won’t all see them,
a bit of dry weather with some sunshine around, too.
But low pressure is still driving the weather at the moment.
It’s gradually going to be easing away towards the east
over the next 2A hours or so.
So the showers will slowly start to fade away
as we head on into the weekend.
But for the here and now,
the most frequent heavy showers today will be
across parts of the Midlands, northern England, central
and southern Scotland as well.
It’s here that we’re likely to see some of those thunderstorms,
hail and squally winds.
Showers fewer and further between elsewhere,
and temperatures for most of us in the mid—teens,
a little bit warmer than it was yesterday.
Now, through into this evening and overnight,
the showers will start to ease and fade, but some heavy ones
will continue overnight across parts of eastern England and northern
and eastern Scotland as well.
Clear skies and lighter winds further south.
So although it will be a largely frost—free start to Saturday,
it’ll be quite chilly first thing with temperatures
around five to eight degrees.
Now, the weekend is going to be shaping up to be gradually
turning drier and more settled with some spells of
sunshine on offer, less windy than recent days.
Still one or two showers on the cards for the weekend,
but we won’t all see them.
The areas most likely to see the showers on Saturday
are across northern and eastern Scotland and the far north
east of England as well.
Elsewhere, a lot of dry weather with some blue sky
and spells of sunshine.
But the cloud will increase from the southwest, perhaps
the odd spot of light rain down towards the Channel
Isles, for instance.
But most of us in the sunshine and lighter winds, it’ll feel quite
pleasant out there with temperatures around 1A to 18 degrees
through the day on Saturday and Sunday set to be
a pretty similar day.
through the day on Saturday and Sunday set to be
a pretty similar day.
Once again, a lot of dry weather with light winds and some sunshine,
cloud amounts increasing, I think, through the course
of the day on Sunday and a few showers typically for eastern
Scotland, northeast England, perhaps one or two for
the far southwest as well.
But temperatures between about ten to 18 degrees or so on Sunday.
And then things continue to turn a little bit warmer
and drier as we look towards the new week as well.
50 high pressure starts to build its way in across the United Kingdom
through the course of Sunday night and into Monday as well.
So a largely dry outlook into next week and things will be turning
brighter and warmer than they have been in recent days.
Bye for now.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
The coronavirus pandemic continues to devastate
the aviation industry — European budget carrier Ryanair
announces three thousand job losses.
m:
We will be closing some bases in the UK and in Spain and other places in
UK and in Spain and other places in Europe, because by the time we get
Europe, because by the time we get out of this we will be into the
out of this we will be into the winter schedule anyway, and it’s
winter schedule anyway, and it’s going to be very difficult.
The British government says it’s confident it’s target
of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
# You are the champions
# You are the champions!#
And a musical tribute for
the champions of the pandemic — Queen say the proceeds will go
to global health charities.
Hello and welcome to audiences in the UK and around the world.
We’re covering all the latest coronavirus developments
here in Britain and globally.
First
the global lockdown is having a devastating
on airlines around the world.
One of the world’s biggest carriers — Ryanair —
says it’s cutting 3,000 pilot and cabin crewjobs —
as they restructure to cope with the impact of the pandemic.
It comes as the UK’s busiest airport — Heathrow —
reveals that passenger numbers last month were down 97% compared
with the same time last year.
Meanwhile the UK Government says it is confident that it has
hit its own target for 10,000 daily coronavirus tests to be
carried out by yesterday’s deadline.
Over 81,000 tests were carried out on Wednesday —
according to figures from the Department
of Health and Social Care.
In the US — President Trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus
originated in a Chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
The US national intelligence director’s office say Covid—19
"was not manmade or genetically modified" and China
rejects the theory.
We’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly —
but first Ryanair boss — Michael O’Leary — spoke
to the BBC earlier — and told us he expects passenger
numbers to be down a third this year.
The situation we face new is we’ve carried almost no passengers
for the last three months.
We carried less than 140,000 passengers in April,
May and June against originally, the budget of 42 million passengers.
For the full year we will carry less than 100 million passengers,
the budget was originally 155 million, we will carry only
about a third less passengers than we planned for this year
and while we expect to be back flying some services inJuly
and August, we think the buildup will be slow, passengers
will be wearing face masks, temperature checks at airports,
there will be those kind of controls.
We are cutting, we announced this morning we are cutting 15%
of our staff, we think that’s the minimum we need just
to survive the next 12 months.
If a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger,
if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper
cuts into the future.
We feel we have no choice this morning but to announce 3000 job
cuts, that’s about 15% of our workforce.
We will be closing some bases in the UK and Spain and other
places across Europe.
Because by the time we get out of this, we will be
into the winter schedule anyway.
And it’s going to be very difficult.
London’s Heathrow is the busiest airport in Europe.
This morning it’s CEO, John Holland—Kaye, has called
on the UK govenrment to work internationally to ensure air travel
could get back up and running as quickly as possible.
There are checks in
There are checks in place by Public Health England. They are not as
Health England. They are not as visible as they might be in other
visible as they might be in other airports. I think this lack of
airports. I think this lack of consistency creates uncertainty with
consistency creates uncertainty with passengers, it creates a sense that
passengers, it creates a sense that they are not being as well looked
they are not being as well looked after as they should be. That’s why
after as they should be. That’s why we need to move from each country
we need to move from each country doing their own thing, and everybody
doing their own thing, and everybody working together. Unless we can get
working together. Unless we ran get to that place
working together. Unless we can get to that place in the next three,
to that place in the next three, four months, we won’t get the UK
four months, we won’t get the UK economic engine firing on all
economic engine firing on all cylinders as the Prime Minister has
cylinders as the Prime Minister has railed
cylinders as the Prime Minister has called for. At the planning for that
called for. At the planning for that needs to be happening now, even in
needs to be happening now, even in the height of the health crisis,
the height of the health crisis, because it’ll take some time to put
because it’ll take some time to put in place and to agree with other
in place and to agree with other countries. That’s why we are calling
countries. That’s why we are falling on the
countries. That’s why we are calling on the Government today to work with
on the Government today to work with other governments to have an
other governments to have an international standing on health
international standing on health screening.
Earlier I spoke to the independent’s travel editor, Simon Calder.
He told me it’s notjust Ryanair workers who will be
worrying about their jobs.
i I-YL’
15% of staff at Ryanair face losing
1596 of staff at Ryanair face losing their
1596 of staff at Ryanair face losing theirjobs.
15% of staff at Ryanair face losing theirjobs. The rest of them can
theirjobs. The rest of them ran face pay cuts
theirjobs. The rest of them can face pay cuts of up to 20%. Michael
face pay cuts of up to 2096. Michael O’Leary
face pay cuts of up to 20%. Michael O’Leary himself is going to be
O’Leary himself is going to be taking half pay for the rest of the
taking half pay for the rest of the financial year, although he will
financial year, although he will still be rather better paid than the
still be rather better paid than the average Ryanair employee. It is
average Ryanair employee. It is British Airways, their pilots, cabin
British Airways, their pilots, cabin crew, and ground staff who are
crew, and ground staff who are really suffering right now. The
really suffering right now. The airtine
really suffering right now. The airline wants to cut 29% of its air
airtine wants to cut 2996 of its air force, that
airline wants to cut 29% of its air force, that amounts to 12,000
force, that amounts to 12,000 peopla, and
force, that amounts to 12,000 people, and it appeared in a letter
peopla, and it appeared in a letter I saw last night
people, and it appeared in a letter I saw last night that British
I saw last night that British Airways had sent to the trade unions
Airways had sent to the trade unions that the base at Gatwick Airport,
that the base at Gatwick Airport, which has been served by British
which has been served by British Airways since the airline was
Airways since the airline was founded in 1974, well, the bases
founded in 1974, well, the bases dosed
founded in 1974, well, the bases closed at the moment and it will
closed at the moment and it will never reopen. And for the many
never reopen. And for the many thousands of aviation professionals
thousands of aviation professionals that is just absolutely shocking
that is just absolutely shocking news. What sort of help our
news. What sort of help our governments around the world
governments around the world offering to the aviation industry?
offering to the aviation industry? In Europe, and this is something
In Europe, and this is something Michael O’Leary of Ryanair is
Michael O’Leary of Ryanair is exercised about, they are actually
exercised about, they are actually handy, well he calls them enormous
handy, well he calls them enormous bungs to air France, Lufthansa of
bungs to air France, Lufthansa of Germany, an Italian airline is being
Germany, an Italian airline is being renationalised, and there are
renationalised, and there are billions of euros going towards
billions of euros going towards European airlines, which Ryanair
European airtines, which Ryanair 5575
European airtines, which Ryanair says means
European airlines, which Ryanair says means they will be subsidising
says means they will be subsidising affairs with taxpayers’ money for
affairs with taxpayers“ money for the
affairs with taxpayers’ money for the next few years. —— Maggie
the next few years. -- Maggie subsidising
the next few years. —— Maggie subsidising air
the next few years. —— Maggie subsidising airfares. Others here
subsidising air fares. Others here are taking
subsidising airfares. Others here are taking advantage of the job
are taking advantage of the job retention scheme, that’s helping
retention scheme, that’s helping easyjet and British
retention scheme, that’s helping easyJet and British Airways at the
easyjet and British Airways at the moment, though there is sadly a
moment, though there is sadly a number of those British Airways
number of those British Airways staff who are currently being
staff who are currently being furloughed may find they are being
furloughed may find they are being made permanently redundant. The
made permanently redundant. The industry is just wanting clarity
industry is just wanting clarity more than anything else on what
more than anything else on what happens when we start again. I’ve
happens when we start again. I’ve just spoken to the boss of Heathrow
just spoken to the boss of Heathrow Airport, as you mentioned passenger
Airport, as you mentioned passenger numbers down 97% in April. They are
numbers down 9796 in April. They are very keen to
numbers down 97% in April. They are very keen to start up, but they also
very keen to start up, but they also realise passengers are going to be
realise passengers are going to be very short of confidence, and how on
very short of confidence, and how on earth do you enforce social
earth do you enforce social distancing at an airport, and on
distancing at an airport, and on board a plane? It’s a really, really
board a plane? It’s a really, really tricky time.
The UK government says it is confident that it
will hit its own target for the number of daily coronavirus
tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline —
as the Prime Minister told the nation that the the UK was now
"past the peak" of the outbreak.
The target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests —
to be met by the end of April — had been set by the the UK’s health
secretary, Matt Hancock.
Our Correspondent, DanJohnson has this report.
For a nation cut off, closed down, hurting...
APPLAUSE.
..This is notjust about gratitude.
It has become a regular act
of communion, in the name of the carer, the medic,
and the vital key worker, kind, helping hands that have kept
the country on its feet and saved lives.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
And here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus,
heroes can be patients too.
You saved my life.
West Midlands Police Chief Superintendent, Phil Dolby,
spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
See ya, bye!
Now, the next generation training for the front line are being named
after the miracle workers of our NHS.
Also bouncing back, the Prime Minister,
with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope...
I can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past
the peak of this disease.
We are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
That may be but hundreds are still dying every day.
674 in the last 2A hours.
Across the UK, the virus has taken someone special
from 26,771 families.
More than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
So it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
The infection rate and the number of people each of us passes
the virus to must stay below one.
More detail on that next week, but here is a hint
of what our future may hold...
Face coverings will be useful both for epidemiological reasons but also
for giving confidence to people that they can go back to work.
Testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
And we’ll find out later today whether the 100,000 target was met.
Wednesday’s latest figures were still 18,000 short.
At the beginning of the week, we only had 5000 home tests
available, this is new 20,000 available and it is the reason why
we are quite likely to get very close to or meet the 100,000 target.
Our worries and our strife are shared in this new
expression of community.
Thursday, eight o’clock, is about togetherness,
through torrid times.
Humanity’s challenge means more pain, more
suffering and more fear but as nature inflicts its worst,
it can reflect our very best, and there are signs
of better days ahead.
Dan Johnson, BBC News.
US President Donald Trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests
The publisher of The Mail on Sunday newspaper has won its first round at
newspaper has won its first round at the High Court in the Duchess of
the High Court in the Duchess of Sussex’s privacy claim. She had
Sussex’s privacy claim. She had taken them to court over their
taken them to court over their publication of a letter she had
publication of a letter she had written to her estranged father. She
written to her estranged father. She had claimed that the newspaper had
had claimed that the newspaper had removed passages of her private
removed passages of her private letter to her father to portray her
letter to her father to portray her negatively. The Mail on Sunday said
negatively. The Mail on Sunday said it would defend the case with
it would defend the use with vigour. They
it would defend the case with vigour. They said there is nothing
vigour. They said there is nothing in this document which changes that
in this document which changes that position. They have won that first
position. They have won that first appearance at the High Court, but
appearance at the High Court, but there is more court proceedings to
there is more court proceedings to follow.
The UK’s health and social care select committee of MPs has
this morning met to discuss how vital NHS services are maintained
during the coronavirus epidemic.
These include services for cancer, mental health and maternity.
We can speak now to the former Health Secretary —
and new chair of the Health Select Committee, Jeremy Hunt.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us on BBC
Thank you for joining us on BBC News.
Thank you forjoining us on BBC News. Good afternoon. How well,
News. Good afternoon. How well, generally speaking, are those
generally speaking, are those essential services managing to
essential services managing to continue during the time of this
continue during the time of this pandemic which for many hospitals is
pandemic which for many hospitals is having to take priority? I think
having to take priority? I think what we heard was a mixed message. A
what we heard was a mixed message. A superhuman effort by NHS staff to
superhuman effort by NHS staff to keep the show on the road because,
keep the show on the road because, of course, despite the coronavirus
of course, despite the coronavirus people are still having babies,
peopla are still having babies, peopla are
people are still having babies, people are still getting cancer,
peopla are still getting cancer, peopla are
people are still getting cancer, people are still having mental
people are still having mental health problems. And a strong
health problams. And a strong message
health problems. And a strong message people should come forward
message peopla should come forward if
message people should come forward if they worry if they have health
if they worry if they have health conditions other than Covid—19
conditions other than Covid—19 because all of these other things
because all of these other things need to be treated. But, you know,
need to be treated. But, you know, we have seen, because people are
we have seen, because people are hesitating to come forward, a 30 to
hesitating to come forward, a 30 to 401:
hesitating to come forward, a 30 to 4096 drop in
hesitating to come forward, a 30 to 40% drop in cancer referrals, 30 to
4096 drop in cancer referrals, 30 to 401:
4096 drop in cancer referrals, 30 to 4096 drop in
40% drop in cancer referrals, 30 to 40% drop in young people coming
4096 drop in young peopla coming forward
40% drop in young people coming forward for help with mental health
forward for help with mental health conditions. That’s very worrying
conditions. That’s very worrying because mental health conditions
because mental health conditions like --
because mental health conditions like —— because health conditions
like -- because health conditions like
like —— because health conditions like cancer need to be caught early.
like cancer need to be taught earty. There strong
like cancer need to be caught early. There strong message that people
There strong message that people should come forward. But also some
should come forward. But also some positives. I think I think GPs think
positives. I think I think GPs think video consultations have worked very
video consultations have worked very well for a certain type of patient,
well for a certain type of patient, and they expect that to continue
and they expect that to continue going forward. Perhaps more than
going forward. Perhaps more than would otherwise have happened. There
would otherwise have happened. There is a question here, it might be
is a question here, it might be the Health Secretary who needs to answer
Health Secretary who needs to answer this, but do you have any idea where
this, but do you have any idea where the Government hasn’t chosen to keep
the Government hasn’t chosen to keep the regular hospitals in place for
the regular hospitals in place for those essential services, and send
those essential services, and send the Covid—19 cases to the
the Covid—19 cases to the Nightingale hospitals, which were
Nightingale hospitals, which were set up remarkably quickly but
set up remarkably quickly but haven’t been used? It is a logical
haven’t been used? It is a logical question to ask, and actually the
question to ask, and actually the NHS has followed a version of that
NHS has followed a version of that strategy for cancer care where they
strategy for cancer rare where they are
strategy for cancer care where they are essentially trying to designate
are essentially trying to designate some cancer centres completely
some cancer centres completely clean, so you can go to your
doan, so you ran go to your radiotherapy
clean, so you can go to your radiotherapy treatment knowing it is
radiotherapy treatment knowing it is a Covid—19 free environment. But
a Covid-19 free environment. But patient safety
a Covid—19 free environment. But patient safety is now at the
patient safety is now at the forefront of everybody’s mind,
forefront of everybody’s mind, because to give you an obvious
because to give you an obvious example, we don’t want to go back to
example, we don’t want to go back to crowded A&E departments. The
crowded AaE departments. The president
crowded A&E departments. The president of the Royal College of
president of the Royal College of emergency medicine rightly point out
emergency medicine rightly point out that would be a disastrous step
that would be a disastrous step backwards because you could then go
backwards because you could then go to ASIE
backwards because you could then go to A&E and catch coronavirus. We
to “IE and catch coronavirus. We need to
to A&E and catch coronavirus. We need to find a way of services
need to find a way of services resuming to keep patients safe and
resuming to keep patients safe and that is what a lot of work is
that is what a lot of work is happening for at the moment. What
happening for at the moment. what sort of funding
happening for at the moment. What sort of funding is the NHS going to
sort offunding is the NHS going to need
sort of funding is the NHS going to need after the lockdown ends to
need after the lockdown ends to ensure that it isn’t going to take
ensure that it isn’t going to take years and years to catch up with
years and years to catch up with these other essential treatments,
these other essential treatments, which some doctors have warned will
which some doctors have warned will be the case? That’s a good question.
be the use? That’s a good question. We asked
be the case? That’s a good question. We asked that very directly to
We asked that very directly to Claire Murdoch, the head of mental
Claire Murdoch, the head of mental health for NHS England, because
health for NHS England, because mental health services were on track
mental health services were on track to see their annual Budget rise by
to see their annual Budget rise by 52.3
to see their annual Budget rise by £2.3 billion by 2023, 2024. That
£2.3 billion by 2023, 2024. That commitment is there. But coronavirus
commitment is there. But coronavirus is going to create additional
is going to create additional pressures on mental health services,
pressures on mental health services, so, pressures like social isolation,
so, pressures like social isolation, peopla
so, pressures like social isolation, people being on their own for long
people being on their own for long periods of time. NHS staff on the
periods of time. NHS staff on the front line who might have PTSD
front line who might have PTSD because of some of the trauma they
because of some of the trauma they have been through. 50, we need to
have been through. So, we need to make sure
have been through. 50, we need to make sure the progress that was
make sure the progress that was really starting to happen in mental
really starting to happen in mental health continues despite
health continues despite coronavirus, and it doesn’t get set
coronavims, and it doesn’t get set back. The
coronavirus, and it doesn’t get set back. The Government says it is
back. The Government says it is pretty confident it will have
pretty confident it will have reached the target of 100,000
reached the target of 100,000 Covid—19 tests a day by the end of
Covid-19 tests a day by the end of April, which
Covid—19 tests a day by the end of April, which was yesterday, of
April, which was yesterday, of course. But what use is that if we
course. But what use is that if we don’t have the contact tracing that,
don’t have the contact tracing that, for example, South Korea used to
for example, South Korea used to some effect? First of all, it is a
some effect? First of all, it is a very big achievement if we hit it,
very big achievement if we hit it, or even if we get near it, because
or even if we get near it, because the biggest single thing that has
the biggest single thing that has stopped us being like South Korea,
stopped us being like South Korea, which seems to be the country that
which seems to be the country that has been the best in the world at
has been the best in the world at tackling coronavirus. If the
tackling coronavirus. If the Government decides it wants to set
Government decides it wants to set “P
Government decides it wants to set up thousands of people, they can do
up thousands of peopla, they ran do that, takes a
up thousands of people, they can do that, takes a couple of weeks, but
that, takes a couple of weeks, but they ran do
that, takes a couple of weeks, but they can do that. The testing
they ran do that. The testing capacity is
they can do that. The testing capacity is more complex, however.
capacity is more complax, however. You
capacity is more complex, however. You need the laboratories, you need
You need the laboratories, you need the chemicals, you need the
the chemicals, you need the logistic of
the chemicals, you need the logistics of getting the samples to
logistic of getting the samples to those
logistics of getting the samples to those laboratories. That is the key
those laboratories. That is the key to unlocking the best practice that
to unlocking the best practice that you see in countries like South
you see in countries like South Korea and Germany, which I think we
Korea and Germany, which I think we will now be able to do here. Jeremy
will now be able to do here. jeremy Hunt, chair of
will now be able to do here. Jeremy Hunt, chair of the health and social
Hunt, chair of the health and social rare
Hunt, chair of the health and social care select committee, thank you for
rare select committee, thank you for joining us. The
care select committee, thank you for joining us. The headlines:
The coronavirus pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry —
European budget carrier Ryanair announces 3000
job losses.
The government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000
daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
US President Donald Trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests
coronavirus originated in a Chinese laboratory.
He provided no details.
His own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating
how the virus began, but have determined
Covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
David Willis reports.
The PA pathogen lab at Wuhan’s Institute of Virology.
Did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
China strenuously denies such suggestions.
The President of the United States believes otherwise.
Mr Trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab,
although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
He told reporters either China couldn’t stop the virus
from spreading, or it didn’t try to.
This is something that could have been contained at the original
location, and I think it could have been contained relatively easily.
China is a very sophisticated country and they could
have contained it.
They were either unable to or they chose not
to and the world is suffering greatly.
Whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy
theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed
as a biological weapon, the US intelligence community didn’t
contradict the President’s theory, saying:
This country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus
than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more
than 60,000 deaths.
The virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy,
leading to long lines in cities such as Houston,
as people queue for free food.
Although he’s avoided direct criticism of China’s President Xi,
with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, President Trump has
talked of making China pay for the harm the virus has caused
to the American economy and, by extension, to his
chances of re—election.
Relations between the world’s two largest economies could get
very frosty indeed.
David Willis, BBC News.
In the global battle against coronavirus,
personal protective equipment, or PPE, is of course essential
for frontline workers.
But there is growing concern that standard unisex designs don’t
always fit women properly.
Britain’s Department of Health says the kit is designed
to protect "both genders".
However, healthcare workers are saying that even the smallest
sizes are too big for some women — who make up well over two
thirds of the national health service workforce.
Caroline Criado—Perez, whose book Invisible Women addresses
the issue of ill—fitting PPE for women in one of its chapters,
said she has been inundated with messages from healthcare
workers who could not find protective equipment to fit them.
Shejoins me now.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Just
Thank you for joining us. just exactly
Thank you forjoining us. Just exactly what the problem with the
exactly what the problem with the kit women are being issued with?
kit women are being issued with? What the front line health care
What the front line health care workers are telling me is that it
workers are telling me is that it just doesn’t fit them properly. The
just doesn’t fit them property. The problem with
just doesn’t fit them properly. The problem with that is in order for
problem with that is in order for PDE to protect you it needs to fit
PDE to protect you it needs to fit you property. --
PDE to protect you it needs to fit you properly. —— PPE. I’ve often
you property. -- PPE. I’ve often talked
you properly. —— PPE. I’ve often talked about stab vests not being
talked about stab vests not being able to accommodate breast tissue,
able to accommodate breast tissue, so they don’t fit women properly. I
so they don’t fit women property. I have seen
so they don’t fit women properly. I have seen reports of gloves being to
have seen reports of gloves being to become a gown is being too big,
become a gown is being too big, those are more about trip hazards,
those are more about trip hazards, making it hard to move around, but
making it hard to move around, but the real issue needs to be eyewear
the real issue needs to be eyewear -- Mega seems
the real issue needs to be eyewear —— Mega seems to be eyewear and the
-- Mega seems to be eyewear and the masks. The
—— Mega seems to be eyewear and the masks. The masks are too big to get
masks. The masks are too big to get a seal and that the fundamental
a seal and that the fundamental point of the mask. You need a good
point of the mask. You need a good seal in order to protect you from
seal in order to protect you from the virus reaching your respiratory
the virus reaching your respiratory airways. If it doesn’t have a good
airways. If it doesn’t have a good seal it isn’t doing any good at all.
seal it isn’t doing any good at all. I am hearing from a lot of women
I am hearing from a lot of women that they are not able to find any
that they are not able to find any masks, or that there is only one
masks, or that there is only one type of mask that fits them because
type of mask that fits them because it is the only small one. And with
it is the only small one. And with PPE being in short supply, and the
PPE being in short supply, and the vast majority of NHS workers being
vast majority of NHS workers being femala,
vast majority of NHS workers being female, and a lot of them needing
female, and a lot of them needing the smaller masks, they are
the smaller masks, they are particularty
the smaller masks, they are particularly running low on the only
particularty mnning low on the only mask
particularly running low on the only mask that fits them. Other stories
mask that fits them. other stories I’ve
mask that fits them. Other stories I’ve heard have been from the people
I’ve heard have been from the people who are doing the fit checks and the
who are doing the fit checks and the fit tests who are telling me that
fit tests who are telling me that women are being much more likely to
women are being much more likely to fail the fit tests and to fail for
fail the fit tests and to fail for all of the masks than men. There is
all of the masks than men. There is very dearty an
all of the masks than men. There is very clearly an issue going on here
very dearty an issue going on here as reported
very clearly an issue going on here as reported from the front line. The
as reported from the front line. The problem that we have is that it is
problem that we have is that it is very difficult to get hold of good
very difficult to get hold of good data on exactly what is going on in
data on exactly what is going on in terms of who have the masks been
terms of who have the masks been designed for, what are the size
designed for, what are the size specifications, what are the
specifications, what are the datasets which were used to make
datasets which were used to make these designs. I’ve got hold of some
these designs. I’ve got hold of some data from the US which suggests the
data from the US which suggests the data are very heavily male
data are very heavily male dominated, but it isn’t clear
dominated, but it isn’t clear whether their data are separated by
whether their data are separated by gender and therefore was creating
gender and therefore was creating ones that would fit women and ones
ones that would fit women and ones that would fit men, or whether they
that would fit men, or whether they were mashing the data all together
were mashing the data all together and creating a unisex sizing. And if
and creating a unisex sizing. And if that is the case, then it is more
that is the use, then it is more likely that
that is the case, then it is more likely that they would fit more men
likely that they would fit more men than women. I think you very much.
than women. I think you very much. -- thank you very
than women. I think you very much. —— thank you very much.
Antibody tests could be a key weapon in the battle
to conquer coronavirus, by showing whether someone
has already had it — and developed signs of immunity.
They work by using a drop of blood on a device that works a bit
like a pregnancy test.
But so far no home antibody test has proved reliable enough to be used.
Joining me now is now Dr Elisabetta Groppelli
is a Virologist and lecturer in global health at St George’s
University London.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. We were
Thank you for joining us. We were expecting that
Thank you forjoining us. We were expecting that Britain would have
expecting that Britain would have bought millions of antibody tests.
bought millions of antibody tests. What’s happened to those? That was
what’s happened to those? That was the
What’s happened to those? That was the declaration and the hope that we
the declaration and the hope that we were told many weeks ago. The
were told many weeks ago. The reality is that it was very much
reality is that it was very much based on lots of things going right,
based on lots of things going right, and when it comes to this rapid
and when it comes to this rapid test, unfortunately, lots of things
test, unfortunately, lots of things ran go wrong.
test, unfortunately, lots of things can go wrong. Therefore we had to
ran go wrong. Therefore we had to readjust the
can go wrong. Therefore we had to readjust the trajectory in terms of
readjust the trajectory in terms of the tests which are available
the tests which are available needing more work, and therefore
needing more work, and therefore they rannot
needing more work, and therefore they cannot be used, not even in the
they cannot be used, not even in the labs,
they rannot be used, not even in the labs, certainly
they cannot be used, not even in the labs, certainly not by members of
labs, certainly not by members of the public at home. Certainly not
the public at home. Certainly not reliable for any of us at the
reliable for any of us at the moment. But why are antibody tests
moment. But why are antibody tests going to be so important, in your
going to be so important, in your view, as we try to get out of these
view, as we try to get out of these lockdown restrictions, and,
lockdown restrictions, and, hopefully, get on top of the
hopefully, get on top of the pandemic? At the moment the
pandemic? At the moment the assumption is if you have the virus
assumption is if you have the virus your body will have made antibodies,
your body will have made antibodies, which are the molecules that allow
which are the molacules that allow your
which are the moloculos that allow your body to
which are the molecules that allow your body to then recognise the
your body to then recognise the virus if you come into contact with
virus if you come into contact with it again and then fight it off very
it again and than fight it off very quickly and
it again and then fight it off very quickly and very efficiently. But
quickly and very efficiently. But this is, at the moment, an
this is, at the moment, an assumption, and more data is
assumption, and more data is required to confirm this. In terms
required to confirm this. In terms of what we already know, if you had
of what we already know, if you had a
of what we already know, if you had ammm
of what we already know, if you had a recent infection this antibody is
a recent infection this antibody is unlikely to protect you, at least
unlikely to protect you, at least for the shorter term, for an
for the shorter term, for an infection. If we can check, if we
infection. If we ran check, if we ran screen
infection. If we can check, if we can screen people and see if they
ran screen people and see if they have this
can screen people and see if they have this protective immunity, then
have this protective immunity, then we ran put this
have this protective immunity, then we can put this back into informing
we ran put this back into informing policy, or
we can put this back into informing policy, or maybe informing
policy, or maybe informing individual lives. Because if I have
individual lives. Because if I have had infection, I’ve had the
had infection, I’ve had the antibodies, they are effective, we
antibodies, they are effective, we had a reliable test, that would lead
had a reliable test, that would lead me to safely assume I was being
me to safely assume I was being protected and that I would not get
protected and that I would not get the virus and I would not contribute
the virus and I would not contribute to spreading the virus further. How
to spreading the virus further. How important is it, then, that we have
important is it, then, that we have a range of approaches at the end of
a range of approaches at the end of this pandemic, or to try to bring
this pandemic, or to try to bring the end about. I’m thinking the
the end about. I’m thinking the antibodies test, yes, which isn’t
antibodies test, yes, which isn’t reliabla,
antibodies test, yes, which isn’t reliable, but also a vaccine and an
reliabla, but also a vaccine and an antiviral
reliable, but also a vaccine and an antiviral which could bring about a
antiviral which could bring about a cure or a hastening of a recovery
cure or a hastening of a recovery from Covid—19. Absolutely. It’s
from Covid—19. Absolutely. It’s fantastic that as scientists and
fantastic that as scientists and clinicians we are tackling the virus
clinicians we are tackling the virus on all of these different
on all of these different directions. Because the reality is
directions. Because the reality is that they are all needed. A vaccine
that they are all needed. A vaccine is fantastic but it also needs time.
is fantastic but it also needs time. To be honest, we also know that some
To be honest, we also know that some peopla might not
To be honest, we also know that some people might not be able to be
people might not be able to be vaccinated because of underlying
vaccinated because of undertying health
vaccinated because of underlying health conditions, immunity, etc. We
health conditions, immunity, etc. We need to have something else. So,
need to have something else. So, antivirals, drugs that can be given
antivirals, drugs that ran be given to peopla to
antivirals, drugs that can be given to people to either prevent
to people to either prevent infections or treat it are another
infections or treat it are another important weapon in the arsenal we
important weapon in the arsenal we need to develop. So, all of these
need to develop. So, all of these things need to be done and they are
things need to be done and they are being developed. And there is a
being developed. And there is a massive effort which has been going
massive effort which has been going on scientifically and medically.
on scientifically and medically. Unfortunately, we need medications,
Unfortunately, we need meditations, because
Unfortunately, we need medications, because for this trial, for all of
because for this trial, for all of these developments, that takes time.
these developments, that takes time. —— unfortunately, we need time. We
-- unfortunately, we need time. We need to
—— unfortunately, we need time. We need to maintain a physical distance
need to maintain a physical distance and wash hands while this work
and wash hands while this work continues. That information has gone
continues. That information has gone into the background, but that is
into the background, but that is still really important in the fight
still really important in the fight against preventing the spread.
against preventing the spread. Thanks very much. Reaction now from
Thanks very much. Reaction now from the law firm representing the
the law firm representing the Duchess of Sussex about her High
Duchess of Sussex about her High Court case against the Mail on
Court rase against the Mail on Sunday. The
Court case against the Mail on Sunday. The Mail on Sunday has won
Sunday. The Mail on Sunday has won the first stage of the High Court
the first stage of the High Court hearing in the Duchess of Sussex’s
hearing in the Duchess of Sussex’s privacy claim. She put this claim
privacy daim. She put this claim against the
privacy claim. She put this claim against the publication because it
against the publication because it chose to publish a letter she wrote
chose to publish a letter she wrote to her estranged father. In a
to her estranged father. In a statement issued after the ruling, a
statement issued after the ruling, a spokesperson from the law firm
spokesperson from the law firm representing Meghan Markle said the
representing Meghan Markle said the core elements of this case do not
core elements of this use do not change and we
core elements of this case do not change and we will continue to move
change and we will continue to move forward. The Duchess’s rights were
forward. The Duchess’s rights were violated. The legal boundaries
violated. The legal boundaries around privacy were crossed. As part
around privacy were crossed. As part of this process, the extremes to
of this process, the extremes to which The Mail on Sunday used
which The Mail on Sunday used distorted, manipulative, and
distorted, manipulative, and dishonest tactics to target the
dishonest tactics to target the Duchess of Sussex have been put on
Duchess of Sussex have been put on full display. That’s the reaction
full display. That’s the reaction from the Duchess of’s law firm. Time
from the Duchess ofs law firm. Time for a look at
from the Duchess of’s law firm. Time for a look at the weather forecast.
The April showers arrived yesterday and
they have continued into the start of May. If you are heading out for
of May. If you are heading out for your exercise in the next couple of
your exercise in the next couple of hours there will be showers around.
hours there will be showers around. But, over the weekend, those showers
But, over the weekend, those showers are easing down. The reason we have
are easing down. The reason we have so many showers today is low
so many showers today is low pressure. Low pressure with us in
pressure. Low pressure with us in the north, towards the west, and
the north, towards the west, and indeed down the East Coast. Still
indeed down the East Coast. Still lively showers there, hail and
lively showers there, hail and thunder, fewer than yesterday in the
thunder, fewer than yesterday in the south, and slightly longer spells of
south, and slightly longer spells of sunshine. Temperature slightly
sunshine. Temperature slightly higher, breeze slightly last, but it
higher, breeze slightly last, but it is noticeable in the north—west. It
is noticeable in the north-west. It is not
is noticeable in the north—west. It is not especially warm air over the
is not especially warm air over the UK because it is coming from the
UK because it is coming from the north. Showers tonight. Temperatures
north. Showers tonight. Temperatures will still fall close to freezing,
will still fall close to freezing, particularly in Scotland and
particularly in Scotland and Northern Ireland. We have starry
Northern Ireland. We have starry skies, clearer
Northern Ireland. We have starry skies, clearerskies
Northern Ireland. We have starry skies, clearer skies as we start the
skies, dearer skies as we start the day tomorrow,
skies, clearer skies as we start the day tomorrow, fewer showers around,
day tomorrow, fewer showers around, but you will see the chance of rain
but you will see the chance of rain approaching the south later. Still a
approaching the south later. Still a risk of showers in the north and
risk of showers in the north and north—west. But longer spells of
north—west. But longer spells of sunshine and temperatures will be
sunshine and temperatures will be up. I
sunshine and temperatures will be up. Iwill
sunshine and temperatures will be up. I will have more later.
Hello, this is BBC News with Martine Croxall.
The headlines.
The European budget airline Ryanair announces it
plans to cut 3,000 jobs, as part of restructuring
because of the virus.
We will be closing some bases in the UK and in
Spain and other places across
Europe, because by the time we get out of this we will be into the
winter schedule anyway, and it’s going to be very difficult.
The British government says it’s confident it’s target
of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of April has been met.
President Trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated
in a Chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
The publisher of the Mail on Sunday has won the first stage
at the High Court in the Duchess of Sussex’s privacy claim against it
over publication of a letter to her estranged father.
We can talk to our Legal Correspondent, Clive Coleman.
The Duchess of Sussex is suing the publishers of the mail on Sunday,
publishers of the mail on Sunday, Associated Newspapers N relation
Associated Newspapers N relation to our letter she wrote to her father
our letter she wrote to her father Thomas Markle published in part
Thomas Markle published in part by the news on Sunday would you said
the news on Sunday would you said was an invasion of privacy under
was an invasion of privacy under copyright and a breach of
copyright and a breach of data protection.
m:
We are five what may be described today as an early skirmish in
today as an earty skirmish in a legal battle.
today as an early skirmish in a legal battle. This is an early
legal battle. This is an early skirmish and released an application
skirmish and released an application by associated newspapers to have
by associated newspapers to have part the claim of the Duchess of
part the claim of the Duchess of Sussex struck out. There were three
Sussex stmck out. There were three elements they
Sussex struck out. There were three elements they were concerned about
elements they were concerned about what it struck out. Firstly
what it struck out. Firstly allegations that they acted
allegations that they acted dishonestly and in bad faith, for
dishonestly and in bad faith, for instance in cutting out parts
instance in cutting out parts of sentences from the letter.
sentences from the letter. Secondly, they deliberately dug up Lee Mack
they deliberately dug up Lee Mack stirred up conflict between the
stirred up conflict between the Duchess and her father.
stirred up conflict between the Duchess and herfather. And
stirred up conflict between the Duchess and her father. And the
Duchess and her father. And the Duchess were disturbed by
Duchess were disturbed by the defendants obvious agenda by
defendants obvious agenda by publishing intrusive and disturbing
publishing intrusive and disturbing stories about the image of a train
stories about the image of a train her in a false and damaging light.
her in a false and damaging light. This is about associated newspapers
This is about associated newspapers taking exception to the way the case
taking exception to the way the use with the
taking exception to the way the case with the boot in terms
with the boot in terms of allegations of dishonesty and
allegations of dishonesty and stirring up. Today Mr
allegations of dishonesty and stirring up. Today MrJustice Warby,
stirring up. Today Mr justice Warby, last
stirring up. Today MrJustice Warby, last week there was a feeling we are
last week there was a feeling we are Mr -- hearing
last week there was a feeling we are Mr —— hearing where
last week there was a feeling we are Mr —— hearing whereJustice Warby
Mr -- hearing where justice Warby held it
Mr —— hearing whereJustice Warby held it remotely and Associated
held it remotely and Associated Newspapers make their arguments.
Newspapers make their arguments. Today he has struck out those three
Today he has stmck out those three critical parts of
Today he has struck out those three critical parts of the claim.
Let’s cross to Cardiff now where The First Minister of Wales —
Mark Drakeford — is making an announcement
Often not well paid providing invisible scaffolding of services
invisible scaffolding of services supporting the NHS and our wider
supporting the NHS and our wider society. Without the small army
society. without the small army of peopla
society. without the small army of people large
society. Without the small army of people large numbers of adults would
peopla large numbers of adults would not be
people large numbers of adults would not be able to continue to live
not be able to continue to live independently at home or
independently at home or receive everyday support of basic needs
everyday support of basic needs while living in a residential care
while living in a residential rare home. It
while living in a residential care home. It is the nature of the social
home. It is the nature of the social rare sector
home. It is the nature of the social care sector different pay scales
rare sector different pay scales and terms
care sector different pay scales and terms and conditions in different
terms and conditions in different places. As I have said some of the
places. As I have said some of the social rare
places. As I have said some of the social care workforce are
social rare workforce are amongst the
social care workforce are amongst the lowest paid wheels. —— in Wales.
the lowest paid wheels. -- in Walas. That is
the lowest paid wheels. -- in Wales. That is very
the lowest paid wheels. —— in Wales. That is very difficult to the
That is very difficult to the National Health Service where pay
National Health Service where pay across the country is covered by
across the country is covered by uniform and establish pay bands. And
uniform and establish pay hands. And where we
uniform and establish pay bands. And where we have been hearing the
where we have been hearing the living wage in Wales for many years.
living wage in Walas for many years. -- pain. "Paying.
living wage in Wales for many years. —— pain. ——Paying. Under normal
—— pain. ——Paying. Under normal circumstances such payments would be
circumstances such payments would be subject to tax and benefit
subject to tax and benefit deductions but I want every penny of
deductions but I want every penny of these £500 to be in the hands of
these 500 to be in the hands of those
these £500 to be in the hands of those for whom it is intended so I
those for whom it is intended so I am calling on the UK Government
am calling on the UK Government and HMRC today to make sure that this
HMRC today to make sure that this 5500
HMRC today to make sure that this 500 is
HMRC today to make sure that this £500 is free of tax and free of
£500 is free of tax and free of National insurance. We are
National insurance. We are operating in exceptional circumstances. Our
in exceptional circumstances. Our social care workers are providing an
social rare workers are providing an exceptional
social care workers are providing an exceptional service. An exception
exceptional service. An exception should be made to the payment of tax
should be made to the payment of tax and national insurance in this case.
and national insurance in this use. The First
and national insurance in this case. The First Minister of Wales are no
The First Minister of Wales are no residential and care home workers
residential and rare home workers are going to
residential and care home workers are going to get a cash bonus of
are going to get a rash bonus of £500 to
are going to get a cash bonus of £500 to five on their work
£500 to five on their work during the coronavirus pandemic and has
the coronavirus pandemic and has also called on the UK Government not
also called on the UK Government not to tax the bonus on reduce
to tax the bonus on reduce any welfare payments they might receive
welfare payments they might receive as a result. £500 each of those care
as a result. £500 each of those rare workers.
The First Minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon
is holding the daily coronavirus briefing in Edinburgh,
let’s go to that now.
The capacity protesting in Scotland is now 8350 and I expect that to be
is now 8350 and I expect that to be at least 10,500 by this time next
at least 10,500 by this time next week and 12,000 by the middle of the
week and 12,000 by the middle of the month. That is a significant
month. That is a significant increase in capacity and I pay
increase in capacity and I pay tribute to all those who have
tribute to all those who have worked so hard to achieve it both in
so hard to achieve it both in our NHS Scotland loud and in the
NHS Scotland loud and in the UK Government testing network. ——
Government testing network. —— laboratories. What matters is the
laboratories. what matters is the volume
laboratories. What matters is the volume of testing we do and the
volume of testing we do and the clinical objections —— objectives
clinical objections -- objectives set for
clinical objections —— objectives set for testing. We are also working
set for testing. We are also working to increase the number of tests
to increase the number of tests carried out but also to extend
carried out but also to extend categories protesting in a way that
categories protesting in a way that better equips us to the virus. ——
better equips us to the vims. -- suppress the
better equips us to the virus. —— suppress the virus. Fluctuations
suppress the vims. Fluctuations in daily demand
suppress the virus. Fluctuations in daily demand we will never perfectly
daily demand we will never perfectly match the number of tests to
match the number of tests to the capacity protesting at a very
capacity protesting at a very good clinical reasons many people
clinical reasons many people need more than one test so the number of
more than one test so the number of tests carried out will never equal
tests carried out will never equal the number of people tested.
the number of people tested. Of course our aim on an ongoing basis
course our aim on an ongoing basis is to use as much of our capacity
is to use as much of our capacity each as possible. Given that our
each as possible. Given that our capacity is now
capacity is now expanded significantly that means we can
significantly that means we ran further
significantly that means we can further extend eligibility for
further extend eligibility for testing which I will come unto
testing which I will come unto Charlotte. Firstly let me report on
Charlotte. Firstly let me report on the numbers released yesterday for
the numbers released yesterday for tests actually carried out. There
tests actually carried out. There are two categories uncovered here.
are two categories uncovered here. Between tests in hospitals and care
Between tests in hospitals and rare homes
Between tests in hospitals and care homes and the community I can
homes and the community I ran confirm
homes and the community I can confirm there were 2537 NHS tests
confirm there were 2557 NHS tests carried
confirm there were 2537 NHS tests carried out yesterday and in
carried out yesterday and in total since the start of the outbreak to
since the start of the outbreak to 4954
since the start of the outbreak to 4984 NHS tests have been carried
4954 NHS tests have been carried out. In
4984 NHS tests have been carried out. In addition, 2124 tests were
out. In addition, 2124 tests were carried out yesterday with a
carried out yesterday with a regional drive through testing
regional drive through testing centres. These figures are not be
centres. These figures are not be previously included in our
previously included in our daily figures that will be from now on
figures that will be from now on stop because this is data coming to
stop because this is data coming to us from the UK wide system it will
us from the UK wide system it will be a few more days until we
be a few more days until we ran break it
be a few more days until we can break it down into positive and
break it down into positive and negative tests. In total I can
negative tests. In total I ran confirm
negative tests. In total I can confirm or thousand 661 tests
confirm or thousand 661 tests were carried out across Scotland. —— 4661
carried out across Scotland. -- 4661 which equates to
carried out across Scotland. —— 4661 which equates to 4187 people. The
which equates to 4187 peopla. The final
which equates to 4187 people. The final statistic relates to key
final statistic relates to key workers. 22,A00 key workers and
workers. 22,400 key workers and their family
workers. 22,A00 key workers and theirfamily members
workers. 22,A00 key workers and their family members have
workers. 22,A00 key workers and theirfamily members have now been
their family members have now been tested
theirfamily members have now been tested within the NHS system and
tested within the NHS system and over 4000 of these are in the last
over 4000 of these are in the last week alone. Given the increases in
week alone. Given the increases in capacity we have seen in the past
capacity we have seen in the past week and to ensure we are fully
week and to ensure we are fully utilising that capacity it is
utilising that capacity it is clear we are and are able to
we are and are able to extend eligibility for testing further so
eligibility for testing further so I want to know to turn to these next
want to know to turn to these next steps. -- now to
want to know to turn to these next steps. —— now to time. It is
steps. -- nowto time. It is important to
steps. —— now to time. It is important to stress this is not
important to stress this is not simply an exercise in driving up
simply an exercise in driving up numbers. Tests, particularly
numbers. Tests, particularty for frail
numbers. Tests, particularly for frail older people can be evasive
frail older peopla ran be evasive and
frail older people can be evasive and unpleasant decisions about
and unpleasant decisions about testing must always be clinically
testing must always be clinically driven. As we know tackling the
driven. As we know tackling the spread of the virus is an urgent
spread of the virus is an urgent priority everywhere but particularly
priority everywhere but particularty right now in
priority everywhere but particularly right now in our care homes.
right now in our rare homes. Currently
right now in our care homes. Currently 40% of our care homes have
Currently 4096 of our rare homes have symptoms of
Currently 40% of our care homes have symptoms of the virus in them. We
symptoms of the virus in them. We already test those showing symptoms
already test those showing symptoms and symptomatic care home staff. We
and symptomatic rare home staff. We now
and symptomatic care home staff. We now intend to undertake an enhanced
now intend to undertake an enhanced outbreak investigation and all care
outbreak investigation and all rare homes
outbreak investigation and all care homes where there are any cases of
homes where there are any rases of the virus
homes where there are any cases of the virus which will involve testing
the virus which will involve testing subject to the consent of
subject to the consent of individuals all residents and staff
individuals all residents and staff whether or not they have symptoms.
whether or not they have symptoms. In addition aware care home without
In addition aware rare home without rigours part of a
In addition aware care home without rigours part of a group on a chain
rigours part of a group on a chain and staff may still move between
and staff may still move between different homes will also carry out
different homes will also carry out urgent testing in any linked homes.
urgent testing in any linked homes. We will also begin sampling
We will also begin sampling testing and care homes where there are no
and rare homes where there are no cases. By
and care homes where there are no cases. By definition there’s lots of
cases. By definition there’s lots of protesting residents and staff who
protesting residents and staff who are not symptomatic. —— this will
are not symptomatic. -- this will mean testing.
are not symptomatic. —— this will mean testing. This is
mean testing. This is that significant operational task and we
significant operational task and we do not underestimate the logistics
do not underestimate the logistic and the
do not underestimate the logistics and the workforce required now we
and the workforce required now we have the increased testing capacity
have the increased testing capacity we will make it happen as swiftly as
we will make it happen as swiﬂiy as practical. jill
we will make it happen as swiftly as practical. Jill Young, who you will
practical. jill Young, who you will recall as
practical. Jill Young, who you will recall as the chief executive of the
recall as the chief executive of the Louisa jordan
recall as the chief executive of the Louisa Jordan Hospital has agreed to
Louisa jordan Hospital has agreed to [ad
Louisa jordan Hospital has agreed to lead the
Louisa Jordan Hospital has agreed to lead the team. The NHS Board and the
lead the team. The NHS Board and the partners will put the into effect
partners will put the into effect from next week. I’m also able
from next week. I’m also able to confirm an extension to
confirm an extension to eligibility for testing through the UK wide
for testing through the UK wide hooking
for testing through the UK wide booking system and the drive
booking system and the drive through a mobile testing centres. As of now
a mobile testing centres. As of now we are expanding eligibility
we are expanding eligibility to include all those over the age of 65
include all those over the age of 65 symptoms and their households and
symptoms and their households and in addition to key workers were
addition to key workers were already eligible through the system anyone,
eligible through the system anyone, though I have stressed should not
though I have stressed should not be many peopla
though I have stressed should not be many people in this group, who
many peopla in this group, who is not a key
many people in this group, who is not a key worker but is required to
not a key worker but is required to leave home to go to work. We will
leave home to go to work. We will take steps over the coming days to
take steps over the coming days to increase public awareness of
increase public awareness of the ability of eligible groups to book
ability of eligibla groups to book test
ability of eligible groups to book test through the system. If there is
test through the system. If there is high demand may be a need for an
high demand may be a need for an onUne
high demand may be a need for an online queueing system and if
online queueing system and if necessary work with the UK
necessary work with the UK Government 3 further expansion. We
Government a further expansion. We intend to
Government 3 further expansion. We intend to work flexibly between the
intend to work ﬂexibly between the two testing
intend to work flexibly between the two testing systems, the UK
two testing systems, the UK wide system and our own NHS system
system and our own NHS system mission would make the most of
mission would make the most of the total capacity we have. Over the
total capacity we have. Over the past month we have made significant
past month we have made significant strides in our testing capacity. We
strides in our testing capacity. We have not just
strides in our testing capacity. We have notjust met the target of
have not just met the target of capacity for
have notjust met the target of capacity for 3500 tests per day
capacity for 3500 tests per day within the NHS but exceeded it. That
within the NHS but exceeded it. That coupled with our participation
couplad with our participation in the UK
coupled with our participation in the UK wide system means that its
the UK wide system means that its current capacity for more than 8000
current capacity for more than 8000 tests per day in Scotland that have
tests per day in Scotland that have set out with other NHS work that
set out with other NHS work that will expand further on the. Over
will expand further on the. Over 4000 tests were carried out
4000 tests were carried out yesterday and now we have that
yesterday and now we have that increase and increasing capacity we
increase and increasing capacity we are able to announce a further
are able to announce a further expansion of testing in care homes
expansion of testing in rare homes and
expansion of testing in care homes and those within the general
and those within the general public you ran
and those within the general public you can access a test. This
you ran access a test. This expansion
you can access a test. This expansion of testing that I set out
expansion of testing that I set out today is separate and distinct
today is separate and distinct from our move to establish a test trace
our move to establish a test trace isolate system. As part of our
isolate system. As part of our approach to changing and
approach to changing and hopefully leave it in the long measures are
leave it in the long measures are continuing to suppress the virus. We
continuing to suppress the vims. We will set
continuing to suppress the virus. We will set out will determine that
will set out will determine that next week but I should stress that
next week but I should stress that approach will require us to
approach will require us to increase our testing capacity even further
our testing capacity even further than the levels I have been able to
than the levels I have been able to report today. In a moment the Health
report today. In a moment the Health Secretary will set out one final
Secretary will set out one final piece of information about testing
piece of information about testing which is very important and that is
which is very important and that is our use of antibody testing. Before
our use of antibody testing. Before that I want to end by stressing that
that I want to end by stressing that testing is really important as part
testing is really important as part of our efforts to tackle this virus.
of our efforts to tackla this vims. It’s important
of our efforts to tackle this virus. It’s important new and will
It’s important now and will be important in
It’s important new and will be important in the next phase and the
important in the next phase and the time I have dedicated to matoday
time I have dedicated to matoday demonstrates that. It remains
demonstrates that. It remains the rase
demonstrates that. It remains the case that
demonstrates that. It remains the rase that right
demonstrates that. It remains the case that right now most important
use that right now most important thing we are
case that right now most important thing we are all doing is staying at
thing we are all doing is staying at home and following the
home and following the long-term mles. As
home and following the long—term rules. As I said that is making a
rules. As I said that is making a difference and is allowing us to
difference and is allowing us to start to see some light at the
start to see some light at the end of the tunnel. But as I
of the tunnel. But as I also suggested that progress is
suggested that progress is fragile and if we ease up no that lights
and if we ease up no that lights could be extinguished. So please,
could be extinguished. So please, especially as we head into another
especially as we head into another account, please stick with it and
account, please stick with it and thank you again for your compliance
thank you again for your compliance and for doing the right thing in
and for doing the right thing in the interests of the whole country.
interests of the whole country. Thank you for hearing with me
Thank you for hearing with me through what was a complex and
through what was a complex and technical update. I will hand over
technical update. I will hand over to the Cabinet Secretary
to the Cabinet Secretary too, antibody testing that three of us
antibody testing that three of us including the Chief Medical Officer
including the Chief Medical Officer will take as usual. So much you’re
will take as usual. So much you’re talking about the antibody testing.
talking about the antibody testing. Programme. It is an important tool
Programme. It is an important tool which allows us to monitor the
which allows us to monitor the proportion of people exposed to
proportion of people exposed to Covid—19 are spread across the
Covid-19 are spread across the population.
Covid—19 are spread across the population. The population. The test
population. The population. The test indicates whether a person must add
indicates whether a person must add the infection by looking at the
the infection by looking at the antibody is signed by people
antibody is signed by peopla produced
antibody is signed by people produced in response to the cited
produced in response to the cited bodies. --
produced in response to the cited bodies. —— produced by the
bodies. —— produced by the antibodies people produce in
antibodies people produce in response. The threshold of the
response. The threshold of the antibody in the blood sample is
antibody in the blood sample is detected and the results recorded.
detected and the results recorded. These results are analysed against
These results are analysed against wider population samples to
wider population samples to establish the incidence of Covid—19.
establish the incidence of Covid-19. We have
establish the incidence of Covid—19. We have been gathering samples in
We have been gathering samples in anticipation of fully valid antibody
anticipation of fully valid antibody test being available. Approximately
test being available. Approximately 500 residual examples from bio
500 residual examples from bio chemistry labs will be tested per
chemistry labs will be tested per week at the Scottish migrant biology
week at the Scottish migrant biology reference library in Inverness. ——
reference library in Inverness. -- laboratory. To
reference library in Inverness. —— laboratory. To achieve a fair
laboratory. To achieve a fair representation of the Scottish
representation of the Scottish population initial samples will be
population initial samples will be distributed across six participating
distributed across six participating health boards and by age group and
health boards and by age group and sex. The six participating
sex. The six participating Borders are loving, Greater Glasgow and
are loving, Greater Glasgow and (lyde,
are loving, Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Lanarkshire, Teesside, and
(lyde, Lanarkshire, Teesside, and Grampian. --
Clyde, Lanarkshire, Teesside, and Grampian. —— Teesside.
—— Lothian, Tayside. Health
-- Lothian, Tayside. Health protection
—— Lothian, Tayside. Health protection Scotland are using only
protection Scotland are using only the protest validation use but will
the protest validation use but will look at other tests. To ensure
look at other tests. To ensure compatibility with UK data we will
compatibility with UK data we will be using a similar methodology
be using a similar methodology to that of Public Health England.
that of Public Health England. Health protection
Health protection Scotland anticipates this testing will start
anticipates this testing will start of the 6th of May which is next
of the 6th of May which is next Wednesday and will run for at least
Wednesday and will nm for at least 16
Wednesday and will run for at least 16 weeks what this then gives us is
16 weeks what this then gives us is information from testing over
information from testing over that 16 week period started the middle of
16 week period started the middle of May and going forward. The serology
May and going forward. The serology work provides statistically robust
work provides statistically robust estimates of the ship of the
estimates of the ship of the population that has developed
population that has developed antibodies including those who have
antibodies including those who have not been showing symptoms or have
not been showing symptoms or have only experienced mild symptoms. It
only experienced mild symptoms. It is important to stress this is
is important to stress this is a population level, we have some way
population level, we have some way to go before we have an antibody
to go before we have an antibody test in place which can be used on a
test in place which ran be used on a widespread
test in place which can be used on a widespread basis of the
widespread basis of the clinical testing of individuals. But this
testing of individuals. But this testing approach is suitable for
testing approach is suitable for surveillance purposes and has been
surveillance purposes and has been fully verified. It adds to the
fully verified. It adds to the information already being collected
information already being collected in is about more severe illnesses
in is about more severe illnesses and three community testing with
and three community testing with those who have mild—to—moderate
those who have mild-to-moderate symptoms.
those who have mild—to—moderate symptoms. Finally I would like to
symptoms. Finally I would like to record my thanks to all those who
record my thanks to all those who have been working hard to get us
have been working hard to get us ready to operationalise these
ready to operationalise these tests as soon as they were validated and
as soon as they were validated and that enables us to take another
that emblas us to take another significant
that enables us to take another significant step forward in
significant step forward in our understanding of what is still very
understanding of what is still very new buyers. Thank you very much.
new buyers. Thank you very much. Perhaps the simplest way to
Perhaps the simplest way to understand this is what I reported
understand this is what I reported to you is diagnosing for the
to you is diagnosing for the somebody has the virus in the
somebody has the virus in the human eye which supported for obvious
eye which supported for obvious reasons. The Cabinet Secretary has
reasons. The Cabinet Secretary has outlined in the form of antibody
outlined in the form of antibody testing so that will hopefully
testing so that will hopefully build a picture of the numbers who
a picture of the numbers who might have had the virus in the past
have had the virus in the past and to what extent they have immunity
to what extent they have immunity as a result of that. These things are
a result of that. These things are separate but there was really
separate but there was really important as we go into future
important as we go into future phases of trying to tackle this bias
phases of trying to tackla this bias and I am
phases of trying to tackle this bias and I am now going to open for
and I am now going to open for questions. The first is
questions. The first is Glen Campbell from the BBC.
ﬂ
I was asking are we passed the peak of coronavirus is Boris
I was asking are we passed the peak of coronavirus is BorisJohnson
of coronavirus is Boris johnson suggesting
of coronavirus is BorisJohnson suggesting on his news conference
suggesting on his news conference yesterday? And when it comes to
yesterday? And when it comes to testing we have been talking to a
testing we have been talking to a whole killer today working
whola killar today working double shifts
whole killer today working double shifts and visiting more than a
shifts and visiting more than a dozen seven people per day recess
dozen seven people per day recess she cannot get a desk but would
she cannot get a desk but would like one to try and give her peace of
one to try and give her peace of mind she is not spreading the
mind she is not spreading the disease that she has it. —— cannot
disease that she has it. -- cannot get a test.
disease that she has it. —— cannot get a test. Should she be eligible
get a test. Should she be eligibla for a
get a test. Should she be eligible for a test? There are key workers
for a test? There are key workers ran book a
for a test? There are key workers can book a test and through the
ran book a test and through the drive-through
can book a test and through the drive—through centres. We are
drive-through centres. We are happy to engaged
drive—through centres. We are happy to engaged with individual groups
to engaged with individual groups to make sure there is an understanding
make sure there is an understanding of what the current position is. I
of what the current position is. I think we are seeing positive signs
think we are seeing positive signs of progress against the spires,
of progress against the spires, principally in terms of the
principally in terms of the reduction in the numbers of people
reduction in the numbers of people we see in intensive care and
we see in intensive care and stabilisation of the as you today
stabilisation of the as you today this still got rates of hospital
this still got rates of hospital admissions that tells us the
admissions that tells us the transmission of the virus of reduced
transmission of the virus of reduced down our estimates of the
down our estimates of the all—important our numbers. —— R
all-important our numbers. -- R numbers. I’m
all—important our numbers. —— R numbers. I’m always cautious about
numbers. I’m always cautious about talking about being past week which
talking about being past week which does not mean there is a substantive
does not mean there is a substantive difference between what I’m
difference between what I’m saying on the payment to said yesterday.
on the payment to said yesterday. when
on the payment to said yesterday. When the effort is to flatten the
when the effort is to ﬂatten the curve as
When the effort is to flatten the curve as we have been trying to
curve as we have been trying to do it is not necessarily a single
it is not necessarily a singla day or
it is not necessarily a single day or even a couple of days, we have an
or even a couple of days, we have an elevated path of this virus. ——
elavated path of this vims. -- delagated. --
elevated path of this virus. —— delegated. —— elongated. I
elevated path of this virus. —— delegated. —— elongated. Ithink
elevated path of this virus. —— delegated. —— elongated. I think it
delagated. -- elongated. Ithink it is
delegated. -- elongated. Ithink it is really
delegated. —— elongated. I think it is really important that the message
is really important that the message I did yesterday and repeated today
I did yesterday and repeated today is not lost. The progress we have
is not lost. The progress we have made is really fragile and it
made is really fragile and it would not take much know to send it into
not take much know to send it into reverse. -- it
not take much know to send it into reverse. —— it would not take much
reverse. -- it would not take much right now. The
reverse. —— it would not take much right now. The most important thing
right now. The most important thing we ran do
right now. The most important thing we can do is sticking with the
we ran do is sticking with the mles and
we can do is sticking with the rules and particularly as we go to another
and particularty as we go to another began the
and particularly as we go to another began the message I want people
began the message I want people to hear loudly and clearly so that we
hear loudly and doarty so that we do not
hear loudly and clearly so that we do not take our foot off the gas and
do not take our foot off the gas and think we are past the danger
think we are past the danger point starts to ease up and find we’re
starts to ease up and find we’re into another peak that this may be a
into another peak that this may be a lot higher than the one we
lot higher than the one we just tired. So stick with it is my
tired. So stick with it is my main message today. In my view is that
message today. In my view is that we will only know when we are past the
will only know when we are past the peak was ripped through the other
peak was ripped through the other side because the margins are so
side because the margins are so small. There are lots of signs
small. There are lots of signs of encouraging progress and I think in
encouraging progress and I think in the data we have been reporting to
the data we have been reporting to you we should be encouraged by a lot
you we should be encouraged by a lot of those signs as we go
of those signs as we go along. However I stressed this stressed
However I stressed this stressed yesterday that he before the margins
yesterday that he before the margins are very, very small. Subtle shifts
are very, very small. Subtla shifts in
are very, very small. Subtle shifts in the way people are behaving could
in the way peopla are behaving could [cad
in the way people are behaving could lead us back into the exponential
lead us back into the exponential growth in cases resort beforehand
growth in rases resort beforehand and
growth in cases resort beforehand and could take us back to a new high
and could take us back to a new high in infections that you create
in infections that you create another peak within the system so I
another peak within the system so I would be very cautious in saying
would be very cautious in saying we would be through the peak at the
would be through the peak at the moment. There are encouraging signs
moment. There are encouraging signs of decline in cases but I would have
of decline in rases but I would have seen more
of decline in cases but I would have seen more of that. I stay home
seen more of that. I stay home in our own house rules —— in our own
our own house mles -- in our own households
our own house rules —— in our own households we are breaking the chain
households we are breaking the chain of transmission of the virus. Every
of transmission of the vims. Every time anyone of
of transmission of the virus. Every time anyone of us —— to see one
time anyone of us -- to see one or two people more
time anyone of us —— to see one or two people more than we are supposed
two peopla more than we are supposed to from
two people more than we are supposed to from different households we
to from different households we are creating a bridge if you like that
creating a bridge if you like that virus ran hop
creating a bridge if you like that virus can hop across that is what
virus ran hop across that is what we have to stay
virus can hop across that is what we have to stay separate from each
have to stay separate from each other and stay with our household
other and stay with our household EWUPS
other and stay with our household groups so those bridges are
groups so those bridges are not there the bias cannot hop from one
there the bias cannot hop from one to
there the bias rannot hop from one to another
there the bias cannot hop from one to another and that is what
to another and that is what is allowing us to suppress it right
allowing us to suppress it right now. But the more we start to put
now. But the more we start to put these bridges together again,
these bridges together again, the greater the risk that the virus
greater the risk that the virus just runs out of control. K
runs out of control. K Nicholson from STV. It has been almost seven
from STV. It has been almost seven weeks since the World
weeks since the World Health Organization said test, test, test.
Organization said test, test, test. Why
Organization said test, test, test. why has it
Organization said test, test, test. Why has it taken so long to extent
why has it taken so long to extent testing
Why has it taken so long to extent testing capacity? And how
testing capacity? And how reliable are these tests? Here are a number
are these tests? Here are a number of reports about false negatives and
of reports about false negatives and some inconclusive tests. Other tests
some inconclusive tests. other tests are
some inconclusive tests. Other tests are effective enough at this stage?
are effective enough at this stage? On the first question, and then
On the first question, and then I will hand over to Gregor. World
will hand over to Gregor. World organisation, which is
organisation, which is an organisation I think this tremendous
organisation I think this tremendous work and I have had huge respect for
work and I have had huge respect for it since I was Health Secretary in
it since I was Health Secretary in dealing with the swine flu pandemic,
dealing with the swine ﬂu pandemic, but it gives
dealing with the swine flu pandemic, but it gives advice to all
but it gives advice to all countries are very different stages of
are very different stages of development and capacities and
development and capacities and pub“:
development and capacities and public health infrastructure. What
public health infrastmclure. what we have
public health infrastructure. What we have done is build an approach
we have done is build an approach that is right for our
that is right for our circumstances and we have taken steps to build
and we have taken steps to build capacity of testing that then allows
capacity of testing that then allows us to expand eligibility for testing
us to expand eligibility for testing that process as you saw in the
that process as you saw in the figures I give you today, the
figures I give you today, the skill of progress we have made, I
of progress we have made, I said eartier on
of progress we have made, I said earlier on at the start of their
eartier on at the start of their brief we
earlier on at the start of their brief we can process 350 per day and
brief we ran process 350 per day and we ran argue
brief we can process 350 per day and we can argue over 4000 tests per
we ran argue over 4000 tests per day. That
we can argue over 4000 tests per day. That process is not finished
day. That process is not finished and we need to continue to build it
and we need to continue to build it particularty as
and we need to continue to build it particularly as we go into the
particularly as we go into the next weekend.
Nicola Sturgeon announced another A0
Nicola Sturgeon announced another 40 peopla in
Nicola Sturgeon announced another A0 people in Scotland have died after
peopla in Scotland have died after having been
people in Scotland have died after having been confirmed as
having been confirmed as having Covid—19 taking the total to 1000
Covid-19 taking the total to 1000 550 peopla
Covid—19 taking the total to 1000 550 people who have died. More
550 peopla who have died. More questions
550 people who have died. More questions about the reliability
questions about the reliability of the test. “1515.
The air is particularly unstable at
The air is particularty unstable at the
The air is particularly unstable at the moment
which is no surprise because we have an area of
pressure a Cross
pressure across the UK. Quite a chilly breeze across Scotland and
chilly breeze across Scotland and Northern Ireland. Some of these to
Northern Ireland. Some of these to give hail and thunder and lightning
give hail and thunder and lightning as well. I would not like to relate
as well. I would not like to relate to shower just about anywhere. As
to shower just about anywhere. As we go through the
to showerjust about anywhere. As we go through the evening light they
go through the evening light they will ease a little crossing in Wales
will ease a little crossing in Walas and
will ease a little crossing in Wales and Northern Ireland but with low
and Northern Ireland but with low pressure caused by lots more
pressure caused by lots more showers. Under
pressure caused by lots more showers. Underthe
pressure caused by lots more showers. Under the starry skies
showers. Under the starry skies temperatures still get within three
temperatures still get within three degrees of freezing. Cool start the
degrees of freezing. Cool start the weekend. We should see fewer
weekend. We should see fewer showers and more dry and sunny spells and
and more dry and sunny spells and lass
and more dry and sunny spells and less breeze. It will not
less breeze. It will not be altogether dried. We have showers
altogether dried. We have showers dose to
altogether dried. We have showers close to the low pressure in
close to the low pressure in Scotland coming to perhaps part of
Scotland coming to perhaps part of northern England and
northern England and Lincolnshire and for the South approach of
and for the South approach of another area of low pressure,
another area of low pressure, another of perhaps recoded to the
another of perhaps recoded to the south of England a little on the
south of England a little on the day. But in between drier with a bit
day. But in between drier with a bit also generally and lighter winds. It
also generally and lighter winds. It will feel warmer in the strong May
will feel warmer in the strong May sunshine. You can see
sunshine. You ran see showers continue
sunshine. You can see showers continue through tomorrow night and
continue through tomorrow night and into Sunday morning but it looks as
into Sunday morning but it looks as if temperatures will stay just above
if temperatures will stay just above freezing despite clear skies.
freezing despite clear skies. Perhaps the glens of Scotland we
Perhaps the glens of Scotland we will see a touch of ground frost and
will see a touch of ground frost and we may across Scotland have a
we may across Scotland have a few showers and in the East of England
showers and in the East of England but a
showers and in the East of England buta diminishing
showers and in the East of England but a diminishing rest. Instead we
but a diminishing rest. Instead we pick up more tired and turning
pick up more tired and turning sunshine hazy and perhaps even
sunshine hazy and perhaps even threatening rain later on in the
threatening rain later on in the south and west. The winds will not
south and west. The winds will not be strong to have been with some May
be strong to have been with some May sunshine will see 17 street in the
sunshine will see 17 street in the south and 1A to 15 in the North.
south and 1A to 15 in the North. Continued set of conditions
Continued set of conditions particularly across the northern
particularty across the northern half
particularly across the northern half into next week but we pick up a
half into next week but we pick up a keen and chilly when the
keen and chilly when the south perhaps rain returning by Tuesday.
MUSIC: Voodoo Boogaloo byJC Lemay
When faced with time on your hands...
..and a magnificent model...
..why not pick up a pencil and draw?
From a sensible distance, of course.
Relax and be part of a live life drawing class
and sketch a pose at home or online.
Class starts at your place soon.
Hiring a head chef can make or break a restaurant...
Service. HE RINGS BELL
Costing? I don’t know. When I point at a plate,
I want you to tell me how much that plate cost me.
Got to have it now! HE BANGS ON COUNTER
I’m out of my depth.
KNIVES CRASH ONTO FLOOR
It’s a nightmare trying to find a chef.
..but now, help is at hand.
Good morning.
Alex Polizzi has 25 years of experience
in the hospitality industry.
Why is the plate cold?
A schoolboy error.
She will work with four restaurants who desperately need her help...
This is a real interview process.
..as they hire a new head chef.
I have one word to say...which is ‘yummy!’
It’s Alex’s final day in the Lake District helping the Gilpin,
a fine dining hotel in desperate need of a new executive head chef.
Over the last 25 years,
John and Christine Cunliffe have fulfilled their ambition
of owning an award—winning country house hotel.
Their son Barney and daughter—in—law Zoe have nowjoined ranks
and they’ve set their sights on a Michelin star.
We compete in 3 probably one of the most competitive areas,
I reckon, outside of London, so we are constantly trying to make
sure that we maintain ourselves at that top end we want the best chef.
We’ve been under a lot of stress
and it would be lovely not to have to have the anxiety.
Yeah, we’ve been searching now for almost a year, haven’t we? Yeah.
And it’s been a long search. We’ve been... I KNOW we’re very picky.
Hiring the wrong chef could be disastrous for their reputation
and business. So the family are prepared to pay up to six figures.
I think we haven’t found the right chef yet
because actually I’m asking for really tough challenge.
But with Alex’s help, the search is almost over.
It’s a big day. This is Barney and Christine’s chance of a new start.
After advertising the post,
nine applicants were interviewed for this life—changing position.
He’s been at the Ritz, he’s been at theJuniper,
which are all good places.
During a fiery few days of cooking...
Oh, my God, this is so hard!
..six got the chop.
Lee’s dishes didn’t reach expectations.
I’m not mad about that dish.
Not in the environment that we would be serving in. It’s a bit heavy.
Nicola’sjob hopping was a concern.
He’s obviously good, it’s just whether he’s good and he’s a stayer.
My suitcase, I’m fed up to see it.
Michael’s style wasn’t fine dining.
Well, we’ve been looking forward to this.
It’s not too delicate, Michael.
Ian’s first dish didn’t catch their eye.
I don’t like the plate with that dish.
No, I... Very good point.
I think if you’re going to use a dark plate,
you need to have really vibrant colours.
Simon’s longevity was questioned.
Can we immediately address the elephant in the room, which is
that you’ve never been anywhere very long.
And Alan’s nerves got the better of him.
Sorry, Alan, we’ve distracted you.
Can someone give us the time?
But three did make the grade
and have been shortlisted for today’s final daylong interview.
Simon Szymanski...
Simon, well done.
..Hrishikesh Desai...
That last dish was superb.
..and Ben Murphy.
We had very high expectations and you delivered.
0K, thank you, thank you very much.
Only the best will win the position to be the hotel’s new
executive head chef.
I mean, I think what is very interesting is we’ve got three such
different candidates and actually, ultimately, they’re all good.
It’s just who suits you, as a family, best.
And I think that’s what we are trying to really work out today.
We are in a win—win today, I think, to be honest with you,
cos we’ve got three great chefs competing today in interviews and...
you know, I’m looking forward with great interest to see how it
pans out. I mean, it’s... They’re all very different. They are...
They are very different. And we need to find a little bit more about...
their weaknesses as well as their strengths. Mm—hm.
It’s an early start.
First to arrive is Simon Szymanski.
As time goes by, I’m definitely more emotional about thejob

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 01/05/2020, BBC2 England, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/15F21AD6?bcast=131823718 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)