This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
US President Donald Trump and the First Lady Melanie test
positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
Announcing the test results on Twitter the President says
he and the First Lady "will get through this together"
It comes after his one of his closest aides — Hope Hicks —
tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips
together in the past week
World markets slump on the news with the Dow
futures index down — due to uncertainty about the
operation of the US administration
We’ll be looking at what all this means
for the election campaign — as the President is confined
to the White House.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around
the world — and stay with us for the latest news and analysis
from here and across the globe.
Donald Trump has said he and his wife, Melanie,
have tested positive for coronavirus and have begun
a period of quarantine.
They were both tested after one of Mr Trump’s
most senior advisers, Hope Hicks, found out
she had the virus.
The White House doctor has said both the President
and the First Lady are ‘well’ and that Mr Trump will continue
to carry out his duties while he self—isolates.
President Trump confirmed the news on Twitter,
saying that he and the First Lady "will begin our quarantine
and recovery process immediately" — and that they "will get
through this TOGETHER!"
This is the scene live in Washington DC,
Well, I’m sorry, this is clearly not
Well, I’m sorry, this is dearty not the image of
Well, I’m sorry, this is clearly not the image of Washington we were
the image of Washington we were hoping to show you! With just a
hoping to show you! with just a month
hoping to show you! With just a month to
hoping to show you! with just a month to go
hoping to show you! With just a month to go until the presidential
month to go until the presidential election, all the states wondering
election, all the states wondering what this means for that vote.
Before his positive test for Covid, President Trump spoke
to Fox News about his close aide Hope Hicks’s own positive test.
She did test positive, Ijust heard about this,
she tested positive.
She is a hard worker, a lot of masks, she wears masks a lot,
but she tested positive.
And I just went out with a test because we spent a lot of time and
the First Ladyjust went out with a test also.
First Lady Melanie Trump posted on Twitter following the news
that she and the US President had tested positive for coronavirus.
She said: "As too many Americans have done this year,
the President & I are quarantining at home after testing
positive for Covid—19.
Vice President Mike Pence tweeted: "Karen and I send our love
and prayers to our dear friends President Trump and the First Lady.
World leaders have also been tweeting their reaction.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: "Wishing my friend
President Trump and the First Lady 3 quick recovery and good health.
The UK’s Prime Minister, Borisjohnson, who himself
contracted coronavirus earlier this year said he sends his "best
wishes to President Trump and the First Lady.
And the Director—General of the World Health Organization,
Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus has given his "best wishes
to the President and the First Lady for a full and speedy recovery.
And in Russia, the Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov
has wished Donald Trump ‘a swift and easy recovery.‘
Let’s speak to our North America Correspondent David Willis
And David joins us from Los Angeles.
And David joins us from Los Angelas. David, hello
And David joins us from Los Angeles. David, hello again. In terms of the
David, hello again. In terms of the timeline when and how the President
timeline when and how the President contracted this virus, he obviously
contracted this virus, he obviously has been in close contact with his
has been in close contact with his aide, Hope Hicks, who also tested
aide, Hope Hicks, who also tested positive, that seems a reasonable
positive, that seems a reasonable assumption, but it’s from that close
assumption, but it’s from that close circle of advisers that this has
circle of advisers that this has happened. That’s right. And Hope
happened. That’s right. And Hope Hicks has been travelling with
Hicks has been travelling with President Trump for most of the last
President Tmmp for most of the last week. She
President Trump for most of the last week. She tested negative in a test
week. She tested negative in a test for coronavirus on Tuesday. Ditto on
for coronavirus on Tuesday. Ditto on Wednesday. But then there was that
Wednesday. But then there was that positive Covid—19 test and a short
positive Covid-19 test and a short while
positive Covid-19 test and a short whila later,
positive Covid—19 test and a short while later, President Trump
while later, President Tmmp confirming
while later, President Trump confirming both he and his wife
confirming both he and his wife Milani had contracted Covid—19. And
Milani had contracted Covid-19. And it raises a
Milani had contracted Covid—19. And it raises a number of questions not
it raises a number of questions not least the future of the presidential
least the future of the presidential campaign. How it will pan out. ——
campaign. How it will pan out. -- Melania.
campaign. How it will pan out. —— Melania. What we don’t know
Melanie. what we don’t know precisely is
Melanie. What we don’t know precisely is how ill President Trump
precisely is how ill President Tmmp actually is. We
precisely is how ill President Trump actually is. We had this statement
actually is. We had this statement from his personal physician Sean
from his personal physician Sean Connolly, saying he and the First
Connolly, saying he and the First Lady are doing well, saying they
lady are doing well, saying they planned to
Lady are doing well, saying they planned to remain at home during
planned to remain at home during their convalescence, the White House
their convalescence, the white House being home in
their convalescence, the White House being home in this case and he goes
being home in this rase and he goes on to say... I
being home in this case and he goes on to say... I expect the President
on to say... I expect the President to continue carrying out his duties
to continue carrying out his duties without disruption whilst
without disruption whilst recovering. But make no mistake,
recovering. But make no mistake, this will completely change the
this will completely change the nature of this presidential
nature of this presidential campaign, the President will have to
campaign, the President will have to withdraw from it, to all intents and
withdraw from it, to all intents and purposes for a period of time. We
purposes for a period of time. We don’t know how long, of course. And
don’t know how long, of course. And he will have to abandon those
he will have to abandon those rallies, he’s already abandoned one
rallies, he’s already abandoned one later today, that was a fundraising
later today, that was a fundraising event in Florida, and swing state.
event in Florida, and swing state. And he will have to campaign from
And he will have to campaign from the White House. That, of course, is
the white House. That, of course, is really going to
the White House. That, of course, is really going to upend what was
really going to upend what was already a very strange campaign. As
already a very strange campaign. As you point out, David, although the
you point out, David, although the letter
you point out, David, although the letterfrom his personal physician
letter from his personal physician 5575
letter from his personal physician says he is
letterfrom his personal physician says he is well, we don’t actually
says he is well, we don’t actually know, do we come off whether Donald
know, do we come off whether Donald Tmmp has any
know, do we come off whether Donald Trump has any symptoms of this virus
Tmmp has any symptoms of this virus currently. The
Trump has any symptoms of this virus currently. The only clues we can
currently. The only dues we ran look out
currently. The only clues we can look out for our weather we see more
look out for our weather we see more tweets, I guess, whether we see any
tweets, I guess, whether we see any appearances from within the White
appearances from within the white House
appearances from within the White House itself? You’re absolutely
House itself? You’re absolutely right. Of course, it is worrying
right. Of course, it is worrying because at 7A years of age, and
because at 74 years of age, and technically
because at 7A years of age, and technically obese, President Trump
technically obese, President Tmmp is in the high
technically obese, President Trump is in the high risk group as far as
is in the high risk group as far as the coronavirus is concerned. And we
the coronavirus is concerned. And we also don’t know, of course, how
also don’t know, of course, how close he came behind the scenes, to
dose he name behind the scenes, to his
close he came behind the scenes, to his Democratic rival
close he came behind the scenes, to his Democratic rivalJoe Biden. They
his Democratic rival joe Biden. They were
his Democratic rivaljoe Biden. They were face—to—face, well,
his Democratic rivalJoe Biden. They were face—to—face, well, distanced,
were face-to-face, well, distanced, face-to-face,
were face—to—face, well, distanced, face—to—face, if you like, socially
face-to-face, if you like, socially distanced
face—to—face, if you like, socially distanced for the debate in
distanced for the debate in Cleveland earlier this week, on
Cleveland eartier this week, on Tuesday
Cleveland earlier this week, on Tuesday night, but how close they
Tuesday night, but how close they got behind the scenes we simply
got behind the scenes we simply don’t know. As far as contact
don’t know. As far as contact tracing is concerned, we know that
tracing is concerned, we know that President Trump and Hope Hicks had
President Tmmp and Hope Hicks had been in
President Trump and Hope Hicks had been in contact with members of
been in contact with members of Donald Tmmp
been in contact with members of Donald Trump ‘s family including
Donald Tmmp ‘s family including Eric and
Donald Trump ‘s family including Eric and Donald Junior, Ivanka
Eric and Donald junior, Ivanka Tmmp, the
Eric and Donald Junior, Ivanka Trump, the Senate majority leader
Tmmp, the Senate majority leader Mitch
Trump, the Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell, and Amy Coney
Mitch McConnell, and Amy Coney Barrett, President Trump ‘s nominee
Barrett, President Tmmp ‘s nominee for the
Barrett, President Trump ‘s nominee for the vacant seat on the US
for the vacant seat on the US Supreme Court. 50 there are a lot of
Supreme Court. So there are a lot of questions and
Supreme Court. 50 there are a lot of questions and we don’t know how far
questions and we don’t know how far this virus has spread but it is
this virus has spread but it is certainly there, in 1600
certainly there, in 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, that is very
Pennsylvania Ave, that is very worrying to a lot of people in this
worrying to a lot of peopla in this country. On
worrying to a lot of people in this country. On that point, David,
country. On that point, David, interesting to see a tweet from Mike
interesting to see a tweet from Mike Pompeo saying he and his wife were
Pompeo saying he and his wife were ﬂying to
Pompeo saying he and his wife were flying to Dubrovnik and had a test
ﬂying to Dubrovnik and had a test before they
flying to Dubrovnik and had a test before they got off the plane, which
before they got off the plane, which was negative. I guess there is that
was negative. I guess there is that expectation that individuals like
expectation that individuals like Mike Pence and other key figures
Mike Pence and other key figures around Donald Trump, will need to
around Donald Tmmp, will need to come
around Donald Trump, will need to come forward and say what their
come forward and say what their statuses with regards to this virus.
statuses with regards to this vims. Absolutely.
statuses with regards to this virus. Absolutely. We’ve heard from Mike
Absolutely. We’ve heard from Mike Pence wishing Donald Trump and
Pence wishing Donald Trump and Melanie well at this time. And of
Melanie well at this time. And of course, it is
Melania well at this time. And of course, it is possible that Mike
course, it is possibla that Mike Pence
course, it is possible that Mike Pence could play a significant role
Pence could play a significant rola in the
Pence could play a significant role in the weeks ahead if it’s judged
in the weeks ahead if it’s judged that Donald Trump is incapacitated
that Donald Tmmp is incapacitated in some way.
that Donald Trump is incapacitated in some way. The 25th Amendment of
in some way. The 25th Amendment of the US constitution lays out that it
the US constitution lays out that it will be the Vice President, Mike
will be the Vice President, Mike Pence, in this case, who would take
Pence, in this use, who would take over the
Pence, in this case, who would take over the presidential duties. We are
over the presidential duties. We are some way away from all of that,
some way away from all of that, there is a lot of speculation, of
there is a lot of speculation, of course, very few facts, but that is
course, very few facts, but that is the weight the Constitution demands
the weight the Constitution demands that things proceed, ultimately,
that things proceed, ultimately, Mike Pence would become
Mike Pence would become incapacitated it would then be the
incapacitated it would then be the leader of the is, Nancy Pelosi, such
leader of the is, Nancy Pelosi, such as the order of succession as laid
as the order of succession as laid out in the US constitution. —— the
out in the US constitution. -- the Leader of
out in the US constitution. —— the Leader of the House of Lords it is
Leader of the House of Lords it is late at night here in the United
late at night here in the United States. The sort of condition Donald
States. The sort of condition Donald Tmmp is
States. The sort of condition Donald Trump is infinitely get that first
Trump is infinitely get that first communique from the White House.
communique from the white House. David, thank
communique from the White House. David, thank you.
Brian Klaas is a professor of Global Politics at
University College London and a Washington Post columnist.
Good to have you with us. President Tmmp is a man
Good to have you with us. President Trump is a man who absolutely
Tmmp is a man who absolutely thrives
Trump is a man who absolutely thrives on the campaign trail,
thrives on the campaign trail, thrives on being in front of big
thrives on being in front of big audiences. That was already
audiences. That was already curtailed quite a lot because of the
curtailed quite a lot because of the pandemic. Crowchild much more now
pandemic. Crowchild much more now because of his positive test so what
because of his positive test so what kind of impact do you think that is
kind of impact do you think that is going to have on how he operates in
going to have on how he operates in the remaining weeks of the election
the remaining weeks of the election campaign. --
the remaining weeks of the election campaign. —— curtailed much more
campaign. -- curtailad much more now. All of
campaign. —— curtailed much more now. All of the polling averages
now. All of the polling averages show a clear and decisive Biden lead
show a clear and decisive Biden lead at the moment. In order to win the
at the moment. In order to win the election Tmmp
at the moment. In order to win the election Trump needs to turn around
election Tmmp needs to turn around the
election Trump needs to turn around the narrative in a very short period
the narrative in a very short period of time, we are about 30 days away
of time, we are about 30 days away from November the 3rd, being able to
from November the 3rd, being able to campaign was part of that, of
campaign was part of that, of course. The second reason why this
course. The second reason why this is a problem for him is that he is
is a problem for him is that he is not trusted
is a problem for him is that he is not tmsted by
is a problem for him is that he is not trusted by American voters on
not tmsted by American voters on his handling of
not trusted by American voters on his handling of the Covid—19
his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic,
his handling of the Covid—19 pandemic, 60% of Americans think he
pandemic, 6096 of Americans think he has done
pandemic, 60% of Americans think he has done a bad job in handling it so
has done a bad job in handling it so this puts it in centre stage as the
this puts it in centre stage as the main issue in the news at a time
main issue in the news at a time when he wants to change the
when he wants to change the narrative and the dynamics of the
narrative and the dynamis of the race. If
narrative and the dynamis of the race. IfI
narrative and the dynamics of the race. If I can interrupt you, you
race. If I ran intermpt you, you quote 6096 of
race. If I can interrupt you, you quote 60% of Americans, according to
quote 6096 of Americans, according to one survey,
quote 60% of Americans, according to one survey, saying he has handled it
one survey, saying he has handled it badly but what about his supporters?
badly but what about his supporters? If there are actually relatively
If there are actually relatively small numbers of potential voters in
small numbers of potential voters in play who might go one way or the
play who might go one way or the other, and each site needs to get
other, and each site needs to get their core vote out, is it going to
their core vote out, is it going to make any difference to his
make any difference to his supporters, who actually think he is
supporters, who actually think he is handling things well? No. And
handling things well? No. And there’s a lot of discussion about
there’s a lot of discussion about this, when you think about the race,
this, when you think about the race, will this change his base? The
will this change his base? The answer is always no, his base loves
answer is always no, his base loves him and they will vote for him and
him and they will vote for him and vote for him in large numbers but
vote for him in large numbers but the problem is his pace is too
the problem is his pace is too small, his base is around 40% of the
small, his base is around 4096 of the country,
small, his base is around 40% of the country, probably a little bit less
country, probably a little bit lass so what
country, probably a little bit less so what he needs to do is win over
so what he needs to do is win over voters and the problem again is time
voters and the problem again is time is mnning out.
voters and the problem again is time is running out. You have about 30
is mnning out. You have about 30 days until the
is running out. You have about 30 days until the election and this is
days until the elaction and this is the big
days until the election and this is the big difference from past
the big difference from past elections, 3 huge chunk of ballots
elections, a huge chunk of ballots have already
elections, 3 huge chunk of ballots have already been cast in
elections, a huge chunk of ballots have already been cast in many, many
have already been cast in many, many more are being cast every day. I
more are being cast every day. I voted, for example, already, this is
voted, for example, already, this is why it’s a problem for him because
why it’s a problem for him because if you need to turn around a race
if you need to turn around a race and the numbers of people who have
and the numbers of peopla who have not
and the numbers of people who have not voted or diminishing each day,
not voted or diminishing each day, and you just lost 1A days on the
and you just lost14 days on the campaign
and you just lost 1A days on the campaign trail
and you just lost 1A days on the campaign trailand
and you just lost 1A days on the campaign trail and there is another
campaign trail and there is another issue that is in the front of voters
issue that is in the front of voters minds that they already don’t trust
minds that they already don’t trust 7°“-
minds that they already don’t trust you, that’s a very bad recipe for a
you, that’s a very bad recipe for a candidate already trailing badly in
candidate already trailing badly in the polls. Do you think there will
the polls. Do you think there will be pressure on President Trump to
be pressure on President Tmmp to make
be pressure on President Trump to make virtual appearances and lots of
make virtual appearances and lots of them to basically make that
them to basically make that connection, keep that connection,
connection, keep that connection, with his voters going? Absolutely. I
with his voters going? Absolutely. I assume there will be much more
assume there will be much more campaigning done remotely, as long
campaigning done remotely, as long as his health allows it but this is
as his health allows it but this is something, elsewhere, it brings the
something, elsewhere, it brings the issue centre stage on things that
issue centre stage on things that are just fundamentally,
issue centre stage on things that arejust fundamentally, have been
arejust fundamentally, have been irresponsible about President Trump
irresponsibla about President Tmmp ‘s
irresponsible about President Trump ‘s behaviour. Two and a half days
‘s behaviour. Two and a half days ago at the presidential debate, he
ago at the presidential debate, he made fun of Biden for wearing a
made fun of Biden for wearing a mask, he Mike Tim, —— he mocked him.
mask, he Mike Tim, -- he mocked him. A rally with 1500
mask, he Mike Tim, —— he mocked him. A rally with 1500 people, their
A rally with 1500 peopla, their chairs
A rally with 1500 people, their chairs stacked virtually on top of
chairs stacked virtually on top of each other and the one wearing
each other and the one wearing masks, in violation of public health
masks, in violation of public health guidelines. Trump may now have to be
guidelines. Tmmp may now have to be forced to
guidelines. Trump may now have to be forced to do remote campaigning but
forced to do remote campaigning but after he mocked Biden for doing
after he mocked Biden for doing remote campaigning for the last
remote campaigning for the last several months. It’s not the issue
several months. It’s not the issue that the Tmmp
several months. It’s not the issue that the Trump campaign wants voters
that the Tmmp campaign wants voters to be thinking
that the Trump campaign wants voters to be thinking about. Thank you very
to be thinking about. Thank you very much for your thoughts on all of
much for your thoughts on all of this. Let me tell you, we are seeing
this. Let me tell you, we are seeing on Reuters news agency, reports that
on Reuters news agency, reports that the Russian President Vladimir Putin
the Russian President Vladimir Putin has sent Donald Trump a telegram, we
has sent Donald Tmmp a telegram, we are told, to
has sent Donald Trump a telegram, we are told, to wish him a swift
are told, to wish him a swift recovery after his positive test for
recovery after his positive test for Covid-19.
recovery after his positive test for Covid—19. Russian news agencies
Covid-19. Russian news agencies reporting
Covid—19. Russian news agencies reporting citing the Kremlin that Mr
reporting citing the Kremlin that Mr Putin has said I am certain that
Putin has said I am certain that your inherent vitality, good spirits
your inherent vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with
and optimism will help you cope with this dangerous virus. That’s
this dangerous vims. That’s according to
this dangerous virus. That’s according to the Interfax news
according to the Interfax news agency, that coming into us.
Sarah Elliott is is Chair of the Republicans Oversees UK —
I’ve been getting her reaction.
I wish him a fast recovery.
I think he’s actually in robust health, his doctors have
come out and said as much.
As you said, he has the best medical care
in the world.
I think he will recover.
He is now going into quarantine with the First Lady for
ten days, so the campaign is going to a halt.
But then again, I think it will pick right back up where it
left off.
Things change so much now with four weeks to go until the
actual election.
Big questions over future presidential debates,
obviously, campaign rallies and so on.
What kind of bearing do you think this is going to have on the
election, especially as President Trump was trying
to move attention away from the virus, I think it’s
fair to say, he simply cannot do that now, can he?
I don’t think, he has taken the virus very seriously.
I think his opponents like to say he downplays it and now he has a
personal experience...
Sarah, I’m sorry to interrupt you, he has been,
absolutely not a proponent of social distancing or wearing masks, when he
has worn masks it’s been very late in the day.
Soto say that he has taken it really seriously is perhaps
to a lot of people, strange comment.
Well, Annita, he gets tested routinely, the people
around him get tested
routinely and he wears masks when he feels it’s necessary.
He also is the leader of the country and he goes
out and he meets with people, he thinks you need
to lead by example and
not hide in the basement and I’m sorry, he put himself at risk and
now this is the situation we are in, he is asymptomatic.
I’m sure he will recover quickly.
I do hope that the other people around
him also get tested and are in quarantine as well.
He is taking all the medical advice on board.
You know, when this happened with
Borisjohnson, he garnered a lot of sympathy.
And so now, President Trump has a personal
experience and a connection to Covid and the American people, you know,
mayjust look at him sympathetically and be like, wow,
he can now personally really feel
our pain.
Do you think that is what is going to happen?
In terms of people planning to vote for
President Trump, considering whether they would vote
for President Trump, do you think they will feel
sympathetic towards him or will they say, here
is a President who has been trying to project an image of
business as normal during this pandemic, keen to keep
the economy open and so forth?
And now, he has actually caught this virus, this
disease, himself.
I think actually, there will be sympathy from the
American people because generally, the American people are kind—hearted
and they want to see the President of their country succeed.
Unfortunately, there are people on the left who are gleefully
relishing in this and hoping the worst for the
President but I don’t think that’s going to happen.
You know, people write about the 25th Amendment and
We’ll Mike Pence takeover?
I think that’s ridiculous and much too soon.
I think he will recover, we will get back to normal but it is at a
critical time.
Every day matters in campaign right now.
It will be interesting to see the polling, but
he is the comeback kid.
He likes a challenge, he likes to prove people
wrong and I think this is another challenge on which he will do so.
You say talk of Mike Pence being there to take over is far too
premature.
But surely, the White House advisers will have thought
about this possible scenario?
And surely, it’s sensible to talk about
this because if the President was to become
ill and we are told at the
moment that he is fine, doing well, if he was
to become ill, don’t the
American people want to know what’s going to happen?
Because of our Constitution we know what is going
to happen and we do know the Vice President would take over
in a situation like that.
But it also brings up a really curious point
about vice presidential candidate and there might now be more scrutiny
on Kamala Harris and her role and her possibility of her becoming
President prematurely if something happened to the President.
This might have a negative effect on the Biden campaign, Harris is
universally not popular across the country.
That was Sarah Elliott.
With me now isJohn Sardino — a spokesperson from
Democrats Abroad.
Good to have you with us. We have not heard from the Biden campaign
not heard from the Biden campaign but what do you think the reaction
but what do you think the reaction is going to be from that camp? As a
is going to be from that ramp? As a Democrat
is going to be from that camp? As a Democrat and an American I wish the
Democrat and an American I wish the President well, I wish him a speedy
President well, I wish him a speedy recovery. I wouldn’t wish this virus
recovery. I wouldn’t wish this virus on anybody. Some of the effects are
on anybody. Some of the effects are long-term,
on anybody. Some of the effects are long—term, neurological effects that
long-term, neurological effects that are a bit
long—term, neurological effects that are a bit unpredictable. I think
are a bit unpredictabla. I think what we
are a bit unpredictable. I think what we have seen is many people
what we have seen is many people react differently to the virus. And
react differently to the vims. And I tmly, I wish
react differently to the virus. And I truly, I wish him well. Having
Itruly, Iwish him well. Having said that, you
I truly, I wish him well. Having said that, you know, if he has been
said that, you know, if he has been saying and I was listening to your
saying and I was listening to your Republican guest
saying and I was listening to your Republican guestjust a moment ago,
Republican guest just a moment ago, he has
Republican guestjust a moment ago, he has not traded this very
he has not traded this very seriously. The country has been in a
seriously. The country has been in a crisis from the very beginning. He
crisis from the very beginning. He is on record as saying he was
is on record as saying he was playing it down. As recently as last
playing it down. As recently as last week, he was at a fundraising dinner
week, he was at a fundraising dinner where he was saying the virus is
where he was saying the virus is behind us, you know, we are over the
behind us, you know, we are over the hump. America has got 40,000 new
hump. America has got 40,000 new rases
hump. America has got 40,000 new cases of infection a day. You know,
cases of infection a day. You know, compare that to the UK, with 7000,
compare that to the UK, with 7000, and you see the dramatic measures
and you see the dramatic measures that are being taken here in the UK.
that are being taken here in the UK. I don’t see how the President could
I don’t see how the President could possibly say that the virus, this
possibly say that the virus, this crisis, is behind us and I think his
crisis, is behind us and I think his illness, if that’s what it is, is
illness, if that’s what it is, is going to be,
illness, if that’s what it is, is going to he, makes his statements
going to he, makes his statements "TY
going to he, makes his statements very empty, that the virus is behind
very empty, that the virus is behind us. It’s going to be interesting to
us. It’s going to be interesting to see how much we see of him in the
see how much we see of him in the next few days, given that statement
next few days, given that statement from the White House doctor, the
from the White House doctor, the President ‘s Doctor that he was
President ‘s Doctor that he was doing well. Do we have any idea
doing well. Do we have any idea whether the President as well as Mr
whether the President as well as Mr Biden, took a coronavirus tests
Biden, took a coronavirus tests before the debate earlier this week?
before the debate eartier this week? I haven’t
before the debate earlier this week? I haven’t seen the evidence so I
I haven’t seen the evidence so I couldn’t say for sure. I would say
couldn’t say for sure. I would say there was a question that was raised
there was a question that was raised a minute ago about the status of the
a minute ago about the status of the Vice President on the line of
Vice President on the line of succession and all of that. And that
succession and all of that. And that is true, the Vice President is the
is true, the Vice President is the next in line with the President is
next in line with the President is incapacitated in some way, then the
incapacitated in some way, then the Vice President naturally takes over.
Vice President naturally takes over. If.
Vice President naturally takes over. If, for some reason, the Vice
If, for some reason, the Vice President is incapacitated as well,
President is incapacitated as well, I think as you said earlier in the
I think as you said eartier in the broadcast,
I think as you said earlier in the broadcast, then the Speaker of the
broadcast, then the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, would then
House, Nancy Pelosi, would then become the commander—in—chief. It’s
become the commander-in-chief. It’s a very interesting
become the commander—in—chief. It’s a very interesting line of
a very interesting line of succession, and also this point
succession, and also this point about Kamala Harris, there is a
about Kamala Harris, there is a debate, scheduled for next week,
debate, scheduled for next week, between Kamala Harris and Mike
between Kamala Harris and Mike Pence, scheduled for next Tuesday
Pence, scheduled for next Tuesday night, which I presume is going to
night, which I presume is going to proceed, whether or not the next
proceed, whether or not the next presidential debate which is two
presidential debate which is two weeks from now, goes ahead, it
weeks from now, goes ahead, it remains to be seen. Whatever
remains to be seen. whatever happens, it’s
remains to be seen. Whatever happens, it’s going to be a very
happens, it’s going to be a very different final
happens, it’s going to be a very different finalfew weeks
happens, it’s going to be a very different final few weeks of the
different final few weeks of the campaign. But do you think the fact
campaign. But do you think the fact that the President and his wife had
that the President and his wife had tested positive for coronavirus is
tested positive for coronavirus is going to have any bearing ultimately
going to have any bearing ultimately on how people decide to vote? I
on how peopla decide to vote? I think it might.
on how people decide to vote? I think it might. As you know, and I
think it might. As you know, and I think as someone said before I came
think as someone said before I came on, voting has already started.
on, voting has already started. Ballots started going out for
Ballots started going out for Americans living abroad, a lot of
Americans living abroad, a lot of ballots were sent out in the middle
ballots were sent out in the middle of September. Many of those ballots
of September. Many of those ballots have already been returned. Have
have already been returned. Have been voted and returned. In the
been voted and returned. In the States, there is a lot of early
States, there is a lot of earty voting that’s
States, there is a lot of early voting that’s been going on both by
voting that’s been going on both by mail in ballot and in many places
mail in ballot and in many places you ran vote
mail in ballot and in many places you can vote early, showing up at a
you ran vote earty, showing up at a place that has
you can vote early, showing up at a place that has been designated for
place that has been designated for that. So quite a lot of voting is
that. So quite a lot of voting is already under way. I will say
already under way. I will say somewhat sadly, America is very
somewhat sadly, America is very divided. So there are probably a
divided. So there are probably a very small portion of the overall
very small portion of the overall population in key battle ground
population in key battle ground states like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin
states like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and others, where there are
and others, where there are undecided voters and that’s where a
undecided voters and that’s where a lot of the attention is right now.
lot of the attention is right now. And how this will affect their
And how this will affect their decisions, well, I
And how this will affect their decisions, well, Ithink, as I
And how this will affect their decisions, well, I think, as I said,
decisions, well, Ithink, as I said, you have to
decisions, well, I think, as I said, you have to weigh up the President
you have to weigh up the President ‘s actions and statements about
‘s actions and statements about managing the crisis or his lack of
managing the crisis or his lack of managing the crisis, with a four we
managing the crisis, with a four we are now. Thank you for your time
are now. Thank you for your time this morning. We are
are now. Thank you for your time this morning. We arejust
are now. Thank you for your time this morning. We are just going
are now. Thank you for your time this morning. We arejust going to
this morning. We arejust going to pause in our coverage of that Donald
pause in our coverage of that Donald Tmmp story for
pause in our coverage of that Donald Trump story for a moment. Let’s talk
Tmmp story for a moment. Let’s talk about UK politic.
Trump story for a moment. Let’s talk about UK politics. The First
about UK politics. The First Minister of Scotland, Nicola
Minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, written another tweet,
Sturgeon, written another tweet, this is a tweet to the MP Margaret
this is a tweet to the MP Margaret Ferrier, roundly condemned by
Ferrier, roundly condemned by members of the SNP and right across
members of the SNP and right across the political spectrum for her
the political spectrum for her actions over the last few days.
actions over the last few days. After testing positive for Covid—19.
After testing positive for Covid-19. She had
After testing positive for Covid—19. She had symptoms and took a test and
She had symptoms and took a test and while
She had symptoms and took a test and whila waiting on
She had symptoms and took a test and while waiting on the results of that
whila waiting on the results of that test,
while waiting on the results of that test, instead of self isolating, she
test, instead of self isolating, she travelled to London to the House of
travelled to London to the House of Commons, she took part in that
Commons, she took part in that debate, you saw the picture a minute
debate, you saw the picture a minute ago of her taking part in the debate
ago of her taking part in the debate in the House of Commons on Monday
in the House of Commons on Monday evening. Also on Monday evening she
evening. Also on Monday evening she had confirmation she was positive
had confirmation she was positive for coronavirus. But then the next
for coronavirus. But then the next day she took a train journey, a five
day she took a train journey, a five hour train journey,
day she took a train journey, a five hour trainjourney, from London back
hour trainjourney, from London back to Scotland. Let’s look at the tweet
to Scotland. Let’s look at the tweet from Nicola Sturgeon this morning.
from Nicola Sturgeon this morning. She said, I’ve spoken to Margaret
She said, I’ve spoken to Margaret Ferrier...
She uses that word indefensible, she said last night, said it again this
said last night, said it again this morning, and goes on in the tweet, I
morning, and goes on in the tweet, I have no power to force an MP to
have no power to force an MP to resign but I hope she will do the
resign but I hope she will do the right thing. Heavy pressure being
right thing. Heavy pressure being exerted by the First Minister, by
exerted by the First Minister, by other SNP MPs, and indeed, from many
other SNP MPs, and indeed, from many right across the political spectrum,
right across the political spectrum, saying that Margaret Ferrier ‘s
saying that Margaret Ferrier ‘s actions, the decisions she made, or
actions, the decisions she made, or indefensible and that she should be
indefensible and that she should be stepping down as an MP. But, we
stepping down as an MP. But, we haven’t heard, apart from that
haven’t heard, apart from that initial admission that what she had
initial admission that what she had done was wrong, we have heard
done was wrong, we have heard nothing further Margaret Ferrier
nothing further Margaret Ferrier vet.
nothing further Margaret Ferrier yet, but that was Nicola Sturgeon
yet, but that was Nicola Sturgeon again, making it clear that she
again, making it clear that she thinks she should step down as an
thinks she should step down as an MP, that her actions were both
MP, that her actions were both dangerous and indefensible. That is
dangerous and indefensible. That is coding the First Minister. Now,
coding the First Minister. Now, let’s return to the news that
let’s return to the news that President Trump has tested positive
President Tmmp has tested positive for
President Trump has tested positive for coronavirus. Along with his
for coronavirus. Along with his wife, the First Lady, Melanie.
Let’s talk to US political analyst Eric Ham
who is in Washington.
Thank you for your time today, joining us on BBC News. As an
joining us on BBC News. As an individual who has Covid—19, Donald
individual who has Covid-19, Donald Tmmp 74. He is
individual who has Covid—19, Donald Trump 7A. He is medically obese. We
Tmmp 74. He is medically obese. We are told
Trump 7A. He is medically obese. We are told that he is well. But we
are told that he is well. But we don’t know a lot beyond that of how
don’t know a lot beyond that of how he actually is, whether he has any
he actually is, whether he has any symptoms or not of this virus, do
symptoms or not of this virus, do we? No, we don’t, this is the second
we? No, we don’t, this is the second medical emergency of Donald Trump,
medical emergency of Donald Tmmp, we go back late
medical emergency of Donald Trump, we go back late last year, we note
we go back late last year, we note the President was abruptly taken to
the President was abruptly taken to the hospital and we still don’t know
the hospital and we still don’t know why the President was taken to the
why the President was taken to the hospital. We did get indications
hospital. We did get indications that Mike Pence was told to be on
that Mike Pence was told to be on stand-by
that Mike Pence was told to be on stand—by because the President would
stand-by because the President would have to
stand—by because the President would have to undergo anaesthesia but now
have to undergo anaesthesia but now the President has contracted
the President has contracted coronavirus and file all are hoping
coronavirus and file all are hoping for a speedy recovery, we don’t know
for a speedy recovery, we don’t know as much as we would like to about
as much as we would like to about the President ‘s health to determine
the President ‘s health to determine if in fact he will be able to
if in fact he will be able to recover from this virus. How much
recover from this vims. How much pressure will
recover from this virus. How much pressure will there be particularly
pressure will there be particularly because we are in the last few weeks
because we are in the last few weeks of the election campaign to find out
of the elaction campaign to find out more
of the election campaign to find out more about how he is doing? Daily
more about how he is doing? Daily updates, in fact. And to actually
updates, in fact. And to actually see him, see if he will do any
see him, see if he will do any virtual appearances to let voters
virtual appearances to let voters know how he is doing in person? You
know how he is doing in person? You are right. This certainly upends the
are right. This certainly upends the campaign of the President, he is
campaign of the President, he is trailing in the polls, we are
trailing in the polls, we are getting some new data out in the
getting some new data out in the wake of the presidential debate that
wake of the presidential debate that took place just 48 hours ago. Now,
took place just 48 hours ago. Now, it looks as if
took place just 48 hours ago. Now, it looks as ifJoe Biden is
it looks as ifJoe Biden is expanding his lead both nationally
expanding his lead both nationally and in some of these key battle
and in some of these key battle ground states and the President
ground states and the President desperately needs to be able to use
desperately needs to be able to use this moment, this time, to close
this moment, this time, to close this gap but these are 1A days, 1h
this gap but these are 14 days, 14 crucial days,
this gap but these are 1A days, 1h crucial days, that the President
crucial days, that the President will be off the campaign trail and
will be off the campaign trail and here’s another wrinkle in this
here’s another wrinkle in this event. The President has been
event. The President has been trailing joe
event. The President has been trailing Joe Biden also indicate
trailing joe Biden also indicate money
trailing Joe Biden also indicate money race, we do know that Biden
money race, we do know that Biden raised $3.8 million in the last hour
raised $3.8 million in the last hour of the presidential debate, more
of the presidential debate, more than 10 million over the course of
than 10 million over the course of the debate. And now we know the
the debate. And now we know the President, now that he has
President, now that he has contracted this virus, the question
contracted this virus, the question becomes what happens to those donors
becomes what happens to those donors that he desperately needs to be able
that he desperately needs to be able to provide the resources that he
to provide the resources that he needs, be competitive over these
needs, be competitive over these last 30 days? The President right
last 30 days? The President right now is looking at a number of major
now is looking at a number of major issues above all, being his health
issues above all, being his health and his ability to ward off this
and his ability to ward off this vims.
and his ability to ward off this virus. Are those donors really going
vims. Are those donors really going to fall away
virus. Are those donors really going to fall away because the President
to fall away because the President has this virus? Will they not stick
has this vims? will they not stick with
has this virus? Will they not stick with him? That is something we do
with him? That is something we do not know. The President is 7A. He is
not know. The President is 74. He is dearty within the
not know. The President is 7A. He is clearly within the vulnerable age
dearty within the vulnerable age EWUP
dearty within the vulnerable age group for
clearly within the vulnerable age group for those who typically
group for those who typically succumb to this virus. Again, we
succumb to this vims. Again, we hope that is not
succumb to this virus. Again, we hope that is not the case but given
hope that is not the use but given that the
hope that is not the case but given that the President is trailing in
that the President is trailing in the polls, trailing with the money
the polls, trailing with the money race right now, and then these 1A
race right now, and then these 14 crucial days
race right now, and then these 1A crucial days that he will be of the
crucial days that he will be of the campaign trail, this does not bode
campaign trail, this does not bode well for his chances of getting
well for his chances of getting re—elected. Especially when millions
re-elacted. Especially when millions of
re—elected. Especially when millions of Americans are literally voting
of Americans are literally voting every single day, be it from early
every singla day, be it from earty voting, or from
every single day, be it from early voting, orfrom polls that
every single day, be it from early voting, or from polls that are
every single day, be it from early voting, orfrom polls that are now
voting, or from polls that are now open. This
voting, orfrom polls that are now open. This clearly does not give the
open. This clearly does not give the President the time he needs to turn
President the time he needs to turn this around. Eric, thank you very
this around. Eric, thank you very much. US political analyst, joining
much. US political analyst, joining us from Washington.
I’m joined now by KEITH NEAL, emeritus professor
in the epidemiology of infectious diseases at the University
of Nottingham.
Professor, good to have you with us. President Trump, we have heard it
President Tmmp, we have heard it any times
President Trump, we have heard it any times today already, since he
any times today already, since he tested positive, 7A, overweight, so
tested positive, 74, overweight, so he falls
tested positive, 7A, overweight, so he falls into those categories which
he falls into those categories which put him at greater risk from the
put him at greater risk from the virus but we are told by his doctor
virus but we are told by his doctor that he is doing well. How important
that he is doing well. How important is it if he has been tested really
is it if he has been tested really earty in this
is it if he has been tested really early in this disease, how important
earty in this disease, how important will that
early in this disease, how important will that be in ensuring he has a
will that be in ensuring he has a good recovery from it? At the
good recovery from it? At the moment, we don’t have any specific
moment, we don’t have any specific antiviral treatments and Remdesivir
antiviral treatments and Remdesivir only shortens your stay in hospital.
only shortens your stay in hospital. We do have another treatment which
We do have another treatment which reduces mortality rate by a third.
reduces mortality rate by a third. The old figures give someone in
The old figures give someone in their 705 and mortality risk of
their 705 and mortality risk of around 8%, at higher risk
their 70s and mortality risk of around 8%, at higher risk because he
around 896, at higher risk because he is a man, but
around 8%, at higher risk because he is a man, but given, he is probably
is a man, but given, he is probably a very fit and healthy 74—year—old
a very fit and healthy 74-year-old compared to
a very fit and healthy 74—year—old compared to many, and also the main
compared to many, and also the main factor is obesity which also
factor is obesity which also increases his risk. I think
factor is obesity which also increases his risk. I thinkjust
increases his risk. I think just because
increases his risk. I thinkjust because he’s been tested earlier in
because he’s been tested eartier in the
because he’s been tested earlier in the illness and found positive, you
the illness and found positive, you ran actually
the illness and found positive, you can actually be unwell for a week or
ran actually be unwell for a week or two
can actually be unwell for a week or two before
ran actually be unwell for a week or two before you
can actually be unwell for a week or two before you can become seriously
two before you ran become seriously ill. So
two before you can become seriously ill. So with Boris
two before you can become seriously ill. So with BorisJohnson, we
ill. So with Boris johnson, we sought the
ill. 50 with Borisjohnson, we sought the Prime Minister battling
sought the Prime Minister battling through, didn’t we, for a while.
through, didn’t we, for a while. Dearty with
through, didn’t we, for a while. Dearly with the virus, really quite
Dearly with the virus, really quite ill by the point he was admitted to
ill by the point he was admitted to hospital. We don’t have many details
hospital. We don’t have many details about how President Trump is,
about how President Tmmp is, whether
about how President Trump is, whether he is showing symptoms or
whether he is showing symptoms or not but it doesn’t seem, on the face
not but it doesn’t seem, on the face of it at least, that he is certainly
of it at least, that he is certainly that ill? We don’t know and if he’s
that ill? We don’t know and if he’s tested quite early in the illness,
tested quite earty in the illness, and it
tested quite early in the illness, and it was part of a routine test,
and it was part of a routine test, then we do know small numbers of
then we do know small numbers of peopla are
then we do know small numbers of people are actually asymptomatic and
peopla are actually asymptomatic and they would
people are actually asymptomatic and they would have a very good
they would have a very good prognosis. I think we will know more
prognosis. I think we will know more in a week’s time, exactly how the
in a week’s time, exactly how the disease has played out. Really, in
disease has played out. Really, in terms of his medical team, personal
terms of his medical team, personal position, it is a case of close
position, it is a use of close monitoring
position, it is a case of close monitoring rather than any other
monitoring rather than any other actions being taken at this point,
actions being taken at this point, is that what you are saying? I think
is that what you are saying? I think peopla
is that what you are saying? I think people themselves who might have
people themselves who might have Covid diagnosed without medical
Covid diagnosed without medical attention the President gets, people
attention the President gets, people who badly ill in this country are
who badly ill in this country are the ones who would need to seek help
the ones who would need to seek help because many people do go through
because many peopla do go through this
because many people do go through this illness without any
There will be considerable pressure on him to put in some virtual
on him to put in some virtual appearances to back up this
on him to put in some virtual appearances to back up this letter
appearances to back up this letter that we have seen from his
that we have seen from his physician? I think so, and
that we have seen from his physician? Ithink so, and I
that we have seen from his physician? I think so, and I think
physician? Ithink so, and Ithink this has
physician? I think so, and I think this has become a very political
this has become a very political issue for him and I tend not to deal
issue for him and I tend not to deal with the politics as I am no great
with the politic as I am no great expert on that.
with the politics as I am no great expert on that. I think they could
expert on that. I think they could have debates online but he might be
have debates online but he might be very
have debates online but he might be "W “W
have debates online but he might be very wary of what happened to
very wary of what happened to Richard Nixon in the 1960 election
Richard Nixon in the 1960 elaction when
Richard Nixon in the 1960 election when he went into one of these
when he went into one of these debates recovering from flu and did
debates recovering from ﬂu and did very badly.
debates recovering from flu and did very badly. Yes, because in the
very badly. Yes, because in the Richard Nixon case, people thought
Richard Nixon use, peopla thought he
Richard Nixon case, people thought he looked blessed trustworthy, in
he looked blessed trustworthy, in that scenario, was that not the
that scenario, was that not the case? Ironically, they may have
use? Ironically, they may have turned
case? Ironically, they may have turned out to be right. —— less
turned out to be right. -- lass tmstworthy.
turned out to be right. —— less trustworthy. We don’t know an awful
tmstworthy. We don’t know an awful lot about
trustworthy. We don’t know an awful lot about President Trump’s health,
lot about President Trump’s health, you say that he is pretty good for
you say that he is pretty good for someone of 7A, we see pictures of
someone of 74, we see pictures of him playing
someone of 7A, we see pictures of him playing golf, and we have seen
him playing golf, and we have seen images of joe
him playing golf, and we have seen images ofJoe Biden
him playing golf, and we have seen images ofJoe Bidenjogging, and
images of joe Biden jogging, and jogging
images ofJoe Bidenjogging, and jogging backwards, but we don’t know
jogging backwards, but we don’t know an awful lot about the presidential
an awful lot about the presidential as general health and fitness, do
as general health and fitness, do we? No, and I think that sort of
we? No, and I think that sort of thing should be private. I
thing should be private. I understand they get an annual
understand they get an annual checkup but to actually maintain the
checkup but to actually maintain the job itself, you have to have some
job itself, you have to have some degree of physical fitness. In that
degree of physical fitness. In that sense. It is a very demanding job,
sense. It is a very demanding job, to be president or prime minister of
to be president or prime minister of a country. But given that he is
a country. But given that he is president and that the election is
president and that the election is just a few weeks away, that private
just a few weeks away, that private medical information ultimately has
medical information ultimately has to become public knowledge, doesn’t
to become public knowladge, doesn’t it? I
to become public knowladge, doesn’t it? Ithink
to become public knowledge, doesn’t it? I think some of the voters may
it? I think some of the voters may want to know how healthy he is,
want to know how healthy he is, because then the role of the
because then the role of the vice—president becomes crucial. I
vice-president becomes cmcial. I think
vice—president becomes crucial. I think politically, it might have
think politically, it might have more of an impact if he gets the
more of an impact if he gets the disease badly. He won’t have
disease badly. He won’t have recovered before polling day. From
recovered before polling day. From what you know of him, do you think
what you know of him, do you think the prognosis is good, if we base it
the prognosis is good, if we base it on the scent information
the prognosis is good, if we base it on the scant information that we
on the saint information that we have so
on the scent information that we have so far? The risk gets
on the scant information that we have so far? The risk gets greater
have so far? The risk gets greater as you get older, but the vast
as you get older, but the vast majority of 19—year—olds in care
majority of 19-year-olds in rare homes
majority of 19—year—olds in care homes who have got Covid in this
homes who have got Covid in this country have now fully recovered. ——
country have now fully recovered. -- 90-year-olds. And
country have now fully recovered. —— 90—year—olds. And he is a long way
90-year-olds. And he is a long way off 90 yet. So,
90—year—olds. And he is a long way off 90 yet. So, thank you very much.
Our business correspondent, Katie Prescott, is here.
So, tell us what reaction Katie Pre don’t is here.
So, tell us what reaction Katie Pre don’t really a.
So, tell us what reaction Katie Pre don’t really know what to
investors don’t really know what to make of this. Like many of our
make of this. Like many of our commentators this morning, there is
commentators this morning, there is still so much uncertainty around.
still so much uncertainty around. That has been reflected in the
That has been reflected in the numbers this morning. In after—hours
numbers this morning. In after-hours trading in
numbers this morning. In after—hours trading in American stock markets we
trading in American stock markets we have seen falls of about 2%. When
have seen falls of about 296. when the
have seen falls of about 2%. When the markets open here we saw
the markets open here we saw falls of about 1%. So it shows a certain
of about 196. So it shows a certain amount of
of about 1%. So it shows a certain amount of nervousness from investors
amount of nervousness from investors but certainly is nomad panic yet.
but certainly is nomad panic yet. And I think investors are really
And I think investors are really waiting to see exactly what this
waiting to see exactly what this means. We don’t know how ill Donald
means. We don’t know how ill Donald Tmmp is, and
means. We don’t know how ill Donald Trump is, and what that might mean
Tmmp is, and what that might mean for the
Trump is, and what that might mean for the election which is coming up
for the elaction which is coming up in just a few
for the election which is coming up in just a few weeks, and that is all
in just a few weeks, and that is all unknown. There is some
unknown. There is some speculation among investors that it could mean a
among investors that it could mean a win for Biden because it makes
win for Biden because it makes Donald Trump look weak. In that
Donald Tmmp look weak. In that case,
Donald Tmmp look weak. In that rase, that
Donald Trump look week. In that case, that would mean more taxes on
rase, that would mean more taxes on corporate
case, that would mean more taxes on corporate America and that is why
corporate America and that is why investors are slightly pulling out
investors are slightly pulling out of stock markets and putting their
of stock markets and putting their money into safe havens such as gold
money into safe havens such as gold and the Japanese yen. But there is
and the japanese yen. But there is so much
and the Japanese yen. But there is so much unknown still, and
so much unknown still, and investors, like all of us, I really
investors, like all of us, I really waiting for more information to come
waiting for more information to come out. Katy, thank you very much. Just
out. Katy, thank you very much. just a quick word to
out. Katy, thank you very much. Just a quick word to say that a German
a quick word to say that a German government spokesman has said that
government spokesman has said that Angela Merkel has also sent her best
Angela Merkel has also sent her best wishes to President Trump and
wishes to President Trump and Melanie Trump, hoping they will
Melanie Tmmp, hoping they will recover
Melanie Trump, hoping they will recover from the coronavirus
recover from the coronavirus infection soon.
Let’s recap now on our breaking news for viewers who might be just
for viewers who might be just joining us.
President Trump has tested positive for coronavirus.
He says he is quarantining at the White House.
His wife has also tested positive.
Throughout the pandemic, Mr Trump, who’s 7A, has often refused
to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
With the presidential election a month away, it has thrown
the campaign into disarray.
Let’s take a look at the events just before President Trump tested
positive for Covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up
to the presidential election.
On Tuesday, the first debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden took place.
His special advisor Hope Hicks, who has also tested positive,
traveled with the campaign.
travelled with the campaign.
Then on Wednesday, the Trump campaign flew
on Marine One and Air Force One to a rally in Minnesota.
Again, Hope Hicks is with President Trump.
She falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
She falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
On Thursday, Hope Hicks tests positive for coronavirus
as President Trump travels to NewJersey for
another fundraiser.
Donald Trump then takes a test along his wife Melanie.
This takes us to today.
President Trump takes to Twitter to announce that he has tested
positive for Covid—19.
He will have to isolate for 10 days even if he shows no symptoms
or for M days if symptoms develop.
An election rally in Florida tonight has been cancelled.
On Thursday 8th October, the vice—presidential debate is due
to take place in Utah.
There has been no news about whether this will change.
The next presidential debate is then set to take place on Thursday
15th October in Miami, Florida.
Again, there has been no word on whether this key election
event will be effected.
Then the final debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden is scheduled to take place on Thursday October
22nd in Tennessee.
This all leads up to Tuesday 3rd November.
That’s election day in the United States.
With just a month left to go until polls open
across the entire United States, how will Donald Trump’s
coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—election?
A short while ago, our North America editor, Jon Sopel, explained how
President Trump could have contracted the virus.
It is simultaneously astonishing that the president
who is so well protected, where testing happens so much,
could have contracted the virus, and also not in the least bit
surprising, given the ambivalent attitude in the White House
towards wearing face masks.
You talk about this very close aide and confidante Hope Hicks having
contracted it earlier in the week, there is film of her and four
other people walking to the Marine One helicopter,
that cramped helicopter that takes the President and those people
from the White House to Andrews Air Force Base.
None of them are wearing masks at all and that sort of underlines
the problem that you can have all the protection you need
but actually if you haven’t got the masks mitigating it,
then that could be problematic and probably is how it spreads.
Donald Trump is 7A years old.
The last full medical report we had said that he was obese.
Those are two comorbidities that go with Covid.
That said, the physician’s report I thought was very
upbeat in its assessment, although very early days, of course,
because it is said that he thinks that the President should be able
to continue his work uninterrupted while he recuperates and there is no
suggestion there that the president needs to step aside
and that they need to invoke Article 25 of the constitution
for the Vice President to temporarily take over.
But where this leaves the campaign and, you know,
those small questions like that, who knows?
Earlier, before he tested positive, President Trump spoke
by phone to Fox News about news that his close aide
Hope Hicks had the virus.
So, she did test positive, I
So, she did test positive, Ijust heard about this, she tested
heard about this, she tested positive. She is a hard worker, she
positive. She is a hard worker, she wears masks a lot but she tested
wears masks a lot but she tested positive. It’s very hard, when
positive. It’s very hard, when you’re with soldiers, when you’re
you’re with soldiers, when you’re with airmen, when you’re with the
with airmen, when you’re with the Marines, and the police officers,
Marines, and the police officers, I’m with them so much, and when they
I’m with them so much, and when they come over to you, it’s very hard to
come over to you, it’s very hard to say, stay back, stay back, it’s a
say, stay back, stay back, it’s a tough kind of a situation, it’s a
tough kind of a situation, it’s a terrible thing. You no hope very
terrible thing. You no hope very well, she’s fantastic and she’s done
well, she’s fantastic and she’s done a great job but
well, she’s fantastic and she’s done a greatjob but it’s very, very hard
a great job but it’s very, very hard when you are
a greatjob but it’s very, very hard when you are with people from the
when you are with peopla from the military and
when you are with people from the military and law—enforcement and
military and law-enforcement and they come to
military and law—enforcement and they come to you and they want to
they come to you and they want to hug you and they want to kiss you
hug you and they want to kiss you because we really have done a good
because we really have done a good job for them. That was President
job for them. That was President Tmmp
job for them. That was President Trump speaking just before he got
Tmmp speaking just before he got his own
Trump speaking just before he got his own positive result back, along
his own positive result back, along with his wife.
Jordan Fabian is the White House correspondent at Bloomberg News.
He broke the news earlier that Hope Hicks, Trump’s aide,
had tested positive.
He explains what travelling with the President on Air Force One
during the pandemic entails.
Yeah, reporters generally wear masks all the time when they’re
at the white House and on Air Force One.
We’re tested every day that we go into the White House or on a trip
with the president using those rapid tests that take about 15
minutes to get back.
So, they try to do as much as possible to keep us protected
and we try to do ourselves as much as possible to keep ourselves
protected, but as we’ve seen, the system isn’t foolproof
and of course the president and the staff are very much less
vigilant about wearing masks and social distancing,
and now we’re seeing something like a massive,
possibly a massive outbreak, happening in the White House.
Jeremy Faust is an emergency medicine doctor and coronavirus
specialist at Brigham And Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School.
He explains what will happen next.
The president’s physician wrote a memorandum
that was circulated this evening in which he said optimistically
that he expects the president to continue his duties
and to convalesce, to get better.
No—one can know that.
We hope that’s the case, on a human level, but the next 10—14
days are the most dangerous 10—14 days that the President
of the United States has everfaced in his life.
He could be doing proverbial cart wheels two weeks from now,
or he could be intubated in an intensive care unit.
These are going to be extremely tense moments
for him and his family, and we all have to sit
here and watch that.
And it’s going to be difficult.
He does have several things working against him that we have learned.
We’ve learned so much about this virus in such
a short period of time.
We know that obesity, which he has, is a risk factor
for serious and critical cases.
We know that his age is an undeniable risk factor.
90 times more likely to die than a person in their 205 would be.
We know that even the male gender is a problem,
and there is a little bit of a predisposition there.
So there are a lot of reasons where we could say he’s
a healthy individual, he’s obviously able to do one
of the most demanding jobs in the world, and on the flipside
of that same coin you could say, and yet there are very important
reasons to be concerned.
The President has recently attended large indoor gatherings
where many of his supporters are not wearing masks.
Mr Trump spoke about wearing face coverings on Tuesday
during the Presidential Debate.
I mean, I have a mask right here.
I’ll put the mask on, you know, when I think I need it.
Tonight is an example, everybody’s had a test,
and you’ve had social distancing and all of the things that you have
to, but I wear masks when needed.
When needed, I wear masks.
0K, let me ask...
I don’t wear a mask like him, every time you see him he’s got a mask.
He could be speaking 200ft away from me and he shows up
with the biggest mask I’ve ever seen.
First Lady Melanie Trump posted on Twitter following the news
that she and the US President had tested positive for
coronavirus.
She said...
Vice—President Mike Pence tweeted...
World leaders have also been tweeting their reaction.
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin wished Donald Trump
a speedy recovery...
The UK’s Prime Minister, Borisjohnson,
who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year said...
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said...
And the Director—General of the World Health Organization,
Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus. ..
BorisJohnson has tweeted he hopes President Trump and the First lady
make a speedy recovery.
The UK’s Prime Minister tested positive for
coronavirus back in April.
Earlier our political correspondent Leila Nathoo reminded us
that he was the first world leader to contract Covid—19.
Sending his best wishes for a speedy recovery to both
the President and the First Lady, but you know, Borisjohnson,
when he contracted coronavirus, it was a completely different stage
of the pandemic, it was back towards the end of March,
when he revealed that he had developed symptoms, he had
a temperature, a cough, and he was getting tested.
Now, obviously, the testing situation back then was completely
different as well, so he only got tested once he had developed
symptoms, he was isolating in the flat above number 11 Downing
Street.
You might remember him posting videos on his social media feeds,
reassuring people that he was well and continuing with business.
But then, his situation did worsen pretty rapidly.
He was admitted to hospital after about ten days or so,
and then a few days later, going into intensive care,
and it ended up in a situation where the Foreign Secretary,
Dominic Raab, deputised for him officially when he was in intensive
care, and it did look at one point that his situation
was a bit touch and go.
Of course, that all seems a long time ago now, BorisJohnson has
since made a recovery.
But you know, he has talked himself about his weight being a factor
in how badly he was affected by coronavirus, he’s
talked openly about losing weight since then, so,
clearly, perhaps some comparisons could be made there.
He is younger than President Trump.
But you know, it is worth remembering that BorisJohnson
was at that time the first world leader to contract coronavirus
at a very different stage in the pandemic, but he was able
to continue working initially, but then obviously once he had been
admitted to hospital, recovered in Chequers I think
it was after he was released from hospital and then he was able
to return to work gradually.
Obviously President Trump at the moment at a very different
stage, not showing symptoms yet, but perhaps he was tested,
because of the regularity of testing, at a different
stage of infection.
Scott Lucas, Professor of American Studies
at the University of Birmingham, told us this news doesn’t
come as a shock to him.
I spoke to him earlier.
I’m surprised he didn’t get it months ago.
We have had other White House staff including the wife of his close
adviser Stephen Miller who have tested positive.
Including his White House valet.
And as your correspondent has noted there, Trump has effectively flouted
those restrictions that we have lived under in the UK,
and in the US, social distancing, mask wearing, other measures
to try to contain the virus.
He now has got it, I think it raises and elevates that question around
effectively his denial and his downplaying of the virus,
but it also raises the question of, how widely has it spread?
He does have other advisors with whom he is in daily contact.
And the question about the US Government functioning,
let alone the questions of the campaign over the next month,
depending on how far this might have spread,
well, that is sort of the unknown as we try to process this news.
Let’s try to work through a few of those points.
I suppose the immediate question is, has he been in close contact
with the vice—president, Mike Pence?
Because if President Trump was to become ill and incapacitated,
wasn’t able to carry out the role of President of the United States,
constitutionally, that would fall to the vice—president.
So, presumably, we will want to know very quickly what the situation
is with Mike Pence?
Absolutely right.
Mike Pence is technically head of the coronavirus task force,
so you assume he would be briefing Trump on that front.
Mike Pence, of course, is campaigning along with the rest
of the Trump team to try to get a second term.
You would assume there might be interaction
between them on that level.
Let me add another one for you, Jared Kushner,
Donald Trump’s son—in—law, of course, is vital in terms of how
the administration tries to project its foreign policy.
He’s been involved in, for example, the agreement between Israel,
the UAE and Bahrain to establish relations.
How much has Trump interacted with Kushner, who then in turn has
interacted with others on the global stage?
I think the one thing we can safely say is that if Trump
is incapacitated and Mike Pence is incapacitated, we’re relatively
safe with the number three, the Speaker of the House,
Nancy Pelosi, because one, she’s a Democrat, and two,
Donald Trump doesn’t like her very much.
Well, yeah, that really would put the cat amongst the pigeons,
so to speak, wouldn’t it?
And we’re a long way from that yet.
But let’s talk about the election campaign.
Where does this leave the campaign?
Because the statements coming out from the White House are saying
that the president is continuing with his duties, they’re projecting
an image of normality, so far as one can in this situation,
but the fact remains that this is far from normal and we’re four
weeks out from the election and Donald Trump is not going to be
able to do the things that he would have been expecting
to do or wanting to do?
No, let’s be honest here, it’s disarray.
Now, the Trump campaign may be counting on maybe
sympathy for Donald Trump, which can rally him
as he legs in the polls.
But Donald Trump has never really relied on sympathy,
as we saw on Tuesday night in the debate with the challenger,
Joe Biden, he’s relied on being very aggressive, very bullying.
And the effect of this, well, let me tick off three very quickly.
First of all, it takes Donald Trump of the campaign trail
off the campaign trail
and deprives him of his main tactic, which is those large rallies
that he can speak for an hour or 90 minutes with no need to talk
about social distancing or wearing masks.
Two, it makes coronavirus the number one issue again when the Trump
campaign had been trying to push it aside — let’s talk
about the Supreme Court, let’s talk about the supposed
cultural wars with extremists and anarchists.
And thirdly, it deprives the Trump campaign of that
disinformation tactic, thatJoe Biden is physically
and mentally unfit to be president.
Biden actually is in very good physical health for a man of 77.
He’s in very good mental health.
Now the focus on health issues turns back on Donald Trump,
especially since we still do not know whether he’s asymptomatic
or symptomatic with this virus.
Melissa Mackenzie is publisher of the American spectator magazine
in Houston in Texas.
She says President Trump will find new ways to connect
with American voters
Well, this is a wily virus and a lot of peopla who
Well, this is a wily virus and a lot of people who have been everything
of people who have been everything right have gotten sick and the
right have gotten sick and the president is now one of those
president is now one of those people. Every person who gets within
people. Every person who gets within contact with him is tested, and so,
contact with him is tested, and so, this is actually kind of remarkable,
this is actually kind of remarkable, that even with all of the testing of
that even with all of the testing of the people around him, that he has
the peopla around him, that he has still
the people around him, that he has still managed somehow to get the
still managed somehow to get the vims.
still managed somehow to get the virus. But this is a tricky virus,
vims. But this is a tricky virus, and he’s just
virus. But this is a tricky virus, and he’s just one
virus. But this is a tricky virus, and he’sjust one more
virus. But this is a tricky virus, and he’s just one more victim
virus. But this is a tricky virus, and he’sjust one more victim of
and he’s just one more victim of its. He
and he’sjust one more victim of its. He hasn’t been doing everything
its. He hasn’t been doing everything right, though, has he? He’s been in
right, though, has he? He’s been in large crowds without social
large crowds without social distancing, without wearing a mask.
distancing, without wearing a mask. These are the basic things that we
These are the basic things that we are told to do to try to protect
are told to do to try to protect ourselves from that virus? Well, it
ourselves from that vims? Well, it may look like
ourselves from that virus? Well, it may look like he’s close to people
may look like he’s dose to peopla in these
may look like he’s close to people in these crowds, but that might
may look like he’s close to people in these crowds, but that mightjust
in these crowds, but that mightjust be a trick of photography, because
be a trick of photography, because he’s not actually been in close
he’s not actually been in close contact, if you will notice, at the
contact, if you will notice, at the rallies. He’s not shaking hands with
rallies. He’s not shaking hands with peopla,
rallies. He’s not shaking hands with people, hugging them, getting close.
peopla, hugging them, getting close. And so
people, hugging them, getting close. And so he’s been doing his part in
And so he’s been doing his part in these situations to stay distanced.
these situations to stay distanced. It’s just one of those things, it’s
It’s just one of those things, it’s a difficult virus. I think there
a difficult vims. I think there were
a difficult virus. I think there were shots of him getting on board
were shots of him getting on board Marine One with Hope Hicks and
Marine One with Hope Hicks and others in the last few days, all
others in the last few days, all very close together, clearly there
very close together, dearty there is not a huge
very close together, clearly there is not a huge amount of space in a
is not a huge amount of space in a helicopter, none of them wearing
helicopter, none of them wearing masks. So, that is one example of
masks. So, that is one example of where people have been close
where people have been close together without wearing masks and
together without wearing masks and the President in their company. But
the President in their company. But what do you think, Melissa, what
what do you think, Melissa, what bearing do you think this is going
bearing do you think this is going to have on the remaining weeks of
to have on the remaining weeks of the election campaign? Well, there
the election campaign? Well, there is no question this is crunch time
is no question this is crunch time for the campaign. I think it is
for the campaign. I think it is going to shift things. I think of
going to shift things. I think of FDR and his fireside chats, and the
FDR and his fireside chats, and the American people will connect with
American peopla will connect with the
American people will connect with the president in a different way.
the president in a different way. The president will now have the
The president will now have the experience of so many people in
experience of so many people in America right now, who are distanced
America right now, who are distanced and having zoom meetings, and I
and having zoom meetings, and I suspect that the president is going
suspect that the president is going to find ways to connect with the
to find ways to connect with the American people in the same way the
American peopla in the same way the rest of
American people in the same way the rest of the world is connecting, via
rest of the world is connecting, via computer, Google hangout or however
computer, Google hangout or however it works, he will find a way.
Laurie Laird is an American politics commentator,
she explained that in the past the President has been quite
relaxed about the risk of catching the virus.
Well, I think like so many of your guests, this comes as a shock, but
guests, this comes as a shock, but not a surprise. We know that Donald
not a surprise. We know that Donald Tmmp is not
not a surprise. We know that Donald Trump is not often wearing a mask,
Tmmp is not often wearing a mask, and I was
Trump is not often wearing a mask, and I was watching his nomination of
and I was watching his nomination of Amy Coney Barrett last weekend, in
Amy Coney Barrett last weekend, in the rose garden at the White House —
the rose garden at the white House - nobody had a
the rose garden at the White House — nobody had a mask on. It harked back
nobody had a mask on. It harked back to eartier days,
nobody had a mask on. It harked back to earlier days, pre—Covid days. He
to eartier days, pre-Covid days. He didn’t have
to earlier days, pre—Covid days. He didn’t have a mask, Judge Barrett
didn’t have a mask, judge Barrett didn’t
didn’t have a mask, Judge Barrett didn’t have a mask, none of the
didn’t have a mask, none of the assembled guests had a mask. We know
assemblad guests had a mask. We know Donald Tmmp
assembled guests had a mask. We know Donald Trump doesn’t like to wear a
Donald Tmmp doesn’t like to wear a mask, we
Donald Trump doesn’t like to wear a mask, we know that he’s mocked Joe
mask, we know that he’s mocked joe Biden for
mask, we know that he’s mocked Joe Biden for wearing a mask. He has
Biden for wearing a mask. He has questioned his masculinity. So it
questioned his masculinity. So it isn’t all that surprising. I think
isn’t all that surprising. I think there are a couple of big questions,
there are a couple of big questions, though. One is, how sick Windle
though. One is, how sick windle Donald Tmmp
though. One is, how sick Windle Donald Trump get? Many of your
Donald Tmmp get? Many of your guests have
Donald Trump get? Many of your guests have mentioned that he is in
guests have mentioned that he is in a high-risk area,
guests have mentioned that he is in a high—risk area, he is clinically
a high-risk area, he is clinically obese, he is
a high—risk area, he is clinically obese, he is over the age of 70 and
obese, he is over the age of 70 and it is sort of ironic, Donald Trump
it is sort of ironic, Donald Tmmp has
it is sort of ironic, Donald Trump has mocked Joe Biden for so elderly,
has mocked joe Biden for so elderty, Donald Tmmp
has mocked Joe Biden for so elderly, Donald Trump is only three years
Donald Tmmp is only three years younger. He is
Donald Trump is only three years younger. He is in a high—risk area.
younger. He is in a high-risk area. We know
younger. He is in a high—risk area. We know that his Covid was caught
We know that his Covid was taught "TY
We know that his Covid was taught very quickly,
We know that his Covid was caught very quickly, he is probably one of
very quickly, he is probably one of the most tested men in the world,
the most tested men in the world, could his condition deteriorate?
could his condition deteriorate? That is a very big question. The
That is a very big question. The other question is, who has he been
other question is, who has he been in contact with? The president is in
in contact with? The president is in contact with so many people during
contact with so many peopla during the
contact with so many people during the course of a day and that means
the course of a day and that means economic advisers, national security
economic advisers, national security advisers, campaign advisers. It is
advisers, campaign advisers. It is not unlikely or impossible that so
not unlikely or impossible that so many aides from so many different
many aides from so many different places could be affected, and that
places could be affected, and that could include people involved in the
could include people involved in the nomination process of
could include people involved in the nomination process ofJudge Barrett,
nomination process of judge Barrett, peopla
nomination process ofJudge Barrett, people involved in coming up with a
peopla involved in coming up with a stimulus plan
people involved in coming up with a stimulus plan on the economic side.
stimulus plan on the economic side. So how widely spread through the
So how widely spread through the West wing,
So how widely spread through the West Wing, through the White House,
West wing, through the white House, could,
West Wing, through the White House, could, corona be? You’re watching
could, corona be? You’re watching BBC News.
And today, the news continuing to be dominated by the news that President
dominated by the news that President Tmmp and
dominated by the news that President Trump and Milani have both tested
Tmmp and Milani have both tested positive for
Trump and Milani have both tested positive for coronavirus. We do not
positive for coronavirus. We do not know, although his personal doctor
know, although his personal doctor has said that he is well, whether
has said that he is well, whether the president is suffering from any
the president is suffering from any symptoms. We will have much more
symptoms. We will have much more coming up, but first, the weather,
coming up, but first, the weather, with Sarah Keith—Lucas.
Hello.
The weather is set to bring us some disruption at times
over the next few days.
Today, we’ve got Storm Alex in the south with some wet
and windy weather but, at times, as we head to the next
couple of days into the weekend, we are all going to see some spells
of heavy rain fell at times.
There is a chance that there could be some disruption
to travel and transport, some flooding possible
as well as strong winds, strong enough to bring down the odd
small tree or two, with some big waves around the coast as well.
Now, Storm Alex today is mainly affecting
the southern half of the UK.
The strongest of the winds associated with the storm
are across the north—west of France but we could see gusts around
about 50 to 60mph quite widely along the south coast,
70mph or more down towards the Channel Isles too with some
heavy downpours here and an area of rain just moving its way
northwards into the Midlands and North Wales, followed by some
brighter skies and scattered showers from the south.
But it is a very different day the northern half of the UK.
It was quite a cold start to the day, we’ve had fog patches
around, one or two showers here there through parts
of Northern Ireland, western Scotland, also quite showery
and breezy for the Northern Isles as well, but for the rest
of Scotland into northern England, Northern Ireland, you should
stay predominantly dry with some sunshine.
That rain edging into northern England for the likes of Liverpool
later on this afternoon.
Temperatures out there today 12 to 15 Celsius,
feeling colder with the wind and the rain in the south.
Through this evening and overnight, we see more of that rain piling
in on a brisk easterly breeze across much of England and Wales
and eastern Scotland too.
Western Scotland and Northern Ireland, clearer skies
so it is here that the temperatures will fall lowest, down
into single figures, but elsewhere further south and east
it is a mild, wet and windy start to the day on Saturday.
That is the way it looks through the day.
Lots more heavy, persistent rain tracking its way further westwards
across England and Wales, combined with gales or severe gales
down towards the south—west, persistent rain to the east
of the Pennines, for eastern parts of Highland Scotland as well,
there could be some flooding issues around.
It will brighten up towards the south—east,
16 Celsius or so in Norwich and Northern Ireland,
mostly dry on Saturday.
Sunday, low—pressure sits right across the British Isles
and we will see heavy showers rotating around that
area of low pressure.
Gales particularly around the periphery of the UK and it
will be a day of sunshine and blustery showers.
Goodbye for now.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
and around the world.
US President Donald Trump and the First Lady Melanie test
positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
Announcing the test results on Twitter the President says
he and the First Lady "will get through this together".
It comes after his one of his closest aides — Hope Hicks —
tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips
together in the past week
World markets slump on the news with the Dow
futures index down — due to uncertainty about the
operation of the US administration.
We’ll be looking at what all this means
for the election campaign — as the President is confined
to the White House.
Hello, and welcome if you’re watching in the UK
or around the world.
Stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here
and across the globe.
m:
We start with the story in the US.
Donald Trump has said
he and his wife, Melanie,
have tested positive for coronavirus and have begun
a period of quarantine.
They were both tested after one of Mr Trump’s
most senior advisers Hope Hicks found out
she had the virus.
The White House doctor has said both the President
and the First Lady are well and that Mr Trump will continue
to carry out his duties while he self—isolates.
President Trump confirmed the news on Twitter
saying that he and the First Lady "will begin our quarantine
and recovery process immediately" — and that they "will get
through this together."
This is the scene live in Washington DC
where the President is confined to the White House —
with just a month to go till the US presidential election.
Let’s speak to our North America correspondent David Willis.
This news broke in the middle of the night US time, extraordinary
night US time, extraordinary developments, any update on the
developments, any update on the state of health of the president and
state of health of the president and First lady?
First lady? It
First Lady? It is 63m East Coast time,
First lady? It is Sam East Coast time, America
It is Sam East Coast time, America is waking up to
It is 6am East Coast time, America is waking up to this astonishing
is waking up to this astonishing news. All we as the ignition of
news. All we as the ignition of President Trump is concerned is the
President Trump is concerned is the statement from his personal
statement from his personal physician Sean Conley who says both
physician Sean Conley who says both he and the First Lady are doing well
he and the First Lady are doing well and plan to remain at the White
and plan to remain at the white House during
and plan to remain at the White House during their convalescence. He
House during their convalescence. He went on to say, I expect the
went on to say, I expect the president to continue carrying out
president to continue carrying out his duties while recovering. But
his duties while recovering. But what we do not know is whether the
what we do not know is whether the President is exhibiting any symptoms
President is exhibiting any symptoms of coronavirus. This raises a heap
of coronavirus. This raises a heap of questions not least about who
of questions not least about who will mn
of questions not least about who will run the country should the
will run the country should the President develop symptoms. And
President develop symptoms. And indeed what this will mean for the
indeed what this will mean for the future of the presidential campaign
future of the presidential campaign which has 33 days to run. The
which has 33 days to run. The President will not be able to
President will not be able to participate in that an campaign in
participate in that an campaign in the way he has been used to doing,
the way he has been used to doing, to those large gatherings. Very
to those large gatherings. Very little in the way of social
little in the way of social distancing or mask wearing. He will
distancing or mask wearing. He will probably have to content himself for
probably have to content himself for the next couple of weeks at the very
the next couple of weeks at the very least with campaigning from the
least with campaigning from the white
least with campaigning from the White House under quarantine. That
white House under quarantine. That will mean
White House under quarantine. That will mean his presence in the second
will mean his presence in the second presidential debate which is two
presidential debate which is two weeks away is very much in doubt.
weeks away is very much in doubt. And of course the vice presidential
And of course the vice presidential debate which should take place next
debate which should take place next Wednesday could be in doubt if Mike
Wednesday could be in doubt if Mike Pence who has been around Hope Hicks
Pence who has been around Hope Hicks or President Trump himself.
or President Tmmp himself. So many
or President Trump himself. So many questions raised. Have we
So many questions raised. Have we heard from the Democrat leadership
heard from the Democrat leadership and does this mean they would have
and does this mean they would have to suspend campaigning with both
to suspend campaigning with both sides trying to honour some
sides trying to honour some agreement where they both campaign
agreement where they both campaign onUne
agreement where they both campaign online while the President is fit
online while the President is fit and able?
and able? We do not know. We have no word so
We do not know. We have no word so far from the joe
We do not know. We have no word so farfrom thejoe Biden campaign.
far from the joe Biden campaign. What
farfrom thejoe Biden campaign. What we do not know is how close the
what we do not know is how close the President got to
What we do not know is how close the President got to Joe
What we do not know is how close the President got toJoe Biden during
President got to joe Biden during that
President got toJoe Biden during that Kievan debate on Tuesday night.
that Kievan debate on Tuesday night. We know they kept social distancing
We know they kept social distancing while the debate itself was under
while the debate itself was under “Y
while the debate itself was under way back behind the scenes, before
way back behind the scenes, before and after that debate, how close did
and after that debate, how close did they become and will
and after that debate, how close did they become and willJoe Biden now
they become and will joe Biden now be
they become and willJoe Biden now be tested for coronavirus? He is
be tested for coronavirus? He is tested routinely every week we are
tested routinely every week we are told but there will of course be
told but there will of course be those who say due to contact tracing
those who say due to contact tracing and so on, that he and many of the
and so on, that he and many of the President’s closest advisers who
President’s closest advisers who have come into contact with him and
have come into contact with him and Hope Hicks in the last week should
Hope Hicks in the last week should now be tested to see if they also
now be tested to see if they also the coronavirus.
the coronavirus. This will inevitably raise
This will inevitably raise questions, if campaigning has to
questions, if campaigning has to halt, whether it will throw into
halt, whether it will throw into question the legitimacy about the
question the legitimacy about the ultimate poll in November. The polls
ultimate poll in November. The polls are open, people are voting.
are open, peopla are voting. Absolutely,
are open, people are voting. Absolutely, they are, and
Absolutely, they are, and coronavirus was a subject President
coronavirus was a subject President Tmmp had
coronavirus was a subject President Trump had hoped to steer the
Tmmp had hoped to steer the campaign
Trump had hoped to steer the campaign away from and on other
campaign away from and on other matters, for example, his pick for
matters, for example, his pick for the vacant post in the supreme
the vacant post in the supreme court, Amy Coney Barrett. But it has
court, Amy Coney Barrett. But it has come back to bite him if you like
come back to bite him if you like and is very close to home. It is in
and is very close to home. It is in the white
and is very close to home. It is in the White House. This is a virus
the white House. This is a virus that has
the White House. This is a virus that has killed more than 200,000
that has killed more than 200,000 Americans, 7 million people here
Americans, 7 million people here have contracted it. President Trump
have contracted it. President Tmmp has been
have contracted it. President Trump has been criticised of course for
has been criticised of course for those open—air rallies, for his
those open—air rallies, for his dismissal of mask wearing, he had a
dismissal of mask wearing, he had a go at joe Biden
dismissal of mask wearing, he had a go atJoe Biden about that during
go at joe Biden about that during the
go atJoe Biden about that during the debate on Tuesday night. He
the debate on Tuesday night. He wanted to steer the campaign away
wanted to steer the campaign away from the issue of coronavirus, but
from the issue of coronavims, but now it is
from the issue of coronavirus, but now it is front and centre of the
now it is front and centre of the 2020 presidential campaign.
2020 presidential campaign. We have seen well—wishers coming in
We have seen well-wishers coming in globally from
We have seen well—wishers coming in globally from international leaders
globally from international leaders and from critics within the US of
and from critis within the US of the
and from critics within the US of the President, everyone wishing him
the President, everyone wishing him and his wife the best in terms of
and his wife the best in terms of getting better. We don’t know
getting better. We don’t know whether they have any real symptoms
whether they have any real symptoms yet. But politically, there will be
yet. But politically, there will be a lot of questions about White House
a lot of questions about white House staff and
a lot of questions about White House staff and how leadership will be
staff and how leadership will be able to function. Lots of people
able to function. Lots of peopla will
able to function. Lots of people will need extra testing.
will need extra testing. Absolutely. This will go on and move
Absolutely. This will go on and move out to peopla
Absolutely. This will go on and move out to people who had been in
out to peopla who had been in contact,
out to people who had been in contact, press people, for example,
contact, press people, for example, those peripherally involved with the
those peripherally involved with the white
those peripherally involved with the White House over the last week or
white House over the last week or even longer.
White House over the last week or even longer. And what sort of
even longer. And what sort of condition they are in. It raises a
condition they are in. It raises a lot of questions. We know Stephen
lot of questions. We know Stephen Bela, presidential adviser, and
Bela, presidential adviser, and Donald Trump’s family, Donald
Donald Tmmp’s family, Donald junior, Eric
Donald Trump’s family, Donald Junior, Eric and Ivanka, have been
junior, Eric and Ivanka, have been in contact
Junior, Eric and Ivanka, have been in contact with him, questions about
in contact with him, questions about their health. The same for the
their health. The same for the Senate Majority Leader Mitch
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Amy Coney Barrett,
McConnell, and Amy Coney Barrett, she was in contact with the
she was in contact with the President a few days ago.
President a few days ago. David Willis, thank you.
Dr Clare Gerada is the former chair of the Royal College of GPs.
We talked to her months ago when she had the virus herself
and shejoins me now.
Thank you for your time. I hope you have recovered from the virus
have recovered from the virus myself.
myself. I have. It took me longer than I
I have. It took me longer than I imagined, about four months to fully
imagined, about four months to fully get over the symptoms but yes I am
get over the symptoms but yes I am fully recovered, thank you.
fully recovered, thank you. The President is 7A, described as
The President is 74, described as being
The President is 7A, described as being clinically obese according to
being clinically obese according to data released about his health. How
data released about his health. How much at risk does that put him
much at risk does that put him statistically?
statistically? Statistically he is at more risk. He
Statistically he is at more risk. He is also male so being a man, being
is also male so being a man, being obese, being over 75,
is also male so being a man, being obese, being over75, in
is also male so being a man, being obese, being over 75, in your 705,
obese, being over 75, in your 705, put you -- put you
obese, being over 75, in your 705, put you —— put you at a much higher
put you -- put you at a much higher risk and
put you —— put you at a much higher risk and someone in your 205, at
risk and someone in your 205, at higher
risk and someone in your 20s, at higher risk of being in hospital,
higher risk of being in hospital, needing ventilation and sadly of
needing ventilation and sadly of death.
death. Statistics are bandied about
death. Statistic are bandied about and
Statistics are bandied about and sometimes it is difficult to put a
sometimes it is difficult to put a context but the closest I can give
context but the closest I ran give you is he has a
context but the closest I can give you is he has a one in 25 chance of
you is he has a one in 25 chance of being quite seriously unwell but you
being quite seriously unwell but you have to put that in context. He also
have to put that in context. He also has a 24
have to put that in context. He also has a 2k out of 25 chance of pulling
has a 24 out of 25 chance of pulling through this
has a 2k out of 25 chance of pulling through this which I really hope he
through this which I really hope he does.
does. He will have top acute medical
He will have top acute medical attention, how much will that play a
attention, how much will that play a part and the fact we know a bit more
part and the fact we know a bit more about how to treat this?
about how to treat this? It is not so much he will have the
It is not so much he will have the top doctors, we have in this
top doctors, we have in this country. It is that we know much
country. It is that we know much better how to treat it. To use
better how to treat it. To use steroid medication, we also knew
steroid meditation, we also knew ventilating
steroid medication, we also knew ventilating people, that isn’t
ventilating people, that isn’t necessarily the best way of managing
necessarily the best way of managing patients who are very sick. We also
patients who are very sick. We also know who is more at risk, what if
know who is more at risk, what if any antibiotics are required. We are
any antibiotic are required. We are in a much
any antibiotics are required. We are in a much better place than we were
in a much better place than we were back in March. Nevertheless what
back in March. Neverthelass what hasn’t
back in March. Nevertheless what hasn’t changed is the risk factors.
hasn’t changed is the risk factors. He is obese, if you measure his BMI,
He is obese, if you measure his BMI, you just have to look at him. He is
you just have to look at him. He is well, and in an at risk age group.
well, and in an at risk age group. Important to point out it affects
Important to point out it affects everyone differently. My father in
everyone differently. My father in his 805 had this virus at the same
his 80s had this virus at the same time as my son
his 805 had this virus at the same time as my son in
his 80s had this virus at the same time as my son in his teens and my
time as my son in his teens and my son was much more unwell. We have
son was much more unwell. We have seen Donald Trump full of energy.
seen Donald Tmmp full of energy. Absolutely.
seen Donald Trump full of energy. Absolutely. He plays golf every
Absolutely. He plays golf every week. Speaking to a friend of mine,
week. Speaking to a friend of mine, we both got it at the same time in
we both got it at the same time in New York. He is 75. I was really
New York. He is 75. I was really unwell. He didn’t even know he had
unwell. He didn’t even know he had it until later on when he got
it until later on when he got tested. It does affect people
tested. It does affect people differently. On a population level
differently. On a population level the older you are, fatter you are,
the older you are, father you are, the more likely
the older you are, fatter you are, the more likely you are to have a
the more likely you are to have a more serious outcome and there are
more serious outcome and there are other factors such as uncontrolled
other factors such as uncontrolled diabetes, heart disease and other
diabetes, heart disease and other factors which I do not think are
factors which I do not think are relevant to Mr Trump.
relevant to Mr Trump. Is it the case you may not be very
Is it the use you may not be very ill
Is it the case you may not be very ill immediately, it can be if you
ill immediately, it ran be if you days before
ill immediately, it can be if you days before we know whether the
days before we know whether the President and his wife are through
President and his wife are through high risk stages.
high risk stages. Yes, people say it is about day five
Yes, peopla say it is about day five that you start
Yes, people say it is about day five that you start to get better or
that you start to get better or sadly not get better and might
sadly not get better and might require more intensive treatment.
require more intensive treatment. The earty
require more intensive treatment. The early stages can be very mild,
The earty stages ran be very mild, mine were, I
The early stages can be very mild, mine were, I didn’t even know I had
mine were, I didn’t even know I had it until one and a half days into
it until one and a half days into the illness. I am not sure the visit
the illness. I am not sure the visit is how you feel on day one in terms
is how you feel on day one in terms of how you will get through this. I
of how you will get through this. I think his doctors will be keeping a
think his doctors will be keeping a dose
think his doctors will be keeping a close eye on him to see whether he
close eye on him to see whether he requires more intensive treatment
requires more intensive treatment then maybe he is getting.
then maybe he is getting. We saw with Boris Johnson,
then maybe he is getting. We saw with Borisjohnson, he
We saw with Boris johnson, he initially we
We saw with Borisjohnson, he initially we were told was working
initially we were told was working from Downing Street, communicating
from Downing Street, communicating virtually, initially. Is that
virtually, initially. Is that something any doctor would recommend
something any doctor would recommend the President should be doing or is
the President should be doing or is it better to rest and take time out?
it better to rest and take time out? In retrospect I am sure he wishes he
In retrospect I am sure he wishes he had taken some time out because no
had taken some time out because no matter whether he is the President
matter whether he is the President of the United States or the Prime
of the United States or the Prime Minister of Britain, the fact is
Minister of Britain, the fact is that the illness does not
that the illness does not discriminate between your status and
discriminate between your stats and it does
discriminate between your status and it does leave you really washed out.
it does leave you really washed out. I have tried to work, when I was not
I have tried to work, when I was not fully fit, on meetings, and I wish I
fully fit, on meetings, and I wish I had practised what I preached and
had practised what I preached and taken a few weeks off to recuperate.
taken a few weeks off to recuperate. At its worst, how difficult was it
At its worst, how difficult was it for you?
for you? I wasn’t welcome it was, I describe
I wasn’t welcome it was, I describe it as the worst full —— worst flu I
it as the worst full -- worst ﬂu I had ever
it as the worst full —— worst flu I had ever had but at no time did I
had ever had but at no time did I think I would die. I wished the
think I would die. I wished the temperature would go down, I wished
temperature would go down, I wished I
temperature would go down, I wished Ifelt
temperature would go down, I wished I felt better.
temperature would go down, I wished Ifelt better. It
temperature would go down, I wished I felt better. It is not a nice
Ifelt better. It is not a nice illness. I
I felt better. It is not a nice illness. I am
I felt better. It is not a nice illness. lam in
I felt better. It is not a nice illness. I am in my 60s. If you are
illness. I am in my 605. If you are younger, I know from the figures,
younger, I know from the figures, you would probably have a milder
you would probably have a milder disease.
disease. Glad you are better, thank you for
Glad you are better, thank you for helping us with that.
Before his positive test for Covid, President Trump spoke
to Fox News about his close aide Hope Hicks’s own positive test.
m:
We can listen to what he had to say.
She did test positive, Ijust heard about this,
she tested positive.
She is a hard worker, a lot of masks, she wears masks a lot,
but she tested positive.
It is very hard when you are with soldiers,
when you are with air men, when you are with
Marines, the police
officers, with them so much, and when they come over to you,
it is very hard to say, "Stay back,", it is a tough situation.
You know Hope very well, she is fantastic
and has done a greatjob.
But it is very hard when you are with people
from the military or from law enforcement and they come over
to you, they want to hug you and kiss you, because we really
have done a good job for them.
Earlier Keith Neal, emeritus professor in the epidemiology
of infectious diseases at the University of Nottingham, told
us more about how President Trump may respond to the virus.
At the moment we don’t have any specific antiviral treatments and
specific antiviral treatments and remdesivir only shortens your stay
remdesivir only shortens your stay in hospital. We do have another
in hospital. We do have another treatment which reduces the
treatment which reduces the mortality rate by a third. The old
mortality rate by a third. The old figures give someone in their 705 a
figures give someone in their 705 a mortality
figures give someone in their 70s a mortality risk
figures give someone in their 705 a mortality risk of around 8%. He is
mortality risk of around 896. He is at high risk for
mortality risk of around 8%. He is at high risk for being a man but
at high risk for being a man but given how he is probably a fit
given how he is probably a fit healthy 74—year—old compared to many
healthy 74-year-old compared to many and also
healthy 74—year—old compared to many and also the main factor is obesity
and also the main factor is obesity which also increases his risk, I
which also increases his risk, I think just
which also increases his risk, I thinkjust because he has been
think just because he has been tested
thinkjust because he has been tested early in the illness and
tested earty in the illness and found
tested early in the illness and found positive it can actually, you
found positive it ran actually, you ran actually
found positive it can actually, you can actually be unwell for a week or
ran actually be unwell for a week or two
can actually be unwell for a week or two before
ran actually be unwell for a week or two before you
can actually be unwell for a week or two before you become seriously ill.
two before you become seriously ill. And if he is tested quite early on
And if he is tested quite earty on in the
And if he is tested quite early on in the illness as part of a routine
in the illness as part of a routine test, we do know small numbers of
test, we do know small numbers of peopla are
test, we do know small numbers of people are actually asymptomatic
peopla are actually asymptomatic totally and
people are actually asymptomatic totally and they would have a good
totally and they would have a good prognosis. We will know more in a
prognosis. We will know more in a week exactly how the disease has
week exactly how the disease has paid out.
Let’s take a look at the events just before President Trump tested
positive for Covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up
to the presidential election.
On Tuesday the first debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden took place.
World leaders have also been reacting to the news.
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin wished Donald Trump
a speedy recovery — saying: "I am convinced
that your vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope
with this dangerous virus."
The UK’s Prime Minister, Borisjohnson, who himself
contracted coronavirus earlier this year, has tweeted, saying
he sends his "best wishes to President Trump and the First
Lady."
Spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel has
sent her best wishes.
She’s quoted in a tweet as saying — "I hope that they recover well
from their coronavirus infection and are soon completely
healthy again."
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: "Wishing my friend
President Trump and the First Lady 3 quick recovery and good health."
And the Director—General of the World Health Organization,
Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, has given his "best wishes
to the President and the First Lady for a full and speedy recovery."
The Nato Secretary—General has
The Nah Secretary-General has wished
The Nato Secretary—General has Wished 3
The Nato Secretary—General has Wished a speedy recovery to
Wished a speedy recovery to President Trump in the last few
President Tmmp in the last few minutes
President Trump in the last few minutes as well. Good wishes coming
minutes as well. Good wishes coming in internationally from many world
in internationally from many world leaders regardless of politics. And
leaders regardless of politic. And internally
leaders regardless of politics. And internally within the US even from
internally within the US even from critis of
internally within the US even from critics of the President, everyone
critis of the President, everyone wanting good
critics of the President, everyone wanting good health for the
wanting good health for the President and his wife.
Let’s take a look at the events just before President Trump tested
positive for Covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up
to the presidential election.
On Tuesday the first debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden took place.
His special adviser Hope Hicks — who has also tested positive —
travelled with the campaign.
Then on Wednesday the Trump campaign flew on Marine One and Air Force One
to a rally in Minnesota.
Again Hope Hicks is with President Trump.
She falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
On Thursday Hope Hicks tests positive for coronavirus
as President Trump travels to NewJersey for
another fundraiser.
Donald Trump then takes a test along with his wife Melanie.
This takes us to today.
President Trump announces on Twitter that he has tested
positive for Covid—19.
He will have to isolate for ten days — even if he shows no symptoms —
or for M days if symptoms develop.
An election rally in Florida tonight has been cancelled.
On Thursday 8th October the Vice Presedential debate is due
to take place in Utah.
There has been no news about whether this will change.
The next presidential debate is due to take place on Thursday 15 October
in Miami in Florida.
Again there has been no word on whether this key election
event will be affected.
Then the final debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden is scheduled to take place on Thursday October
22nd in Tennessee.
This all leads up to Tuesday 3rd November.
That’s election day in the United States.
With just a month left to go until polls open
across the entire United States how will Donald Trump’s
coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection.
coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection.
A short while ago, our North America editorJon Sopel explained how
President Trump could have contracted the virus.
Well, it’s simultaneously astonishing that the President,
who is so well protected, where testing happens so much,
could have contracted the virus, and also not in the least bit
surprising given the ambivalent attitude in the White House
towards wearing face masks.
You talk about this very close aide and confidante, Hope Hicks,
having contracted it earlier in the week, there is a film
of her and four other people walking to the Marine One helicopter,
that cramped helicopter that takes the President and those people
from the White House to Andrews Air Force Base,
none of them are wearing masks.
At all.
And that underlines the problem, you can have all the protection
you need but actually, if you haven’t got the masks
mitigating it, that could be problematic and probably
is how it spread.
Donald Trump is 74—years—old.
The last full medical report we had says that he was obese,
those are two comorbidities that go with Covid.
That said, the physician’s report I thought was upbeat
in its assessment although it’s very early days, of course,
it said he thinks the President should be able to continue his work
uninterrupted while he recuperates.
And so, no suggestion that the President needs to step
aside and they need to invoke Article 25 of the Constitution,
for the Vice President to temporarily take over
but you know, where this leaves the campaign and small questions
like that, who knows?
So what impact is news of President Trump’s positive test
had on the world’s stock markets?
US stock markets have indicated that shares will open sharply lower
after the news broke.
Stock market futures showed that all three
of America’s main indexes — the DowJones, the S&P 500
and the Nasdaq — are set to drop by at least1.5% each
when trading begins.
Let’s get more now from our business
correspondent Theo Leggett.
What can you tell us? At the moment
what ran you tell us? At the moment I would say there
What can you tell us? At the moment I would say there is a shiver
I would say there is a shiver mnning
I would say there is a shiver running through the share markets in
mnning through the share markets in Europe. If you
running through the share markets in Europe. If you look at the FTSE 100
Europe. If you look at the FTSE 100 index, that is down a little over
index, that is down a little over 195,
index, that is down a little over 196, is in
index, that is down a little over 1%, is in Frankfurt, and in Paris.
196, is in Frankfurt, and in Paris. What
1%, is in Frankfurt, and in Paris. What investors here are looking at
what investors here are looking at is what
What investors here are looking at is what does this mean? The problem
is what does this mean? The problem is nobody really knows how serious
is nobody really knows how serious Donald Trump’s condition is, what it
Donald Tmmp’s condition is, what it could
Donald Trump’s condition is, what it could mean in terms of the daily
could mean in terms of the daily mnning of the
could mean in terms of the daily running of the White House, or what
mnning of the white House, or what it means in
running of the White House, or what it means in terms of the election.
it means in terms of the election. when the
it means in terms of the election. When the US markets opened we will
when the US markets opened we will see that
When the US markets opened we will see that amplified because,
see that amplified because, obviously, there is more of a local
obviously, there is more of a [oral effect.
obviously, there is more of a local effect. The signs are as you pointed
effect. The signs are as you pointed out from premarket trading that the
out from premarket trading that the main indexes, they will all open
main indexes, they will all open sharply down. I have to say a little
sharply down. I have to say a little bit of caution here, what we are
bit of caution here, what we are seeing is likely to be a significant
seeing is likely to be a significant fall at the start, 1.5%, these are
fall at the start, 1.596, these are significant but
fall at the start, 1.5%, these are significant but not huge. No sign of
significant but not huge. No sign of panic, just a worry there is
panic, just a worry there is uncertainty and during times of
uncertainty and during times of uncertainty, people tend to turn
uncertainty, peopla tend to turn away from
uncertainty, people tend to turn away from equities and look for
away from equities and look for safer places to put their money. At
safer places to put their money. At the moment there is a nervousness.
the moment there is a nervousness. People do not know what to expect
People do not know what to expect and that is reducing the appetite
and that is reducing the appetite for shares. We do not know where
for shares. We do not know where this is going and investors do not
this is going and investors do not know either.
know either. President Trump had wanted
know either. President Tmmp had wanted to make
President Tmmp had wanted to make the economy a
President Trump had wanted to make the economy a key theme for the
the economy a key theme for the election, this is an uncertain time
election, this is an uncertain time now leading up to the vote in
now leading up to the vote in November.
November. Absolutely. One piece of data we are
Absolutely. One piece of data we are due to get out today is what they
due to get out today is what they all being
due to get out today is what they cell being non—farm payrolls,
all being non-farm payrolls, monthly
cell being non—farm payrolls, monthly employment figures, expected
monthly employment figures, expected to show a reasonably substantial
to show a reasonably substantial rise in the number of people
rise in the number of people employed in the US. That would have
employed in the US. That would have been expected to give the markets a
been expected to give the markets a boost. But there is talk of a $2.2
boost. But there is talk of a $2.2 trillion stimulus programme in the
trillion stimulus programme in the US which has hit a new hick ups. A
US which has hit a new hick ups. A bill was passed in the House of
bill was passed in the House of Representatives but without
Representatives but without Republican support which means it is
Republican support which means it is not certain whether that bill in its
not certain whether that bill in its current form can make it into law.
current form ran make it into law. All these
current form can make it into law. All these factors which we would
All these factors which we would normally expect to focus attention
normally expect to focus attention on. Now attention has moved away
on. Now attention has moved away from these nuts and bolts economics,
from these nuts and bolts economic, towards
from these nuts and bolts economics, towards what is happening in the
towards what is happening in the white
towards what is happening in the White House and where does the
White House and where does the President Barack Obama honestly the
President Barack Obama honestly the US at this critical point. —— the
US at this critical point. —— the President’s illness leave the US.
Another person wishing him a speedy recovery is Sarah Elliott,
who is chair of the Republicans Overseens UK Group who told us
what she believes this means for the upcoming election.
I wish him a fast recovery.
I think he is actually in robust health.
His staffers have come out and said as much.
If you listen, he has as you said the best medical care in the world.
I think he will recover.
He is now going into quarantine with the First Lady for ten days
so the campaign is going to a halt.
But then again, I think it will pick right back up where it left off.
Now President Trump has a personal experience
and a connection to Covid, and the American people
mayjust look at him sympathetically and feel like,
"Wow, he can now
personally feel our pain.".
I think actually there will be sympathy from the American people
because generally the American people are kind—hearted,
and they want to see the President of their country succeed.
Unfortunately there are people on the left who are gleefully
relishing in this and they are hoping the worst with the President.
But I do not think that is going to happen.
People are talking about the 25th Amendment
and will Mike Pence take over?
I think that is ridiculous and too soon.
I think he will recover, will get back to normal
but it is at a critical time.
Every day matters in this campaign right now.
So it will be interesting to see the polling.
But he is the comeback kid.
He likes a challenge, he likes to prove people wrong
and I think this is another challenge in which he will do so.
Because of our Constitution we know what is going to happen,
and we do know a Vice President would take over in a
situation like that.
But it also brings up a really curious point about VP candidates.
There might be more scrutiny on Kamala Harris and her role
and her possibility of her becoming president prematurely
should something happen to the Vice President
and they get elected.
This may actually have a negative effect for the Biden campaign
because Kamala Harris is universally not very popular across the country.
Despite now contracting Covid—19 the President has faced
criticisim for not taking the virus seriously enough.
A little earlier we heard from one of his critics,
John Scardino from Democrats Abroad.
ﬂ
I think as a Democrat and American I would wish the President well, I
would wish the President well, I wish him a speedy recovery. I would
wish him a speedy recovery. I would not wish this virus on anybody. Some
not wish this virus on anybody. Some of the effects are long—term
of the effects are long—term neurological effects that are a bit
neurological effects that are a bit unpredictable. I think what we are
unpredictable. I think what we are seeing is that many people react
seeing is that many people react differently to the virus. And I
differently to the vims. And I tmly wish
differently to the virus. And I truly wish him well. Having said
tmly wish him well. Having said that, he
truly wish him well. Having said that, he has been saying now, and I
that, he has been saying now, and I was listening to your Republican
was listening to your Republican guest a
was listening to your Republican guest 3 minute ago, he has not
guest a minute ago, he has not treated
guest 3 minute ago, he has not treated this very seriously. The
treated this very seriously. The country has been in a crisis from
country has been in a crisis from the very beginning he was on record
the very beginning he was on record saying he was playing it down. As
saying he was playing it down. As recently as last week he was at a
recently as last week he was at a fundraising dinner where he was
fundraising dinner where he was saying the virus is behind us, we
saying the virus is behind us, we are over the hump. America has got
are over the hump. America has got 40,000 new cases of infection a day.
40,000 new cases of infection a day. Compare that to the UK with 7000 and
Compare that to the UK with 7000 and you see the dramatic measures being
you see the dramatic measures being taken here in the UK. I do not see
taken here in the UK. I do not see how the President could possibly say
how the President could possibly say that the virus, this crisis is
that the virus, this crisis is behind us, and I think that his
behind us, and I think that his illness if that is what it is, is
illness if that is what it is, is going to make his statements very
going to make his statements very empty that the virus is behind us.
Jordan Fabian is the White House correspondent at Bloomberg News —
he broke the news earlier that Hope Hicks, Trump’s aide,
had tested positive.
He explains what travelling with the President on Air Force
during the pandemic entails.
Reporters generally wear masks all the time
when they are at the White House and on Air Force One.
We are tested every day that we go into the White House for a trip
with the President using those rapid tests that take about 15
minutes to get back.
So they’re trying to do as much as possible to keep us protected
and we try to do as much as possible to keep ourselves protected.
But as we have seen, the system isn’t full—proof
and of course the President and staff are very much less
vigilant about wearing masks and social distancing
and now we are seeing
something like a massive, possibly a massive outbreak
happening in the White House.
US President Donald Trump and the First Lady Melanie test
positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
Announcing the test results on Twitter the President says
Announcing the test results on Twitter the President says
he and the First Lady "will get through this together"
It comes after his one of his closest aides — Hope Hicks —
tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips
together in the past week
World markets slump on the news with the Dow
futures index down due to uncertainty about the
operation of the US administration.
Let’s recap on our breaking news
for viewers who might bejustjoining us —
President Trump has tested positive for coronavirus.
He says he is quarantining at the White House.
His wife has also tested positive.
Throughout the pandemic, Mr Tmmp, who’s 74,
has often refused to wear a mask
and has attended crowded rallies.
With the presidential election a month away,
it’s thrown the campaign into disarray.
Peter Bowes has more.
So sorry, we might have
So sorry, we might havejust
So sorry, we might have just lost that peace. We will try to come back
that peace. We will try to come back to that, if we can.
Melissa Mackenzie is publisher of the American Spectator magazine
in Houston in Texas.
She says President Trump will find new ways
to connect with American voters over these last few weeks
of the presidential election campaign.
Well, this is a wily virus and a lot of peopla who
Well, this is a wily virus and a lot of people who have been doing
of people who have been doing everything right have gotten sick,
everything right have gotten sick, and the president is now one of
and the president is now one of those people. Every person who gets
those people. Every person who gets within contact with him is tested,
within contact with him is tested, and so this is actually kind of
and so this is actually kind of remarkable, that even with all of
remarkable, that even with all of the testing of the people around him
the testing of the people around him that he has still managed somehow to
that he has still managed somehow to get the vims.
that he has still managed somehow to get the virus. But this is a tricky
get the vims. But this is a tricky virus and
get the virus. But this is a tricky virus and he is
get the virus. But this is a tricky virus and he isjust
get the virus. But this is a tricky virus and he is just one
get the virus. But this is a tricky virus and he isjust one more
get the virus. But this is a tricky virus and he is just one more victim
virus and he is just one more victim of it. He has not been doing
of it. He has not been doing everything right, though, has he? He
everything right, though, has he? He has been in large crowds without
has been in large crowds without social distancing, without wearing a
social distancing, without wearing a mask. These are the basic things we
mask. These are the basic things we are told to do to protect ourselves
are told to do to protect ourselves from the virus. Well, it may look
from the vims. Well, it may look like he is
from the virus. Well, it may look like he is close to people in these
like he is close to people in these crowds but that might
like he is close to people in these crowds but that mightjust be a
crowds but that mightjust be a trick of photography, because he is
trick of photography, because he is not actually been in close contract
not actually been in dose contract to make
not actually been in close contract to make contact. If you noticed, at
to make contact. If you noticed, at the rallies, he is not shaking
the rallies, he is not shaking hands, hugging them, getting close.
hands, hugging them, getting close. He has been doing his part in these
He has been doing his part in these situations to stay distanced. It is
situations to stay distanced. It is just one of those things. It is a
just one of those things. It is a difficult virus. I think there were
difficult vims. I think there were shots of
difficult virus. I think there were shots of him getting on board Marine
shots of him getting on board Marine one with Hope Hicks and others in
one with Hope Hicks and others in the last few days, all very close
the last few days, all very close together. Clearly there is not a
together. Cleariy there is not a huge amount
together. Clearly there is not a huge amount of space in a
huge amount of space in a helicopter, compared to Air Force
helicopter, compared to Air Force One. None of them wearing masks.
One. None of them wearing masks. That is one example of where people
That is one example of where people have been close together without
have been close together without wearing masks and the President in
wearing masks and the President in their company. What do you think,
their company. what do you think, Melissa,
their company. What do you think, Melissa, what pairing do you think
Melissa, what pairing do you think this will have on the remaining
this will have on the remaining weeks of the election campaign?
weeks of the election campaign? Well, there is no question this is
Well, there is no question this is crunch time for the campaign. I
crunch time for the campaign. I think it is going to shift things. I
think it is going to shift things. I think of FDR and his fireside chats,
think of FDR and his fireside chats, and the American people will connect
and the American peopla will connect with
and the American people will connect with the president in a different
with the president in a different way. The president will now have the
way. The president will now have the experience of so many people in
experience of so many people in America right now, who are distanced
America right now, who are distanced and having zoom meetings, and I
and having zoom meetings, and I suspect the president will find ways
suspect the president will find ways to connect with the American people
to connect with the American peopla in
to connect with the American people in the same with the rest of the
in the same with the rest of the world is connecting, through
world is connecting, through computer, Google, however it works.
computer, Google, however it works. You will find a way. —— he will find
You will find a way. -- he will find a way.
Let’s just bring
Let’s just bring
Let’s just bring you that report no. He bombed show like no other, a
He bombed show like no other, a month before the presidential
month before the presidential election, Donald Trump and his wife
election, Donald Tmmp and his wife Melanie, the
election, Donald Trump and his wife Melanie, the first Lady, have tested
Melanie, the first Lady, have tested positive for coronavirus. It follows
positive for coronavirus. It follows news that one of his closest
news that one of his closest advisers, Hope Hicks, has the
advisers, Hope Hicks, has the disease. She experienced symptoms of
disease. She experienced symptoms of disease might well accompanying the
disease might well accompanying the president at a rally in Minnesota.
president at a rally in Minnesota. She was quarantine on the
She was quarantine on the presidential plane back to
presidential plane back to Washington. Earlier in the week, she
Washington. Eadier in the week, she travelled
Washington. Earlier in the week, she travelled to Cleveland in Ohio with
travelled to Cleveland in Ohio with Mr Tmmp for
travelled to Cleveland in Ohio with Mr Trump for the presidential
Mr Trump for the presidential debate. She was seen arriving with
debate. She was seen arriving with his
debate. She was seen arriving with his team not wearing a mask. The
his team not wearing a mask. The president confirmed his diagnosis in
president confirmed his diagnosis in a tweet.
The first Lady later tweeted that they were both feeling good. The
they were both feeling good. The president because my doctor
they were both feeling good. The president because my doctor said
president because my doctor said both were well at this time and
both were well at this time and planned to remain at home within the
planned to remain at home within the white
planned to remain at home within the White House during their
White House during their convalescence. Rest assured, I
convalescence. Rest assured, I expect the president to continue
expect the president to continue carrying out his duties without
carrying out his duties without dismption
carrying out his duties without disruption well recovering. The
dismption well recovering. The late-night
disruption well recovering. The late—night announcement has sent
late-night announcement has sent shock
late—night announcement has sent shock waves throughout America and
shock waves throughout America and the world. Days after a heated
the world. Days after a heated debate with his Democratic opponent,
debate with his Democratic opponent, joe Biden, Mr
debate with his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, Mr Trump is now confined
joe Biden, Mr Tmmp is now confined to the
Joe Biden, Mr Trump is now confined to the White House for an indefinite
to the white House for an indefinite period. He has
to the White House for an indefinite period. He has cancelled a rally
period. He has cancelled a rally scheduled for tonight in Florida.
scheduled for tonight in Florida. The coronavirus has long been the
The coronavims has long been the central
The coronavirus has long been the central issue in the presidential
central issue in the presidential election campaign, with the
election campaign, with the Democrats accusing Mr Trump of
Democrats accusing Mr Tmmp of failing to
Democrats accusing Mr Trump of failing to alert the nation to the
failing to alart the nation to the severity of
failing to alert the nation to the severity of the disease, and for
severity of the disease, and for ignoring the advice of his medical
ignoring the advice of his medical experts. The virus has killed more
experts. The virus has killed more than 200,000 Americans, and multiple
than 200,000 Americans, and multiple states are experiencing a surge in
states are experiencing a surge in cases. For months, Mr
states are experiencing a surge in cases. For months, MrTrump
states are experiencing a surge in cases. For months, Mr Trump has been
cases. For months, Mr Tmmp has been belittling joe
cases. For months, Mr Trump has been belittling Joe Biden for isolating
belittling Joe Biden for isolating himself at home in his basement and
himself at home in his basement and for wearing a mask during his public
for wearing a mask during his public appearances. I don’t wear a mask
appearances. I don’t wear a mask like him. Every time you see him,
like him. Every time you see him, he’s got a mask. He could be
he’s got a mask. He could be speaking 200 feet away from me and
speaking 200 feet away from me and he shows up with the biggest mask
he shows up with the biggest mask I’ve ever seen. The US vice
I’ve ever seen. The US vice president, Mike Pence, who would
president, Mike Pence, who would take over
president, Mike Pence, who would take overfrom Donald
president, Mike Pence, who would take over from Donald Trump
president, Mike Pence, who would take over from Donald Trump
president, Mike Pence, who would take overfrom Donald Trump if
president, Mike Pence, who would take over from Donald Trump if he
take over from Donald Tmmp if he became
take over from Donald Trump if he became too ill to carry out his
became too ill to carry out his duties has tweeted his love and
duties has tweeted his love and prayers to the president and his
prayers to the president and his wife.
Election law in the US means the country will go to the polls on
country will go to the polls on November the 3rd, but what happens
November the 3rd, but what happens between now and then is far from
between now and then is far from clear. They talk about the October
dear. They talk about the October surprise in
clear. They talk about the October surprise in American politics, but
surprise in American politic, but this is
surprise in American politics, but this is uncharted territory.
Laurie Laird is an American politics commentator
and economistjournalist.
She explained that in the past
the President has been quite relaxed
about the risk of catching the virus.
Well, I think,
Well, Ithink, like
Well, I think, like so many of your guests, this comes as a shock but
guests, this comes as a shock but not a surprise. We know that Donald
not a surprise. We know that Donald Tmmp is not
not a surprise. We know that Donald Trump is not often wearing a mask
Tmmp is not often wearing a mask and I was
Trump is not often wearing a mask and I was watching his nomination
and I was watching his nomination last weekend in the Rose garden at
last weekend in the Rose garden at the White House, nobody had a mask
the white House, nobody had a mask on. It
the White House, nobody had a mask on. It harked back to earlier days,
on. It harked back to eartier days, pre-Covid-19
on. It harked back to earlier days, pre—Covid—19 days, he did not have a
pre-Covid-19 days, he did not have a mask, judge
pre—Covid—19 days, he did not have a mask, Judge Barrett did not have a
mask, judge Barrett did not have a mask, none
mask, Judge Barrett did not have a mask, none of the assembled guests
mask, none of the assemblad guests had a
mask, none of the assembled guests had a mask. We know Donald Trump
had a mask. We know Donald Tmmp does not
had a mask. We know Donald Trump does not like to wear a mask, that
does not like to wear a mask, that he has mocked Joe Biden for wearing
he has mocked joe Biden for wearing one,
he has mocked Joe Biden for wearing one, questioned his masculinity. It
one, questioned his masculinity. It is not all that surprising. There
is not all that surprising. There are a couple of big questions
are a couple of big questions though. One is how sick will Donald
though. One is how sick will Donald Tmmp get?
though. One is how sick will Donald Trump get? Many of your guests have
Trump get? Many of your guests have mentioned he is a high risk area,
mentioned he is a high risk area, clinically obese, over the age of
clinically obese, over the age of 70, and it is sort of ironic, Donald
70, and it is sort of ironic, Donald Tmmp has
70, and it is sort of ironic, Donald Trump has mocked Joe Biden for being
Tmmp has mocked joe Biden for being so elderty.
Trump has mocked Joe Biden for being so elderly. Donald Trump is only
so elderty. Donald Tmmp is only three years
so elderly. Donald Trump is only three years younger than
so elderly. Donald Trump is only three years younger thanJoe Biden.
three years younger than joe Biden. We
three years younger thanJoe Biden. We know that it was caught very
We know that it was taught very quickly, he is
We know that it was caught very quickly, he is probably one of the
quickly, he is probably one of the most tested men in the world. Could
most tested men in the world. Could his condition deteriorate? That is a
his condition deteriorate? That is a very big question. The other
very big question. The other question is, who has he been in
question is, who has he been in contact with? The president is in
contact with? The president is in contact with so many people during
contact with so many peopla during the
contact with so many people during the course of the day. Economic
the course of the day. Economic advisers, national security
advisers, national security advisers, campaign advisers. It is
advisers, campaign advisers. It is not unlikely or impossible that so
not unlikely or impossible that so many aides from so many different
many aides from so many different bits of government, it could include
bits of government, it could include peopla
bits of government, it could include people involved in the nomination
people involved in the nomination process of
people involved in the nomination process ofJudge Barrett. The people
process of judge Barrett. The people involved
process ofJudge Barrett. The people involved in coming up with the
involved in coming up with the stimulus plan. How widely spread
stimulus plan. How widely spread through the West Wing, through the
through the West wing, through the white
through the West Wing, through the White House could coronavirus be?
So what impact is news of President Trump’s positive test
had on the world’s stock markets?
US stock markets have indicated that shares will open sharply lower
after the news broke.
Stock market futures showed that all three
of America’s main indexes —
the DowJones, the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq —
are set to drop by at least1.5% each
when trading begins.
Joining me from West Sussex in southern England is Michael Hewson,
Chief Market Analyst at CMC Markets.
Can you tell us a bit more about
(“an you tell us a bit more about what
Can you tell us a bit more about what European markets are doing?
what European markets are doing? They are sharply lower. It is really
They are sharply lower. It is really no surprise, the health of US
no surprise, the health of US presidents has always been an issue
presidents has always been an issue for markets. You have only got to go
for markets. You have only got to go back to when Reagan was shot in the
back to when Reagan was shot in the 19805, and when George Bush senior
19805, and when George Bush senior fell ill at a Japanese banquet,
fell ill at a Japanese banquet, markets fell quite sharply in the
markets fell quite sharply in the aftermath of that and this is no
aftermath of that and this is no different. What a slightly different
different. what a slightly different about
different. What a slightly different about this, though, is the fact that
about this, though, is the fact that it is coming at a time of enormous
it is coming at a time of enormous political uncertainty, off the back
political uncertainty, off the back of a debate where the president did
of a debate where the president did not really perform that well. The
not really perform that well. The Democrats are leading in the polls
Democrats are leading in the polls and politicians in the US cannot
and politicians in the US cannot agree on a new stimulus package. In
agree on a new stimulus package. In terms of investors, obviously we
terms of investors, obviously we know that the next few days and
know that the next few days and weeks now are going to be an extra
weeks now are going to be an extra political roller—coasters on top of
political roller-coasters on top of what
political roller—coasters on top of what was already expected. What will
what was already expected. what will that
what was already expected. What will that mean? How are you expecting
that mean? How are you expecting that to play out? I am expecting an
that to play out? I am expecting an awful lot more volatility. You
awful lot more volatility. You talked about an October surprise.
talked about an October surprise. One of the things for financial
One of the things for financial markets is increased volatility.
markets is increased volatility. This is another catalyst,
This is another catalyst, potentially blowing a massive hole
potentially blowing a massive hola in
potentially blowing a massive hole in President Trump’s re election
in President Tmmp’s re election campaign. He
in President Trump’s re election campaign. He is a very big
campaign. He is a very big campaigner, likes to go on the road.
campaigner, likes to go on the road. He is very strident. The debates
He is very strident. The debates that were scheduled for next week,
that were scheduled for next week, the vice presidential debates
the vice presidential debates between Mike Pence and vice
between Mike Pence and vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris
presidential nominee Kamala Harris may well not to take place. And the
may well not to take place. And the debate on the 15th of October
debate on the 15th of October between President Trump and Joe
between President Tmmp and joe Biden may
between President Trump and Joe Biden may not take place. This is a
Biden may not take place. This is a big blow for the president, and I
big blow for the president, and I think it is going to be very
think it is going to be very difficult for him to get his
difficult for him to get his election campaign back on track. I
elaction campaign back on track. I mean, we do
election campaign back on track. I mean, we do not know yet at all, we
mean, we do not know yet at all, we have not heard anything on whether
have not heard anything on whether these debates are going to be held
these debates are going to be held or not. They could of course be held
or not. They could of course be held online. just more
or not. They could of course be held online. Just more broadly, the
online. just more broadly, the economy has
online. Just more broadly, the economy has been one of Donald
economy has been one of Donald Tmmp’s de
economy has been one of Donald Trump’s de themes. He wanted to show
Trump’s de themes. He wanted to show his success rate there. How much
his success rate there. How much does the market volatility affect
does the market volatility affect the economy story, assuming that the
the economy story, assuming that the Tmmp campaign
the economy story, assuming that the Trump campaign does eventually get
Tmmp campaign does eventually get back up and
Trump campaign does eventually get back up and running fully? Not so
back up and mnning fully? Not so much, really. I
back up and running fully? Not so much, really. Ithink
back up and running fully? Not so much, really. I think an awful lot
much, really. I think an awful lot of focus will be on this afternoon’s
of focus will be on this afternoon’s US employment report for September.
US employment report for September. If that is a good one, President
If that is a good one, President Tmmp will be
If that is a good one, President Trump will be able to point to the
Tmmp will be able to point to the fact that
Trump will be able to point to the fact that the US economy is
fact that the US economy is recovering from its Covid—19 shock.
recovering from its Covid-19 shock. The
recovering from its Covid—19 shock. The downside is it takes the
The downside is it takes the pressure of US politicians from
pressure of US politicians from arriving at the stimulus package.
arriving at the stimulus package. with
arriving at the stimulus package. With the election only 30 days away,
with the elaction only 30 days away, the
With the election only 30 days away, the window for that is closing very
the window for that is closing very rapidly and I think that is one of
rapidly and I think that is one of the reasons why the markets are as
the reasons why the markets are as weak as they are. The diagnosis of
weak as they are. The diagnosis of President Trump was really
weak as they are. The diagnosis of President Trump was reallyjust
President Tmmp was really just another
President Trump was reallyjust another factor mitigating in the
another factor mitigating in the pessimism of markets in general at
pessimism of markets in general at the moment, in the face of rising
the moment, in the face of rising infection rates across Europe and in
infection rates across Europe and in the US as well. 0K, many thanks.
Jeremy Faust is an emergency medicine doctor
and coronavirus specialist at Brigham And Women’s
Hospital in Boston.
He explains what will happen next.
The President’s physician wrote a memorandum which was secular to this
memorandum which was secular to this evening, in which he said
evening, in which he said optimistically that he expected the
optimistically that he expected the president to continue his duties and
president to continue his duties and to convalesce, to get better. Nobody
to convalesce, to get better. Nobody ran know
to convalesce, to get better. Nobody can know that. On a human level, we
ran know that. On a human level, we hope that is the
can know that. On a human level, we hope that is the case but in the
hope that is the use but in the next ten
hope that is the case but in the next ten to M days, these are the
next ten to 14 days, these are the most
next ten to M days, these are the most dangerous ten to M days that
most dangerous ten to 14 days that the president
most dangerous ten to M days that the president of the United States
the president of the United States has ever faced in
the president of the United States has everfaced in his
the president of the United States has ever faced in his life.
the president of the United States has everfaced in his life. He could
has ever faced in his life. He could be doing
has everfaced in his life. He could be doing proverbial cart wheels two
be doing proverbial fart wheels two weeks
be doing proverbial cart wheels two weeks from now or he could be
weeks from now or he could be intubated in an intensive care unit.
intubated in an intensive rare unit. These are going
intubated in an intensive care unit. These are going to be extremely
These are going to be extremely tense moments for him and his
tense moments for him and his family, and we all have to sit here
family, and we all have to sit here and watch that. It is going to be
and watch that. It is going to be difficult. He does have several
difficult. He does have several things working against him that we
things working against him that we have learned. We have learned so
have learned. We have learned so much about this virus in such a
much about this virus in such a short period of time. We know that
short period of time. We know that obesity, which he has, is a risk
obesity, which he has, is a risk factor for serious
obesity, which he has, is a risk factorfor serious and
obesity, which he has, is a risk factor for serious and critical
factor for serious and critical cases. We know that his age is an
cases. We know that his age is an undeniable risk factor. 90 times
undeniabla risk factor. 90 times more likely
undeniable risk factor. 90 times more likely to die than a person in
more likely to die than a person in their 205 would be. We know that
their 205 would be. We know that even the male gender is a problem.
even the male gender is a problem. There is a little bit of a
There is a little bit of a predisposition there. So there are a
predisposition there. So there are a lot of reasons why we could say he
lot of reasons why we could say he is a healthy individual, obviously
is a healthy individual, obviously able to do one of the most demanding
able to do one of the most demanding jobs in the world, and on the flip
jobs in the world, and on the ﬂip of that
jobs in the world, and on the flip of that same coin you could say and
of that same coin you could say and yet there are very important reasons
yet there are very important reasons to be concerned.
And of course, we in the UK followed Boris johnson’s
And of course, we in the UK followed Boris Johnson’s health
And of course, we in the UK followed BorisJohnson’s health with those
Boris johnson’s health with those same
BorisJohnson’s health with those same roller—coaster of changes. The
same roller-coaster of changes. The nation really
same roller—coaster of changes. The nation really watching very closely
nation really watching very closely what happened with Boris
nation really watching very closely what happened with BorisJohnson’s
what happened with Boris johnson’s health
what happened with BorisJohnson’s health and no doubt the US will go
health and no doubt the US will go through a similar thing in the next
through a similar thing in the next few hours and days.
The President has recently attended large indoor gatherings
where many of his supporters are not wearing masks.
Mr Trump spoke about wearing face coverings on Tuesday
during the Presidential Debate.
ﬂ
Imean, I
I mean, I have a mass grave here. I put a mask on when I think I need
put a mask on when I think I need it. Tonight is an example, everybody
it. Tonight is an example, everybody has had a taste and you have had
has had a taste and you have had social distancing and all of these
social distancing and all of these things, but
social distancing and all of these things, butl
social distancing and all of these things, but I wear a mask when
things, but I wear a mask when needed. Let me ask... I do not wear
needed. Let me ask... I do not wear masks like him. Every time you see
masks like him. Every time you see him, he’s got a mask. You could be
him, he’s got a mask. You could be speaking 200 feet away and he shows
speaking 200 feet away and he shows “P
speaking 200 feet away and he shows up with the biggest mass give ever
up with the biggest mass give ever seen.
Professor Kimberly Nalder of California State University Director
of the project for an informed electorate spoke
to my colleague Annita McVeigh and explained that the President may
have to continue to campaign for the election from the White House,
which as a federal building isn’t meant to be used for
political campaigning.
ﬂ
I think it seems reasonable. I don’t think he is going to, you know, he
think he is going to, you know, he brought up on charges and taken to
brought up on charges and taken to court over it. It is very
court over it. It is very understandable. In
court over it. It is very understandable. Infect, it
court over it. It is very understandable. In fact, it is
understandable. In fact, it is advisable. We would certainly prefer
advisable. We would certainly prefer that he do that instead of go out
that he do that instead of go out like he was planning to, in person,
like he was planning to, in person, bringing lots of people together,
bringing lots of people together, exposing more people to this virus,
exposing more peopla to this virus, potentially.
exposing more people to this virus, potentially. And what bearing do you
potentially. And what bearing do you think he is contracting the virus is
think he is contracting the vims is going to have
think he is contracting the virus is going to have on the vote, these
going to have on the vote, these remaining few weeks? Frankly, how
remaining few weeks? Frankly, how would it play out if he either
would it play out if he either remains well or if he was to become
remains well or if he was to become ill? Well, one of the things that he
ill? Well, one of the things that he has is a mean appeal for people
ill? Well, one of the things that he has is a mean appealfor people is
has is a mean appeal for peopla is this kind
has is a mean appealfor people is this kind of brash, combative,
this kind of brash, combative, strong man style. If he appears
strong man style. If he appears weak, if he appears sick and,
weak, if he appears sick and, especially if he gets intubated or
especially if he gets intubated or is on a ventilator, that would
is on a ventilator, that would really undercut that image of him,
really undercut that image of him, even if it is subconscious for
even if it is subconscious for peopla. So
even if it is subconscious for people. So that would be a big
peopla. So that would be a big concern
people. So that would be a big concern for him, if he did get
concern for him, if he did get especially sick. If he is well, I
especially sick. If he is well, I imagine that he will say, see, it is
imagine that he will say, see, it is not that big of a deal. It will
not that big of a deal. It will reinforce that message that he has
reinforce that message that he has been pushing.
Let’s take a look at the events just before
President Trump tested positive for Covid—19 and how this might
impact events leading up to the presidential election.
impact events leading up to the presidential election.
On Tuesday the first debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden took place.
His special advisor Hope Hicks — who has also tested positive —
traveled with the campaign.
Then on Wednesday, the Trump campaign
flew on Marine One and Air Force One to a rally in Minnesota.
Again, Hope Hicks is with President Trump.
She falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
On Thursday, Hope Hicks tests positive
for coronavirus as President Trump
travels to NewJersey for another fundraiser.
Donald Trump then takes a test along his wife.
President Trump announces on Twitter that he has tested
positive for Covid—19.
He will have to isolate for 10 days — even if he shows no symptoms —
or for M days if symptoms develop.
An election rally in Florida tonight has been cancelled.
On Thursday 8 October the Vice Presedential
debate is due to take place in Utah.
There has been no news about whether this will change.
The next presidential debate is due to take place
on Thursday 15 October in Miami in Florida.
Again, there has been no word on whether this key election event
will be effected.
Then the final debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden is scheduled to take place on Thursday ctober 22nd
in Tennessee.
This all leads up to Tuesday 3 November.
That’s election day in the United States.
With just a month left to go until polls open
across the entire United States how will Donald Trump’s
coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection?
Eric Ham, a political analyst in Washington,
looks at the affect the infection may have on Donald
Trump’s presidency.
Politically, there is nothing good about what we are hearing
Politically, there is nothing good about what we are hearing about the
about what we are hearing about the President’s prognosis at this point.
President’s prognosis at this point. This is a president who has tried at
This is a president who has tried at every turn and every opportunity to
every turn and every opportunity to dismiss this virus. The president
dismiss this vims. The president even
dismiss this virus. The president even went so far as to say that if
even went so far as to say that if you take out those who have died
you take out those who have died from this virus in blue states, the
from this virus in blue states, the United States would be doing very
United States would be doing very well. Almost to dismiss the fact
well. Almost to dismiss the fact that so many people have died.
that so many peopla have died. Again, we
that so many people have died. Again, we have heard from the
Again, we have heard from the President’s own recordings that he
President’s own recordings that he knew that this virus early on was as
knew that this virus earty on was as deadly as it is.
knew that this virus early on was as deadly as it is. Simply did not do
deadly as it is. Simply did not do enough. Of course, the President’s
enough. Of course, the President’s approval rating on the virus has
approval rating on the virus has been very, very low. In fact, one of
been very, very low. In fact, one of the reason is perhaps why
been very, very low. In fact, one of the reason is perhaps whyJoe Biden,
the reason is perhaps whyjoe Biden, the
the reason is perhaps whyJoe Biden, the former vice president, is doing
the former vice president, is doing so well is because millions of
so well is because millions of Americans believe this
Americans believe this administration simply has not done
administration simply has not done enough to combat this virus, and now
enough to combat this virus, and now we see the President’s own cavalier
we see the President’s own cavalier response to the virus catching up to
response to the virus catching up to him. The question becomes, will it
him. The question becomes, will it catch up to him to the point where
catch up to him to the point where we see him lose his presidency as a
we see him lose his presidency as a result?
Let’s look at how this story unfolded,
the First Lady Melania Trump posted on Twitter following the news
that she and the US President had tested positive
for coronavirus.
Vice President Mike Pence tweeted...
World leaders have also been reacting to the news.
Pardon me.
World leaders have also been reacting to the news.
World leaders have also been reacting to the news.
Obviously I think we all want to send our best wishes to the
send our best wishes to the president and first lady. I have
president and first lady. I have done that this morning, as you can
done that this morning, as you ran imagine. I
done that this morning, as you ran imagine. Iam
done that this morning, as you can imagine. I am sure that they will
imagine. I am sure that they will both stage... Was meant Boris
both stage... Was meant Boris johnson they
both stage... Was meant Boris Johnson they are reacting very
johnson they are reacting very brieﬂy in an
Johnson they are reacting very briefly in an interview with us on
brieﬂy in an interview with us on president
briefly in an interview with us on president Trump a’s situation. Boris
president Tmmp a’s situation. Boris johnson
president Trump a’s situation. Boris Johnson himself went through a very
johnson himself went through a very difficult
Johnson himself went through a very difficult time with Covid—19 at the
difficult time with Covid-19 at the start of
difficult time with Covid—19 at the start of the pandemic, pretty much.
start of the pandemic, pretty much. Our political correspondent is at
Our political correspondent is at Westminster. We had a very brief
Westminster. We had a very brief word there from Boris
Westminster. We had a very brief word there from Borisjohnson. Of
word there from Doris johnson. Of course, we
word there from Borisjohnson. Of course, we are getting tributes
course, we are getting tributes right around the world for the
right around the world for the president. Good wishes, messages of
president. Good wishes, messages of hope and recovery for the president
hope and recovery for the president and his wife. What do you think the
and his wife. what do you think the thoughts are
and his wife. What do you think the thoughts are going to be in
thoughts are going to be in particular of the British Government
particular of the British Government as they watch this unfold? Well,
as they watch this unfold? Well, Boris
as they watch this unfold? Well, BorisJohnson
as they watch this unfold? Well, Boris Johnson clearly speaking from
Boris johnson dearty speaking from experience,
Boris Johnson clearly speaking from experience, having contracted
experience, having contracted coronavirus very early on in the
coronavirus very earty on in the pandemic. You
coronavirus very early on in the pandemic. You will remember, it was
pandemic. You will remember, it was back at the end of March that he
back at the end of March that he fame
back at the end of March that he came down with coronavirus symptoms.
came down with coronavirus symptoms. The situation then was very
The situation then was very different. Testing was nowhere near
different. Testing was nowhere near as widespread as it is now, so he
as widespread as it is now, so he was only tested when he developed
was only tested when he developed symptoms. Remember, it took more
symptoms. Remember, it took more than a week or so for him to then be
than a week or so for him to then be admitted to hospital. 50, his
admitted to hospital. So, his trajectory
admitted to hospital. 50, his trajectory was one of a
trajectory was one of a deterioration in his condition. He
deterioration in his condition. He had started off still working from
had started off still working from Downing Street, still being in
Downing Street, still being in charge, carrying out government
charge, carrying out government business, but while isolating in
business, but whila isolating in Downing
business, but while isolating in Downing Street. Then, he was
Downing Street. Then, he was transferred to hospital and a few
transferred to hospital and a few days later went into intensive care.
days later went into intensive rare. It
days later went into intensive care. It reached the stage, if people can
It reached the stage, if people can remember that far, when his Foreign
remember that far, when his Foreign Secretary, Dominic Rod, actually
Secretary, Dominic Rod, actually deputised for him when the situation
deputised for him when the situation looked very touch and go. Of course,
looked very touch and go. Of course, Boris johnson
looked very touch and go. Of course, BorisJohnson ended up making a
Boris johnson ended up making a recovery,
BorisJohnson ended up making a recovery, came out of hospital,
recovery, came out of hospital, recuperated at Chequers, his country
recuperated at Chequers, his country residence, and then eventually went
residence, and then eventually went back to work. It seems that he has
back to work. It seems that he has made a full recovery. But I think he
made a full recovery. But I think he will be watching President Trump
will be watching President Tmmp now, at the
will be watching President Trump now, at the time Boris
will be watching President Trump now, at the time BorisJohnson was
now, at the time Boris johnson was the first
now, at the time BorisJohnson was the first world leader to contract
the first world leader to contract the virus, but clearly some hope
the virus, but dearty some hope that things do
the virus, but clearly some hope that things do not deteriorate in
that things do not deteriorate in the same way for President Trump. We
the same way for President Trump. We are just looking at images
the same way for President Trump. We arejust looking at images in
arejust looking at images in Washington of sunrise there, as the
Washington of sunrise there, as the world wakes up, and the US wakes up,
world wakes up, and the US wakes up, to this news. It is just really
to this news. It is just really striking, when we think back to how
striking, when we think back to how we followed Boris Johnson’s
striking, when we think back to how we followed BorisJohnson’s progress
we followed Boris johnson’s progress when
we followed BorisJohnson’s progress when he was ill, and
we followed BorisJohnson’s progress when he was ill, and unfortunately
when he was ill, and unfortunately for him he was extremely ill at one
for him he was extremely ill at one point. The nation tends to go
point. The nation tends to go through a bit of an emotional
through a bit of an emotional roller—coaster watching this, and
roller-coaster watching this, and obviously
roller—coaster watching this, and obviously politics will come into
obviously politic will come into it,
obviously politics will come into it, especially at this incredibly
it, especially at this incredibly fevered time the US, but there is,
fevered time the US, but there is, you know, some tension in the air as
you know, some tension in the air as peopla
you know, some tension in the air as people get these updates on the
people get these updates on the leadership of McKell. We are not
leadership of McKell. We are not hearing whether there are any
hearing whether there are any symptoms for President Trump and his
symptoms for President Tmmp and his wife. In the
symptoms for President Trump and his wife. In the UK context, there was
wife. In the UK context, there was no imminent election, as there is in
no imminent election, as there is in the US, but it was certainly a very
the US, but it was certainly a very alarming time, because the pandemic
alarming time, because the pandemic was just in its early days, lockdown
was just in its earty days, lockdown had just begun.
was just in its early days, lockdown had just begun. The world was still
had just begun. The world was still grappling with coronavirus taking
grappling with coronavirus taking hold. And here you had the UK Prime
hold. And here you had the UK Prime Minister going down with
Minister going down with coronavirus. His Health Secretary
coronavirus. His Health Secretary had as well, but made a swift
had as well, but made a swift recovery. Boris
had as well, but made a swift recovery. BorisJohnson was
recovery. Boris johnson was isolating
recovery. BorisJohnson was isolating and it was, I think, a
isolating and it was, I think, a time of great uncertainty in the UK
time of great uncertainty in the UK when his condition deteriorated and
when his condition deteriorated and he ended up having to go into
he ended up having to go into hospital and then clearly very
hospital and then clearly very serious when he ended up in
serious when he ended up in intensive care. I think he would be
intensive rare. I think he would be honest
intensive care. I think he would be honest and said at the time, he
honest and said at the time, he described it as 50—50 whether he was
described it as 50-50 whether he was going to recover
described it as 50—50 whether he was going to recover or not. He has
going to recover or not. He has talked quite openly about his
talked quite openly about his opinion that his weight was a factor
opinion that his weight was a factor in how seriously he was affected by
in how seriously he was affected by coronavirus and he has made attempts
coronavirus and he has made attempts to lose weight since then. It was
to lose weight since then. It was certainly an extremely anxious time,
certainly an extremely anxious time, very worrying, and when he had to
very worrying, and when he had to get a deputy in charge, the Foreign
get a deputy in charge, the Foreign Secretary, to take charge any
Secretary, to take charge any decision—making role, clearly there
decision-making role, dearty there will be
decision—making role, clearly there will be the hope that that does not
will be the hope that that does not have to happen but certainly, in
have to happen but certainly, in terms of the context in the US, this
terms of the context in the US, this will be very worrying for many
will be very worrying for many peopla. And
will be very worrying for many people. And what we found in the UK
peopla. And what we found in the UK as well
people. And what we found in the UK as well that there were a lot of
as well that there were a lot of questions about the number of diving
questions about the number of diving street staff that went down that
street staff that went down that night Downing Street staff. The
night Downing Street staff. The white his operation, the use US
white his operation, the use US still has to be led, could be
still has to be led, could be affected. The line of duty, could it
affected. The line of duty, could it effectively go to Mike Pence if
effectively go to Mike Pence if President Trump is too ill. We have
President Tmmp is too ill. We have not heard any
President Trump is too ill. We have not heard any detail of that as of
not heard any detail of that as of yet but it brings political
yet but it brings political uncertainty, does it not?
uncertainty, does it not? Absolutely. A very critical time for
Absolutely. A very critical time for the US but, again, the context was
the US but, again, the context was different here, when Boris
the US but, again, the context was different here, when BorisJohnson
different here, when BorisJohnson contracted coronavirus. There were
contracted coronavirus. There were not perhaps the same measures that
not perhaps the same measures that are in place now and at the point in
are in place now and at the point in the pandemic, Westminster was very
the pandemic, Westminster was very much the centre of coronavirus
much the centre of coronavirus outbreaks and he has comedy Health
outbreaks and he has comedy Health Secretary as I mentioned also came
Secretary as I mentioned also came down with coronavirus and certain
down with coronavirus and certain scarce as well amongst other
scarce as well amongst other officials in Downing Street as well.
officials in Downing Street as well. But it will be difficult for them to
But it will be difficult for them to keep operating but hopefully
keep operating but hopefully trajectory will not be as serious as
trajectory will not be as serious as the one that Boris
trajectory will not be as serious as the one that BorisJohnson
the one that BorisJohnson experienced. But certainly, there
experienced. But certainly, there will be the hope that precautions,
will be the hope that precautions, isolation, regular testing will help
isolation, regular testing will help the White House staff their work.
the white House staff their work. 0K, thank
the White House staff their work. 0K, thank you very much indeed.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather.
Hello, the weather is set to bring us some disruption at times over the
us some dismption at times over the next few days.
us some disruption at times over the next few days. Today, Storm Alex in
next few days. Today, Storm Alex in the south were some wet and windy
the south were some wet and windy weather but, at times, as we head
weather but, at times, as we head through the next couple of days into
through the next couple of days into the weekend, we are all going to see
the weekend, we are all going to see some spells of heavy rainfall at
some spells of heavy rainfall at times. The chance there could be
times. The chance there could be dismption to
times. The chance there could be disruption to travel and transport.
dismption to travel and transport. Some
disruption to travel and transport. Some flooding possible as well as
Some ﬂooding possiblo as well as strong
Some flooding possible as well as strong winds, enough to bring down
strong winds, enough to bring down the order a small tree or two. Some
the order a small tree or two. Some big waves around the coast as well.
big waves around the coast as well. Now, Storm Alex is mainly affecting
Now, Storm Alex is mainly affecting the southern half of the UK. We
the southern half of the UK. We could see gusts of around 60 mph
could see gusts of around 60 mph quite widely around the south coast.
quite widely around the south coast. 70 mph towards the Channel Isles as
70 mph towards the Channel Isles as well, with some heavy downpours and
well, with some heavy downpours and an area of rain
well, with some heavy downpours and an area of rainjust moving its
well, with some heavy downpours and an area of rain just moving its way
an area of rain just moving its way northwards into the Midlands and
northwards into the Midlands and North Wales. Followed by some
North Walas. Followed by some brighter
North Wales. Followed by some brighter skies and scattered showers
brighter skies and scattered showers from the south. It is a very
from the south. It is a very different day for the northern half
different day for the northern half of the UK. It was quite a cold start
of the UK. It was quite a cold start today, some fog patches are in. One
today, some fog patches are in. One or two showers to parts of Northern
or two showers to parts of Northern Ireland, western Scotland, and quite
Ireland, western Scotland, and quite showery and busy for the Northern
showery and busy for the Northern Islas.
showery and busy for the Northern Isles. But for the rest of Scotland
Islas. But for the rest of Scotland into
Isles. But for the rest of Scotland into northern England and Ireland,
into northern England and Ireland, you should stay predominantly dry
you should stay predominantly dry with some sunshine. That rain edging
with some sunshine. That rain edging into northern England for the likes
into northern England for the likes of Liverpool later on this
of Liverpool later on this afternoon. Feeling colder than those
afternoon. Feeling colder than those temperatures with the wind and rain
temperatures with the wind and rain in the side. Through this evening
in the side. Through this evening and overnight, more of that rain
and overnight, more of that rain piling in on a brisk easterly breeze
piling in on a brisk easterty breeze across
piling in on a brisk easterly breeze across much of England, Wales and
across much of England, Walas and eastern
across much of England, Wales and eastern Scotland as well. For
eastern Scotland as well. For western Scotland and Northern
western Scotland and Northern Ireland, clearer
western Scotland and Northern Ireland, clearerskies.
western Scotland and Northern Ireland, clearer skies. The
Ireland, clearer skies. The temperatures will fall lowest tier.
temperatures will fall lowest tier. But elsewhere, further south and
But elsewhere, further south and east, it is a mild, wet and windy
east, it is a mild, wet and windy start to Saturday. That is the way
start to Saturday. That is the way it looks through the day. Lots more
it looks through the day. Lots more heavy, persistent rain tracking its
heavy, persistent rain tracking its “Y
heavy, persistent rain tracking its way further west across England and
way further west across England and Walas.
way further west across England and Wales. Combined with gales or severe
Wales. Combined with gates or severe gates down
Wales. Combined with gales or severe gales down towards the south—west,
gates down towards the south-west, persistent
gales down towards the south—west, persistent rain to the east of the
persistent rain to the east of the Pennines for eastern parts of
Pennines for eastern parts of Highland Scotland as well. Some
Highland Scotland as well. Some ﬂooding
Highland Scotland as well. Some flooding issues around. It will
ﬂooding issues around. It will brighten up
flooding issues around. It will brighten up towards the south east.
brighten up towards the south east. Mostly dry on Saturday. For a
Mostly dry on Saturday. For a Sunday, low pressure sets right
Sunday, low pressure sets right across the British I’ll, icy and
across the British I’ll, icy and heavy showers rotating around that
heavy showers rotating around that area of high pressure. Gale is
area of high pressure. Gale is particularty
area of high pressure. Gale is particularly around the coast of the
particularty around the coast of the UK. A day of
particularly around the coast of the UK. A day of sunshine and blustery
UK. A day of sunshine and blustery showers.
This is BBC News.
President Trump and his wife test
President Tmmp and his wife test positive for
President Trump and his wife test positive for coronavirus and are
positive for coronavirus and are self—isolating. It comes after one
self-isolating. It comes after one of his
self—isolating. It comes after one of his closest aides Hope Hicks also
of his closest aides Hope Hicks also test positive.
test positive. The latest on how global markets
The latest on how global markets have reacted and in the US the Dow
have reached and in the US the Dow futures
have reacted and in the US the Dow futures index is down 2%.
futures index is down 296. with a
futures index is down 2%. With a month to the US election we
with a month to the US elaction we ask what
With a month to the US election we ask what this means for the campaign
ask what this means for the campaign as the President is confined to the
as the President is confined to the white
as the President is confined to the White House.
White House. Live in Washington, DC where
Live in Washington, DC where Americans are waking up to the news
Americans are waking up to the news their President has the virus.
Hello, welcome to BBC News. President Trump and his wife have
President Tmmp and his wife have gone into
President Trump and his wife have gone into quarantine in the White
gone into quarantine in the white House
gone into quarantine in the White House after testing positive for
House after testing positive for Covid—19. Mr
House after testing positive for Covid—19. MrTrump
House after testing positive for Covid—19. Mr Trump who is often
Covid-19. Mr Tmmp who is often downplayed
Covid—19. Mr Trump who is often downplayed the virus and seldom uses
downplayed the virus and seldom uses a mask said they would get through
a mask said they would get through this together. The White House
this together. The white House doctor
this together. The White House doctor said Mr Trump was doing well
doctor said Mr Tmmp was doing well and
doctor said Mr Trump was doing well and would
doctor said Mr Tmmp was doing well and would carry
doctor said Mr Trump was doing well and would carry out his duties
and would carry out his duties without disruption. Let us take you
without disruption. Let us take you through the events just before
through the events just before President Trump tested positive.
Let’s take a look at the events just before President Trump tested
positive for Covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up
to the presidential election.
On Tuesday the first debate between President Trump
and Joe Biden took place.
His special adviser Hope Hicks — who has also tested positive —
travelled with the campaign.
Then on Wednesday the Trump campaign flew on Marine One and Air Force One
to a rally in Minnesota.
Again Hope Hicks is with President Trump.
She falls ill and quarantines on the return journey.
m:
We will look at what this means. Let us take you to Washington for the
us take you to Washington for the very latest. What a massive moment
very latest. what a massive moment for
very latest. What a massive moment for Americans to be waking up to and
for Americans to be waking up to and the rippla
for Americans to be waking up to and the ripple effects of all of this
the ripple effects of all of this are enormous.
are enormous. Absolutely. Americans are waking up
Absolutely. Americans are waking up to this stunning, shocking and
to this stunning, shocking and unsettling news that the President
unsettling news that the President and the First Lady have contracted
and the First Lady have contracted this virus, 7 million Americans have
this virus, 7 million Americans have contracted it, more than 200,000
contracted it, more than 200,000 have been killed, and now the virus
have been killed, and now the virus is inside the White House itself. In
is inside the white House itself. In the
is inside the White House itself. In the middle of the night President’s
the middle of the night President’s physician did tweet and said at this
physician did tweet and said at this time the President and the First
time the President and the First Lady well. He did not say anything
Lady well. He did not say anything about whether they had symptoms. He
about whether they had symptoms. He did say he expects the President to
did say he expects the President to be carrying out his duties without
be carrying out his duties without dismption
be carrying out his duties without disruption and indeed the President
dismption and indeed the President sets
disruption and indeed the President sets schedule has been published for
sets schedule has been published for the day. Although it has been
the day. Although it has been amended he is due to have all things
amended he is due to have all things a all
amended he is due to have all things a call about coronavirus with senior
a all about coronavirus with senior citizens.
a call about coronavirus with senior citizens. Clearly there is concern
citizens. Cleariy there is concern in
citizens. Clearly there is concern in Washington, DC because the
in Washington, DC because the President is 7A. He is in a
President is 74. He is in a high-risk
President is 7A. He is in a high—risk group. He is also
high-risk group. He is also overweight.
high—risk group. He is also overweight. These are things which
overweight. These are things which could potentially put him at risk.
could potentially put him at risk. He will of course have the very best
He will of course have the very best medical care there is. Here is my
medical rare there is. Here is my colleague now
medical care there is. Here is my colleague now with more on a
colleague now with more on a dramatic evening in Washington.
dramatic evening in Washington. A bombshell like no other. A month
A bombshell like no other. A month before the presidential election.
before the presidential election. Donald Trump and his wife Milani at
Donald Tmmp and his wife Milani at the First Lady
Donald Trump and his wife Milani at the First Lady has tested positive
the First Lady has tested positive for coronavirus. It followed the
for coronavirus. It followed the news one of his closest advisers
news one of his closest advisers Hope Hicks has the disease. She
Hope Hicks has the disease. She experienced symptoms of Covid—19
experienced symptoms of Covid-19 while
experienced symptoms of Covid—19 while accompanying the President at
while accompanying the President at a rally in Minnesota. She was
a rally in Minnesota. She was quarantined on the presidential
quarantined on the presidential plane back to Washington. Earlier in
plane back to Washington. Eadier in the week
plane back to Washington. Earlier in the week she travelled to Cleveland
the week she travelled to Cleveland in Ohio with Mr Trump for the
in Ohio with Mr Tmmp for the presidential
in Ohio with Mr Trump for the presidential debate. She was seen
presidential debate. She was seen arriving with his team not wearing a
arriving with his team not wearing a mask. The President confined his
mask. The President confined his diagnosis in a tweet.
—— confirmed.
-- confirmed. The
—— confirmed. The First Lady later twisted
-- confirmed. The First Lady later twisted this.
The First Lady later twisted this. The President’s doctor said the
The President’s doctor said the President and his wife were both
President and his wife were both well at this time and plan to remain
well at this time and plan to remain in the White House during their
in the White House during their convalescence.
co nvalescence. Rest assured I
convalescence. Rest assured I expect the President
Rest assured I expect the President to continue his duties without
to continue his duties without dismption
to continue his duties without disruption while recovering.
dismption whila recovering. The
disruption while recovering. The late—night announcement has sent
The late-night announcement has sent shock
The late—night announcement has sent shock waves through America and the
shock waves through America and the world. Days after a heated debate
world. Days after a heated debate with his Democratic opponent
world. Days after a heated debate with his Democratic opponentJoe
with his Democratic opponent joe Biden, Mr
with his Democratic opponentJoe Biden, MrTrump is
with his Democratic opponentJoe Biden, Mr Trump is now confined to
Biden, Mr Tmmp is now confined to the white
Biden, Mr Trump is now confined to the White House for an indefinite
the white House for an indefinite period. He
the White House for an indefinite period. He has cancelled a rally for
period. He has ancellad a rally for tonight in
period. He has cancelled a rally for tonight in Florida. The coronavirus
tonight in Florida. The coronavirus has long
tonight in Florida. The coronavims has long been a
tonight in Florida. The coronavirus has long been a central issue in the
has long been a central issue in the presidential election campaign, with
presidential election campaign, with the Democrats accusing Mr Trump of
the Democrats accusing Mr Tmmp of failing to alart
the Democrats accusing Mr Trump of failing to alert the nation to the
failing to alart the nation to the severity of
failing to alert the nation to the severity of the disease and for
severity of the disease and for ignoring the advice of his medical
ignoring the advice of his medical experts. The virus has killed more
experts. The virus has killed more than 200,000 Americans and multiple
than 200,000 Americans and multiple states are experiencing a surge in
states are experiencing a surge in cases. For months Mr Trump has been
cases. For months Mr Tmmp has been belittling joe
cases. For months Mr Trump has been belittling Joe Biden for isolating
belittling Joe Biden for isolating himself at home in his basement, and
himself at home in his basement, and for wearing a mask during his public
for wearing a mask during his public appearances.
appearances. I do not wear a mask like him come
I do not wear a mask like him come every time you see him, he is
every time you see him, he is wearing a mask, he could be 200 feet
wearing a mask, he could be 200 feet away and shows up with the biggest
away and shows up with the biggest mask I have ever seen.
mask I have ever seen. The US Vice—President Mike Pence who
The US Vice-President Mike Pence who would
The US Vice—President Mike Pence who would take over
The US Vice—President Mike Pence who would take overfrom
The US Vice—President Mike Pence who would take over from Donald Trump if
would take over from Donald Tmmp if he became
would take over from Donald Trump if he became too ill to carry out his
he became too ill to carry out his duties has tweeted his love and
duties has tweeted his love and prayers to the President and his
prayers to the President and his wife.
wife. Election law in the US means the
Election law in the US means the country will go to the polls on
country will go to the polls on November the 3rd but what happens
November the 3rd but what happens between now and then is far from
between now and then is far from clear. They talk about the October
dear. They talk about the October surprise in
clear. They talk about the October surprise in American politics, but
surprise in American politic, but this is
surprise in American politics, but this is uncharted territory.
this is uncharted territory. Peter Bowes, BBC News, Los Angeles.
Peter Bowes, BBC News, Los Angeles. President Trump potentially had
President Trump potentially had contact with many high—level members
contact with many high-lavel members of
contact with many high—level members of Government, with his team as
of Government, with his team as well. What is in place now in terms
well. what is in place now in terms of contact
well. What is in place now in terms of contact tracing, how many might
of contact tracing, how many might have to quarantine?
have to quarantine? Potentially tens of people, maybe
Potentially tens of people, maybe 100 people. The President has had an
100 people. The President has had an incredibly busy week. He was in
incredibly busy week. He was in Cleveland on Tuesday for the
Cleveland on Tuesday for the presidential debate, I was there.
presidential debate, I was there. Everyone in that debate all had to
Everyone in that debate all had to be tested for coronavirus. You have
be tested for coronavirus. You have to assume he did not have it on
to assume he did not have it on Tuesday but he may well of course
Tuesday but he may well of course have been infectious at that point.
have been infectious at that point. We haven’t yet heard anything from
We haven’t yet heard anything from the Biden campaign about whether
We haven’t yet heard anything from the Biden campaign about whetherJoe
the Biden campaign about whetherjoe Biden
the Biden campaign about whetherJoe Biden himself has been tested.
Biden himself has been tested. Remember he was separated from the
Remember he was separated from the President on that stage but he and
President on that stage but he and the moderator, everybody in that
the moderator, everybody in that room you would assume would now have
room you would assume would now have to be tested. The President has
to be tested. The President has downplayed the virus. He now has it
downplayed the vims. He now has it himself.
downplayed the virus. He now has it himself. This presidential campaign
himself. This presidential campaign which joe
himself. This presidential campaign whichJoe Biden has tried to make
which joe Biden has tried to make into a
whichJoe Biden has tried to make into a referendum on the President’s
into a referendum on the President’s handling of the virus, has put into
handling of the virus, has put into stark relief, it is now put into
stark relief, it is now put into stark relief. On Thursday the
stark relief. On Thursday the President was at a fundraiser in New
President was at a fundraiser in New jersey, at his
President was at a fundraiser in New Jersey, at his property there.
jersey, at his property there. Everybody
Jersey, at his property there. Everybody he came into contact with
Everybody he came into contact with at that fundraiser will have to be
at that fundraiser will have to be tested. All the Secret Service agent
tested. All the Secret Service agent who accompany him everywhere. It is
who accompany him everywhere. It is an extraordinary set of
an extraordinary set of circumstances. Even his Supreme
circumstances. Even his Supreme Court justice
circumstances. Even his Supreme CourtJustice nominee Amy Coney
Court justice nominee Amy Coney Barrett
CourtJustice nominee Amy Coney Barrett who has met with him
Barrett who has met with him recently. She will now have to be
recently. She will now have to be tested.
tested. It throws everything up in the air.
It throws everything up in the air. The next presidential debate was
The next presidential debate was scheduled for October to 15th in
scheduled for October to 15th in Miami. The President will have to
Miami. The President will have to quarantine for at least two weeks.
quarantine for at least two weeks. Assuming he doesn’t get sick, the
Assuming he doesn’t get sick, the artist he could be out on the road
artist he could be out on the road is two weeks from now with just 32
is two weeks from now with just 32 days to go until the election. This
days to go until the elaction. This has
days to go until the election. This has scrambled the race in what was
has scrambled the race in what was already a turbulent year in American
already a turbulent year in American politic and
already a turbulent year in American politics and American life.
politic and American life. We
politics and American life. We know members of the White House
We know members of the white House team
We know members of the White House team often was seen without masks.
team often was seen without masks. No signs of social distancing as
No signs of social distancing as well. There was daily testing taking
well. There was daily testing taking place. Was that the only
place. Was that the only preventative measure?
preventative measure? It does look like the White House
It does look like the white House was relying
It does look like the White House was relying on that testing.
was relying on that testing. Certainly anyone who came into close
Certainly anyone who came into close contact with the President was
contact with the President was tested regularly. I was in Cleveland
tested regularty. Iwas in Cleveland for the
tested regularly. I was in Cleveland for the debate on Tuesday night. I
for the debate on Tuesday night. I saw members of the Champ entourage
saw members of the Champ entourage going into that debate auditorium
going into that debate auditorium wearing their masks but during the
wearing their masks but during the debate they did not have them on and
debate they did not have them on and the President himself has very
the President himself has very rarely been photographed in public
rarely been photographed in public wearing a mask, only about twice,
wearing a mask, only about twice, once when he went to the military
once when he went to the military hospital. He has downplayed the
hospital. He has downplayed the importance of wearing a mask. He has
importance of wearing a mask. He has said all along America is rounding
said all along America is rounding the corner, that a vaccine is coming
the corner, that a vaccine is coming down the pipeline. His focus has
down the pipeline. His focus has been to get America back to work to
been to get America back to work to restore the economy that he felt was
restore the economy that he felt was his strongest card in this election,
his strongest card in this election, an economy so damaged by the virus.
an economy so damaged by the vims. This has brought
an economy so damaged by the virus. This has brought into sharp relief
This has brought into sharp relief all of this. 32 days to go until ——
all of this. 32 days to go until -- until the
all of this. 32 days to go until —— until the election.
until the elaction. Let
until the election. Let us talk about President Trump’s
Let us talk about President Trump’s health. Can
Let us talk about President Trump’s health. (“an you
Let us talk about President Trump’s health. Can you firstly take us
health. (“an you firstly take us through
health. Can you firstly take us through what the CDC guidelines say
through what the CDC guidelines say now in terms of what President Trump
now in terms of what President Tmmp and
now in terms of what President Trump and Melanie Trump need to do?
and Melanie Tmmp need to do? They are now
and Melanie Trump need to do? They are now self
and Melania Trump need to do? They are now self quarantined, for
They are now self quarantined, for “P
They are now self quarantined, for up to 14 days.
They are now self quarantined, for up to M days. We do not know if he
up to 14 days. We do not know if he is
up to M days. We do not know if he is asymptomatic but I am presuming
is asymptomatic but I am presuming he has no symptoms and if he remains
he has no symptoms and if he remains so for the next ten days, that
so for the next ten days, that quarantine period could be
quarantine period could be potentially shortened by four days.
potentially shortened by four days. If he were going to get symptoms
If he were going to get symptoms when would that happen?
when would that happen? I think the highest risk for
I think the highest risk for developing symptoms will be the next
developing symptoms will be the next four days. If we get through the
four days. If we get through the next ten days without developing
next ten days without developing symptoms then I think it is
symptoms than I think it is relatively
symptoms then I think it is relatively unlikely he will. The
relatively unlikely he will. The next four days are critical, the
next four days are critical, the next ten days to rule it out.
next ten days to mla it out. Is the
next ten days to rule it out. Is the President high risk because
Is the President high risk because of his weight and age?
of his weight and age? He is suddenly high—risk if he were
He is suddenly high-risk if he were to develop
He is suddenly high—risk if he were to develop symptoms because of his
to develop symptoms because of his age and his weight, that puts him in
age and his weight, that puts him in a high-risk
age and his weight, that puts him in a high—risk category for having a
a high-risk category for having a more
a high—risk category for having a more difficult course.
more difficult course. How important is it for we —— it
How important is it for we -- it wasn’t for
How important is it for we —— it wasn’t for us to know when the
wasn’t for us to know when the President last tested negative?
President last tested negative? There is a period of presymptomatic
There is a period of presymptomatic shedding. Going back two to three
shedding. Going back two to three days from the positive test.
days from the positive test. The reason I ask is if he tested
The reason I ask is if he tested negative on Tuesday that was debate
negative on Tuesday that was debate day. Potentially he wasn’t
day. Potentially he wasn’t contagious which has huge
contagious which has huge implications.
implications. I don’t think it makes a great deal
I don’t think it makes a great deal of difference. If he tested positive
of difference. If he tested positive today or late yesterday, they will
today or late yesterday, they will have to go back two or three days
have to go back two or three days and think about testing. Testing
and think about testing. Testing should be close contacts for more
should be close contacts for more than 15 minutes, not necessarily
than 15 minutes, not necessarily someone in the back of an auditorium
someone in the back of an auditorium physirallv
someone in the back of an auditorium physically separated from the
physically separated from the President.
President. When he was awaiting the
President. when he was awaiting the test result
when he was awaiting the test result we know
When he was awaiting the test result we know he went to a fundraiser in
we know he went to a fundraiser in New jersey.
we know he went to a fundraiser in NewJersey. Was that against the
New jersey. Was that against the mles
NewJersey. Was that against the rules and irresponsible of him?
mles and irresponsibla of him? I am sorry,
rules and irresponsible of him? I am sorry, when he was tested
I am sorry, when he was tested before he had the results back?
before he had the results back? He was waiting for a test result
He was waiting for a test result because he was tested daily.
because he was tested daily. I am assuming the President gets
I am assuming the President gets tested every day. He waits for
tested every day. He waits for results every day. If he were
results every day. If he were symptomatic that is a different
symptomatic that is a different thing.
thing. Given his close contact to Hope
Given his close contact to Hope Hicks.
Hicks. Contact with Hope Hicks, yes. I
Contact with Hope Hicks, yes. I think if he was tested every day and
think if he was tested every day and asymptomatic that was not
asymptomatic that was not necessarily irresponsible. The
necessarily irresponsibla. The lasson
necessarily irresponsible. The lesson is this virus is everybody’s
lesson is this virus is everybode danger as it
lesson is this virus is everybody’s danger as it ever was. If you look
danger as it ever was. If you look at Great Britain, Canada, France,
at Great Britain, Canada, France, Israel, we see the virus researching
Israel, we see the virus researching in communities brought to have it
in communities brought to have it under control. When I see people
under control. when I see peopla packing
under control. When I see people packing together closely without
packing together closely without masks, I worry about contagion.
masks, I worry about contagion. Thank you very much for
masks, I worry about contagion. Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. So what impact
Thank you very much forjoining us. So what impact is this having on the
So what impact is this having on the world stock markets? Stock market
world stock markets? Stock market you just point to all three main
you just point to all three main indexes in the US falling around
indexes in the US falling around 1.5% when trading gets under way.
1.596 when trading gets under way. Let us
1.5% when trading gets under way. Let us talk now to a senior market
Let us talk now to a senior market analyst.
a nalyst. Markets
analyst. Markets do not like uncertainty.
Markets do not like uncertainty. Exactly correct. What we are seeing
Exactly correct. what we are seeing here is a
Exactly correct. What we are seeing here is a classic risk off trade,
here is a classic risk off trade, selling off risk yet assets such as
selling off risk yet assets such as stocks and moving ﬂows towards safe
stocks and moving ﬂows towards safe havens, gold, the US dollar and
havens, gold, the US dollar and japanese
havens, gold, the US dollar and Japanese yen, the trades we are
japanese yen, the trades we are looking at
Japanese yen, the trades we are looking at right now.
looking at right now. What could happen later today?
what could happen later today? We
What could happen later today? We have the nonfarm payrolls today
We have the nonfarm payrolls today usually the highlight but this will
usually the highlight but this will really overshadow that. Markets will
really overshadow that. Markets will be watching the developments closely
be watching the developments closely because of the implications that it
because of the implications that it could have on the US presidential
could have on the US presidential election which were clouded in
election which were clouded in uncertainty any way.
uncertainty any way. What kind of message when investors
what kind of message when investors like to
What kind of message when investors like to be hearing right now, what
like to be hearing right now, what could settle things down?
could settle things down? Some clarity over what will happen.
Some clarity over what will happen. Until we know the severity of the
Until we know the severity of the illness President Trump has and we
illness President Tmmp has and we will not
illness President Trump has and we will not know that for a couple of
will not know that for a couple of days, whether he has symptoms, how
days, whether he has symptoms, how hard it is hitting him, those are
hard it is hitting him, those are the questions investors will be
the questions investors will be asking, what they really want to
asking, what they really want to know. From that they will be able to
know. From that they will be able to take some decisions as to what might
take some decisions as to what might happen about the election. We have
happen about the election. We have had the debate this week. There was
had the debate this week. There was uncertainty surrounding the
uncertainty surrounding the election, whether President Trump
election, whether President Tmmp will accept
election, whether President Trump will accept the outcome. That put
will accept the outcome. That put this into question as well, how he
this into question as well, how he would accept the election is given
would accept the election is given his campaign will probably take a
his campaign will probably take a hit because of this development.
hit because of this development. You are watching BBC news.
m:
We will take you straight to Scotland and Nicole Sturgeon.
Scotland and Nicola Sturgeon. Covid
Scotland and Nicole Sturgeon. Covid statistics for today. The
Covid statistis for today. The total
Covid statistics for today. The total number of positive cases
total number of positive rases reported
total number of positive cases reported yesterday was 775, that is
reported yesterday was 775, that is 12.6% of people newly tested and
12.696 of people newly tested and takes
12.6% of people newly tested and takes the total number up to 30,687.
takes the total number up to 30,687. 324 cases were in Greater Glasgow
324 rases were in Greater Glasgow and (lyde,
324 cases were in Greater Glasgow and Clyde, 164 in Lothian, 102 in
and Clyde, 164 in Lothian, 102 in Lanarkshire. There will be a meeting
lanarkshire. There will be a meeting today of the
Lanarkshire. There will be a meeting today of the national incident
today of the national incident management team looking at a range
management team looking at a range of issues in particular the current
of issues in particular the current situation in Glasgow and
situation in Glasgow and Lanarkshire.
Lanarkshire. The remaining 185 cases
lanarkshire. The remaining 185 cases were
lanarkshire. The remaining 185 rases were spread
The remaining 185 rases were spread across
The remaining 185 cases were spread across nine other health board
across nine other health board areas. I can also report 175 people
areas. I ran also report 175 peopla are in hospital
areas. I can also report 175 people are in hospital which is an increase
are in hospital which is an increase of 21 from yesterday. 19 people are
of 21 from yesterday. 19 peopla are in
of 21 from yesterday. 19 people are in intensive care, to more than
in intensive rare, to more than yesterday. I
in intensive care, to more than yesterday. I also regret to report
yesterday. I also regret to report for debts have been registered of
for debts have been registered of people who had first tested positive
people who had first tested positive for Covid during the previous 28
for Covid during the previous 28 days --
for Covid during the previous 28 days —— deaths.
days -- deaths. Again, I
days —— deaths. Again, I want to send my
days -- deaths. Again, I want to send my sincere
Again, I want to send my sincere condolences to everyone who has lost
condolences to everyone who has lost a loved one and of course that
a loved one and of course that basically includes those who have
basically includes those who have lost a loved one in the last few
lost a loved one in the last few days. These numbers today not
lost a loved one in the last few days. These numbers today notjust
days. These numbers today not just of rases
days. These numbers today notjust of cases but perhaps more
of cases but perhaps more particularly hospital admissions,
particularly hospital admissions, numbers in intensive care and of
numbers in intensive rare and of people dying,
numbers in intensive care and of people dying, should remind us that
peopla dying, should remind us that this
people dying, should remind us that this resurgence of Covid is
this resurgence of Covid is something we have to take very
something we have to take very seriously. There are several issues
seriously. There are several issues I want to briefly update on today.
I want to brieﬂy update on today. Firstly, as I
I want to briefly update on today. Firstly, as I often do on a Friday,
Firstly, as I often do on a Friday, draw your attention to an
draw your attention to an announcement made last night, the
announcement made last night, the Scottish element has added Poland
Scottish element has added Poland and Turkey to the list of those
and Turkey to the list of those countries subject to quarantine
countries subject to quarantine restrictions. And the three islands
restrictions. And the three islands of the Caribbean which means that
of the Caribbean which means that from 4am tomorrow People travelling
from 4am tomorrow People travelling to
from ham tomorrow People travelling to Scotland from these cases must
to Scotland from these cases must self—isolate for A0 days on their
self-isolate for 40 days on their return.
self—isolate for A0 days on their return. Madeira and the Azores will
return. Madeira and the Azores will be removed from the list of places
be removed from the list of places subject to restrictions but if you
subject to restrictions but if you have a ride from those places in the
have a ride from those places in the last two weeks or if you arrive
last two weeks or if you arrive later today or tonight you will
later today or tonight you will still have to self—isolate for M
still have to self-isolate for 14 days.
days. These changes are another reminder
These changes are another reminder levels of the virus in any country
levels of the virus in any country or area ran
levels of the virus in any country or area can change quite rapidly and
or area ran change quite rapidly and when they
or area can change quite rapidly and when they change our quarantine
when they change our quarantine mles
when they change our quarantine rules often change as well, so
mles often change as well, so please, this
rules often change as well, so please, this is especially important
please, this is especially important as we approach the October holidays,
as we approach the October holidays, think carefully about any
think carefully about any unnecessary travel. If possible,
unnecessary travel. If possible, avoid unnecessary overseas travel.
avoid unnecessary overseas travel. Remember the fact a country is
Remember the fact a country is exempt from quarantine requirements
exempt from quarantine requirements when you go there does not mean it
when you go there does not mean it will still be exempt when you come
will still be exempt when you come back.
back. Second update relates to the Protect
Second update relates to the Protect Scotland app. I have said before
Scotland app. I have said before that the app is not a magic
that the app is not a magic solution, it does not replace the
solution, it does not replace the need for the hard work being done by
need for the hard work being done by our Test and Protect teams but it is
our Test and Protect teams but it is a really important additional tool
a really important additional tool in tackling Covid and already
in tackling Covid and already proving its worth. More than 1.3
proving its worth. More than 1.3 million people have downloaded the
million peopla have downloaded the 3PP
million peopla have downloaded the app in
million people have downloaded the app in the past three weeks, more
app in the past three weeks, more than a third of the people who had
than a third of the people who had tested positive have been at it is
tested positive have been at it is and in that time more than 2,000
and in that time more than 2,000 contacts had been advised to
contacts had been advised to self—isolate. These are people who
self-isolate. These are peopla who might not
self—isolate. These are people who might not otherwise have been
might not otherwise have been identified.
identified. There are three points I want to
There are three points I want to stress which might make the app more
stress which might make the app more useful. The first applies to
useful. The first applies to everyone who currently has it. If
everyone who currently has it. If you test positive for Covid you will
you test positive for Covid you will receive a code which you are meant
receive a code which you are meant to enter into the app. Make sure you
to enter into the app. Make sure you do that because it is necessary for
do that because it is necessary for you to do that for the app to
you to do that for the app to automatically notify people you have
automatically notify peopla you have been in
automatically notify people you have been in close contact with. That
been in close contact with. That might sound obvious but we know at
might sound obvious but we know at the moment not everybody who has the
the moment not everybody who has the 3PP
the moment not everybody who has the app and who receives a positive test
app and who receives a positive test result is actually doing that.
result is actually doing that. Enough people are doing it for the
Enough peopla are doing it for the 3PP
Enough peopla are doing it for the app to make a
Enough people are doing it for the app to make a difference but it
app to make a difference but it would be better if everybody entered
would be better if everybody entered the code when they test positive.
the code when they test positive. Please remember. Second point is we
Please remember. Second point is we issued an update to the app this
issued an update to the app this week which some people may wish to
week which some peopla may wish to take
week which some people may wish to take advantage of, it allows the app
take advantage of, it allows the app to be paused without Bluetooth being
to be paused without Bluetooth being disabled in your phone. Let me
disabled in your phone. Let me stress I do not want people to pause
stress I do not want people to pause the app when you are going about
the app when you are going about your daily activities because that
your daily activities because that would remove the point of having it.
would remove the point of having it. This is a feature that is especially
This is a feature that is especially useful for some groups,
This is a feature that is especially usefulfor some groups, in
useful for some groups, in particular,
usefulfor some groups, in particular, clinical staff in
usefulfor some groups, in particular, clinical staff injobs
particular, clinical staff injobs that often involve being within two
that often involve being within two metres of other people but were
metres of other people but were significant measures are in place to
significant measures are in place to reduce the risk of
significant measures are in place to reduce the \ looking at other
We are also looking at other improvements to the act, we are
improvements to the act, we are working hard with NHS England and
working hard with NHS England and NHS Northern Ireland on linking up
NHS Northern Ireland on linking up Protect Scotland app with the other
Protect Scotland app with the other countries to support people who
countries to support peopla who travel, to
countries to support people who travel, to make these different ones
travel, to make these different ones interoperable. And whether the age
interoperable. And whether the age limit for the use of the app can
limit for the use of the app ran change. To see
limit for the use of the app can change. To see if we can reduce the
change. To see if we ran reduce the age to under 16.
age to under 16. Finally, if you haven’t downloaded
Finally, if you haven’t downloaded the app yet and you are able to do
the app yet and you are able to do so, please do it. It takes less than
so, please do it. It takes loss than two minutes,
so, please do it. It takes less than two minutes, your data is kept
two minutes, your data is kept entirely secure and anonymous, it is
entirely secure and anonymous, it is a simple but really powerful way in
a simple but really powerful way in which we can all play our part in
which we ran all play our part in the struggle
which we can all play our part in the struggle against Covid.
the struggle against Covid. lastly, I
the struggle against Covid. Lastly, I want to stress again how
lastly, I want to stress again how important it is
Lastly, I want to stress again how important it is all of us
important it is all of us self—isolate when we are asked to do
self-isolate when we are asked to do so. Obviously
self-isolate when we are asked to do so. Obviouslyl
self—isolate when we are asked to do so. Obviously I cannot do that today
so. Obviously I cannot do that today without first addressing the issue
without first addressing the issue of Margaret Ferrier, the SNP MP who
of Margaret Ferrier, the SNP MP who travelled by train to London and
travelled by train to London and attended the House of Commons after
attended the House of Commons after taking a test when she should have
taking a test when she should have been self—isolating and who then
been self—isolating and who then travelled back to Scotland by train
travelled back to Scotland by train after being told that her test was
after being told that her test was positive. Margaret is a friend of
positive. Margaret is a friend of mine so everything I am about to say
mine so everything I am about to say is obviously with the heaviest of
is obviously with the heaviest of hearts and I wish her a speedy
hearts and I wish her a speedy recovery from Covid. None of that
recovery from Covid. None of that changes the fact that her actions
changes the fact that her actions were reckless, dangerous and
were reckless, dangerous and completely indefensible. I feel very
completely indefensible. I feel very angry on the you, every single day I
angry on the you, every single day I stand here and I ask you to make
stand here and I ask you to make horrendous sacrifices as part of our
horrendous sacrifices as part of our collactive
horrendous sacrifices as part of our collective efforts against Covid. It
collactive efforts against Covid. It is really
collective efforts against Covid. It is really important whether you
is really important whether you agree with me or not, whether you
agree with me or not, whether you love me or load me, that you can
love me or load me, that you ran have
love me or load me, that you can have confidence in the advice that I
have confidence in the advice that I give you. That means me being clear
give you. That means me being clear that the rules apply to everyone,
that the mles apply to everyone, regardless of
that the rules apply to everyone, regardless of who you are and
regardless of who you are and regardless of what your political
regardless of what your political allagiance
regardless of what your political allegiance is. Trust me, it is one
allagiance is. Trust me, it is one of the
allegiance is. Trust me, it is one of the easiest things in the world
of the easiest things in the world in politic to
of the easiest things in the world in politics to call for tough
in politics to call for tough consequences when one of your
consequences when one of your opponents breaks the rules, that is
opponents breaks the mles, that is not hard
opponents breaks the rules, that is not hard for any of us. The litmus
not hard for any of us. The litmus test is whether you are prepared to
test is whether you are prepared to do the same when it is one of your
do the same when it is one of your own breaking the rules. In these
own breaking the rules. In these abnormal times when everybody is
abnormal times when everybody is being asked to do difficult things,
being asked to do difficult things, I think that is more important than
I think that is more important than ever. That is why the SNP whip has
ever. That is why the SNP whip has been withdrawn from Margaret and
been withdrawn from Margaret and that is the most serious sanction a
that is the most serious sanction a party
that is the most serious sanction a Party ran
that is the most serious sanction a party can impose on an elected
party can impose on an elected representative. I have also spoken
representative. I have also spoken to her directly and made crystal
to her directly and made crystal clear to her that I think she should
dear to her that I think she should now resign as
clear to her that I think she should now resign as an MP. People contact
now resign as an MP. People contact me and say, why don’t you just sack
me and say, why don’t you just sack her, a point I had to make clear. I
her, a pointl had to make clear. I don’t have
her, a point I had to make clear. I don’t have the power to force an MP
don’t have the power to force an MP to step down, no party leader has
to step down, no party leader has that power. But I can make my views
that power. But I ran make my views known and
that power. But I can make my views known and difficult though it is, I
known and difficult though it is, I have done so, and I hope she will
have done so, and I hope she will come to the right decision in the
come to the right decision in the interest of the overall integrity of
interest of the overall integrity of these vital public health messages.
these vital public health messages. I want to emphasise again why it is
I want to emphasise again why it is so important to self—isolate. We are
so important to self-isolate. We are launching a
so important to self—isolate. We are launching a media campaign this
launching a media campaign this evening which has been planned for
evening which has been planned for several days to stress the
several days to stress the importance of self—isolation.
importance of self—isolation. Essentially if you have any one of
Essentially if you have any one of the symptoms of Covid you should
the symptoms of Covid you should start to self—isolate immediately
start to self-isolate immediately and
start to self—isolate immediately and book a test. You can do that
and book a test. You ran do that through the
and book a test. You can do that through the NHS website. The
through the NHS website. The symptoms as a reminder of a new
symptoms as a reminder of a new continuous cough, high—temperature
continuous cough, high-temperature or a loss or
continuous cough, high—temperature or a loss or change in taste or
or a loss or change in taste or smell. When you get your result if
smell. when you get your result if you test
smell. When you get your result if you test negative, you can stop
you test negative, you can stop self—isolating. If you have Covid,
self-isolating. If you have Covid, you need to
self—isolating. If you have Covid, you need to self—isolate for a
you need to self-isolate for a further
you need to self—isolate for a further ten days starting from the
further ten days starting from the date on which you took your test. If
date on which you took your test. If you are identified as a contact of
you are identified as a contact of someone with Covid either by a Test
someone with Covid either by a Test and Protect team or by the app you
and Protect team or by the app you must self—isolate for M days. You
must self-isolate for 14 days. You need to
must self—isolate for M days. You need to self—isolate for longer than
need to self—isolate for longer than someone who has tested positive
someone who has tested positive because if you get Covid you will be
because if you get Covid you will be infectious for a few days after the
infectious for a few days after the period of the person you got it
period of the person you got it from. The key point I want to stress
from. The key point I want to stress today for obvious reasons is itself
today for obvious reasons is itself isolation is not something anybody
isolation is not something anybody ran or
isolation is not something anybody can or should see as an option come
ran or should see as an option come as something
can or should see as an option come as something that is voluntary. If
as something that is voluntary. If you develop symptoms or if you are
you develop symptoms or if you are identified as a contact you must
identified as a contact you must self—isolate immediately. Do not
self-isolate immediately. Do not think you ran
self—isolate immediately. Do not think you can go to the shops one
think you ran go to the shops one last time
think you can go to the shops one last time let alone travelling. You
last time let alone travelling. You must self—isolate completely which
must self-isolate completely which means
must self—isolate completely which means staying at home and not going
means staying at home and not going anywhere else. The reason is simple,
anywhere else. The reason is simple, if you have been in touch with
if you have been in touch with someone who has Covid during their
someone who has Covid during their infectious period there is a chance
infectious period there is a chance you will also have Covid even if you
you will also have Covid even if you do not yet have symptoms and self
do not yet have symptoms and self isolation is one of the most
isolation is one of the most important thing we can all do to
important thing we ran all do to ensure
important thing we can all do to ensure we are not unwittingly
ensure we are not unwittingly sometimes transmitting the virus to
sometimes transmitting the virus to anyone else. This is essential. It
anyone else. This is essential. It is a tough thing for any of us to be
is a tough thing for any of us to be asked to do but essential all of us
asked to do but essential all of us must abide by.
must abide by. If we are asked to do it no matter
If we are asked to do it no matter who we are and no matter what our
who we are and no matter what our circumstances, we should all do it.
circumstances, we should all do it. It is inconvenient, it is tough,
It is inconvenient, it is tough, particularty
It is inconvenient, it is tough, particularly for those on low
particularly for those on low incomes who might lose money when
incomes who might lose money when asked to self—isolate which is why
asked to self-isolate which is why we are
asked to self—isolate which is why we are introducing the £500 to
we are introducing the £500 to support payment and why we are
support payment and why we are working with local authorities to
working with [oral authorities to make
working with local authorities to make sure it has practical help for
make sure it has practical help for peopla such
make sure it has practical help for people such as food deliveries.
people such as food deliveries. Details of that are available on the
Details of that are available on the NHS website.
NHS website. The reason we provide help for
The reason we provide help for people to do the right thing is
people to do the right thing is because right now doing the right
because right now doing the right thing for all of us is so important.
thing for all of us is so important. Please, please self—isolate and book
Please, please self-isolate and book a test if you
Please, please self—isolate and book a test if you have symptoms.
a test if you have symptoms. Self—isolate for M days if you are
Self—isolate for M days if you are identified as a contact. It is vital
identified as a contact. It is vital to our collective efforts.
to our collactive efforts. That
to our collective efforts. That point has particular added
That point has particular added resonance given the circumstances I
resonance given the circumstances I have already alluded to. Before I
have already alluded to. Before I finish and hand over to Jason I also
finish and hand over to jason I also want to provide
finish and hand over to Jason I also want to provide the usual reminder
want to provide the usual reminder of the other key public health
of the other key public health guidance. None of us should be
guidance. None of us should be visiting each other’s homes right
visiting each other’s homes right now except
visiting each other’s homes right now except for very specific
now except for very specific purposes like childcare or caring
purposes like childcare or raring for a
purposes like childcare or caring for a vulnerable adult. When we do
for a vulnerable adult. when we do meet with
for a vulnerable adult. When we do meet with others outdoors or in
meet with others outdoors or in indoor public places, the maximum
indoor public places, the maximum EWUP
indoor public places, the maximum group size allowed is six and there
group size allowed is six and there six people should not come from any
six peopla should not come from any more than
six people should not come from any more than two households. We should
more than two households. We should avoid rar sharing
more than two households. We should avoid car sharing if possible, work
avoid rar sharing if possible, work from
avoid car sharing if possible, work from home if we can, download the
from home if we ran, download the Protect
from home if we can, download the Protect Scotland app and finally all
Protect Scotland app and finally all of us should remember FACTS, face
of us should remember FACTS, face coverings, avoid crowded places,
coverings, avoid crowded places, clean hands and hard surfaces, keep
clean hands and hard surfaces, keep two metres from other households,
two metres from other households, and self—isolate and book a test if
and self-isolate and book a test if you have
and self—isolate and book a test if you have symptoms. I say this every
you have symptoms. I say this every day but I feel a particular
day but I feel a particular responsibility today, I know how
responsibility today, I know how hard it is for everybody to follow
hard it is for everybody to follow the rules and how angry people feel
the mles and how angry peopla feel when they
the rules and how angry people feel when they see others not following
when they see others not following these rules. We have been asked to
these mles. We have been asked to stick with
these rules. We have been asked to stick with all of these rules for
stick with all of these mles for the
stick with all of these rules for the collective well—being of the
the collactive well-being of the country and
the collective well—being of the country and for each and every one
country and for each and every one of us. So please do that for
of us. So please do that for yourselves, your
of us. So please do that for yourselves, yourfamilies, your
yourselves, your families, your loved
yourselves, yourfamilies, your loved ones and your community as a
loved ones and your community as a wholo. My
loved ones and your community as a whole. My deep and sincere thanks to
whole. My deep and sincere thanks to everybody who is making really tough
everybody who is making really tough sacrifices right now in the
sacrifices right now in the interests of that collective effort.
interests of that collective effort. jason. Today
interests of that collective effort. Jason. Today I want to make a plea
jason. Today I want to make a plea on behalf
Jason. Today I want to make a plea on behalf of a piece of the health
on behalf of a piece of the health service we perhaps take for granted.
service we perhaps take for granted. Not every country has a blood
Not every country has a blood transfusion service and we have one
transfusion service and we have one of the best in the world, the
of the best in the world, the Scottish National blood transfusion
Scottish National blood transfusion service. Firstly I would like to
service. Firstly I would like to thank this remarkable organisation
thank this remarkabla organisation we
thank this remarkable organisation we often do take for granted because
we often do take for granted because it is invisible to many. For the
it is invisibla to many. For the life-saving
it is invisible to many. For the life—saving work they do every day.
life-saving work they do every day. Secondly, to
life—saving work they do every day. Secondly, to give a huge thanks to
Secondly, to give a huge thanks to Scotland’s blood platelets and
Scotland’s blood platelets and plasma donors who have provided such
plasma donors who have provided such an amazing response, it is vital
an amazing response, it is vital their supplies get to patients right
their supplies get to patients right now.
now. That brings me to today, as health
That brings me to today, as health services restart, the demand for
services restart, the demand for blood across Scotland is increasing
blood across Scotland is increasing but donations are needed from people
but donations are needed from people who are able especially as we move
who are able especially as we move towards winter. If you have never
towards winter. If you have never donated or if you haven’t recently
donated or if you haven’t recently donated and you are able, I would
donated and you are abla, I would really
donated and you are able, I would really urge you to contact the
really urge you to contact the Scottish National blood transfusion
Scottish National blood transfusion service. I want to reassure anyone
service. I want to reassure anyone considering making a donation
considering making a donation arrangements are in place to ensure
arrangements are in place to ensure safety at centres, they have
safety at centres, they have increased social distancing, PPE as
increased social distancing, PPE as you would expect. Sessions are now
you would expect. Sessions are now mn only by
you would expect. Sessions are now run only by appointment so the right
mn only by appointment so the right number
run only by appointment so the right number of donors are there at any
number of donors are there at any time. Anyone with symptoms of Covid
time. Anyone with symptoms of Covid or who has been in contact with
or who has been in contact with anyone with sentence should not
anyone with sentence should not donate. The service is working to
donate. The service is working to advance the fight against Covid by
advance the fight against Covid by collecting convalescent plasma.
A research is showing that the blood of somebody recently recovered from
of somebody recently recovered from Covid-19 may
of somebody recently recovered from Covid—19 may contain antibodies
Covid-19 may contain antibodies which
Covid—19 may contain antibodies which we can use for treating people
which we ran use for treating people in hospital
which we can use for treating people in hospital who are seriously unwell
in hospital who are seriously unwell with the virus. The blood
with the virus. The blood transfusion service is looking for
transfusion service is looking for donors of convalescent plasma. If
donors of convalescent plasma. If you have had Covid—19, either
you have had Covid—19, either confirmed through test or have
confirmed through test or have yourself isolated because you have
yourself isolated berause you have had
yourself isolated because you have had symptoms, and are now
had symptoms, and are now symptom—free for 20 days, the
symptom-free for 20 days, the service
symptom—free for 20 days, the service would like to hear from you.
service would like to hear from you. (“an you check
service would like to hear from you. Can you check your eligibility to
(“an you check your eligibility to donate
Can you check your eligibility to donate and book an appointment
donate and book an appointment online.
online. We will move straight to questions.
We will move straight to questions. Firstly today, Sky News. Thank you,
Firstly today, Sky News. Thank you, I hope you ran
Firstly today, Sky News. Thank you, I hope you can hear me. The Margaret
I hope you ran hear me. The Margaret Ferrier incident,
I hope you can hear me. The Margaret Ferrier incident, it highlights the
Ferrier incident, it highlights the fact that people are adapting the
fact that peopla are adapting the mles
fact that people are adapting the rules to meet their own
rules to meet their own circumstances. Did the MP tell you
circumstances. Did the MP tell you why she thought it was so important
why she thought it was so important that she goes to London, and what
that she goes to London, and what does it tell you about why people
does it tell you about why peopla are not
does it tell you about why people are not following the rules? Look,
are not following the rules? Look, peopla are
are not following the rules? Look, people are finding it really
people are finding it really difficult to follow these rules.
difficult to follow these mles. There
difficult to follow these rules. There are a variety of reasons for
There are a variety of reasons for that. The rules are complicated,
that. The mles are complicated, more
that. The rules are complicated, more complicated the more we have
more complicated the more we have come out of lockdown. At times,
come out of lockdown. At times, different rules apply in different
different mles apply in different parts of
different rules apply in different parts of the country. I think the
parts of the country. I think the vast majority of people want to
vast majority of peopla want to follow
vast majority of people want to follow these rules for the right
follow these mles for the right people.
follow these rules for the right people. That might the right
people. That might the right reasons. Some people perhaps do not
reasons. Some peopla perhaps do not fully
reasons. Some people perhaps do not fully understand them, that is not
fully understand them, that is not criticism, sometimes people will
criticism, sometimes people will inadvertently bridge them. I am
inadvertently bridge them. I am stmggling
inadvertently bridge them. I am struggling to put what Margaret did
stmggling to put what Margaret did into any of
struggling to put what Margaret did into any of these categories. The
into any of these categories. The one mle
into any of these categories. The one rule that has been clear and
one mle that has been clear and unchanging
one rule that has been clear and unchanging throughout this is the
unchanging throughout this is the need to self—isolate when you have
need to self-isolate when you have symptoms
need to self—isolate when you have symptoms and get tested. If you test
symptoms and get tested. If you test positive to absolutely make sure
positive to absolutely make sure that you complete that self
that you complete that self isolation. There can be no Dubai
isolation. There ran be no Dubai Atty about
isolation. There can be no Dubai Atty about that. This is not a minor
Atty about that. This is not a minor breach of the rules. It is not an
breach of the rules. It is not an inadvertent breach of the rules. It
inadvertent breach of the mles. It is a ﬂagrant
inadvertent breach of the rules. It is a flagrant and dangerous breach
is a ﬂagrant and dangerous breach of the
is a flagrant and dangerous breach of the rules and I am struggling, I
of the mles and I am struggling, I have spoken
of the rules and I am struggling, I have spoken to Margaret, she
have spoken to Margaret, she certainly could not give me... She
certainly could not give me... She absolutely accepts, and let me make
absolutely accepts, and let me make this clear, she accepts without
this clear, she accepts without reservation that she has made a very
reservation that she has made a very serious mistake and error of
serious mistake and error of judgment. For completeness, she has
judgment. For completeness, she has voluntarily, of her own back,
voluntarily, of her own back, referred herself to the police and
referred herself to the police and standards commission, she is not
standards commission, she is not trying to evade responsibility for
trying to evade responsibility for this, but can she give me a cogent
this, but ran she give me a cogent explanation as
this, but can she give me a cogent explanation as to why she did it?
explanation as to why she did it? No. But in the sense that does not
No. But in the sense that does not matter. Nobody can have an excuse
matter. Nobody ran have an excuse for that
matter. Nobody can have an excuse for that kind of breach. Travelling
for that kind of breach. Travelling on a rain when you know you are
on a rain when you know you are positive with Covid—19 right now is
positive with Covid-19 right now is possibly the
positive with Covid—19 right now is possibly the worst breach
possibly the worst breach imaginable. —— on a train. I think
imaginable. -- on a train. I think peopla ran
imaginable. —— on a train. I think people can probably understand my
people ran probably understand my feelings for a
people can probably understand my feelings for a whole variety of
feelings for a whole variety of reasons right now, I cannot excuse
reasons right now, I cannot excuse this. I
reasons right now, I cannot excuse this. lam
reasons right now, I cannot excuse this. I am not going to try to
this. I am not going to try to excuse it. And nor is Margaret. But
excuse it. And nor is Margaret. But what I ran
excuse it. And nor is Margaret. But what I can do is use the
what I can do is use the circumstances to make it clear to
circumstances to make it clear to peopla that
circumstances to make it clear to people that these rules apply to
people that these mles apply to everybody.
people that these rules apply to everybody. Nobody can be exempt and
everybody. Nobody ran be exempt and nobody ran be
everybody. Nobody can be exempt and nobody can be exempt from the
nobody can be exempt from the consequences when they breach them.
consequences when they breach them. To try to take some positive out of
To try to take some positive out of this, use the inevitable publicity
this, use the inevitable publicity around us to underline to people why
around us to undertine to peopla why we are asking for
around us to underline to people why we are asking for self isolation in
we are asking for self isolation in these circumstances. That is what we
these circumstances. That is what we will continue to try to do. STV.
will continue to try to do. STV. Thank you. On Margaret Ferrier, when
Thank you. On Margaret Farrier, when you
Thank you. On Margaret Ferrier, when you asked her, or suggested to her
you asked her, or suggested to her you thought she should resign from
you thought she should resign from Parliament, what did she say to you
Partiament, what did she say to you about
Parliament, what did she say to you about that? Can you help us with who
about that? (“an you help us with who knew
about that? Can you help us with who knew what Wayne? There is a
knew what Wayne? There is a suggestion that the whips knew about
suggestion that the whips knew about this on Wednesday and I wonder if
this on Wednesday and I wonder if that delay between people knowing
that delay between people knowing about it and her going public and
about it and her going public and being suspended suggests that there
being suspended suggests that there was initially an attempt to try to
was initially an attempt to try to write this out? —— might raid the
write this out? -- might raid the side.
write this out? —— might raid the side. Whether she has been fully
side. whether she has been fully honest
side. Whether she has been fully honest throughout the process with
honest throughout the process with the party and others. Separately, if
the party and others. Separately, if I ran ask jason
the party and others. Separately, if I can askJason Leech, on the
I ran ask jason Leech, on the figures in the
I can askJason Leech, on the figures in the last few days, to
figures in the last few days, to what extent do you think students
what extent do you think students are still a big chunk of driving
are still a big chunk of driving this, and are we, by the sounds of
this, and are we, by the sounds of it, looking at possible further
it, looking at possible further restrictions in Glasgow? Let me take
restrictions in Glasgow? Let me take two points to me first and I will be
two points to me first and I will be as brief as possible. As open and
as brief as possible. As open and frank
as brief as possible. As open and frank as _.;
as brief as possible. As open and frank as possible as well. On my
frank as possible as well. On my conversation with her, I have been
conversation with her, I have been very dear, I
conversation with her, I have been very clear, I think she should step
very dear, I think she should step down. I
very dear, I think she should step down. Isay
very dear, I think she should step down. I say and
very clear, I think she should step down. I say and mean this, I do that
down. I say and mean this, I do that with a really heavy heart. Margaret
with a really heavy heart. Margaret is somebody I have known a long
is somebody I have known a long time. I like her but I cannot defend
time. I like her but I cannot defend what she has done. In the
what she has done. In the circumstances right now, the
circumstances right now, the integrity of these public health
integrity of these public health messages, and my ability to stand
messages, and my ability to stand here and look at this camera and see
here and look at this camera and see the mles apply
here and look at this camera and see the rules apply to everybody is too
the mles apply to everybody is too important for
the rules apply to everybody is too important for me to try to protect
important for me to try to protect somebody who just happens to be a
somebody who just happens to be a friend and colleague. So that is
friend and colleague. So that is clear. She did not tell me one way
dear. She did not tell me one way or another
clear. She did not tell me one way or another what she intends to do.
or another what she intends to do. The other thing I am conscious of,
The other thing I am conscious of, and again I am not going to see
and again I am not going to see anything that tries to excuse it,
anything that tries to excuse it, but I have to bear in mind the fact
but I have to bear in mind the fact that she has Covid—19. I asked her
that she has Covid-19. I asked her how she was,
that she has Covid—19. I asked her how she was, obviously, and
how she was, obviously, and thankfuuy
how she was, obviously, and thankfully so far she is not
thankfuuy so far she is not suffering
thankfully so far she is not suffering serious symptoms. But this
suffering serious symptoms. But this ran be a nasty
suffering serious symptoms. But this can be a nasty virus so obviously I
ran be a nasty virus so obviously I am
can be a nasty virus so obviously I am concerned to know that her health
am concerned to know that her health is OK. These are all factors. But my
is OK. These are all factors. But my duty is to make clear to her, as her
duty is to make clear to her, as her party leader, but also as First
party leader, but also as First Minister in the position that I am
Minister in the position that I am dealing with right now, what my
dealing with right now, what my views are, and that is what I have
views are, and that is what I have done. On the who knew what when,
done. On the who knew what when, these are important questions but
these are important questions but sometimes I think in politics...
sometimes I think in politic... There ran
sometimes I think in politics... There can perhaps be too much
There ran perhaps be too much political
There can perhaps be too much political opportunism around some of
political opportunism around some of this. We are all guilty of that in
this. We are all guilty of that in normal times,
this. We are all guilty of that in normaltimes, in
this. We are all guilty of that in normal times, in these abnormal
normal times, in these abnormal times we should perhaps be less so.
times we should perhaps be less so. Before I go into that in some
Before I go into that in some detail, as briefly as I can, can I
detail, as brieﬂy as I ran, ran I 55V
detail, as brieﬂy as I ran, ran I say that my
detail, as briefly as I can, can I say that my absolute understanding
say that my absolute understanding is that she fully cooperated with
is that she fully cooperated with and went through the Test and
and went through the Test and Protect and test and trace, as far
Protect and test and trace, as far as England and the House of Commons
as England and the House of Commons is concerned, Philly. So people who
is concerned, Philly. So peopla who might have
is concerned, Philly. So people who might have been in contact with her
might have been in contact with her have all been properly identified
have all been property identified and
have all been properly identified and contacted in the same way.
and contacted in the same way. Whatever I am about to say about
whatever I am about to say about timelines,
Whatever I am about to say about timelines, does not affect that,
timelines, does not affect that, peopla
timelines, does not affect that, people were properly notified if the
people were property notified if the Test
people were properly notified if the Test and Protect and test entries
Test and Protect and test entries thought there was a need to do that.
thought there was a need to do that. MY
thought there was a need to do that. My understanding is that the SNP at
My understanding is that the SNP at Westminster knew on Wednesday that
Westminster knew on Wednesday that she had tested positive, but
she had tested positive, but believed that she had taken a taste
believed that she had taken a taste once she had arrived back in
once she had arrived back in Scotland. I understand that she had
Scotland. I understand that she had informed colleagues on Monday
informed colleagues on Monday evening that she was travelling back
evening that she was travelling back to Scotland because a family member
to Scotland because a family member might have been unwell. It was not
might have been unwell. It was not until yesterday, and my
until yesterday, and my understanding is that there
understanding is that there information came through the House
information came through the House and Commons test entries mechanism,
and Commons test entries mechanism, it was not until yesterday my
it was not until yesterday my colleagues in the House of Commons
colleagues in the House of Commons realised the circumstances. That
realised the circumstances. That might test and trace mechanism. They
might test and trace mechanism. They realised she had taken the test,
realised she had taken the test, travelled to London and travelled
travelled to London and travelled back having been told that she was
hack having been told that she was positive. The
back having been told that she was positive. The first I knew anything
positive. The first I knew anything about Margaret Ferrier having
about Margaret Ferrier having Covid—19 was yesterday afternoon,
Covid-19 was yesterday afternoon, shortly after
Covid—19 was yesterday afternoon, shortly after I ended first
shortly after I ended first ministers questions. I think people
ministers questions. I think peopla ran
ministers questions. I think people ran imagine
ministers questions. I think people can imagine my reaction to being
ran imagine my reaction to being told
can imagine my reaction to being told that. Obviously, partly because
told that. Obviously, partly because I was struggling to comprehend how
I was stmggling to comprehend how anybody
I was struggling to comprehend how anybody could have acted in that
anybody could have acted in that way. I was anxious to make sure I
way. I was anxious to make sure I was property
way. I was anxious to make sure I was properly understanding all of
was property understanding all of the
was properly understanding all of the facts and not getting any
the facts and not getting any essential details wrong. I was told
essential details wrong. I was told to other things at that point.
to other things at that point. Firstly, that the House of Commons
Firstly, that the House of Commons wanted to put out a statement first
wanted to put out a statement first confirming that an MP had tested
confirming that an MP had tested positive. I then made clear that if
positive. I then made clear that if that was to happen, Margaret should
that was to happen, Margaret should immediately then issue a statement
immediately then issue a statement confirming it was her and, and what
confirming it was her and, and what the circumstances were. I was also
the circumstances were. I was also told that Ian Blackford, the leader
told that Ian Blackford, the leader of the group in Westminster, who was
of the group in Westminster, who was on a plane travelling to Inverness
on a plane travelling to Inverness at the time, was due to speak to her
at the time, was due to speak to her once he landed in Inverness. By the
once he landed in Inverness. By the time that discussion took place, the
time that discussion took place, the position with the House of Commons
position with the House of Commons had changed, so it was made clear to
had changed, so it was made clear to Margaret she should issue a
Margaret she should issue a statement with all of the
statement with all of the circumstances and before she did
circumstances and before she did that, she referred herself to the
that, she referred herself to the police and I understand that she
police and I understand that she took a little bit of time to inform
took a little bit of time to inform peopla dose
took a little bit of time to inform people close to her that she had
peopla dose to her that she had Covid-19,
people close to her that she had Covid—19, and the statement was
Covid-19, and the statement was issued earty
Covid—19, and the statement was issued early evening yesterday. I
issued earty evening yesterday. I know
issued early evening yesterday. I know that politics kicks in in these
know that politic kicks in in these things but I
know that politics kicks in in these things but I think the SNP has acted
things but I think the SNP has acted quickly, appropriately and actually
quickly, appropriately and actually we have not tried to protect a
we have not tried to protect a colleague here. We have tried to do
colleague here. We have tried to do the right thing, given the
the right thing, given the circumstances we are dealing with. I
circumstances we are dealing with. I am not going to get involved in
am not going to get involved in political statements here except to
political statements here except to 55V
political statements here except to say that some of the people, I hear
say that some of the peopla, I hear last night and
say that some of the people, I hear last night and today, full of
last night and today, full of self—righteous criticism of the SNP
self-righteous criticism of the SNP are peopla
self—righteous criticism of the SNP are people who completely lost their
are people who completely lost their tongue when a certain special
tongue when a certain special adviser in London broke the rules
adviser in London broke the mles himself.
adviser in London broke the rules himself. So it is easy to be
himself. So it is easy to be critical when it is your opponent,
critical when it is your opponent, the big test is whether you are
the big test is whether you are prepared to do the same when it is
prepared to do the same when it is one of your own. Jason, there was a
one of your own. jason, there was a part for you. My
one of your own. Jason, there was a part for you. My summary is common
part for you. My summary is common in numbers across the whole of
in numbers across the whole of Europe and in Scotland are going in
Europe and in Scotland are going in the wrong direction and continue to
the wrong direction and continue to do so. To illustrate that beyond the
do so. To illustrate that beyond the daily figures, which is perhaps a
daily figures, which is perhaps a trend, 3573 people have caught
trend, 3573 people have caught Covid—19 in this country in the last
Covid-19 in this country in the last seven days, and
Covid—19 in this country in the last seven days, and tested positive. We
seven days, and tested positive. We have 19 patients in intensive care
have 19 patients in intensive rare and you have
have 19 patients in intensive care and you have just heard, an
have 19 patients in intensive care and you havejust heard, an increase
and you have just heard, an increase in hospital
and you havejust heard, an increase in hospital admissions of maybe 20
in hospital admissions of maybe 20 or so in the last of 2A hours. We
or so in the last of 24 hours. We have also
or so in the last of 2A hours. We have also had 11 deaths in 48 hours.
have also had 11 deaths in 48 hours. Per 100,000,
have also had 11 deaths in 48 hours. Per100,000, our
have also had 11 deaths in 48 hours. Per 100,000, our rate is 63.1 in
Per 100,000, our rate is 63.1 in Scotland. Glasgow city is at the top
Scotland. Glasgow city is at the top of that, unfortunately table. —— at
of that, unfortunately tabla. -- at the top of that
of that, unfortunately table. —— at the top of that unfortunate league
the top of that unfortunate league table. The management team will meet
table. The management team will meet again today, as it does consistently
again today, as it does consistently throughout the week. It will look at
throughout the week. It will look at the numbers, trends in Lanarkshire,
the numbers, trends in Lanarkshire, Lothian, Glasgow. You are right that
Lothian, Glasgow. You are right that many of those positive cases still
many of those positive rases still are in
many of those positive cases still are in halls of residence and in the
are in halls of residence and in the student population. That does not
student population. That does not reassure me particularly, as you
reassure me particularty, as you have
reassure me particularly, as you have heard me say many times from
have heard me say many times from this podium. That will leak into a
this podium. That will leak into a more vulnerable community and you
more vulnerable community and you are not immune if you are a student
are not immune if you are a student of a serious illness. 50, all of the
of a serious illness. So, all of the numbers
of a serious illness. 50, all of the numbers are going in the wrong
numbers are going in the wrong direction. However, two weeks ago we
direction. However, two weeks ago we put in place really quite a severe
put in place really quite a severe household restrictions. They will
household restrictions. They will not have played through into the
not have played through into the numbers yet. I am hopeful they will.
numbers yet. I am hopeful they will. I cannot guarantee it and it relies
I cannot guarantee it and it relies on
I rannot guarantee it and it relies on each
I cannot guarantee it and it relies on each of us following the rules.
on each of us following the mles. Every single
on each of us following the rules. Every single one of us following
Every single one of us following those rules in order to drive those
those mles in order to drive those numbers
those rules in order to drive those numbers down. If the national IMT
numbers down. If the national IMT give advice to Gregor and I and then
give advice to Gregor and I and then we give advice to the First Minister
we give advice to the First Minister in the Cabinet, that will take its
in the Cabinet, that will take its course. Today, there are no existing
course. Today, there are no existing plans to tighten up restrictions in
plans to tighten up restrictions in those local authorities. Channel 4.
those loral authorities. Channel 4. Hello.
those local authorities. Channel 4. Hello. Back to Margaret Ferrier, if
Hello. Back to Margaret Ferrier, if you don’t mind. I
Hello. Back to Margaret Ferrier, if you don’t mind. Ijust wanted to ask
you don’t mind. Ijust wanted to ask something slightly broader on that.
something slightly broader on that. You are setting these rules, telling
You are setting these mles, telling people that
You are setting these rules, telling people that they must follow them.
peopla that they must follow them. And
people that they must follow them. And yet this is not the first time
And yet this is not the first time that we have seen this, politicians
that we have seen this, politicians and public figures just ignoring
and public figures just ignoring them and acting like they can do
them and acting like they can do whatever they want and that these
whatever they want and that these mles do
whatever they want and that these rules do not apply to them. So the
mles do not apply to them. So the pub“:
mles do not apply to them. So the public will be
rules do not apply to them. So the public will be asking this question
public will be asking this question yet again, and so
public will be asking this question yet again, and sol
public will be asking this question yet again, and so I will put it to
yet again, and so I will put it to you. Is it one rule for you and one
you. Is it one ml; for you and one mla
you. Is it one ml; for you and one ml; for
you. Is it one rule for you and one rule for everybody else? And one
mle for everybody else? And one more
rule for everybody else? And one more question if you do not mind, is
more question if you do not mind, is there anything that you specifically
there anything that you specifically ran do
there anything that you specifically can do to stop another incident like
ran do to stop another incident like this,
can do to stop another incident like this, particularly in relation to
this, particularty in relation to your own
this, particularly in relation to your own MPs, to stop something like
your own MPs, to stop something like this happening again? No, there is
this happening again? No, there is not one rule for us politicians and
not one mic for us politicians and another
not one rule for us politicians and another rule for everybody else. The
another mle for everybody else. The only thing I ran
another rule for everybody else. The only thing I can do to make that
only thing I ran do to make that clear is
only thing I can do to make that clear is insist on the consequences
clear is insist on the consequences when a politician breaks the rules
when a politician breaks the mles being as
when a politician breaks the rules being as severe and taking account
being as severe and taking account of the circumstances of elected
of the circumstances of elected representatives and the
representatives and the responsibilities they have, as they
responsibilities they have, as they would be if it was an ordinary
would be if it was an ordinary member of the public. I am being
member of the public. I am being pretty clear about that. It is not
pretty clear about that. It is not easy and I am not asking for
easy and I am not asking for sympathy. The last thing I am asking
sympathy. The last thing I am asking for. But it is not easy as a
for. But it is not easy as a politician to effectively ask one of
politician to effectively ask one of your own MPs to resign. It is not,
your own MPs to resign. It is not, for a whola
your own MPs to resign. It is not, for a whole variety of reasons. In
for a whola variety of reasons. In normal
for a whole variety of reasons. In normal circumstances, on more normal
normal circumstances, on more normal political issues, maybe you try to
political issues, maybe you try to avoid that happening, but right now,
avoid that happening, but right now, the most important, frankly the most
the most important, frankly the most important relationship I have right
important relationship I have right now is the one I have standing here
now is the one I have standing here looking down the camera at the
looking down the camera at the Scottish public. I cannot ask you
Scottish public. I cannot ask you watching this right now to make all
watching this right now to make all of these sacrifices if I am going to
of these sacrifices if I am going to stand here and try to explain away
stand here and try to explain away what Margaret Ferrier did. I will
what Margaret Ferrier did. I will not do that. I can only speak for
not do that. I ran only speak for myself. other
not do that. I can only speak for myself. Other politicians who might
myself. other politicians who might have
myself. Other politicians who might have decided to do things
have decided to do things differently have to explain that.
differently have to explain that. What can I do to stop any of my
what ran I do to stop any of my other
What can I do to stop any of my other colleagues doing this? I
other colleagues doing this? I cannot babysit everybody across the
rannot babysit everybody across the country. But I
cannot babysit everybody across the country. But I can
cannot babysit everybody across the country. But I canjust
cannot babysit everybody across the country. But I can just be crystal
country. But I ran just be crystal clear, peopla
country. But I can just be crystal clear, people have to abide by these
dear, people have to abide by these mles
clear, people have to abide by these rules because they are not there for
mles because they are not there for no reason. They
rules because they are not there for no reason. They are there to keep us
no reason. They are there to keep us all, or try to keep us all safe.
all, or try to keep us all safe. jason has just...
all, or try to keep us all safe. Jason hasjust... We are
all, or try to keep us all safe. Jason hasjust... We arejust
all, or try to keep us all safe. Jason has just... We are just going
jason has just... We are just going to come
Jason has just... We are just going to come out of that briefing in
to come out of that briefing in Edinburgh and get some more on these
Edinburgh and get some more on these growing falls for
Edinburgh and get some more on these growing cells for the MP Margaret
growing falls for the MP Margaret Ferrier
growing cells for the MP Margaret Ferrier to resign. She has
growing calls for the MP Margaret Ferrier to resign. She has already
Ferrier to resign. She has already been suspended, as we have heard,
been suspended, as we have heard, from the SNP for breaking those
from the SNP for breaking those coronavirus rules after travelling
coronavirus rules after travelling between Westminster and Glasgow,
between Westminster and Glasgow, despite just two testing positive
despite just two testing positive for Covid—19. We can speak to the
for Covid-19. We ran speak to the Speaker of the
for Covid—19. We can speak to the Speaker of the House of Commons now.
Speaker of the House of Commons now. Thank you very much for
Speaker of the House of Commons now. Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. What
Thank you very much for joining us. what was your
Thank you very much forjoining us. What was your response and when did
what was your response and when did you first hear
What was your response and when did you first hear about what had
you first hear about what had happened? Obviously, I cannot
happened? Obviously, I cannot believe the behaviour of a member of
believe the behaviour of a member of Parliament. It is with complete
Partiament. It is with complete shock
Parliament. It is with complete shock that somebody could be so
shock that somebody could be so reckless with the staff at the House
reckless with the staff at the House of Commons, their fellow member MPs.
of Commons, their fellow member MPs. But also travelling on public
But also travelling on public transport as well. Completely
transport as well. Completely reckless behaviour, totally
reckless behaviour, totally unacceptable and I am very angry
unacceptable and I am very angry that the House has been put at risk.
that the House has been put at risk. Really very, very angry about this.
Really very, very angry about this. How many people have been put at
How many peopla have been put at risk and
How many people have been put at risk and how many people have had to
risk and how many peopla have had to isolate as
risk and how many people have had to isolate as a result? What I can tell
isolate as a result? what I ran tell you is the staff
isolate as a result? What I can tell you is the staff went straight into
you is the staff went straight into operation, but the problem was we
operation, but the problem was we only found out late Wednesday
only found out late Wednesday afternoon, and of course this was
afternoon, and of course this was happening on Monday, so what we had
happening on Monday, so what we had to do is go back through, we have
to do is go back through, we have the best track and trace, and within
the best track and trace, and within 20 minutes we had started our track
20 minutes we had started our track and trace. As I say, the staff are
and trace. As I say, the staff are very, very aware of what to do. We
very, very aware of what to do. We are a Covid—19 secure building and
are a Covid-19 secure building and all that
are a Covid—19 secure building and all that was put at risk by reckless
all that was put at risk by reckless behaviour. So
all that was put at risk by reckless behaviour. 50 Wednesday afternoon,
behaviour. So Wednesday afternoon, we did that, we started immediately.
we did that, we started immediately. We were working with Public Health
We were working with Public Health England to make sure everything we
England to make sure everything we had put in place was happening and
had put in place was happening and all the right measures were carried
all the right measures were carried out. As I say, one person was in
out. As I say, one person was in contact longer than would have been
contact longer than would have been expected and therefore that person
expected and therefore that person has been asked to isolate. That is
has been asked to isolate. That is the situation at the moment.
the situation at the moment. Margaret Ferrier is facing calls to
Margaret Ferrier is facing rails to resign as an
Margaret Ferrier is facing calls to resign as an MP. Nicola Sturgeon, we
resign as an MP. Nicola Sturgeon, we have just heard,
resign as an MP. Nicola Sturgeon, we havejust heard, has made it very
have just heard, has made it very dear
have just heard, has made it very clear in her
havejust heard, has made it very clear in her view that is absolutely
clear in her view that is absolutely what you should do. She said it was
what you should do. She said it was a ﬂagrant and
what you should do. She said it was a flagrant and dangerous break of
a ﬂagrant and dangerous break of the
a flagrant and dangerous break of the rules. Are you in a position to
the mles. Are you in a position to see
the rules. Are you in a position to see whether that is your position as
see whether that is your position as well? That she should resign as an
well? That she should resign as an MP? What I would ask is I would
MP? what I would ask is I would expect the
MP? What I would ask is I would expect the member to consider what
expect the member to consider what they have done, the reckless
they have done, the reckless behaviour and how that looks to the
behaviour and how that looks to the rest of the country. We are in a
rest of the country. We are in a very, very, this sends all of the
very, very, this sends all of the wrong messages and the fact that we
wrong messages and the fact that we have put so much emphasis on trying
have put so much emphasis on trying to get The House in the right place,
to get The House in the right place, making sure that we are Covid—19
making sure that we are Covid-19 secure.
making sure that we are Covid—19 secure. All that has been put at
secure. All that has been put at risk. People have really got to
risk. People have really got to consider their position on that. It
consider their position on that. It is now with the SNP and in fairness
is now with the SNP and in fairness to the SNP, they also only got told
to the SNP, they also only got told late Wednesday afternoon, and
late Wednesday afternoon, and straightaway they came to my office,
straightaway they came to my office, they let the Speaker’s secretary
they let the Speaker’s secretary know within 20 minutes we were into
know within 20 minutes we were into full swing to put everything in
full swing to put everything in place to be expected to. A real
place to be expected to. A real problem that I don’t want to open up
problem that I don’t want to open up into too many details, as we know,
into too many details, as we know, this is a police matter
into too many details, as we know, this is a police matterfor Police
this is a police matterfor Police Scotland and the Metropolitan Police
Scotland and the Metropolitan Police as well. It is an ongoing
as well. It is an ongoing investigation. As I say, in fairness
investigation. As I say, in fairness to the member of Parliament
to the member of Parliament concerned, they have reported
concerned, they have reported themselves to Standards as well. But
themselves to Standards as well. But this is now a police investigation.
this is now a police investigation. We just heard from Nicola Sturgeon,
We just heard from Nicola Sturgeon, saying that she understood the House
saying that she understood the House of Commons initially wanted to put
of Commons initially wanted to put out a statement first on learning of
out a statement first on learning of what had happened here and that
what had happened here and that position changed. Was there a reason
position changed. Was there a reason for that? We have got to learn from
for that? We have got to learn from this and of course we will be going
this and of course we will be going back over this on Monday. We have
back over this on Monday. We have got to learn. How could somebody put
got to learn. How could somebody put us at risk? We cannot allow for
us at risk? We cannot allow for that. The fact is, we advise people
that. The fact is, we advise peopla what to do,
that. The fact is, we advise people what to do, how to behave, if you
what to do, how to behave, if you show symptoms, please stay away, if
show symptoms, please stay away, if you do need a test, going to get a
you do need a test, going to get a taste, but whatever you do do not
taste, but whatever you do do not come into the House of Commons, and
come into the House of Commons, and that message is loud and clear. We
that message is loud and clear. We have got to make got to keep getting
have got to make got to keep getting that message out. What I cannot
that message out. what I cannot allow for
that message out. What I cannot allow for if somebody feels ill,
allow for if somebody feels ill, goes and have a test, does not bid
goes and have a test, does not bid for the result, turn up in
for the result, turn up in Parliament and then get a result to
Partiament and then get a result to 55V
Partiament and then get a result to say you are
Parliament and then get a result to say you are positive but then
say you are positive but then disappear. Worse than that, not to
disappear. Worse than that, not to be told until Wednesday is not
be told until Wednesday is not acceptable. We were hearing
acceptable. We were hearing different stories, different
different stories, different messages that made it even more
messages that made it even more difficult for us to deal with. So
difficult for us to deal with. So what I would say is of course we
what I would say is of course we will be going over this, over and
will be going over this, over and over again. I
will be going over this, over and overagain. I believe
will be going over this, over and over again. I believe we have the
over again. I believe we have the right measures in place but what we
right measures in place but what we cannot do is sit on our laurels. We
cannot do is sit on our laurels. We will always be looking to upgrade
will always be looking to upgrade where we need to and if we need to
where we need to and if we need to change things, of course we will.
change things, of course we will. What I will say is we have got very
what I will say is we have got very good staff
What I will say is we have got very good staff who work very hard. I
good staff who work very hard. I have had staff working through the
have had staff working through the night on this and they should not
night on this and they should not have been put in this position
have been put in this position either. So, just to be clear, you
either. So, just to be clear, you said we have heard different
said we have heard different stories, is that from the MP
stories, is that from the MP involved as well as the SNP
involved as well as the SNP leadership? Not the SNP leadership,
leadership? Not the SNP leadership, but from the member concerned. There
but from the member concerned. There was not a clear line coming out
was not a dear line coming out about
was not a clear line coming out about what happened. That made it
about what happened. That made it more difficult and, as I say, if we
more difficult and, as I say, if we had been told on Monday, we would
had been told on Monday, we would have been acting on Monday rather
have been acting on Monday rather than on Wednesday. That puts
than on Wednesday. That puts everybody at greater risk. The fact
everybody at greater risk. The fact is, we worked very hard to ensure
is, we worked very hard to ensure that... The one good thing is that
that... The one good thing is that we have a very secure regime in
we have a very secure regime in Parliament. You cannot come in
Partiament. You cannot come in without a pass
Parliament. You cannot come in without a pass so we know who comes
without a pass so we know who comes and to the building. We make sure
and to the building. We make sure that we have checked all of the
that we have checked all of the movements, you have got to swipe
movements, you have got to swipe your card on a log on the doors,
your card on a log on the doors, even if you use detail, because it
even if you use detail, because it is cashless within there. We can
is cashless within there. We ran check
is cashless within there. We can check where you have been, if you
check where you have been, if you have been for a cup of tea. We have
have been for a cup of tea. We have done all of that. The fact that this
done all of that. The fact that this member spoke in the chamber, we have
member spoke in the chamber, we have been checking all of the camera
been checking all of the camera footage to make sure nobody was sat
footage to make sure nobody was sat there beyond
footage to make sure nobody was set there beyond the two metres. We are
there beyond the two metres. We are very careful that the chamber is
very careful that the chamber is very, very secure in the sense that
very, very secure in the sense that we do not allow more MPs and than
we do not allow more MP5 and than what has been agreed with Public
what has been agreed with Public Health England. We keep the two
Health England. We keep the two metre rule and all that has been
metre mle and all that has been checked.
metre rule and all that has been checked. So we are very lucky that
checked. So we are very lucky that we do have the coverage and footage
we do have the coverage and footage to check back. No, what really also
to check back. No, what really also worries me is that the member of
worries me is that the member of Parliament went on public transport.
Partiament went on public transport. That was
Parliament went on public transport. That was a whole different set of
That was a whole different set of people at risk as well. We have
people at risk as well. We have great concerns there. The House has
great concerns there. The House has been working with West Coast Main
been working with West Coast Main Line to try to ensure that we can
Line to try to ensure that we ran point let me
Line to try to ensure that we can point let me say, what happened in
point let me say, what happened in our view, what I don’t want to do is
our view, what I don’t want to do is get into the details because that
get into the details berause that would
get into the details because that would be wrong during a police
would be wrong during a police inquiry, but we are working with
inquiry, but we are working with other parties involved. 0K, Speaker
other parties involved. 0K, Speaker of the House of Commons, we are very
of the House of Commons, we are very grateful to you for your time on
grateful to you for your time on this. Thank you very much indeed.
Let’s go back to our main story —
President Trump and his wife Melanie has tested positive for coronavirus.
He says they are quarantining at the White House.
Throughout the pandemic, Mr Trump, who’s 7A, has often refused
to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
With the presidential election a month away, it’s thrown
the campaign into disarray.
Joshua Douglas, a professor at the University of Kentucky
and an election law expert.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. Is it at all
Thank you very much forjoining us. Is it at all possible that the
Is it at all possible that the election on November the 3rd could
election on November the 3rd could be derailed if campaigning has to
be derailad if campaigning has to stop? Well,
be derailed if campaigning has to stop? Well, the campaign obviously
stop? Well, the campaign obviously has now been thrown into disarray.
has now been thrown into disarray. But I don’t suspect that the
But I don’t suspect that the election itself would be delayed.
elaction itself would be delayed. That is
election itself would be delayed. That is because so many people have
That is because so many people have already voted. There has already
already voted. There has already been 2 million votes cast, over 2
been 2 million votes cast, over 2 million. Voting is continuing
million. Voting is continuing throughout the month. It would take
throughout the month. It would take an act of Congress to delay the
an act of Congress to delay the election, but I would doubt that
election, but I would doubt that would occur, just because so many
would occur, just because so many peopla have
would occur, just because so many people have already voted. The
people have already voted. The election has begun. If, however,
elaction has begun. If, however, campaigning
election has begun. If, however, campaigning has to stop, for example
campaigning has to stop, for example if President Trump becomes so unwell
if President Tmmp becomes so unwell that he
if President Trump becomes so unwell that he cannot even do virtual
that he cannot even do virtual campaigning, would it be expected
campaigning, would it be expected that joe
campaigning, would it be expected thatJoe Biden also would have to
that joe Biden also would have to stop? It
thatJoe Biden also would have to stop? It really depends on what the
stop? It really depends on what the politic of it
stop? It really depends on what the politics of it are. In terms of what
politic of it are. In terms of what people’s
politics of it are. In terms of what people’s expectations would be. Of
people’s expectations would be. Of course, we also have to make sure
course, we also have to make sure that joe Biden
course, we also have to make sure thatJoe Biden doesn’t have the
that joe Biden doesn’t have the vims. He
thatJoe Biden doesn’t have the virus. He was around ten feet away,
vims. He was around ten feet away, eight to ten feet
virus. He was around ten feet away, eight to ten feet away, during the
eight to ten feet away, during the debate. They did not shake hands but
debate. They did not shake hands but it is not clear when Trump
it is not clear when Trump contracted the virus so I am sure
contracted the virus so I am sure joe Biden will
contracted the virus so I am sure Joe Biden will also be tested and
joe Biden will also be tested and hopefully
Joe Biden will also be tested and hopefully he does not have it as
hopefully he does not have it as well. Obviously there is the health
well. Obviously there is the health concern but in terms of basic
concern but in terms of basic protocol, I know in the UK for
protocol, I know in the UK for example, if one party leader has got
example, if one party leader has got a problem and they cannot campaign,
a problem and they cannot campaign, it is often observed that the others
it is often observed that the others will pause for a while as well, just
will pause for a whila as well, just to
will pause for a while as well, just to even up the picture. Since we are
to even up the picture. Since we are so close to the election and people
so close to the elaction and peopla are already
so close to the election and people are already voting, I suspect that
are already voting, I suspect that there would be a major paws all
there would be a major paws all around on the campaign, but recall
around on the campaign, but recall that... I think it will be a little
that... I think it will be a little bit different than the way Trump has
bit different than the way Tmmp has been
bit different than the way Trump has been campaigning. 0K,
bit different than the way Trump has been campaigning. OK, so let’s
been campaigning. OK, so let’s assume that campaigning continues
assume that campaigning continues and that President Trump is meant
and that President Tmmp is meant health is OK,
and that President Trump is meant health is OK, and that he recovers
health is OK, and that he recovers well, is there any mechanism by
well, is there any mechanism by which the president could say, I
which the president could say, I have lost all of this campaigning
have lost all of this campaigning time, I have lost two weeks, and I
time, I have lost two weeks, and I do not believe that the election is
do not believe that the election is therefore valid? Is there any way
therefore valid? Is there any way the White House can see the vote is
the white House ran see the vote is not going to go
the White House can see the vote is not going to go ahead? Not the White
not going to go ahead? Not the white House by
not going to go ahead? Not the White House by itself. Again, delaying the
House by itself. Again, delaying the election would be up to Congress.
elaction would be up to Congress. That is
election would be up to Congress. That is clear under federal law,
That is clear under federal law, that Congress decides the date of
that Congress decides the date of the presidential election. And of
the presidential election. And of course, the US Constitution requires
course, the US Constitution requires the next president to take the oath
the next president to take the oath of office on
the next president to take the oath of office onJanuary 20, and that
of office on january 20, and that cannot
of office onJanuary 20, and that cannot be changed either. Whether it
cannot be changed either. whether it is Tmmp for a
cannot be changed either. Whether it is Trump for a second term or
cannot be changed either. Whether it is Trump for a second term orJoe
is Tmmp for a second term or joe Biden. So
is Trump for a second term orJoe Biden. 50 the White House does not
Biden. So the white House does not have the
Biden. 50 the White House does not have the authority to try to delay
have the authority to try to delay the election by itself.
the elaction by itself. You
the election by itself. You are watching BBC news. Do stay
You are watching BBC news. Do stay with us professor, we have a number
with us professor, we have a number of different channels what is at the
of different channels what is at the moment. People are concerned about
moment. People are concerned about the electoral process. What if
the electoral process. What if President Trump became so ill that
President Tmmp became so ill that he was
President Trump became so ill that he was unable perhaps to go forward
he was unabla perhaps to go forward in
he was unable perhaps to go forward in the next month at all? Does that
in the next month at all? Does that affect the voting process? We start
affect the voting process? We start coming into issues that are very
coming into issues that are very concerning, because there are not
concerning, because there are not great answers. Under the US law, the
great answers. Under the US law, the political parties theoretically
political parties theoretically could choose a nominee, so the
could choose a nominee, so the Republican National party could
Republican National party could theoretically choose another
theoretically choose another nominee, but the problem is that
nominee, but the problem is that ballots have already been printed
ballots have already been printed everywhere. As I mentioned, people
everywhere. As I mentioned, people are voting and over 2 million votes
are voting and over 2 million votes have already been cast, so the real
have already been fast, so the real question is
have already been cast, so the real question is what happens after
question is what happens after November three in those states that
November three in those states that President Trump wins. With the
President Tmmp wins. with the legislators
President Trump wins. With the legislators be allowed to basically
legislators be allowed to basically direct the electors in each of those
direct the electors in each of those states to cast the ballot for
states to cast the ballot for someone other than Trump?
someone other than Trump? Unfortunately, the US Constitution
Unfortunately, the US Constitution and federal law is pretty unclear
and federal law is pretty unclear about what happens in that
about what happens in that circumstance.
circumstance. What about the situation where Mr
what about the situation where Mr Tmmp has to
What about the situation where Mr Trump has to hand over to Mike
Tmmp has to hand over to Mike Pence, for
Trump has to hand over to Mike Pence, for example question mark
Pence, for example question mark that has been discussed stop in
that has been discussed stop in office, as president right now, what
office, as president right now, what is the mechanism for that? Speaker
is the mechanism for that? Speaker mic that would fall under the 25th
mic that would fall under the 25th where the president would
where the president would essentially deliver a notice that he
essentially deliver a notice that he is unable to carry out the duties of
is unabla to carry out the duties of his
is unable to carry out the duties of his office at his current time. That
his office at his current time. That would make Mike Pence, the vice
would make Mike Pence, the vice President, deemed the acting
President, deemed the acting president. Until
President, deemed the acting president. Untilthe
President, deemed the acting president. Until the president
president. Until the president delivers another notice that says he
delivers another notice that says he is now recovered and able to take
is now recovered and able to take the office. The other mechanism
the office. The other mechanism under the 25th amendment is a thin
under the 25th amendment is a thin majority of his Cabinet to determine
majority of his Cabinet to determine is that he is unable and unfit to
is that he is unable and unfit to serve ,-- if
is that he is unable and unfit to serve ,-- ifa
is that he is unable and unfit to serve ,—— if a majority of his
serve ,-- if a majority of his cabinet, they
serve ,—— if a majority of his cabinet, they could essentially
cabinet, they could essentially force him to step down temporarily
force him to step down temporarily and Mike Pence would become acting
and Mike Pence would become acting president. 0K, Professor, sorry to
president. 0K, Professor, sorryto intermpt,
president. 0K, Professor, sorry to interrupt, thank you very much
intermpt, thank you very much indeed.
interrupt, thank you very much indeed. This is BBC news.
indeed. This is BBC news. Thank you very much indeed for that.
Thank you very much indeed for that. Lots and lots of questions in the
Lots and lots of questions in the US. Much more in a couple of moments
US. Much more in a couple of moments on what is going on with these
on what is going on with these momentous events. Let’s have a look
momentous events. Let’s have a look at the weather.
momentous events. Let’s have a look at the weather.
at the weather. Hello, so far the worst of the
Hello, so far the worst of the weather has been across more
weather has been across more southern parts, but into the
southern parts, but into the weekend, the wind and rain will
weekend, the wind and rain will spread far and wide. It is the way
spread far and wide. It is the way that will be the biggest problem. It
that will be the biggest problem. It is likely to lead to some flooding,
is likely to lead to some ﬂooding, some
is likely to lead to some flooding, some travel disruption as well. And
some travel dismption as well. And some strong
some travel disruption as well. And some strong winds at times. This
some strong winds at times. This morning, earlier on today, the
morning, eartier on today, the strongest
morning, earlier on today, the strongest winds around Sturm Alex,
strongest winds around Sturm Max, named by the
strongest winds around Sturm Alex, named by the French maid service.
named by the French maid service. They whence have been gusting over
They whence have been gusting over 100 mph any north—west of France. ——
100 mph any north-west of France. -- the French
100 mph any north—west of France. —— the French maid service. The winds
the French maid service. The winds will ease by this evening. Later
will ease by this evening. Later winds towards the south—west and
winds towards the south-west and Channel
winds towards the south—west and Channel Islands are still gusting go
Channel Islands are still gusting go first. That rain is still falling,
first. That rain is still falling, moving slowly northwards actually so
moving slowly northwards actually so it is still dry this evening across
it is still dry this evening across Scotland and Northern Ireland. As we
Scotland and Northern Ireland. As we head into the night, we have got
head into the night, we have got more rain to come. Whilst it may
more rain to come. whilst it may well ease
more rain to come. Whilst it may well ease of a bit across Wales and
well ease of a bit across Walas and the
well ease of a bit across Wales and the south—west, it continues and
the south-west, it continues and develops
the south—west, it continues and develops more wildly, quietly across
develops more wildly, quietly across other parts of England and the rain
other parts of England and the rain will be pushed into parts of
will be pushed into parts of Scotland. Where we have clear skies
Scotland. where we have clear skies in
Scotland. Where we have clear skies in western Scotland and Northern
in western Scotland and Northern Ireland, those temperatures will be
Ireland, those temperatures will be lower, but otherwise staying in
lower, but otherwise staying in double figures. More rain to come on
double figures. More rain to come on Saturday. That rain will develop
Saturday. That rain will develop more widely and push its way
more widely and push its way westwards across England and Wales.
westwards across England and Walas. Gale is
westwards across England and Wales. Gale is on the far south—west. Some
Gale is on the far south-west. Some sunshine
Gale is on the far south—west. Some sunshine developing in the south
sunshine developing in the south east of England but wetter weather
east of England but wetter weather spreading more widely into Scotland.
spreading more widely into Scotland. Drier for
spreading more widely into Scotland. Drierfor Northern
spreading more widely into Scotland. Drier for Northern Ireland and some
Drier for Northern Ireland and some sunshine in the south east, they are
sunshine in the south east, they are temperatures possibly getting up to
temperatures possibly getting up to 16, but otherwise around 12 degrees
16, but otherwise around 12 degrees in the rain. The heaviest is likely
in the rain. The heaviest is likely to be across Wales and the West
to be across Walas and the West Country,
to be across Wales and the West Country, where we have this amber
Country, where we have this amber rain warning from the Met Office.
rain warning from the Met Office. Could be more than two inches of
Could be more than two inches of rain over the high ground. Another
rain over the high ground. Another area likely to see heavy rain is the
area likely to see heavy rain is the holes in the north—east of Scotland
holas in the north-east of Scotland as the
holes in the north—east of Scotland as the wind piled that rain and of
as the wind piled that rain and of the North Sea. Dominated by a large
the North Sea. Dominated by a large area of low pressure over the
area of low pressure over the weekend. It is going to come to rest
weekend. It is going to come to rest right the way across the middle of
right the way across the middle of the UK. Around the edges, this is
the UK. Around the edges, this is where we have probably got the
where we have probably got the strongest of the winds at around
strongest of the winds at around that area of rain that moves
strongest of the winds at around that area of rain that moves away
that area of rain that moves away from northern Scotland, mist or
from northern Scotland, mist or Northern Ireland and headstone
Northern Ireland and headstone across South Wales and the
across South Wales and the south—west of England. Later winds
south-west of England. Later winds in the
south—west of England. Later winds in the middle of the UK but there
in the middle of the UK but there will be some sunshine and showers
will be some sunshine and showers which could be heavy, and those
which could be heavy, and those temperatures typically 13 or M
temperatures typically 13 or M Celsius.
All.
President Trump and the First Lady in quarantine after testing
positive for coronavirus.
The couple will self—isolate in the White House for ten days.
Their diagnosis comes after one of Mr Trump’s closest aides,
Hope Hicks, also tested positive.
The president announced the news in a tweet, saying,
"We will get through this together."
World leaders have been wishing them well...
Well, obviously I think we all want to send our best wishes
to the President and the First Lady, and I’ve done that this morning,
as you can imagine, and I’m sure that they’ll both stage
a very strong recovery.
We’ll be asking to what extent Mr Trump’s age, gender and weight
make him more vulnerable to the virus, and what it means
means for the Presidential election campaign.
Also this lunchtime...
The First Minister of Scotland calls on one of her MPs to stand down,
after she travelled by train despite knowing she had coronavirus.
This is not a minor breach of the rules, it’s not
an inadvertent breach of the rules.
It’s a really flagrant and dangerous breach of the rules.
Two billionaire brothers from Lancashire win a takeover
battle for the supermarket giant Asda.
And, on your marks...
Elite athletes arrive for this weekend’s London marathon,
but coronavirus means it will be a race with difference.
And coming up on BBC News, one of the biggest names in rugby
league, Sam Burgess, is under investigation in Australia
after accusations of domestic violence and drug—taking.
The player’s lawyer says all the allegations are false.
Good afternoon, welcome to the BBC News at One.
"We’ll get through this together" — the words of President Trump,
after being told both he and his wife Melanie have tested
positive for coronavirus.
It comes after Hope Hicks, one of the President’s closest advisers,
also tested positive.
At 7A years of age, the President is in a high risk group,
but his doctor says he and the First Lady are well
at the moment and planning to stay at the White House
for their ten day quarantine.
The President has often been criticised for not wearing
a mask and underplaying the dangers of Covid—19.
From the United States, here’s Peter Bowes.
Breaking news. President Trump and
Breaking news. President Tmmp and the first Lady
Breaking news. President Trump and the first Lady test positive for the
the first Lady test positive for the coronavirus and are in quarantine in
coronavirus and are in quarantine in the white
coronavirus and are in quarantine in the White House. This is one of
the white House. This is one of those days,
the White House. This is one of those days, you go to bed one way
those days, you go to bed one way and you wake up and the world has
and you wake up and the world has totally changed. It doesn’t seem
totally changed. It doesn’t seem real, but it totally is.
A bombshell like no other —
a month before the presidential election, Donald Trump
and his wife Melanie, the First Lady,
have tested positive for coronavirus.
It followed news that one of his closest advisers,
Hope Hicks, has the disease.
She experienced symptoms of Covid—19 while accompanying the president
at a rally in Minnesota.
She was quarantined on the presidential plane
back to Washington.
Earlier in the week, she’d travelled to Cleveland in Ohio
with Mr Trump for the presidential debate.
She was seen arriving with his team not wearing a mask.
Last night, Mr Trump told Fox News
Last night, Mr Tmmp told Fox News he found
Last night, Mr Trump told Fox News he found it difficult to maintain
he found it difficult to maintain social distancing. It is very hard
social distancing. It is very hard when you are with soldiers, airmen
when you are with soldiers, airmen and Marines and police officers, I
and Marines and police officers, I am with them so much, when they come
am with them so much, when they come over it is hard to say, stay back,
over it is hard to say, stay back, stay back. It is a tough situation,
stay back. It is a tough situation, it is a terrible thing.
The president confirmed his diagnosis in a tweet.
The First Lady later tweeted that they were both feeling good.
The president’s doctor said both were well at this time and
"plan to remain at home within the White House
"during their convalescence.
"Rest assured, I expect the president to continue
carrying out his duties without disruption while recovering."
m:
We have it so well under control. We really have done a very good job. It
really have done a very good job. It is going to disappear one day, it is
is going to disappear one day, it is like a miracle, it will disappear.
like a miracle, it will disappear. So far, we have lost nobody to
So far, we have lost nobody to coronavirus in the United States.
coronavirus in the United States. From the start the president
From the start the president consistently played down the
consistently played down the seriousness of the virus and has
seriousness of the virus and has been criticised for opening up
been criticised for opening up America too soon. At the debate,
America too soon. At the debate, President Trump was pressed


Citation: BBC News, 10:00 02/10/2020, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1701D574X?bcast=132918510 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)