This is BBC News. I’m Victoria Derbyshire.
Here are the headlines from the UK and around the world.
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Because we have been at home for so long,
so it is very nice that we are able to come back to school and find
new friends and things like that.
Quite nervous because it’s my first day but I feel
like it will be, like, nice meeting new people.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK, affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
But hundreds of thousands of people in Glasgow and surrounding areas
are now living under new coronavirus restrictions.
And if you’re in Glasgow or in Greater Manchester,
how are you reacting to the latest change in rules?
Let me know.
1A people go on trial, five years after the deadly attack
on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.
The coronavirus pandemic plunges Australia into recession
for the first time in 30 years.
And businesses in the UK are urged to sign up to Kickstart,
a £2 billionjob scheme for under—245 who are at risk
of becoming long—term unemployed.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around the world,
and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here
and across the globe.
After months of home—schooling and being away from the classroom,
thousands of pupils in England and Wales have
returned to school today.
The start of the new term is being staggered in many areas,
as schools prepare to welcome students back safely.
But there are still many questions over how easy it will be
for children to catch up on learning, and the impact
on next year’s exams.
Our education correspondent Dan Johnson reports
from a school in Worksop.
The nerves of starting a new school meet the concerns of coming back
for the first time since March.
I don’t mind online learning, it’s just that I got sick of it.
I’ve been doing it for what, three months?
When we were out.
Then another three months, wasn’t able to see anyone, really.
I just want to get back.
I haven’t put my uniform on for six months, so it didn’t fit,
most of it, so I had to get a whole new uniform.
Distanced corridors lead to reorganised classrooms
and protective bubbles will keep year groups apart.
The squirt of sanitiser will be more frequent than the bell.
Students have staggered breaks, staggered lunch.
In terms of cleaning as well, we had to get extra cleaners
into the building in the course of the day.
But one thing we know for sure is the longer the students stay
out of the classroom, the more disadvantaged they become.
So, we want to get students in.
Does that mean everything will run smoothly?
No.
We will have some bumps here and there,
and challenges here and there.
But we will work through that and make sure that the bottom line
is that students and staff are safe.
You’ve all been given the visors.
You need to put those on when you are supporting.
There are plans for dealing with cases and responding
to local outbreaks.
But none of this has really been tested.
The bubble system, yes, keeps you together and safe
but as soon as the children go out of school, and can meet whoever
they want, with that, it’s flawed.
I think it’s as safe as it can be.
I think it is probably safer than the local supermarket.
The other priority is working out how much learning has being lost,
then helping every child catch up.
And Dan was there at that school in Worksop as lessons got under
way for the new Year 7 pupils this morning.
Quite a mementous moment, notjust for these kids,
their first day at big school which would be a nervous
and exciting and interesting time anyway but this is the first day
back, really, in proper education for so many kids
and although it is a staggered start and further year groups
will come later in the week, it is a big test to see
how things work.
You can see the social distancing measures in the corridor
to try to keep children apart.
The big thing is bubbles and year groups being separated,
so they have different parts of the school for
different year groups so they should not mix,
that is the intention, to keep them apart.
We have got special permission to interrupt a lesson this morning,
if we go in here, we can see how the day is starting and how
the classrooms are laid out.
Let’s have a listen to what is being said.
You guys are here to do your learning because that is the most
important thing, you are here to start your secondary
education and we are so, so happy to have you.
You will notice in front of you that you have your learning packs.
They are yours.
You will be able to take them home with you.
That is your information and work and how you will do
all of your learning.
The pens and pencils are for you.
They are not to be shared because of Covid—19.
It is really important that you are looking after them.
Can we quickly interrupt?
Of course.
I’m sorry, I know you’ve got so much to get through,
but tell us what it has been like preparing to get the kids
back into class today?
It has been a challenge but really exciting.
We have been making preparations sinceJune, when the first lot
of government guidance came out and then making the relevant
amendments when the changes happened.
We have been working really hard, particularly for Year 7,
to get them back into school,
into a new school that they have never been into before.
Absolutely.
It has been quite a challenge but we have enjoyed it.
How are you feeling today?
I’m a bit nervous but I am so excited to have Year 7
in today and I’m really looking forward to getting all
of the children that we know and remember back in tomorrow.
Do you think it is the right time, is it safe?
Absolutely.
We have got all the necessary precautions in place.
We are going to talk about students being on the left—hand
side of the corridor, make sure that the students know
when they can wear masks and should wear masks,
and we are putting all of the relevant precautions
in place.
You normally teach physics.
I do.
Quite a practical subject so how will that work?
So the normal practicals will be done in labs that we have
segregated for specific use.
The GCSE students who have to do required practicals,
the guidance from quual is we no longer need to actually perform
the required practicals, it can just be demonstrated to them
which is absolutely fine.
It is something we will take in our stride and I really
enjoy demonstrating things
so I will really enjoy it!
When you get the older children back in, how will you work out how much
they have missed and what they need in terms of catching up?
I think it is really important we are going to focus on making sure
we pick up where we left off.
If there are students that did not complete home learning,
and then there are, we will make sure that they are in the same
position as the children that did do the home learning
are in when they come back and it isjust going to be a case
of working really hard to assess where those students are and get
them to where they need to be ready for their exam.
OK, let’s have a quick word with the [ads on the front
row, Jacob and Luke, how are you feeling
this morning, Jacob?
Pretty good, very nervous, as it is the first day
of secondary school.
What about you, Luke?
Exciting, nervous, but fun to be in a new school.
And from the teachers I have met so far, it seems
like it is going to be a good year.
What about the things to keep you safe, are you clear
about what you need to do?
Yes, lam.
We need to make sure to keep our distance and wear masks
and walk on the correct side of the corridor when required.
Good stuff, thanks, lads, appreciate your time,
sorry to interrupt, class, we will let you get on,
I know there is so much to get through and get used to.
It is good to see kids back in class and learning again.
Things are not as they would normally be, the classroom
would normally be organised differently, the fact that kids
are all facing the front is part of the measures to try to keep
people safe, 3 lot for people to get to grips with today and a lot
of questions about how this will play out, whether there will be
further disruption to learning because inevitably there will be
will be challenges to come, a really tough time
but a really exciting day to see children back
in the classroom in England.
Memories of the first day at school!
The Mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, says the easing
of lockdown restrictions in the boroughs of Bolton and
Trafford is "completely illogical".
Mr Burnham’s urging people living in these areas to continue to follow
the guidance and not to have social gatherings at home because
coronavirus cases are still rising.
Measures were originally introduced to combat new infections
across parts of England’s North West and were lifted overnight.
The rules were reintroduced in July after concerns the virus
was being spread between households.
The lifting of the restrictions means different households can again
meet indoors or in private gardens,
but councillors have criticised the government,
accusing them of ignoring advice from health officials and lifting
the measures too soon.
Well earlier, I spoke to the Labour Mayor
of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham, who gave his reaction.
Yesterday, we had the leader of Bolton Council,
which is Conservative, the leader of Trafford Council,
Labour, from different angles, both saying the same thing
to the government, that it is not the right time to lift
the restrictions and actually, Trafford said last week
to the government before they made their original decision,
don’t lift the restrictions, and I am afraid that was ignored.
It is a very difficult position to be in.
We are on the front line of fighting this virus and we have this
"Whitehall knows best" approach.
Well, they don’t.
They should listen to what the council leaders are saying.
OK, so why do you think the government has lifted
the restrictions in those areas?
Well, that is a question you would have to put to them.
What do you think, though?
They gave a role to local Members of Parliament to say it is important
that they were involved in the decision, and I think there
are different views amongst MPs.
I would question the government, I’ve been an MP so I can vouch
for the fact that most MPs are not public health experts,
directors of public health should be the most important voice in this,
and certainly on both councils yesterday, the director
of public health was saying, please don’t lift the restrictions.
It is frustrating to say the least that we find ourselves in a position
this morning where boroughs with rising cases are seeing
the restrictions lifted overnight, and neighbouring boroughs,
still under the restrictions, with much lower cases,
so no wonder the public is getting confused here.
We really need urgently to agree an exit strategy from all of this
with the government and hopefully bring the public back on board.
Are you saying it is Conservative MPs in the area who have lobbied
You suggested it was confusing for people but what can you do now
in Bolton that you can’t do next door in Bury?
The restriction is on social gatherings in the home and garden.
People are now free to have gatherings but I am still saying
to people, you know, it is not wise to do
that because obviously, this is a week when schools
are going back, we have a rising number of cases in Bolton,
which has gone right up to the top of the list.
Clearly, it does not make sense.
You know, you are not protecting the health of your family
if you were to start having gatherings in the home.
What I would say more broadly, Victoria, is that we need
to move beyond this.
We need to agree an exit strategy from the restrictions
with the government.
What we are saying is, what has been most effective is door
to door testing and tracing.
We are saying to the government, as part of the exit strategy
for this, put the national Test and Trace system under more local
control and we will take responsibility for it.
We also need financial support for people to self—isolate,
people on low wages, who are self—employed.
We are finding out they are finding it very hard to take 1A days
off work with no money.
Andy Burnham, the Mayor of Greater Manchester, there.
Rose says she is part of
Rose says she is part of the new people breaking the rules, people
peopla breaking the mles, peopla who
people breaking the rules, people who think it don’t apply to them,
who think it don’t apply to them, and he says lots of people, young
and he says lots of peopla, young and old,
and he says lots of people, young and old, should know better. Sarah
and old, should know better. Sarah 5575
and old, should know better. Sarah says her daughter is in Glasgow so
says her daughter is in Glasgow so is she allowed to come and visit in
is she allowed to come and visit in the town not in restricted areas
the town not in restricted areas which are much she has but her last
which are much she has but her last few days of holiday and booked the
few days of holiday and booked the bus, and we have not seen her since
bus, and we have not seen her since before lockdown. Sarah, I think the
before lockdown. Sarah, I think the answer is no because the rule is
answer is no because the mle is don’t mix
answer is no because the rule is don’t mix with people in other
don’t mix with people in other households. The Scottish Government,
households. The Scottish Government, 5575
households. The Scottish Government, says Margaret, has given clear
says Margaret, has given dear advice
says Margaret, has given clear advice about the pandemic and
advice about the pandemic and thankfuuy
advice about the pandemic and thankfully the majority of the
thankfully the majority of the population have complied. I am happy
population have complied. I am happy to take personal responsibility and
to take personal responsibility and follow the latest advice.
1A people have gone on trial in Paris,
in connection with attacks in 2015 on the satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo and a Jewish supermarket.
17 people were killed in three days of violence around Paris,
carried out by brothers, Cherif and Said Kouachi,
and Ahmedy Coulibaly.
The attacks sparked large protests in defence of freedom
of speech across France.
Our Paris correspondent Hugh Schofield has this report.
Five years ago, these pictures brought France face—to—face
with a new kind of horror.
Shouting, "We’ve avenged the Prophet",
the Kouachi brothers emerged from the office
of Charlie Hebdo where they’ve just killed 11 people.
In the getaway, they kill a 12th, a policeman.
It’s the start of a frantic two days, which end when the two
are cornered at a print works north of Paris
and shot by police.
But in the meantime, there’s been another
Islamist attack.
This time, a Jewish supermarket, with four hostages dead.
Before there, too, police killed the assailant.
Ahmedy Coulibaly, who’s previously videotaped
a statement of support for Islamic State.
Francois Molins was Paris chief prosecutor.
He recalled what he felt when he first saw
the Charlie Hebdo office.
TRANSLATION: It was surreal.
There was this powerful silence and the smell
of blood and gunpowder.
The editorial room was carnage.
It was no longer a crime scene.
It was a war zone with bodies piled up
one on top of the other.
It was frightful.
The Charlie Hebdo attack here marked the start of a long
violent period — the Bataclan attack, Nice,
which changed France.
Now for the first time, with this trial, comes a chance
to tell the story and put it on record.
Who did what, who knew what, who, if anyone,
gave the orders.
The killers are dead, so it’s the alleged
backroom conspirators who are on trial
in this special court room.
1A in all, some of whom it’s claimed provided weapons,
others phones or money.
Three, including Coulibaly’s Islamic war wife, will not be
in court because they fled to Syria just after the attacks.
In the immediate aftermath, the world was outraged.
Hundreds of thousands marched in sympathy for the dead
and to support the right of anti—religious satirists
to speak freely and to offend.
Five years on, though, some say the issue has become lukewarm.
TRANSLATION: Today, freedom of expression has been
lost in France.
It still exists on paper but do it at your risk if you draw
the Prophet, so no, the lesson was not learned.
What happened but also why it happened.
The two—week trial, unusually, is being filmed
The two—month trial, unusually, is being filmed
for France’s National Archives so future generations
can look back and maybe learn.
Hugh Schofield, BBC News, Paris.
Australia’s economy has plunged into its first recession
in nearly 30 years, as the country continues to suffer
from the economic fallout from the coronavirus
pandemic.
The nation’s GDP shrank by 7% between April and June.
That represents the biggest fall since records began back in 1959.
Meanwhile, household spending, which accounts for over half
of the Australian economy, slumped by 12.1%.
And Scott Morrison’s government has already pumped the equivalent
of 147 billion US dollars in stimulus measures
into the economy.
But Australia is still doing better than many countries.
During the same period, the US economy shrank by 9.5%.
The Australian finance minister has been reacting —
this is what he had to say.
Our commitment to the Australian people
is that we have your back.
We were with you on the way into this crisis, we are with
you through this crisis, and we will be with you all the way
out of this crisis.
Our Australia correspondent Shaimaa Khalil is in Sydney.
She says the country’s economic good fortune appears to have run out.
iI’H’I
2020 is going to go down as the year where Australia lost its very famous
where Australia lost its very famous nickname of the lucky country and
nickname of the lucky country and has fallen into recession for the
has fallen into recession for the first time in 30 years. A 7% dip in
first time in 30 years. A 796 dip in the economy in
first time in 30 years. A 7% dip in the economy in the last three
the economy in the last three months, more than twice the full in
months, more than twice the full in the recession of the early 1990s.
the recession of the earty19905. For many
the recession of the early 19905. For many young people who are new
For many young peopla who are new into the
For many young people who are new into the workforce, this is
into the workforce, this is something they have never seen.
something they have never seen. Australia has had a robust economy
Australia has had a robust economy with steady growth for decades now.
with steady growth for decades now. This is thanks to its natural
This is thanks to its natural resources of iron or, coal and
resources of iron or, coal and natural gas, with a demand from
natural gas, with a demand from China, and tourism, which has been a
China, and tourism, which has been a big driver of
China, and tourism, which has been a big driver ofjob creation and
big driver ofjob creation and economic growth. Take those two
economic growth. Take those two things and stack them up against
things and stack them up against what has been happening this year.
what has been happening this year. The country has been hit, not once,
The country has been hit, not once, but twice, firstly, catastrophic
but twice, firstly, catastrophic bushfire season earlier in the year,
bushfire season eartier in the year, that ravaged
bushfire season earlier in the year, that ravaged about 12 million
that ravaged about 12 million hectares, and really bashed the
hectares, and really bashed the economy, especially with tourism.
economy, especially with tourism. Thousands of small businesses have
Thousands of small businesses have lost essential seasonal revenue.
lost essential seasonal revenue. Then a few weeks after that,
Then a few weeks after that, Covid—19 became a global pandemic
Covid-19 became a global pandemic and
Covid—19 became a global pandemic and Australia closed its borders
and Australia closed its borders internationally and internally, and
internationally and internally, and more than a million people lost
more than a million peopla lost their
more than a million peopla lost theirjobs. I
more than a million people lost theirjobs. I remember back in
theirjobs. I remember back in March, really long queues outside
March, really long queues outside social and financial support
social and financial support offices, with many people dazed that
offices, with many people dazed that they are in that situation, probably
they are in that situation, probably for the first time in their lives.
The headlines on BBC News...
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
But hundreds of thousands of people in Glasgow and surrounding areas
are now living under new coronavirus restrictions.
The Scottish Government has imposed fresh restrictions to control
the spread of the virus in Glasgow and two neighbouring areas.
The new measures will affect nearly a million people.
The First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the number of cases had been
rising mainly "as a result of household gatherings".
Let’s just take you through those restrictions.
The restrictions will apply to people living in Glasgow,
West Dunbartonshire and East Renfrewshire,
and mean people in these areas should not meet with people
from other households indoors.
If a close contact has tested positive for Covid—19,
everyone in the household should self—isolate for M days.
And only essential visits to care homes
and hospitals will be allowed.
Jason Leitch is the National Clinical
Director for Scotland.
He was asked on BBC Breakfast whether the restrictions in Glasgow
and neighbouring areas had been introduced in order
to keep schools open.
They have been brought in in the
context where the schools have been open for three weeks and closing
schools for five months is not a good thing.
It is a terrible thing.
It is a terrible thing for education and public health.
The likes of me advising, we are desperate for
schools to open and higher and further education to get back
because they are important for the population,
not just for the kids.
It lets people get back to work and society.
But the numbers in Glasgow in the last seven
days, let mejust look at them quickly, 15,
21, 14, 36, 39, 69, 66.
You don’t need a maths degree to work out something is happening
there.
It is not exponential so it has not rocketed.
But it is just enough for us to try to do something
relatively mild, although it doesn’t feel like that if you are waking up
in Glasgow today and you were going to see your mum
and you now can’t, but we wanted to do something that would restrict
that, and human behaviour, which is our only treatment against the
disease, would kick in and keep that number down.
The UK Government is meeting later to decide whether English
tourists returning from Greece should self—isolate.
From Thursday, anyone from Scotland who travels to Greece will need
to self—isolate on their return.
Welsh passengers going to the island of Zante will have to do the same.
Greg McKenzie reports.
Touchdown last night at Cardiff airport, holiday—makers, back from
airport, holiday-makers, back from the Greek
airport, holiday—makers, back from the Greek island of Santi, although
the Greek island of Santi, although order to self—isolate for M days
order to self-isolate for 14 days and be
order to self—isolate for M days and be offered Covid—19 tests.
Last week, at least 16 people tested positive for Covid—19
after arrivin back to Cardiff from the Greek island of Zante.
Some on that Tui flight, including staff, had been accused of
not adhering to safety precautions.
Customers know that they should be wearing masks on board.
It is their responsibility to do so.
And our crew are trained and enforce that, but it is a difficult thing
to enforce, particularly in an aircraft where you are not
in the cabin as much as you used to be before.
Again, because of social distancing protocols with Covid.
It has led to the travel firm Tui to stop offering holidays
to the resort of Laganos on Zante, a popular destination for large
groups of young people.
The Health Minister says there are currently six clusters
of cases, amounting to 30 new infections, linked
to flights from Greece.
But he claims they have landed not only in Wales but also in Scotland
and England too.
Last night, the Scottish Government imposed a 14—day quarantine
restriction for anyone returning to Scotland from Greece
as of tomorrow morning.
It is spreading again particularly in these three
local authority areas.
Ministers say the move comes due to a significant rise in Covid—19
cases being brought into Scotland from people who have been to Greece.
She
The UK Government is now facing mounting pressure
from the Welsh Health Minister to reimpose quarantine rules
for Greece, but the Department for Transport says no changes
to its rules have been made.
It’s understood the UK Government is considering putting Portugal
back on the quarantine list for all four nations,
that’s England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland,
after cases this week went over 20 per 100,000 people,
which is the marker for introducing quarantine measures.
In 2015, in one extraordinary week, Europe experienced a series
of events which continue to reverberate today.
More than1 million migrants were on the move.
From Germany’s open door policy to Hungary stopping
trains to the border, each day revealed new tensions
that tested European solidarity to its limits.
And it was exactly five years ago today that one of the most shocking
images emerged — the body of a Syrian toddler, Alan Kurdi,
washed up on a beach in Turkey.
He had drowned, along with his mother and five—year—old brother,
in a desperate attempt to reach Greece, and safety, in Europe.
His death became a symbol of the suffering of migrant families,
and the dangers they faced.
His father survived, and he’s been speaking
to our correspondent Hanan Razek.
A warning that his report contains upsetting images.
He would have been seven years old this year.
Alan Kurdi, the Syrian toddler whose body washed ashore at a Turkish
beach, after the boat that was carrying him and his family
capsized in the Mediterranean Sea.
His mum and older brother also died.
Only the father survived.
Five years on, Abdullah Kurdi is trying to rebuild his life.
He’s had another son whose name is Alan.
TRANSLATION: I named him after his brother Alan
so I remembered him.
God sent me a child who looks like Alan and has the same character.
I can’t wait to go home to see him.
I feel that he’s a godsend.
But the shadows of the past are still alive.
TRANSLATION: It’s impossible to forget what happened.
I only blame myself but I was forced to as a father because I could
picture them in a school and I wanted a better life for them.
But it didn’t go as I planned.
I regret it.
Alan’s death shook the world.
It led to Europe opening its doors and hearts to refugees and taking
in over1 million of them in 2015.
Last year, a German charity named one of its rescue ships Alan Kurdi.
The ship has helped rescue almost 700 migrants in the Mediterranean
waters between Libya and Southern Europe but its team
says the picture has got more grim recently.
It’s not that we cannot handle this financially or otherwise,
as the European Union, so we have the means to make
a change and to help those people and take care of them.
But we don’t do it, we choose not to and I think that’s the most
frustrating part to me.
It’s estimated that nearly 17,000 people have died
in the Mediterranean Sea since Alan Kurdi’s death.
In recent years, Europe has made deals with countries like Turkey
and Libya to help curb the flow of migrants to the continent.
Measures that have helped slow down the flow of migrants but didn’t stop
tragedies from taking place.
Hanan Razek, BBC News.
You can find more on this story on our website.
Go to BBC.com and look for stories with the title
"Europe’s migrant crisis".
In them, BBC correspondents and those who made
the journey talk about how that dramatic time changed Europe
and the lives of those involved.
Let’s take a look at some more stories from around
the world this morning.
One of the most notorious figures from the genocidal
Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia has died while serving a life sentence.
Known as Comrade Duch, he was responsible for sending more
than 1A,000 people to their deaths when the Khmer Rouge
were in power in the 19705.
He oversaw a brutaljail system in which guards, who were often
teenagers, tortured prisoners into confessing
to fictitious crimes.
President Macron of France is on a visit to Iraq to show
support for the government of the new Iraqi Prime Minister.
Before leaving for Baghdad, Mr Macron said he wanted to help
the administration reassert Iraq’s sovereignty in the face
of regional tensions.
The country has been a ﬂashpoint in the confrontation
between its two major allies, Iran and the US.
The Iraqi government is also still battling what remains
of the Islamic State group.
In Bulgaria, anti-government protesters have been
demonstrating outside the national parliament.
For nearly two months, protesters have demanded the resignations
of the Prime Minister and the Prosecutor General over
allegations of corruption.
Unrest in the EU’s poorest state has continued
despite early elections in May.
British Olympic gold medal—winning boxer Nicola Adams is set to make TV
history by competing on Strictly Come Dancing as part
of the UK show’s first same—sex couple.
Nicola told the BBC that teaming up with a same—sex
partner sends a message.
I think it is really important.
It is definitely a time for change.
It is definitely time to move on and be more diverse and this
is a brilliant step in the right direction and it will be nice
for the LGBT community to be able to see that there are same sex
couples on the show as well.
Hello this is BBC News.
The Headlines.
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK — affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased — despite strong local opposition.
But hundreds of thousands of people in Glasgow and surrounding
areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions
1A people go on trial, five years after the deadly attack
on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.
The coronavirus pandemic plunges Australia into recession —
for the first time in thirty years.
President Trump has visited Kenosha in Wisconsin —
and condemned the violent clashes there as domestic terrorism.
Mr Trump did not meet the family ofJacob Blake —
who was left paralysed after being shot by police last month.
The incident led to anti—racism protests in the city
and across the country.
The BBC’s been speaking to Jacob’s uncle Justin Blake,
family friend Tanya McLean and Alvin Owens, who runs
a barbershop and was tear gassed while he was protesting.
Tanya described what impact the protests have had
on Kenosha.
We’re just a small town, we’re peaceful people,
we just get on with day—to—day life.
Nothing major happens here.
There are some issues here in our town with division,
but we’ve never seen anything like this.
What’s rough is watching a video of a black man
being gunned down seven times.
What’s rough is with one week we had a fire in uptown
here in our city and then four days to five days later,
we had looters from God knows where that we didn’t recognise
tear up our city and tore down the other half of uptown.
So that’s rough.
However, the president is 100% incorrect and he told a lie
when he called protesters, peaceful protesters
or non—violent protesters "domestic terrorists".
Keep terrorists for terrorism.
We all know in America who terrorists are
and what they are and what they do.
Kenosha’s citizens and residents are not that.
Jacob’s a soldier and he’s hanging in there.
He’s the epitome of Blake men, we go through some really
severe struggles and we still manage to turn it
into a great success.
He’s stuck in the moment right before he got shot.
He knows something’s going on.
He can feel the love from the different event’s
that’s been thrown, the help from the different
organisations.
In Kenosha, Milwaukee, Chicago and beyond.
Pauline Chilton is the Republican nominee for
the Iowa House of Representatives for district 99.
She wants President Trump to speak to the family ofJacob Blake
He should hearfrom them and express his
thoughts.
He did meet their pastor, he said the family wanted a lawyer
to be there which is why he wasn’t interested.
Is that enough, to talk to a pastor?
I think at this point, any outreach that the President can
make to someone who is personally connected to Jacob Blake is OK.
But at some point he should speak to theirfamily.
Critics say that he went to Kenosha to effectively scare people into
supporting his law and order campaign.
What do you say to that?
No, I don’t think so.
I think the President has every right to go to
wherever he wants to go in the country.
And I think that the President really should...
You know, I think he would want to show that
he has some interest in the issue, and show his concern.
And I think it is also to show himself as a strong
leader.
And do you think this is going to work?
Is this law and order, strong leader campaign going
to work for him in terms of the election in November?
I think that this strong leader thing is
something that the American people wanted in 2016.
And I think it is something that the American people
still want.
Here’s the thing, I think that the other side, the
opposition to President Trump wants to make him look like he is being
heavy—handed.
They want to make him look like he is trying to stoke
fear, but that is not really what I think
the President is trying to do.
Yes, I think the American people want a strong leader.
They also wantjobs, don’t they?
Something like 15 millionjobs have been lost since May.
Could that be the main issue when it comes to voting in November?
Absolutely.
People wantjobs, they want to see the economy come back.
And I think the American people want to put their trust in a leader
who is going to revive the economy.
And he had already done a greatjob with the economy before
the coronavirus issue started, with shutting down our economy.
So I think the American people would like to put their trust back
in the person who has built our economy,
in the first place.
And do you think...
I mean, what do you think when it comes to the way President Trump has
dealt with the coronavirus pandemic, which is the key issue of our time?
It is a very large issue of our time.
I think that most people have not seen something
like this in their lifetime.
So, yes, everybody is watching how our leaders are handling
the coronavirus pandemic.
I think the leadership has done a good job,
but there’s definitely people who are looking for all of this
to subside and get back to as normal as possible,
back to work, back to school, get our economy going again.
Why did you switch from supporting the Democrats to support
the Republicans in 2016?
I switched because I was not happy with the policies that I had
seen over the years.
I supported the Democrats, I started out voting
for President Clinton in my first time voting.
And I continued to support the Democrats.
And that when I saw that their policies were not very
effective in our country, I started to look in 2016.
I did my research, and I ended up going into the Iowa caucuses
in 2016 and changing my registration to Republican.
And I feel that Republican leadership is doing a betterjob
of working out policies that are going to work better
for the people of our nation.
The 77th Venice Film Festival is the first major international
film festival to take place physically after several
months of lockdown.
It’s usually one of the biggest events in the industry calendar
but safety measures will mean things are rather different this year.
There’ll be no fans allowed near the red carpet,
booking is online only, and temperature checks
and masks will be enforced in half—full theatres.
Ana Rocha de Sousa’s debut film Listen will premiere
at the festival next week.
It follows a fictional Portuguese couple in London who are trying
to keep their family together after a misunderstanding at school
with their deaf daughter means social services get involved.
We’ll speak to Ana in a moment, but first let’s take a look
at a clip from Listen.
I want to go home, mum.
Please, when can we go home?
Please speak in English, Diego.
I’m not saying anything new, I just want to go home!
Hey!
Stay calm, Diego.
It is OK, we agreed, we agreed.
We are going to speak English.
I miss you so much.
I’m sorry, you are not allowed to say things like that, 0K?
But I do miss him so much!
If you insist on using language like that, I will end this
visit, 0K?
That’s it, Daddy’s here.
Sorry, no, no, no, she can’t do that.
How do you expect her to communicate, so?
We agreed English, yes?
Look, if you really wanted to, you could have asked for an
interpreter.
English only.
Sorry, you can’t do this.
That was ‘Listen’, directed by Ana Rocha de Sousa
who will be presenting her film at the Venice Film Festival.
ﬂ
I not seen the film, I would like to know if it is a happy
I not seen the film, I would like to know if it is a happy ending, but
know if it is a happy ending, but you don’t have to tell me. That was
you don’t have to tell me. That was so upsetting. I can’t tell you the
so upsetting. I can’t tell you the end, of course, sorry! I know it is
end, of course, sorry! I know it is your debut film, how do you feel
your debut film, how do you feel about actually being able to present
about actually being able to present it at the Venice film Festival?
it at the Venice film Festival? Well, it’s overwhelming. I think
Well, it’s overwhelming. Ithink it’s an
Well, it’s overwhelming. I think it’s an amazing opportunity to share
it’s an amazing opportunity to share the film with the world. It is a
the film with the world. It is a milestone for any film—maker, you
milestone for any film-maker, you know? To me,
milestone for any film—maker, you know? To me, it is very
know? To me, it is very overwhelming. What do you want
overwhelming. what do you want peopla to
overwhelming. What do you want people to take from your film? Well,
peopla to take from your film? Well, it is a film
people to take from your film? Well, it is a film about love and family.
it is a film about love and family. And bringing awareness to the
And bringing awareness to the subject matter of forced adoptions.
subject matter of forced adoptions. So what I want people to do is to be
So what I want peopla to do is to be thoughtful, and
So what I want people to do is to be thoughtful, and I want to raise
thoughtful, and I want to raise questions. And what was the
questions. And what was the inspiration behind it? First,
inspiration behind it? First, adoptions. It is not based on a
adoptions. It is not based on a specific rase
adoptions. It is not based on a specific case that actually
specific case that actually happened, but I did a lot of
happened, but I did a lot of research on the subject matter. And
research on the subject matter. And because I became a mother myself, it
because I became a mother myself, it was very touching and very...
was very touching and very... Visceral? Absolutely. You could feel
Visceral? Absolutely. You could feel it. Definitely. I
Visceral? Absolutely. You could feel it. Definitely. Ifirst, when you
it. Definitely. Ifirst, when you start the research, you understand
start the research, you understand that it is very easy to take a
that it is very easy to take a position that can become very
position that can become very extreme when you look at things on
extreme when you look at things on the surface. But then you realise
the surface. But then you realise why these things happen, and there’s
why these things happen, and there’s always a gap in the law that makes
always a gap in the law that makes me a bit uncomfortable about the
me a bit uncomfortable about the subject matter. How important is it,
subject matter. How important is it, do you think, that the festival is
do you think, that the festival is actually going ahead, where people
actually going ahead, where peopla will be
actually going ahead, where people will be able to be face—to—face?
will be able to be face-to-face? Well, it is very
will be able to be face—to—face? Well, it is very important to keep
Well, it is very important to keep living. Of course, to me,
living. Of course, to me, personally, it is very important to
personally, it is very important to be able to be there and show my
be able to be there and show my film, for obvious reasons. But, in
film, for obvious reasons. But, in general terms, I
film, for obvious reasons. But, in generalterms, I believe
film, for obvious reasons. But, in general terms, I believe it is very
general terms, I believe it is very important for the film industry that
important for the film industry that these events keep taking place, you
these events keep taking place, you know? I think that the possibility
know? I think that the possibility of latting
know? I think that the possibility of letting cinema die, it is
of latting cinema die, it is actually a
of letting cinema die, it is actually a great threat. Which I
actually a great threat. which I think
actually a great threat. Which I think we all must keep united to
think we all must keep united to fight the coronavirus, of course. We
fight the coronavims, of course. We need all to
fight the coronavirus, of course. We need all to be aware of the health
need all to be aware of the health and safety measures, and to be
and safety measures, and to be responsible, and to keep respecting
responsible, and to keep respecting that, and not saying the opposite,
that, and not saying the opposite, of course. But it is crucial that we
of course. But it is crucial that we keep living. To me, it is that
keep living. To me, it is that point, you know? We need to keep
point, you know? We need to keep living without... I think the
living without... I think the balance is always in between. It’s
balance is always in between. It’s never to avoid everything at all, or
never to avoid everything at all, or just ignore things, you know? We
just ignore things, you know? We can’t keep staying at home and avoid
can’t keep staying at home and avoid living. For now, we all know that
living. For now, we all know that Corona is here to stay and we need
Corona is here to stay and we need to keep fighting it, and doing our
to keep fighting it, and doing our best to keep everyone safe. Of
best to keep everyone safe. Of course. Do you think the pandemic
course. Do you think the pandemic will change the way the industry
will change the way the industry makes films? Do you think it will
makes films? Do you think it will change the way we go and enjoy
change the way we go and enjoy films? Yes. I
change the way we go and enjoy films? Yes. Ithink
change the way we go and enjoy films? Yes. I think the massive
films? Yes. I think the massive threat is, well, along the years the
threat is, well, along the years the industry has been facing a lot of
industry has been facing a lot of changes, in digital terms,
industry has been facing a lot of changes, in digitalterms, as
industry has been facing a lot of changes, in digital terms, as we all
changes, in digital terms, as we all know. And I believe that all
know. And I believe that all platforms are valid, you know? But
platforms are valid, you know? But we must be able to keep all the
we must be able to keep all the platforms. Cinema, is a classical
platforms. Cinema, is a dassiral idea of going
platforms. Cinema, is a classical idea of going to a room to watch a
idea of going to a room to watch a film on the big screen, it is
film on the big screen, it is history to keep. We need to be able
history to keep. We need to be able to keep that always, never losing
to keep that always, never losing it. If it is life—threatening, we
it. If it is life-threatening, we need to
it. If it is life—threatening, we need to be aware of that and fight
need to be aware of that and fight it out as much as possible, and try
it out as much as possible, and try to keep living as much as possible.
to keep living as much as possible. Yeah. Thank you. And good luck with
Yeah. Thank you. And good luck with Listen. Really, really. Have an
Listen. Really, really. Have an amazing time, I am sure you will.
amazing time, I am sure you will. The director of Listen.
Today a £2 billion pound scheme to help get young people into work
is being launched by the UK government.
KickStart will provide anyone who is unemployed,
aged under 25 and currently
receiving Universal Credit, with a job placement.
Jobs will last a minimum of six months,
and will be paid at the National Minimum Wage rate for up
to 25 hours per week.
So, what’s in it for businesses?
Well, as well as having wages paid for six months,
they will also receive 3 £2,000 bonus for every apprentice
they hire, and £1,500 extra per person for things
like training and uniforms.
Here’s the work and pension secretary Therese Coffey speaking
a little earlier about the aim of the scheme.
We know it is an important time for young people and we need to make
sure we try to help them get their first foot on the jobs ladder,
so this is why we are targeting in particular those
who have been unemployed for a bit of time and are at risk
of long—term unemployment.
In terms of what has happened in the past, yes,
we have learned some lessons from that but this
is on a bigger scale.
We have made it more straightforward for basically every business
and organisation in the country to come forward and offer
a Kickstartjob and we believe the targeted support,
notjust about, in effect, free labour, will be important
for businesses and very important for young people.
Campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died
from coronavirus have accused Prime Minister BorisJohnson
of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
The Covid—19 Bereaved Families forJustice group said it wrote
to MrJohnson five times to request a meeting.
It came as quite a shock to the families, because this
is what the Prime Minister said last week, when he was asked
if he would meet them.
I’m not aware of those letters.
But I, of course, will write back to every letter that we get.
But will you meet them?
Well, I will write back to every letter that we get.
Of course I will meet anybody who’s. ..
Of course I will meet anybody, uh...
The people who’ve. ..
The bereaved who’ve suffered from Covid.
Of course I’ll do that.
But I’m not aware of the letters that you’ve described.
Since then, the Prime Minister has responded to the Covid—19
Bereaved Families forJustice.
In a letter he passed on his deepest sympathies but said
that he would not be able to meet them as a group.
Earlier I spoke to Fiona Kirton from the group.
She lost her father Bernard in April, after he was diagnosed
with coronavirus in hospital, where he was being
treated for a fall.
It’s rather confusing, because we met him in
It’s rather confusing, because we met him inJune. Why he hasn’t seen
met him in june. why he hasn’t seen five letters
met him inJune. Why he hasn’t seen five letters that were sent to him,
five letters that were sent to him, I don’t know. For him to say he
I don’t know. For him to say he would meet us and go back on it is
would meet us and go back on it is disappointing, to say the least.
disappointing, to say the least. What questions would you want the
What questions would you want the families wanted to have asked him,
families wanted to have asked him, if he had met you? Well, we’ve got a
if he had met you? Well, we’ve got a lot of information about failures
lot of information about failures that have happened in the system
that have happened in the system that don’t seem to have been
that don’t seem to have been highlighted anywhere, such as
highlighted anywhere, such as failures in the 111 system. There’s
failures in the 111 system. There’s lots of things that, as a group, we
lots of things that, as a group, we could talk to him about and make him
could talk to him about and make him aware of. And these are the kind of
aware of. And these are the kind of things that we want a statutory
things that we want a statutory pub“:
things that we want a statutory public inquiry to look at, because
public inquiry to look at, because things have not been brought to
things have not been brought to light. And we know, from the
light. And we know, from the Preparing For A Challenging Winter
Preparing For A Challenging winter Report that
Preparing For A Challenging Winter Report that Sir Patrick Vallance
Report that Sir Patrick Vallance commissioned and published in
Report that Sir Patrick Vallance commissioned and published inJuly,
commissioned and published in july, that
commissioned and published inJuly, that there is a reasonable
that there is a reasonable worst—case scenario forecast of
worst-case scenario forecast of 119,000
worst—case scenario forecast of 119,000 deaths this winter in
119,000 deaths this winter in hospital, if plans are not put into
hospital, if plans are not put into place over the summer. Now, we, as a
place over the summer. Now, we, as a “WP-
place over the summer. Now, we, as a group, have first hand experience of
group, have first hand experience of what led to our loved ones’ deaths,
what lad to our loved ones’ deaths, and
what led to our loved ones’ deaths, and there is a lot of
what led to our loved ones’ deaths, and there is a lot of lessons to be
and there is a lot of lessons to be learned. And yet we have repeatedly
learned. And yet we have repeatedly asked and asked to see him, and Matt
asked and asked to see him, and Matt Hancock, and they will not even luck
Hancock, and they will not even luck is in the eye and talk to us about
is in the eye and talk to us about what our experience has been. You
what our experience has been. You would have to ask the Prime Minister
would have to ask the Prime Minister why he doesn’t want to learn the
why he doesn’t want to learn the lessons we are offering our
lessons we are offering our experience. Down the street would
experience. Down the street would say, of course we want to learn the
say, of course we want to learn the lessons, they say the Prime Minister
lessons, they say the Prime Minister remains committed to meeting people
remains committed to meeting people who have been bereaved as a result
who have been bereaved as a result of Covid—19 and that he is, quote,
of Covid-19 and that he is, quote, resolute in
of Covid—19 and that he is, quote, resolute in his determination to
resolute in his determination to defeat this virus to prevent further
defeat this virus to prevent further devastating loss. Well, we must be
devastating loss. Well, we must be the wrong kind of bereaved. Why does
the wrong kind of bereaved. why does he not
the wrong kind of bereaved. Why does he not want to meet us? Does he just
he not want to meet us? Does he just wants to meet people who will smile
wants to meet people who will smile sweetly and tell him he is doing a
sweetly and tell him he is doing a good job? That will not help to save
good job? That will not help to save lives. That is what we are about,
lives. That is what we are about, saving lives. None of us want to be
saving lives. None of us want to be campaigning. All of us want to be
campaigning. All of us want to be healing our grief about the very
healing our grief about the very traumatic loss of our loved ones. We
traumatic loss of our loved ones. We haven’t been able to be with them as
haven’t been able to be with them as they went, we haven’t been able to
they went, we haven’t been able to 55V
they went, we haven’t been able to say goodbye. These are very
say goodbye. These are very difficult deaths to deal with, and
difficult deaths to deal with, and that is why we are asking for
that is why we are asking for bereavement counselling, specialist
bereavement counselling, specialist bereavement counselling for people
bereavement counselling for people that have been briefed as well. We
that have been briefed as well. We don’t want to be doing this. We want
don’t want to be doing this. We want to talk to the Prime Minister. Why
to talk to the Prime Minister. why will the
to talk to the Prime Minister. Why will the Prime Minister of this
will the Prime Minister of this country not talk to us? Can I ask
country not talk to us? (“an I ask what
country not talk to us? Can I ask what happened to your dad, Fiona? He
what happened to your dad, Fiona? He went into hospital
what happened to your dad, Fiona? He went into hospitalfor a
what happened to your dad, Fiona? He went into hospital for a fall.
what happened to your dad, Fiona? He went into hospitalfor a fall. He
went into hospital for a fall. He was ready to
went into hospitalfor a fall. He was ready to be released. And he had
was ready to be released. And he had to go to a rare
was ready to be released. And he had to go to a care home because he was
to go to a rare home because he was frail. And
to go to a care home because he was frail. And we had one for him, a
frail. And we had one for him, a very good one. They would only take
very good one. They would only take him if he was tested. At the
him if he was tested. At the hospital refused to test him. We
hospital refused to test him. We waited another two weeks before we
waited another two weeks before we could find another care home in the
could find another rare home in the middle of
could find another care home in the middle of a pandemic, but in those
middle of a pandemic, but in those two mega weeks he caught Covid in
two mega weeks he taught Covid in hospital and
two mega weeks he caught Covid in hospital and died on the 7th of
hospital and died on the 7th of April. Had he been tested, he would
April. Had he been tested, he would have been in that care home, he
have been in that rare home, he would be
have been in that care home, he would be safe and he would be alive.
would be safe and he would be alive. This follows on from the people who
This follows on from the people who were discharged into care homes
were discharged into rare homes without
were discharged into care homes without being tested, which led to a
without being tested, which led to a large number of deaths. How would
large number of deaths. How would you feel about the way your dad
you feel about the way your dad died? Sorry? How do you feel about
died? Sorry? How do you feel about the way your dad died? Horrible. He
the way your dad died? Horribla. He was deaf, so
the way your dad died? Horrible. He was deaf, so we could not speak to
was deaf, so we could not speak to him, they could not fit his hearing
him, they could not fit his hearing aids because of Covid. So he died
aids because of Covid. So he died confused, alone and in pain, without
confused, alone and in pain, without being able to say goodbye.
Boris
BorisJohnson has rejected that
Boris johnson has rejected that meeting
BorisJohnson has rejected that meeting with her group. This is a
meeting with her group. This is a message from Glasgow, somebody who
message from Glasgow, somebody who is now subject to new restrictions.
is now subject to new restrictions. The new
is new subject to new restrictions. The new lockdown measures, says
The new lockdown measures, says Rimn, are
The new lockdown measures, says Rizwan, are absurd. I’m a
Rimn, are absurd. I’m a responsible
Rizwan, are absurd. I’m a responsible individual who has
responsible individual who has followed social distancing
followed social distancing guidelines. But to be deprived from
guidelines. But to be deprived from visiting loved ones, such as my mum,
visiting loved ones, such as my mum, who lives alone, will have a
who lives alone, will have a detrimental effect on her mental
detrimental effect on her mental health. I can’t see this being
health. I can’t see this being policed, therefore I will not abide
policed, therefore I will not abide by these new restrictions. And on
by these new restrictions. And on the film Listen, we were talking to
the film Listen, we were talking to the director, who will be presenting
the director, who will be presenting her debut film at the debut film
her debut film at the debut film Festival, David Moran said, just
Festival, David Moran said, just watched the short clip, and
watched the short clip, and incredibly emotive scene that
incredibly emotive scene that grabbed my attention immediately, I
grabbed my attention immediately, I need to know what happens next and
need to know what happens next and look forward to seeing it in the
look forward to seeing it in the future, I hope it is a great success
future, I hope it is a great success at the Venice Film Festival.
Members of the exam regulator in England, quual,
have been appearing before MPs this morning, to answer questions
on what went wrong with this year’s GSCE and A—Level results.
Students didn’t sit exams, which meant quual were awarded
grades based on an algorithm.
After two weeks of controversy over the fairness of the algorithm,
the Education Secretary Gavin Williamson, decided
to revert to what are known as centre—assessed grades.
Speaking earlier, the Chair of quual highlighted
where mistakes were made.
The fundamental mistake was to believe
that this would ever be acceptable to the public.
Perhaps I might illustrate that point, give a sense
of what I mean by that.
We were looking at this in terms of particular ideas of fairness,
fairness across the whole population, the probability that
somebody would get a grade, but acknowledging from the outset that
it would not be anything like as accurate as exams.
I think what we now realise is that...
If you have 1000 students that have an 80% chance
of getting a A grade, they would regard themselves, quite regularly
go reasonably as A grade students.
m:
We were acknowledging that some of the students would get a B grade.
Mr Taylor was also said that quual wanted students to sit exams,
but it was Secretary of State Gavin Williamson,
who decided that they would be cancelled and replaced with a system
of calculated grades.
Our initial advice to the Secretary of State was not the best ways to
of State was not the best ways to handle this was to try to hold exams
handla this was to try to hold exams in a socially
handle this was to try to hold exams in a socially distanced manner. Our
in a socially distanced manner. Our second option was to delay exams,
second option was to delay exams, but the third option, if neither of
but the third option, if neither of these was acceptable, would be to
these was acceptable, would be to try to look at some form of
try to look at some form of calculated grade. We did also look
ralmlated grade. We did also look at
calculated grade. We did also look at whether that would be a teacher
at whether that would be a teacher certificate, rather than attempting
certificate, rather than attempting to replicate exam grades. But that
to replicate exam grades. But that was our advice to ministers. It was
was our advice to ministers. It was the Secretary of State who
the Secretary of State who subsequently took the decision and
subsequently took the decision and announced, without further
announced, without further consultation with quual, that exams
consultation with quual, that exams were to be cancelled and a system of
were to be cancelled and a system of calculated grades were to be
calculated grades were to be lamented. —— implemented.
Talking to MP5
Talking to MPs in Parliament, well, some of them were in Parliament,
some of them were in Partiament, some of
some of them were in Parliament, some of them Zooming in. You can see
some of them Zooming in. You ran see that is still going
some of them Zooming in. You can see that is still going on, facing
that is still going on, facing questions from MPs over that exams
questions from MPs over that exams you “
questions from MPs over that exams you -- you turn,
questions from MPs over that exams you —— you turn, England
questions from MPs over that exams Y°U " you turn, England followed
you -- you turn, England followed U-turns in
Y°U " you turn, England followed U—turns in Scotland, Wales and
U—turns in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. If you want to
Northern Ireland. If you want to watch further, then you can go to
watch further, than you ran go to BBC
watch further, then you can go to BBC Parliament. In the next few
BBC Partiament. In the next few minutes,
BBC Parliament. In the next few minutes, Joanna Gosling will be with
minutes, joanna Gosling will be with you. Right here
minutes, Joanna Gosling will be with you. Right here on BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather.
Hello again. Many others are going to see some rain at some stage. What
to see some rain at some stage. what is happening as
to see some rain at some stage. What is happening as we have got low
is happening as we have got low pressure dominating our weather once
pressure dominating our weather once again, and it has a couple of fronts
again, and it has a couple offronts with it. It is
again, and it has a couple of fronts with it. It is bringing the rain
with it. It is bringing the rain from the west, pushing towards the
from the west, pushing towards the east. And with it, it is going to be
east. And with it, it is going to be fairty windy,
east. And with it, it is going to be fairly windy, particularly so with
fairty windy, particularty so with exposure in
fairly windy, particularly so with exposure in the north and west,
exposure in the north and west, where we could have gusts of around
where we could have gusts of around 40 or 45 mph.
where we could have gusts of around A0 or 45 mph. Some of us have
40 or 45 mph. Some of us have already seen
A0 or 45 mph. Some of us have already seen that today. We have the
already seen that today. We have the first front moving through bringing
first front moving through bringing rain, the second coming behind it,
rain, the second coming behind it, also bringing rain. For eastern
also bringing rain. For eastern areas, largely dry. The cloud
areas, largely dry. The cloud continuing to increase before the
continuing to increase before the rain arrives later on. Then we got
rain arrives later on. Then we got the second batch of rain coming
the second batch of rain coming through Northern Ireland. You have
through Northern Ireland. You have the first one going through, and in
the first one going through, and in the second one behind. Whenever you
the second one behind. whenever you see green and
the second one behind. Whenever you see green and yellow, that is
see green and yellow, that is telling you you can expect some
telling you you ran expect some heavy bursts.
telling you you can expect some heavy bursts. Those white circles
heavy bursts. Those white cirdas indicate
heavy bursts. Those white circles indicate sustained wind speeds, but
indicate sustained wind speeds, but gusty.
indicate sustained wind speeds, but gusty, especially in exposure in the
gusty, especially in exposure in the north and west. The temperatures
north and west. The temperatures today ranging from 15 to 20 degrees.
today ranging from 15 to 20 degrees. This evening and overnight, the
This evening and overnight, the first band of rain pushes off into
first band of rain pushes off into the North Sea. The second one
the North Sea. The second one continues to sink slowly southwards.
continues to sink slowly southwards. There will be a lot of cloud ahead
There will be a lot of cloud ahead of it. In behind it, there will
of it. In behind it, there will still be areas of cloud, but there
still be areas of cloud, but there will be clear skies and also some
will be clear skies and also some showers. It’s not going to be a cold
showers. It’s not going to be a cold night. Most of us staying in double
night. Most of us staying in double figures. Tomorrow, if we pick up
figures. Tomorrow, if we pick up this weather
figures. Tomorrow, if we pick up this weatherfront, it
figures. Tomorrow, if we pick up this weather front, it continues its
this weather front, it continues its slow descent southwards, weakening
slow descent southwards, weakening all the time. But there are a lot of
all the time. But there are a lot of isobars on the chart. Tomorrow, once
isobars on the chart. Tomorrow, once again, there are going to be brisk
again, there are going to be brisk winds, particularly with exposure in
winds, particularty with exposure in the
winds, particularly with exposure in the West. Inland, you will notice
the West. Inland, you will notice the wind, too, and as it sinks south
the wind, too, and as it sinks south it will bring a band of cloud and
it will bring a band of cloud and patchy rain with it. Behind that, we
patchy rain with it. Behind that, we are looking at a mixture of bright
are looking at a mixture of bright spells, sunshine and showers, with
spells, sunshine and showers, with temperatures a little higher, up to
temperatures a little higher, up to 22 degrees. Overnight, Thursday into
22 degrees. Overnight, Thursday into Friday, the front goes south, pivots
Friday, the front goes south, pivots and comes back, bringing in some
and comes back, bringing in some rain across southern parts of Wales
rain across southern parts of Walas and
rain across southern parts of Wales and southern England, pushing
and southern England, pushing towards the south—east. For the rest
towards the south-east. For the rest of the UK
towards the south—east. For the rest of the UK we are looking at a
of the UK we are looking at a mixture of sunshine and showers.
mixture of sunshine and showers. Some of those showers could be
Some of those showers could be heavy, particularly in western
heavy, particularly in western Scotland. Saturday, a dry day for
Scotland. Saturday, a dry day for most of us. A cooler day as well.
most of us. A cooler day as well. Still breezy, and still a few
Still breezy, and still a few showers knocking around,
showers knocking around, particularly in the north and west.
particularty in the north and west. Not all
particularly in the north and west. Not all of us will see them.
Not all of us will see them. Temperatures ranging from 11 in the
Temperatures ranging from 11 in the North team 18 in the south.
This is BBC News withJoanna Gosling with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Because we have been at home for so long,
so it is very nice that we are able to come back to school and find
new friends and things like that.
Quite nervous because it’s my first day, but I feel
like it will be, like, nice meeting new people.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
Hundreds of thousands of people in Glasgow and surrounding areas
are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown
are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown.
UK Prime Minister BorisJohnson is branded "heartless" by families
of coronavirus victims after they say he
declined to meet them.
1A people have gone on trial in Paris charged with helping
the gunmen who carried out the deadly Charlie Hebdo
attack five years ago.
The coronavirus pandemic plunges Australia into recession —
for the first time in 30 years.
And businesses in the UK are urged to sign up to Kickstart —
a £2 billionjob scheme for under—245 who are at risk
of becoming long—term unemployed.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around the world.
And stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here
and across the globe.
After months of home schooling and being away from the classroom,
thousands of pupils in England and Wales have
returned to school today.
The start of the new term is being staggered in many areas,
as schools prepare to welcome students back safely.
But there are still many questions over how easy it will be
for children to catch up on learning - and the impact
on next year’s exams.
Our education correspondent, Dan Johnson, reports
from a school in Worksop.
The nerves of starting a new school meet the concerns of coming back
for the first time since March.
I don’t mind online learning, it’s just that I got sick of it.
I’ve been doing it for what, three months?
When we were out.
Then another three months off, wasn’t able to see anyone, really.
I just want to get back.
I haven’t put my uniform on for six months, so it didn’t fit,
most of it, so I had to get a whole new uniform.
Distanced corridors lead to reorganised classrooms
and protective bubbles will keep year groups apart.
The squirt of sanitiser will be more frequent than the bell.
Students have staggered breaks, staggered lunch.
In terms of cleaning as well, we had to get extra cleaners
into the building in the course of the day.
But one thing we know for sure is the longer the students stay
out of the classroom, the more disadvantaged they become.
So, we want to get students in.
Does that mean everything will run smoothly?
No.
We will have some bumps here and there,
somne challenges here and there.
But we will work through that and make sure that the bottom line
is that students and staff are safe.
You’ve all been given the visors.
You need to put those on when you are supporting.
There are plans for dealing with cases and responding
to local outbreaks.
But none of this has really been tested.
The bubble system, yes, keeps you together and safe
but as soon as the children go out of school, they can meet whoever
they want, with that, it’s flawed.
I think it’s as safe as it can be.
I think it is probably safer than the local supermarket.
The other priority is working out how much learning has being lost,
then helping every child catch up.
And Dan was there at a school in Worksop as lessons got
underway this morning.
Quite a momentous moment, notjust for these kids,
their first day at big school, which would be a nervous
and exciting and interesting time anyway, but this is the first day
back, really, in proper education for so many kids
and although it is a staggered start and further year groups
will come later in the week, it is a big test to see
how things work.
You can see the social distancing measures in the corridor
to try to keep children apart.
The big thing here is bubbles and year groups being separated,
so they have different parts of the school for different year
groups so they should not mix, that is the intention,
to keep them apart.
We have got special permission to interrupt a lesson this morning,
if we go in here, we can see how the day is starting and how
the classrooms are laid out.
Let’s have a listen to what is being said.
You guys are here to do your learning because that is the most
important thing, you are here to start your secondary
education and we are so, so happy to have you.
You will notice in front of you that you have your learning packs.
They are yours.
You will be able to take them home with you.
That is your information and work and how you will do
all of your learning.
The pens and pencils are for you.
They are not to be shared because of Covid—19.
It is really important that you are looking after them.
0K?
Can we quickly interrupt?
Of course.
I’m sorry, I know you’ve got so much to get through,
but tell us what it has been like preparing to get the kids
back into class today?
It has been a challenge but really exciting.
We have been making preparations sinceJune, when the first lot
of Government guidance came out and then making the
relevant amendments when the changes happened.
We have been working really hard, particularly for Year 7,
to get them back into school, into a new school that they have
never been into before.
Absolutely.
It has been quite a challenge, but we have enjoyed it.
How are you feeling today?
I’m a bit nervous, but I am so excited to have Year 7 in today
and I’m really looking forward to getting all of the children
that we know and remember back in tomorrow.
Do you think it is the right time, is it safe?
Absolutely.
We have got all the necessary precautions in place.
We are going to talk about students being on the left—hand
side of the corridor, make sure that the students know
when they can wear masks and should wear masks,
and we are putting all of the relevant precautions in place.
You normally teach physics.
I do.
Quite a practical subject, so how will that work?
Yeah.
So the normal practicals will be done in labs that we have
segregated for specific use.
The GCSE students who have to do required practicals,
the guidance from quual is we no longer need to actually perform
the required practicals, it can just be demonstrated to them
which is absolutely fine.
It is something we will take in our stride and I really enjoy
demonstrating things, so I will really enjoy it!
When you get the older children back in, how will you work out how much
they have missed and what they need in terms of catching up?
I think it is really important we are going to focus on making sure
we pick up where we left off.
If there are students that did not complete home learning,
and then there are, we will make sure that they are in the same
position as the children that did do the home learning
are in when they come back and it isjust going to be a case
of working really hard to assess where those students are and get
them to where they need to be, ready for their exam.
OK, let’s have a quick word with the [ads on the front row,
Jacob and Luke, how are you feeling this morning, Jacob?
Pretty good, very nervous, as it is the first day
of secondary school.
What about you, Luke?
Exciting, nervous, but fun to be in a new school.
And from the teachers I have met so far, it seems
like it is going to be a good year.
What about the things to keep you safe, are you clear
about what you need to do?
Yes, lam.
We need to make sure to keep our distance and wear masks
and walk on the correct side of the corridor when required.
Good stuff, thanks, lads, appreciate your time,
sorry to interrupt, class, we will let you get on,
I know there is so much to get through and get used to.
Thank you.
It is good to see kids back in class and learning again.
Things are not as they would normally be, the classroom
would normally be organised differently, the fact that kids
are all facing the front is part of the measures to try to keep
people safe, 3 lot for people to get to grips with today and a lot
of questions about how this will play out, whether there will be
further disruption to learning because inevitably there will be
challenges to come, a really tough time but a really
exciting day to see children back in the classroom in England.
Dan
DanJohnson
Dan Johnson with
DanJohnson with that class of
Dan johnson with that class of pupils. If
DanJohnson with that class of pupils. If you have not come back
pupils. If you have not come back yet and you’re feeling a bit nervous
yet and you’re feeling a bit nervous about it or if you are a parent and
about it or if you are a parent and you are feeling anxious at the
you are feeling anxious at the moment you might want to hear the
moment you might want to hear the clinical psychologist I will be
clinical psychologist I will be talking to in 20 minutes also. She
talking to in 20 minutes also. She will be joining
talking to in 20 minutes also. She will bejoining us
talking to in 20 minutes also. She will be joining us with some tips on
will be joining us with some tips on how to manage anxieties around
how to manage anxieties around returning to school after so many
returning to school after so many months.
The Mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, says the easing
of lockdown restrictions in the boroughs of Bolton and
Trafford is "completely illogical".
Mr Burnham’s urging people living in these areas to continue to follow
the guidance and not to have social gatherings at home because
coronavirus cases are still rising.
Measures were originally introduced to combat new infections
across parts of England’s north—west and were lifted overnight.
The rules were re—introduced inJuly after concerns the virus
was being spread between households.
The lifting of the restrictions
means different households can again meet indoors or in private gardens,
but councillors have criticised the Government,
accusing them of ignoring advice from health officials and lifting
the measures too soon.
People are free now to have gatherings, but I am
still saying to people, you know, it is not wise to do that
because obviously this is a week when schools are going back,
we have rising numbers of cases in Bolton.
Bolton has risen right up to the top of the list and so it clearly
doesn’t make sense and you are not protecting the health of your family
if you are to start having gatherings in your home,
so we just need to move beyond this.
You know?
We need to agree an exit strategy from these restrictions
with the Government and what we are saying is what has
been most effective is door—to—door testing and tracing.
So we are saying to the Government as part of the exit strategy
from this, put the national Test and Trace system under more local
control and we will take responsibility for it.
We also need financial support for people to self—isolate.
People on low wages, people who are self—employed...
We are finding out that they are finding it very hard to take 1A days
off work with no money.
That is Andy Burnham, the Mayor of Greater Manchester.
The Scottish Government has imposed fresh restrictions to control
the spread of the virus in Glasgow and two neighbouring areas.
The new measures will affect nearlyi million people.
The First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said the number of cases had been
rising mainly "as a result of household gatherings."
Let’s just take you through those restrictions.
The restrictions will apply to people living in Glasgow,
West Dunbartonshire and East Renfrewshire,
and mean people in these areas should not meet with people
from other households indoors.
If a close contact has tested positive for Covid—19,
everyone in the household should self—isolate for M days.
And only essential visits to care homes
and hospitals will be allowed.
Jason Leitch is the National Clinical
Director for Scotland.
He was asked on BBC Breakfast whether the restrictions in Glasgow
and neighbouring areas had been introduced in order
to keep schools open.
They have been brought in in the context where the schools
have been open for three weeks and closing schools for five months
is not a good thing.
It is a terrible thing.
It is a terrible thing for education and public health.
The likes of me advising, we are desperate for schools to open
and higher and further education to get back because they are
important for the population, notjust for the kids.
It lets people get back to work and society.
But the numbers in Glasgow in the last seven days,
let me just look at them quickly, 15, 21, 14, 36, 39, 69, 66.
You don’t need a maths degree to work out something
is happening there.
It is not exponential, so it has not rocketed.
But it is just enough for us to try to do something relatively mild,
although it doesn’t feel like that if you are waking up in Glasgow
today and you were going to see your mum and you now can’t,
but we wanted to do something that would restrict that,
and human behaviour, which is our only treatment
against the disease, would kick in and keep
that number down.
Campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died
from coronavirus have accused Prime Minister BorisJohnson
of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
The Covid—19 Bereaved Families forJustice group said it wrote
to MrJohnson five times to request a meeting.
It came as quite a shock to the families because this
is what the Prime Minister said last week, when he was asked
if he would meet them.
I’m not aware of those letters.
But I, of course, will write back to every letter that we get.
But will you meet them?
Well, I will write back to every letter that we get.
Of course I will meet anybody who’s. ..
Of course I will meet anybody, uh...
The people who’ve. ..
The bereaved who’ve suffered from Covid.
Of course I’ll do that.
But I’m not aware of the letters that you’ve described.
m:
We will be asking our political correspondent what is going on with
correspondent what is going on with that situation a little bit later on
that situation a little bit later on the BBC News channel.
You’re watching BBC News.
Fiona Kirton lost her father Bernard in April, after he was diagnosed
with coronavirus in hospital, where he was being treated
for a fall, and believes that the Prime Minister could learn
important lessons from the Covid—19 Bereaved Families
forJustice group.
There are lots of things that as a EWUP
There are lots of things that as a group we could talk to him about and
group we could talk to him about and make him aware of and these are the
make him aware of and these are the kind of things that we want a
kind of things that we want a statutory public enquiry to look at
statutory public enquiry to look at because things have not been brought
because things have not been brought to light and we know from the
to light and we know from the preparing for a challenging winter
preparing for a challanging winter report that
preparing for a challenging winter report that Sir Patrick Vallance
report that Sir Patrick Vallance commissioned and was published in
commissioned and was published in july, that
commissioned and was published in July, that there was forecast a
July, that there was forecast a reasonable worst—case scenario of
reasonabla worst-case scenario of 119,000
reasonable worst—case scenario of 119,000 deaths this winter in
119,000 deaths this winter in hospital if plans are not put into
hospital if plans are not put into place over the summer. And we, as a
place over the summer. And we, as a “WP-
place over the summer. And we, as a group, have first—hand experience of
group, have first-hand experience of what led
group, have first—hand experience of what led to our loved ones deaths
what led to our loved ones deaths and there are a lot of lessons to be
and there are a lot of lessons to be learned, and yet we repeatedly have
learned, and yet we repeatedly have asked and asked to see him and Matt
asked and asked to see him and Matt Hancock and they will not even look
Hancock and they will not even look as in the eye and talk to us about
as in the eye and talk to us about what our experience has been. You
what our experience has been. You would have to ask the Prime Minister
would have to ask the Prime Minister why he doesn’t want to learn the
why he doesn’t want to learn the lessons that we are offering our
lessons that we are offering our experience of.
Joining me now from Westminster is our political
correspondent, Iain Watson.
Why won’t the Prime Minister them?
why won’t the Prime Minister them? Well, what
Why won’t the Prime Minister them? Well, what the premises in his
Well, what the premises in his letter is he recognised that a
letter is he recognised that a letter wouldn’t be enough of a
letter wouldn’t be enough of a condolence for bereaved families,
condolence for bereaved families, but he also mentioned two other
but he also mentioned two other things, that it is regrettably not
things, that it is regrettably not possibla to
things, that it is regrettably not possible to meet everyone who is
possible to meet everyone who is breathed, although he will be
breathed, although he will be meeting some people in the course of
meeting some people in the course of his work. He raises the question of
his work. He raises the question of legal action as well, and he doesn’t
legal action as well, and he doesn’t make this a distinct reason for not
make this a distinct reason for not meeting the families, but he does
meeting the families, but he does mention they are considering legal
mention they are considering legal action against the Government to try
action against the Government to try to force this independent enquiry,
to force this independent enquiry, and of course as we heard the real
and of course as we heard the real bugbear for them
and of course as we heard the real bugbearfor them is
and of course as we heard the real bugbear for them is the length of
bugbear for them is the length of time it
hughear for them is the length of time it might
bugbear for them is the length of time it might take to get that
time it might take to get that enquiry so they want a more rapid
enquiry so they want a more rapid review. What the Prime Minister says
review. what the Prime Minister says in his
review. What the Prime Minister says in his letter is there will be an
in his letter is there will be an enquiry at the appropriate time, but
enquiry at the appropriate time, but there is no guarantee on the nature
there is no guarantee on the nature of that enquiry, whether or not it
of that enquiry, whether or not it would be independent and also the
would be independent and also the timescale for that enquiry. So I
timesrala for that enquiry. So I think
timescale for that enquiry. So I think the difficulty I suppose from
think the difficulty I suppose from the Prime Minister’s point of view
the Prime Minister’s point of view is if he meets these families then
is if he meets these families then he may well get into arguments, not
he may well get into arguments, not just about his handling of
just about his handling of the coronavirus crisis, but more
coronavirus crisis, but more pressure were placed on him to have
pressure were placed on him to have the enquiry sooner rather than
the enquiry sooner rather than later. But some of the families to
later. But some of the families to see this is quite odd because
see this is quite odd because although the Bereaved Families for
although the Bereaved Families for justice is a
although the Bereaved Families for Justice is a campaign group, they do
justice is a campaign group, they do consist of
Justice is a campaign group, they do consist of 1500 people who have all
consist of 1500 peopla who have all lost
consist of 1500 people who have all lost relatives and they say lessons
lost relatives and they say lessons need to be learnt for next time
need to be learnt for next time round and it did sound like on the
round and it did sound like on the 26th of August about a week ago when
26th of August about a week ago when the banister said he would consider
the banister said he would consider beating
the hanister said he would consider beating them,
the banister said he would consider beating them, he was asked a direct
beating them, he was asked a direct question and it did sound at that
question and it did sound at that stage as if he might be willing to
stage as if he might be willing to meet the campaign group, although he
meet the campaign group, although he did not mention by name. It is not
did not mention by name. It is not just bereaved families who are
just bereaved families who are saying the Government needs to learn
saying the Government needs to learn lessons quickly before a possible
lessons quickly before a possible second wave. It is many MPs as well.
second wave. It is many MPs as well. What
second wave. It is many MPs as well. what is the
second wave. It is many MPs as well. What is the Government doing to show
what is the Government doing to show lessons
What is the Government doing to show lessons have been learnt? The
lessons have been learnt? The Government has said they have
Government has said they have learned a lesson from the first wave
learned a lesson from the first wave and therre
learned a lesson from the first wave and they’re learning more about the
and therre learning more about the virus time again.
and they’re learning more about the virus time again. What they are also
virus time again. what they are also suggesting is
virus time again. What they are also suggesting is that in the middle of
suggesting is that in the middle of the pandemic it is the wrong time to
the pandemic it is the wrong time to try to hold an enquiry. Of course,
try to hold an enquiry. Of course, there has been pressure from the
there has been pressure from the Liberal Democrat leader, the new
Liberal Democrat leader, the new Liberal Democrat leader was calling
Liberal Democrat leader was falling for an
Liberal Democrat leader was calling for an independent enquiry and what
for an independent enquiry and what Keir Starmer said and I
for an independent enquiry and what Keir Starmersaid and I imagine
for an independent enquiry and what Keir Starmer said and I imagine this
Keir Starmer said and I imagine this will come up in Prime Minister’s
will come up in Prime Minister’s Questions, the first clash they’ve
Questions, the first dash therve had
Questions, the first clash they’ve had since
Questions, the first clash they’ve had sinceJuly, but what Keir
had sinceJuly, but what Keir Starmer says is an independent
Starmer says is an independent enquiry is inevitable, but he has
enquiry is inevitable, but he has not quite caught for one himself.
not quite taught for one himself. But he
not quite caught for one himself. But he has met with representatives
But he has met with representatives of the bereaved families group, so
of the bereaved families group, so it expected to put more pressure on
it expected to put more pressure on Boris johnson
it expected to put more pressure on BorisJohnson to consider. You
Boris johnson to consider. You mention
BorisJohnson to consider. You mention prime Minster’s questions
mention prime Minster’s questions coming up in
mention prime Minster’s questions coming up in half an hour or so. The
coming up in half an hour or so. The first one for some time and it is
first one for some time and it is still going to be a hybrid event.
still going to be a hybrid event. That is right, yes. It has been
That is right, yes. It has been agreed and there are some rumours
agreed and there are some rumours that perhaps the Government will try
that perhaps the Government will try to end the hybrid Parliament, as we
to end the hybrid Partiament, as we know. They
to end the hybrid Parliament, as we know. They stepped back from
know. They stepped back from insisting that virtually every MP
insisting that virtually every MP had to be in chamber during the last
had to be in chamber during the last session, so at the moment those who
session, so at the moment those who are shielding or with relatives who
are shielding or with relatives who are shielding, they will still be
are shielding, they will still be allowed to take part remotely, so to
allowed to take part remotely, so to some extent that is also a product
some extent that is also a product of the fact so few people can
of the fact so few peopla ran actually be
of the fact so few people can actually be in the chamber itself to
actually be in the chamber itself to allow full social distancing, so it
allow full social distancing, so it is now likely to go on until
is now likely to go on until November. The Government is hoping
November. The Government is hoping by then that there isn’t a second
by then that there isn’t a second wave of the coronavirus and
wave of the coronavirus and therefore Parliament could perhaps
therefore Partiament could perhaps resume
therefore Parliament could perhaps resume a little bit closer to
resume a little bit closer to normal, even though numbers would
normal, even though numbers would still be restricted. But for now, we
still be restricted. But for now, we will still see people asking some
will still see peopla asking some questions
will still see people asking some questions remotely in the first
questions remotely in the first Prime Minister’s Questions in a
Prime Minister’s Questions in a little while and I imagine in terms
little whila and I imagine in terms of
little while and I imagine in terms of the substance of that, given we
of the substance of that, given we have talked about buried families of
have talked about buried families of course, the first time there has
course, the first time there has been this clash between the party
been this clash between the party leaders since the exams crisis as
leaders since the exams crisis as well, so
leaders since the exams crisis as well, sol
leaders since the exams crisis as well, so I imagine what Keir Starmer
well, so I imagine what Keir Starmer will be trying to do is try to
will be trying to do is try to portray his Party is not
will be trying to do is try to portray his Party is notjust more
portray his Party is not just more competent
portray his Party is notjust more competent than it was under his
competent than it was under his predecessor, but more competent than
predecessor, but more competent than the current Government. Thank you.
the current Government. Thank you. We will actually be getting the
We will actually be getting the views of the opposition on that
views of the opposition on that decision by Boris
views of the opposition on that decision by BorisJohnson not to
decision by Boris johnson not to meet
decision by BorisJohnson not to meet the families of the bereaved
meet the families of the bereaved over Covid—19 as they would like to
over Covid-19 as they would like to do. just in
over Covid—19 as they would like to do. Just in meadows, shadow health
do. just in meadows, shadow health minister
do. Just in meadows, shadow health minister is going to be
do. Just in meadows, shadow health minister is going to bejoining me
minister is going to be joining me in the
minister is going to bejoining me in the next half hour.
The headlines on BBC News:
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased — despite strong local opposition.
1A people have gone on trial in Paris charged with helping
the gunmen who carried out the deadly Charlie Hebdo
attack five years ago.
m:
We will stay with that.
1A people have gone on trial in Paris, in connection with attacks
in 2015 on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, and a
Jewish supermarket.
17 people were killed in three days of violence around Paris,
carried out by brothers, Cherif and Said Kouachi,
and Ahmedy Coulibaly.
The attacks sparked large protests in defence of freedom
of speech across France.
Our Paris Correspondent, Hugh Schofield, has this report.
Five years ago, these pictures brought France face—to—face
with a new kind of horror.
Shouting, "We’ve avenged the Prophet", the Kouachi brothers
emerged from the office of Charlie Hebdo, where they’ve
just killed 11 people.
In the getaway, they kill a 12th, a policeman.
It’s the start of a frantic two days, which end when the two
are cornered at a print works north of Paris and shot by police.
But in the meantime, there’s been another Islamist attack.
This time, a Jewish supermarket, with four hostages dead.
Before there, too, police killed the assailant.
Ahmedy Coulibaly, who’s previously videotaped a statement
of support for Islamic State.
Francois Molins was Paris chief prosecutor.
He recalled what he felt when he first saw the Charlie Hebdo office.
TRANSLATION: It was surreal.
There was this powerful silence and the smell
of blood and gunpowder.
The editorial room was carnage.
It was no longer a crime scene.
It was a war zone with bodies piled up one on top of the other.
It was frightful.
The Charlie Hebdo attack here marked the start of a long violent period —
the Bataclan attack, Nice, which changed France.
Now for the first time, with this trial, comes a chance
to tell the story and put it on record.
Who did what, who knew what, who, if anyone, gave the orders?
The killers are dead, so it’s the alleged backroom
conspirators who are on trial in this special court room.
1A in all, some of whom it’s claimed provided weapons,
others phones or money.
Three, including Coulibaly’s Islamic war wife, will not be in court
because they fled to Syria just after the attacks.
In the immediate aftermath, the world was outraged.
Hundreds of thousands marched in sympathy for the dead
and to support the right of anti—religious satirists to speak
freely and to offend.
Five years on, though, some say the issue has become lukewarm.
TRANSLATION: Today, freedom of expression has
been lost in France.
It still exists on paper but do it at your risk
if you draw the Prophet, so no, the lesson was not learned.
What happened, but also why it happened.
The two—month trial, unusually, is being filmed The two—month trial,
The two—month trial, unusually, is being filmed
for France’s National Archives
so future generations can look back and maybe learn.
Hugh Schofield, BBC News, Paris.
Australia’s economy has plunged into its first recession
in nearly 30 years, as the country continues to suffer
from the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
The nation’s GDP shrank by 7% between April and June.
That represents the biggest fall since records began back in 1959
That represents the biggest fall since records began back in 1959.
Meanwhile household spending, which accounts for over half
of the Australian economy, slumped by 12.1%.
And Scott Morrison’s government has already pumped the equivalent
of $147 billion US in stimulus measures
into the economy.
But Australia is still doing better than many countries.
During the same period the US economy shrank by nine point 5%.
economy shrank by 9.5%.
The Australian finance minister has been reacting —
this is what he had to say.
Our commitment to the Australian people is that we have your back.
We were with you on the way into this crisis, we are with
you through this crisis, and we will be with you all the way
out of this crisis.
Our Australia correspondent Shaimaa Khalil is in Sydney.
She says the country’s economic good fortune appears to have run out.
2020 is going to go down as the year where Australia lost its very famous
lost its very famous
nickname of the lucky country and has fallen into recession
for the first time in 30 years.
A 7% dip in the economy in the last three months,
more than twice the fall in the recession of the early 19905.
For many young people who are new into the workforce, this
is something they have never seen.
Australia has had a robust economy with steady growth for decades now.
This is thanks to its natural resources of iron ore,
coal and natural gas, with a demand from China,
and tourism, which has been a big driver ofjob creation
and economic growth.
Take those two things and stack them up against what has been
happening this year.
The country has been hit, not once, but twice, firstly,
catastrophic bushfire season earlier in the year, that ravaged
about 12 million hectares, and really bashed the economy,
especially with tourism.
Thousands of small businesses have lost essential seasonal revenue.
Then a few weeks after that, Covid—19 became a global pandemic
and Australia closed its borders internationally and internally,
and more than a million people lost theirjobs.
I remember back in March, really long queues outside social
and financial support offices, with many people dazed
that they are in that situation, probably for the first time
in their lives.
Today a £2 billion scheme to help get young people
into work is being launched by the UK Government.
Kickstart will provide anyone who is unemployed,
aged under 25 and currently receiving Universal Credit
with a job placement.
Jobs will last a minimum of six
months, and will be paid at the National Minimum Wage rate
for up to 25 hours per week.
Here’s the work and pension secretary Therese Coffey speaking
a little earlier about the aim of the scheme.
We know it is an important time for young people and we need to make
sure we try to help them get their first foot on the jobs
ladder, so this is why we are targeting in particular those
who have been unemployed for a bit of time and are at risk
of long—term unemployment.
In terms of what has happened in the past, yes,
we have learned some lessons from that but this
is on a bigger scale.
We have made it more straightforward for basically every business
and organisation in the country to come forward and offer
a Kickstartjob and we believe the targeted support,
notjust about, in effect, free labour, will be important
for businesses and very important for young people.
England is facing pressure to reconsider quarantine rules
for Greece after Scotland and Wales introduced new measures over
concerns about rising coronavirus cases.
From tomorrow anyone from Scotland who travels to Greece will need
to self—isolate on their return.
Welsh passengers going to the island of Zante will have to do the same.
The holiday company TUI has cancelled all holidays to the Zante
resort of Laganas because customers have been failing to follow
coronavirus safety measures.
Greg McKenzie reports.
Touchdown last night at Cardiff airport, holiday—makers,
back from the Greek island of Zante, although ordered to self—isolate
for M days and be offered Covid—19 tests.
Last week, at least 16 people tested positive for Covid—19 after arrivin
Last week, at least 16 people tested positive for Covid—19 after arriving
back to Cardiff from the Greek island of Zante.
Some on that TUI flight, including staff, had been
accused of not adhering to safety precautions.
Customers know that they should be wearing masks on board.
It is their responsibility to do so.
And our crew are trained and enforce that, but it is a difficult thing
to enforce, particularly in an aircraft where you are not
necessarily in the cabin as much as you used to be before.
Again, because of social distancing protocols with Covid.
It has led to the travel firm TUI to stop offering holidays
to the resort of Laganos on Zante, a popular destination for large
groups of young people.
The Welsh Health Minister says there are currently
six clusters of cases,
amounting to 30 new infections, linked to flights from Greece.
But he claims they have landed not only in Wales but also
in Scotland and England too.
Last night, the Scottish Government imposed a 14—day quarantine
restriction for anyone returning to Scotland from Greece
as of tomorrow morning.
Ministers say the move comes due to a significant rise in Covid—19
cases being brought into Scotland from people who have been to Greece.
The UK Government is now facing mounting pressure
The UK Government is now facing mounting pressure
from the Welsh Health Minister to reimpose quarantine rules
from the Welsh Health Minister to reimpose quarantine rules
for Greece, but the Department for Transport says no changes
to its rules have been made.
It’s understood the UK Government is considering putting Portugal back
on the quarantine list for all four nations —
that’s England, Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland, after cases this week went over 20
per 100,000 people, which is the marker for introducing
quarantine measures.
Greg McKenzie, BBC News.
Olympic gold medal—winning boxer Nicola Adams is set to make TV
history by competing on Strictly Come Dancing as part
of the show’s first same—sex couple.
Nicola told BBC Breakfast that teaming up with a same—sex
partner sends a message:
I think it’s really important.
It’s definitely time for change.
It’s definitely time to move on and be more diverse.
And this is a brilliant step in the right direction,
and it would be nice for the LGBT community to see that
there’s same—sex couples on the show as well.
Hello.
This is BBC News.
The headlines...
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
Hundreds of thousands of people in Glasgow and surrounding areas
are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown.
UK Prime Minister BorisJohnson is branded "heartless" by families
of coronavirus victims, after they say he
declined to meet them.
1A people have gone on trial in Paris charged with helping
the gunmen who carried out the deadly Charlie Hebdo
attack five years ago.
President Trump has visited the city of Kenosha in Wisconsin
and condemned the violent clashes there as domestic terrorism.
Mr Trump did not meet the family ofJacob Blake,
who was left paralysed after being shot by police last month.
The incident led to anti—racism protests in the city
and across the country.
The BBC’s been speaking to Jacob’s uncle, Justin Blake,
family friend Tanya McLean and Alvin Owens, who runs
a barber’s shop and was teargassed while he was protesting.
Tanya described what impact the protests have
had on Kenosha
We’re just a small town, we’re peaceful people,
we just get on with day—to—day life.
Nothing major happens here.
There are some issues here in our town with division,
but we’ve never seen anything like this.
What’s rough is watching a video of a black man
being gunned down seven times.
What’s rough is with one week we had a fire in uptown here in our city
and then four days to five days later, we had looters from God knows
where that we didn’t recognise tear up our city and tore down the other
half of uptown.
So that’s rough.
However, the president is 100% incorrect and he told a lie
and he called protesters, peaceful protesters or non—violent
protesters "domestic terrorists".
Keep terrorists for terrorism.
We all know in America who terrorists are and what they
are and what they do.
Kenosha’s citizens and residents are not that.
Jacob’s a soldier and he’s hanging in there.
He’s the epitome of Blake men, we go through some really severe
struggles and we still manage to turn it into a great success.
He’s stuck in the moment right before he got shot.
He knows something’s going on.
He can feel the love from the different events that’s
been thrown, the help from the different organisations.
In Kenosha, Milwaukee, Chicago and beyond.
Coronavirus is just one of the anxieties children
and parents may face about going back to school.
Pupils may also worry about being bullied or making
the transition from lockdown to being surrounded by hundreds
of other children.
Let’s talk to clinical psychologist Dr Marianne Trent.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. What are
Thank you for joining us. what are your thoughts
Thank you forjoining us. What are your thoughts on the issues that
your thoughts on the issues that might be arising today and in the
might be arising today and in the days ahead? I think they are
days ahead? I think they are multifaceted. So much going on so,
multifaceted. So much going on so, for many young people, this might be
for many young peopla, this might be the first
for many young people, this might be the first time they have been
the first time they have been outside their homes at all other
outside their homes at all other than for exercise or to see close
than for exercise or to see dose families,
than for exercise or to see close families, perhaps in gardens and
families, perhaps in gardens and things like that. They will be going
things like that. They will be going against the advice of what mum and
against the advice of what mum and dad or parents or caregivers have
dad or parents or caregivers have been telling them over the last few
been telling them over the last few months, to keep your distance, keep
months, to keep your distance, keep away from people, don’t go places
away from peopla, don’t go places where
away from people, don’t go places where there might be other people,
where there might be other people, so there is going to be a lot going
so there is going to be a lot going on, but also somebody’s transition
on, but also somebodrs transition to a new
on, but also somebody’s transition to a new school, there is added
to a new school, there is added anxiety, stress and worry about that
anxiety, stress and worry about that as well. What is the best advice for
as well. what is the best advice for parents on
as well. What is the best advice for parents on managing the transition?
parents on managing the transition? Allow yourself to be human, try and
Allow yourself to be human, try and put yourself in your child’s shoes 3
put yourself in your child’s shoes a bit, but also
put yourself in your child’s shoes 3 bit, but also know that children
bit, but also know that children don’t yet have fully functional
don’t yet have fully functional brains, so they don’t have their
brains, so they don’t have their frontal lobe is as yet, so can’t
frontal lobe is as yet, so can’t necessarily think through the full
necessarily think through the full consequences and implications, and
consequences and implications, and the full gravity of this global
the full gravity of this global pandemic situation we find ourselves
pandemic situation we find ourselves in, so allow yourself to not be an
in, so allow yourself to not be an expert. None of us are an expert in
expert. None of us are an expert in this. None of us have facilitated a
this. None of us have facilitated a return to school for our children or
return to school for our children or a return to work if we have not yet
a return to work if we have not yet done that, so I guess have an open
done that, so I guess have an open and honest policy, where you can
and honest policy, where you ran talk
and honest policy, where you can talk about anything that worries
talk about anything that worries 7°“-
talk about anything that worries you, and I will be saying to my
you, and I will be saying to my children, we are not quite sure how
children, we are not quite sure how it’s going to work out, but we are
it’s going to work out, but we are going to try and do what is asked of
going to try and do what is asked of us and see how it goes, and let me
us and see how it goes, and let me know if something doesn’t sit right.
know if something doesn’t sit right. What
know if something doesn’t sit right. what you are
know if something doesn’t sit right. What you are saying is excellent
what you are saying is excellent advice
What you are saying is excellent advice and it doesn’t always come
advice and it doesn’t always come easily or naturally, it is often
easily or naturally, it is often normal and understandable first
normal and understandable first response when a child is distressed
response when a child is distressed is to say, don’t worry, it’s going
is to say, don’t worry, it’s going to be fine, and try and brush it
to be fine, and try and brush it off. what
to be fine, and try and brush it off. What impact does that have on a
off. what impact does that have on a child who
off. What impact does that have on a child who is feeling in need of
child who is feeling in need of being heard? Of course, as humans,
being heard? Of course, as humans, we really are not great at
we really are not great at tolerating distress in other people,
tolarating distress in other peopla, and
tolerating distress in other people, and that is around grief, that is
and that is around grief, that is around anxiety. We want other people
around anxiety. We want other people to feel good. We don’t want people
to feel good. We don’t want peopla to
to feel good. We don’t want people to feel awful. It’s hard to watch as
to feel awful. It’s hard to watch as a human, to see other people being
a human, to see other people being distressed, so there can be a
distressed, so there ran be a natural
distressed, so there can be a natural tendency to try and distract
natural tendency to try and distract somebody and cheer them up and
somebody and cheer them up and direct them in a slightly different
direct them in a slightly different perspective, but what we need to do
perspective, but what we need to do is go, gosh, I know, that is really
is go, gosh, I know, that is really tricky, isn’t it, how did that make
tricky, isn’t it, how did that make you feel? Is there anything I can do
you feel? Is there anything I ran do to help?
you feel? Is there anything I can do to help? Rather than necessarily
to help? Rather than necessarily trying to fix a problem which might
trying to fix a problem which might not be fixable at this stage. This
not be fixable at this stage. This is brand—new territory. Some simple
is brand-new territory. Some simple words
is brand—new territory. Some simple words where you are not trying to
words where you are not trying to fix ran
words where you are not trying to fix can actually have a greater
fix ran actually have a greater result in
fix can actually have a greater result in terms of actually fixing
result in terms of actually fixing how they are feeling, is that what
how they are feeling, is that what you are saying? Absolutely, it’s
you are saying? Absolutely, it’s about being validated and contained
about being validated and contained and heard, and I guess what my
and heard, and I guess what my profession are really good at is
profession are really good at is having those difficult
having those difficult conversations, but it’s something
conversations, but it’s something that parents don’t need to be shying
that parents don’t need to be shying away from, you don’t need to be
away from, you don’t need to be thinking, gosh, I have to keep my
thinking, gosh, I have to keep my child jolly all the time, they still
child jolly all the time, they still have to go to school tomorrow, but
have to go to school tomorrow, but what is important is in terms of
what is important is in terms of trauma debrief, mini ones, having a
trauma debrief, mini ones, having a chance to think about how it is felt
chance to think about how it is felt at the time, so we have a tendency
at the time, so we have a tendency to say, did you have a really good
to say, did you have a really good day, was it brilliant, did you love
day, was it brilliant, did you love it? And sometimes it’s useful to
it? And sometimes it’s useful to have a conversation about what was
have a conversation about what was the trickiest thing you did today,
the trickiest thing you did today, was anything surprising or a bit
was anything surprising or a bit scary? with
was anything surprising or a bit scary? With a child’s experience in
scary? with a child’s experience in their day, we
scary? With a child’s experience in their day, we don’t need to shy away
their day, we don’t need to shy away from that. We can give a forum, we
from that. We ran give a fomm, we ran hear negative
from that. We can give a forum, we can hear negative stuff as well as
ran hear negative stuff as well as good stuff.
can hear negative stuff as well as good stuff. What advice to the many
good stuff. what advice to the many parents who
good stuff. What advice to the many parents who will find themselves in
parents who will find themselves in the position of saying, what
the position of saying, what happened at school today, and the
happened at school today, and the chance has come of nothing, want to
chance has come of nothing, want to talk. what
chance has come of nothing, want to talk. What is best to do? That’s a
talk. what is best to do? That’s a puule and
talk. What is best to do? That’s a puzzle and sometimes children don’t
puule and sometimes children don’t want to
puzzle and sometimes children don’t want to talk about it the second
want to talk about it the second they get in, but for children with
they get in, but for children with neurodevelopmental conditions they
neurodevelopmental conditions they never want to talk about anyway, and
never want to talk about anyway, and sometimes it can be useful to have a
sometimes it ran be useful to have a checkbox
sometimes it can be useful to have a checkbox of things a child can go to
checkbox of things a child ran go to if
checkhox of things a child ran go to if they feel
checkbox of things a child can go to if they feel they want to talk but
if they feel they want to talk but struggle to find their words. It was
struggle to find their words. It was the best thing that happened today,
the best thing that happened today, was anything worrying, would you
was anything worrying, would you want to talk to mummy or daddy or
want to talk to mummy or daddy or somebody else about whatever
somebody else about whatever happened today, not everybody wants
happened today, not everybody wants to talk about it the second they get
to talk about it the second they get in, and it might be an opportunity
in, and it might be an opportunity get back to basics and think about
get back to basis and think about trying to eat
get back to basics and think about trying to eat around a table or
trying to eat around a table or trying to eat at the same time
trying to eat at the same time without a TV on or a distraction,
without a TV on or a distraction, just to up that communication and
just to up that communication and see what comes out and to use it as
see what comes out and to use it as a space of containment. We have been
a space of containment. We have been around our children for months now.
around our children for months now. It’s going to be different. Change
It’s going to be different. Change is tricky. We have
It’s going to be different. Change is tricky. We havejust
It’s going to be different. Change is tricky. We have just got to allow
is tricky. We have just got to allow ourselves and our children to grow
ourselves and our children to grow into that change. We can’t expect
into that change. We can’t expect ourselves to be experts in things we
ourselves to be experts in things we have never done before. Advice,
have never done before. Advice, thank you very much.
More new on the group of campaigners representing families whose loved
ones have died from coronavirus, who have accused Prime Minister
BorisJohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
The Covid—19 Bereaved Families forJustice group said it wrote
to MrJohnson five times to request a meeting.
MrJohnson responded by sending a letter where he passed
on his deepest sympathies but said that he would not be able
to meet them as a group.
Joining me now from Westminster is Labour’s Shadow Health Minister,
Justin Madders.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Can you understand why he wouldn’t meet
understand why he wouldn’t meet them? I can’t,
understand why he wouldn’t meet them? Ican’t, I’m
understand why he wouldn’t meet them? I can’t, I’m afraid.
understand why he wouldn’t meet them? Ican’t, I’m afraid. I
understand why he wouldn’t meet them? I can’t, I’m afraid. Ithink
them? Iran’t, I’m afraid. Ithink his
them? I can’t, I’m afraid. Ithink his behaviour is beyond contempt, to
his behaviour is beyond contempt, to refuse to meet them is bad enough
refuse to meet them is bad enough but to go back on his word, having
but to go back on his word, having previously agreed to meet them is,
previously agreed to meet them is, in my opinion, plain cruel. We have
in my opinion, plain cmel. We have had a sum
in my opinion, plain cruel. We have had a sum of U—turns from the
had a sum of U-turns from the government,
had a sum of U—turns from the government, and a U—turn on this
government, and a U-turn on this would be
government, and a U—turn on this would be most welcome as soon as
would be most welcome as soon as possible, please. He has said he is
possible, please. He has said he is acutely conscious of the letter will
acutely conscious of the letter will be of little comfort against the
be of little comfort against the grief and heartbreak the families
grief and heartbreak the families have suffered, but he says he wants
have suffered, but he says he wants to offer his sincere condolences to
to offer his sincere condolances to all
to offer his sincere condolences to all the families who have lost loved
all the families who have lost loved ones. Even those from a
all the families who have lost loved ones. Even those from 3 experience
ones. Even those from a experience how
ones. Even those from 3 experience how debilitating it affects up and
how debilitating it affects up and ran only
how debilitating it affects up and can only imagine the pain and
ran only imagine the pain and despair of
can only imagine the pain and despair of those bereaved families,
despair of those bereaved families, and he goes on to talk about how the
and he goes on to talk about how the government is learning lessons. In
government is learning lessons. In reality, what comfort can he offer
reality, what comfort ran he offer the
reality, what comfort can he offer the families? Well, he can do more
the families? Well, he ran do more than have
the families? Well, he can do more than have words, he can act and show
than have words, he ran act and show that he has
than have words, he can act and show that he has learnt lessons, and I
that he has learnt lassons, and I think, if you
that he has learnt lessons, and I think, if you look back over the
think, if you look back over the course of this pandemic, there has
course of this pandemic, there has been a series of questions about
been a series of questions about government decisions, be it on PPE,
government decisions, be it on PPE, preparations in the first place,
preparations in the first place, social care, and families who have
social rare, and families who have lost
social care, and families who have lost loved ones will want to know
lost loved ones will want to know that the government have understood
that the government have understood where it’s gone wrong and have put
where it’s gone wrong and have put in place measures to prevent a
in place measures to prevent a repeat of some of the horrific
repeat of some of the horrific scenes we’ve seen this year. Having
scenes we’ve seen this year. Having a conversation with the families
a conversation with the families about that would be a good starting
about that would be a good starting point in terms of helping people
point in terms of helping people understand the government is, in a
understand the government is, in a way, getting things right. Just to
way, getting things right. just to read a
way, getting things right. Just to read a bit more from his letter, he
read a bit more from his letter, he does address partly what you are
does address partly what you are saying, he says, I will of course
saying, he says, I will of course meet members of the public and key
meet members of the public and key workers who have been bereaved as
workers who have been bereaved as part of Covid—19. Each story of loss
part of Covid—19. Each story of loss motivates me to ensure we beat this
motivates me to ensure we beat this virus together. He says, much as I
virus together. He says, much as I would wish to be able to offer my
would wish to be able to offer my condolences in person to all of
condolances in person to all of those
condolences in person to all of those who have suffered loss, that
those who have suffered loss, that is not possible so I am and am —— I
is not possibla so I am and am -- I am unabla to
is not possible so I am and am —— I am unable to meet with you and he
am unable to meet with you and he says, as for the issue of an
says, as for the issue of an independent enquiry, the government
independent enquiry, the government is clear there will be opportunities
is clear there will be opportunities to look back and analyse and reflect
to look back and analyse and reﬂect on all aspects
to look back and analyse and reflect on all aspects of Covid—19, and he
on all aspects of Covid-19, and he says, as I have
on all aspects of Covid—19, and he says, as I have previously made
says, as I have previously made clear, this will include an enquiry
clear, this will include an enquiry at the appropriate time. Isn’t that
at the appropriate time. Isn’t that fair enough?
at the appropriate time. Isn’t that fairenough? He
at the appropriate time. Isn’t that fair enough? He is meeting people,
fair enough? He is meeting people, he can’t meet everybody. We are not
he can’t meet everybody. We are not expecting him to meet everybody, but
expecting him to meet everybody, but he has had a specific request five
he has had a specific request five times from this campaign group to
times from this campaign group to meet with him, and I think it would
meet with him, and I think it would be really useful
meet with him, and I think it would be really usefulfor
meet with him, and I think it would be really useful for him to do that,
be really useful for him to do that, because although he can talk about
because although he ran talk about an
because although he can talk about an independent enquiry, it doesn’t
an independent enquiry, it doesn’t have the questions that the bereaved
have the questions that the bereaved families want to see that he won’t
families want to see that he won’t have answered all the questions that
have answered all the questions that we need to know the answer to, and
we need to know the answer to, and it won’t necessarily show that the
it won’t necessarily show that the government have learnt lessons from
government have learnt lessons from the past six months. I really don’t
the past six months. I really don’t see what the problem is in having a
see what the problem is in having a meeting, and I think it would go a
meeting, and I think it would go a long way to showing the public that
long way to showing the public that he is determined to get things right
he is determined to get things right if we do get a second way. What is
if we do get a second way. what is your view on the
if we do get a second way. What is your view on the timing of
your view on the timing of independent enquiry? I think it
independent enquiry? I think it needs to be discussed with the
needs to be discussed with the bereaved families. You could do
bereaved families. You could do something quite quickly now, I
something quite quickly now, I think, or you could actually wait
think, or you could actually wait until after the winter and do
until after the winter and do something far more in—depth and
something far more in—depth and detailed. I think the important
detailed. I think the important thing is that the Prime Minister
thing is that the Prime Minister demonstrates to those families that
demonstrates to those families that he is taking on board their
he is taking on board their concerns, and the best way for him
concerns, and the best way for him to do that is to meet with them and
to do that is to meet with them and discuss those issues. Thank you for
discuss those issues. Thank you for joining us.
In 2015, in one extraordinary week, Europe experienced a series
of events which continue to reverberate today.
More than a million migrants were on the move.
From Germany’s open—door policy to Hungary stopping
trains to the border, each day revealed new tensions
that tested European solidarity to its limits.
And it was exactly five years ago today that one of the most shocking
images emerged — the body of a Syrian toddler, Alan Kurdi,
washed up on a beach in Turkey.
He had drowned, along with his mother and five—year—old brother,
in a desperate attempt to reach Greece, and safety in Europe.
His death became a symbol of the suffering of migrant families
and the dangers they faced.
His father survived, and he’s been speaking
to our correspondent, Hanan Razek.
A warning that his report contains upsetting images.
He would have been seven years old this year.
Alan Kurdi, the Syrian toddler whose body washed
ashore at a Turkish beach, after the boat that was carrying him
and his family capsized in the Mediterranean Sea.
His mum and older brother also died.
Only the father survived.
Five years on, Abdullah Kurdi is trying to rebuild his life.
He’s had another son whose name is Alan.
TRANSLATION: I named him after his brother Alan
so I remembered him.
God sent me a child who looks like Alan and has the same character.
I can’t wait to go home to see him.
I feel that he’s a godsend.
But the shadows of the past are still alive.
TRANSLATION: It’s impossible to forget what happened.
I only blame myself but I was forced to as a father because I could
picture them in a school and I wanted a better life for them.
But it didn’t go as I planned.
I regret it.
Alan’s death shook the world.
It led to Europe opening its doors and hearts to refugees and taking
in over1 million of them in 2015.
Last year, a German charity named one of its rescue ships Alan Kurdi.
The ship has helped rescue almost 700 migrants in the Mediterranean
waters between Libya and southern Europe, but its team
says the picture has got more grim recently.
It’s not that we cannot handle this financially or otherwise,
as the European Union, so we have the means to make
a change and to help those people and take care of them.
But we don’t do it, we choose not to and I think that’s the most
frustrating part to me.
It’s estimated that nearly 17,000 people have died
in the Mediterranean Sea since Alan Kurdi’s death.
In recent years, Europe has made deals with countries like Turkey
and Libya to help curb the flow of migrants to the continent.
Measures that have helped slow down the flow of migrants but didn’t stop
tragedies from taking place.
Hanan Razek, BBC News.
You can find more on this story on our website.
Go to bbc.com and look for stories with the title
"Europe’s migrant crisis".
In them, BBC correspondents, experts and those who made
the journey talk about how that dramatic time changed Europe
and the lives of those involved.
The headlines on BBC News...
After almost six months at home, it’s back to school for millions
more children in England and Wales.
Lockdown restrictions in the UK affecting more than a million people
in parts of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West
Yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
1A people have gone on trial in Paris charged with helping
the gunmen who carried out the deadly Charlie Hebdo
attack five years ago.
Now, back to the coronavirus restrictions across the UK.
Eight areas of the north of England — where people were told in late
July there was to be no visiting another household,
even in a garden — are having those restrictions lifted
today, although local leaders in two of them —
Bolton and Trafford — would have preferred to keep them
because they’re worried about a spike in infections
in recent days.
Let’s get more on this from our correspondent,
Richard Galpin.
Restrictions have eased in some parts
of the north—west — but not everyone is happy
about it.
ii
It seems to be a co—ticket situation
It seems to be a co-ticket situation at the
It seems to be a co—ticket situation at the moment. —— a chaotic
at the moment. -- a chaotic situation.
at the moment. —— a chaotic situation. Widespread easing in
situation. widespread easing in terms
situation. Widespread easing in terms of Greater Manchester,
terms of Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West Yorkshire, but,
Lanashire and West Yorkshire, but, and that
Lancashire and West Yorkshire, but, and that means, of course, that
and that means, of course, that members of two households can meet
members of two households ran meet in their
members of two households can meet in their homes and gardens, as long
in their homes and gardens, as long as you maintain social distancing,
as you maintain social distancing, that remains key, but then you have
that remains key, but then you have this situation in Bolton, Trafford
this situation in Bolton, Trafford and Stockport, asking for a delay in
and Stockport, asking for a delay in the easing, because they are saying
the easing, because they are saying that the infection rates are going
that the infection rates are going “P
that the infection rates are going up and it isn’t safe to be actually
up and it isn’t safe to be actually doing this. We have heard from the
doing this. We have heard from the Greater Manchester mare, Andy
Greater Manchester mare, Andy Burnham, saying that easing is
Burnham, saying that easing is illogical with cases increasing, so
illogical with cases increasing, so it’s a
illogical with rases increasing, so it’s a really
illogical with cases increasing, so it’s a really messy situation at the
it’s a really messy situation at the moment, and it’s not clear how this
moment, and it’s not clear how this is going to be clarified and how
is going to be clarified and how quickly it’s going to be clarified.
quickly it’s going to be clarified. Why
quickly it’s going to be clarified. why have
quickly it’s going to be clarified. Why have they been eased if there
why have they been eased if there are still
Why have they been eased if there are still concerns around rising
are still concerns around rising infections? There has been a sudden
infections? There has been a sudden spike. It seemed like the situation
spike. It seemed like the situation was OK but now they are saying there
was OK but now they are saying there has been a significant spike, so
has been a significant spike, so therefore the situation has changed
therefore the situation has changed on the ground, and the whole idea is
on the ground, and the whole idea is to be able to react as quickly as
to be able to react as quickly as possibla in
to be able to react as quickly as possible in these situations.
possibla in these situations. Glasgow
possible in these situations. Glasgow and surrounding areas have
Glasgow and surrounding areas have new restrictions. Tell us more. We
new restrictions. Tell us more. We don’t have that much detail but they
don’t have that much detail but they are saying, because of an increase
are saying, because of an increase in cases, people should not visit
in cases, peopla should not visit other
in cases, people should not visit other people’s houses, and that will
other people’s houses, and that will remain in force for the next two
remain in force for the next two weeks. And the issue of tourism
weeks. And the issue of tourism still ongoing, that flight back from
still ongoing, that ﬂight back from Zakynthos,
still ongoing, that flight back from Zakynthos, and what should happen in
Zakynthos, and what should happen in future with English tourists is
future with English tourists is being discussed later. As expected?
being discussed later. As expected? We have to wait and see, but whether
We have to wait and see, but whether the government will decide there
the government will decide there should be automatic quarantine for
should be automatic quarantine for anybody coming back from Greece,
anybody coming back from Greece, again, they are very worried about
again, they are very worried about the situation, particularly on the
the situation, particularty on the island
the situation, particularly on the island of Sante, where people have
island of Santa, where peopla have come
island of Sante, where people have come back and there have been
come back and there have been clusters of cases in the UK,
clusters of cases in the UK, particularty
clusters of cases in the UK, particularly lots of young people
particularty lots of young peopla partying on
particularly lots of young people partying on Zante, a real party
partying on Zante, a real party island, and then they are
island, and then they are re—importing cases into the UK, so
re-importing cases into the UK, so that is
re—importing cases into the UK, so that is another big worry which the
that is another big worry which the government needs to deal with. Thank
government needs to deal with. Thank you.
Members of the exam regulator in England, quual, have been
appearing before MPs this morning to answer questions on what went
wrong with this year’s GSCE and A—level results.
Students didn’t sit exams and were awarded grades based
on an algorithm instead.
After two weeks of controversy over the fairness of the algorithm,
the Education Secretary, Gavin Williamson, decided
to revert to what are known as centre—assessed grades.
Speaking earlier, the Chair of quual highlighted
where mistakes were made.
The fundamental mistake was to believe that this would ever
be acceptable to the public.
Perhaps I might illustrate that point, give a sense
of what I mean by that.
We were looking at this in terms of particular ideas of fairness,
fairness across the whole population, the probability that
somebody would get a grade, but acknowledging from the outset
that it would not be anything like as accurate as exams.
I think what we now realise is that...
If you have 1,000 students that have an 80% chance
of getting an A grade, they would regard themselves,
quite reasonably as A grade students.
In
Ina
In a normal year, 200 of those students would not get there a
students would not get there a grade, they get a B grade.
Mr Taylor also said that quual wanted
students to sit exams, but it was the Education
Secretary, Gavin Williamson, who decided that they would be
cancelled and replaced with a system of calculated grades.
Our initial advice to the Secretary of State was that the best way to
handle this was to try to hold exams in a socially distanced manner.
That our second option was to delay exams,
but the third option if neither of these were acceptable would be
to have to try to look at some form of calculated grade.
We did also look at whether that might be a teacher’s
certificate, rather than attempting to replicate exam grades.
That was our advice to ministers.
It was the Secretary of State who then
subsequently took the decision and announced without further
consultation with quual that exams were to be cancelled and the system
of calculated grades was to be implemented.
Mr Taylor was also asked about the adjustment to the appeals
process, which was introduced in England following similar
problems in Scotland.
He said that quual advised at the time that the system,
which was based on mock grades, was a risky option.
The initial response in Scotland was driven by a view that it had
unfairly penalised disadvantaged communities
and, as I have said, we were confident that our
approach was not unfairly penalising disadvantaged
communities.
The second thing to say about this is
that the decision to change policy on the basis that there was no
public confidence was obviously something that
ministers would need to agree with.
It was on that day that the Secretary of State decided
that the Government’s response in terms of policy adjustment
in relation to Scotland would be to introduce this new form
of an appeal based on mock grades.
Our advice was that this was an extremely risky
thing to do because
we were very unclear how it could be delivered in a way that was
consistent with quual’s legal duties.
That select committee hearing, a sign of the times of how these
sign of the times of how these things are being done, and it meant
things are being done, and it meant a newborn baby was able to interact
a newborn baby was able to interact the proceedings in the most adorable
the proceedings in the most adorable way. Basically, it’s the newborn
way. Basically, it’s the newborn baby of the MP for Stoke, Jonathan
baby of the MP for Stoke, jonathan Kallis, and
baby of the MP for Stoke, Jonathan Kallis, and here is the moment when
Kallis, and here is the moment when he and his daughter caused the most
he and his daughter raused the most adorable
he and his daughter caused the most adorable moment. Extensive guidance,
adorable moment. Extensive guidance, which we updated when it came to us,
which we updated when it came to us, and hence the centre side of the
and hence the centre side of the declaration...
declaration... BABY NOISES.
BABY NOISES. Had the exams taken place. I want to
Had the exams taken place. I want to go back to the chair’s question,
go back to the chair’s question, about
go back to the chair’s question, about the testing of this algorithm.
about the testing of this algorithm. Did you mn
about the testing of this algorithm. Did you run any of the... Isn’t that
Did you mn any of the... Isn’t that brilliant? I
Did you run any of the... Isn’t that brilliant? I loved how he looked
brilliant? I loved how he looked like he was caught in something, but
like he was taught in something, but it’s those
like he was caught in something, but it’s those moments that underline
it’s those moments that undertine how
it’s those moments that underline how everybody is human, we are all
how everybody is human, we are all dealing with the same things, a Tory
dealing with the same things, a Tory MP trying to do his
dealing with the same things, a Tory MP trying to do hisjob and question
MP trying to do his job and question quual over
MP trying to do hisjob and question quual over what happened with the
quual over what happened with the exams, and he is
quual over what happened with the exams, and he isjuggling childcare
exams, and he is juggling childcare as well
exams, and he isjuggling childcare as well to stop and he managed to
as well to stop and he managed to soothe the baby put up I keep saying
soothe the baby put up I keep saying baby berause
soothe the baby put up I keep saying baby because I don’t know whether
baby because I don’t know whether it’s a little boy or a little girl.
it’s a little boy or a little girt. I don’t
it’s a little boy or a little girl. I don’t know when the baby was born
I don’t know when the baby was born or what the name is, but it was a
or what the name is, but it was a lovely moment. You are watching BBC
lovely moment. You are watching BBC News.
One of the most notorious figures from the Khmer Rouge regime in
from the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia has died after saving a
Cambodia has died after saving a life sentence. Known as Comrade
life sentence. Known as Comrade Duch, who was responsible sort
Duch, who was responsible sort sending more than 1A,000 people to
sending more than 14,000 peopla to their
sending more than 1A,000 people to their deaths in the 19705. He
their deaths in the 19705. He oversaw a brutal
their deaths in the 19705. He oversaw a brutaljail
their deaths in the 1970s. He oversaw a brutal jail system
their deaths in the 1970s. He oversaw a brutaljail system in
oversaw a bmtal jail system in which gods,
oversaw a brutaljail system in which gods, often teenagers,
which gods, often teenagers, tortured prisoners into confessing
tortured prisoners into confessing to fictitious crimes. Now we said
to fictitious crimes. Now we said goodbye to viewers watching around
goodbye to viewers watching around the world. See you soon. We are now
the world. See you soon. We are now waiting for Prime Minister’s
waiting for Prime Minister’s Questions, due to start at midday.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
In the next 2A hours, many of us
In the next 24 hours, many of us will see
In the next 2A hours, many of us will see some rain and it will also
will see some rain and it will also be quite windy, particularly in the
be quite windy, particularty in the north
be quite windy, particularly in the north and west. Through the early
north and west. Through the earty part of the
north and west. Through the early part of the afternoon, still largely
part of the afternoon, still largely dry in eastern areas, but the cloud
dry in eastern areas, but the cloud will build ahead of this band of
will build ahead of this band of rain moving west to eased, and then
rain moving west to eased, and then another band comes in which will be
another band comes in which will be sinking south. Where we see greens
sinking south. where we see greens and yellows,
sinking south. Where we see greens and yellows, that is telling you you
and yellows, that is telling you you ran expect
and yellows, that is telling you you can expect heavy bursts, and don’t
ran expect heavy bursts, and don’t forget the
can expect heavy bursts, and don’t forget the gusty winds. This evening
forget the gusty winds. This evening and overnight, the first band plays
and overnight, the first band plays into the North Sea and the second
into the North Sea and the second hand continues to journey south,
band continues to journey south, with a lot of clout ahead of it.
with a lot of clout ahead of it. Behind it, some clear skies and
Behind it, some clear skies and showers, but it will not be a cold
showers, but it will not be a cold night with most of us staying in
night with most of us staying in double figures. Tomorrow, this band
double figures. Tomorrow, this band of cloud and patchy rain continues
of cloud and patchy rain continues to sink southwards. Behind it, a lot
to sink southwards. Behind it, a lot of dry weather and a lot of
of dry weather and a lot of sunshine, but also a few showers.
sunshine, but also a few showers. Temperatures, 15 to 21 or 22 and,
Temperatures, 15 to 21 or 22 and, once again, brisk winds.
In a few moments the first Prime Minister’s Questions
since the summer break will take place in Parliament.
It’s another hybrid session, with some MPs
It’s another hybrid session, with some Mstoining by Link, Zuma link
some MPs joining by Link, Zuma link or
some Mstoining by Link, Zuma link or whatever they are using. Alex
or whatever they are using. Alex Forsyth is at Westminster. —— Zoom
Forsyth is at Westminster. -- Zoom link. They have
Forsyth is at Westminster. —— Zoom link. They have been for some time,
link. They have been for some time, so it’s full back to business almost
so it’s full back to business almost as normal for
so it’s full back to business almost as normalforfor
so it’s full back to business almost as normal for for what are you
as normal for for what are you expecting? There is definitely a
expecting? There is definitely a markedly different feeling
markedly different feeling Westminster yesterday and today,
Westminster yesterday and today, because there are more MPs back now
because there are more MP5 back now than there were initially during
than there were initially during those little months of lockdown, and
those little months of lockdown, and we have just come out of the summer
we have just come out of the summer recess, so it’s the first time we
recess, so it’s the first time we will see Boris
recess, so it’s the first time we will see BorisJohnson and Keir
will see BorisJohnson and Keir Starmer across the dispatch box and
Starmer across the dispatch box and there is probably quite a lot that
there is probably quite a lot that could come up because, over the
could come up because, over the summer, there has been quite a lot
summer, there has been quite a lot that the government has had to deal
that the government has had to deal with, that exams, what happened with
with, that exams, what happened with the A—levels and GCSE results, where
the A-levels and GGE results, where the cupboard
the A—levels and GCSE results, where the cupboard had to U—turn and came
the cupboard had to U-turn and fame in for a lot of
the cupboard had to U—turn and came in for a lot of flak, questions over
in for a lot of ﬂak, questions over the economy,
in for a lot of flak, questions over the economy, because some of the key
the economy, because some of the key support schemes, they are coming to
support schemes, they are coming to an end, so it’s about government
an end, so it’s about government plans about that, it’s about how the
plans about that, it’s about how the government might pay for some of the
government might pay for some of the big spending bills it has racked up
big spending bills it has racked up as it tried to put in some support
as it tried to put in some support throughout this pandemic, and of
throughout this pandemic, and of course today we have had this story
course today we have had this story about some of the families who lost
about some of the families who lost loved ones during the Covid pandemic
loved ones during the Covid pandemic who wanted a meeting with the Prime
who wanted a meeting with the Prime Minister, and they say today they
Minister, and they say today they don’t think that’s going to happen
don’t think that’s going to happen because they have received a letter
because they have received a letter from Boris
because they have received a letter from Borisjohnson, so it’s possible
from Doris johnson, so it’s possibla that
from Borisjohnson, so it’s possible that could come up, so there is
that could come up, so there is plenty there, but as ever with Prime
plenty there, but as ever with Prime Minister’s Questions what is also
Minister’s Questions what is also important is the mood in the House
important is the mood in the House of Commons, and we know that, before
of Commons, and we know that, before recess, during lockdown, some people
recess, during lockdown, some peopla thought that
recess, during lockdown, some people thought that Keir Starmer, the
thought that Keir Starmer, the labour
thought that Keir Starmer, the Labour leader, had the advantage
Labour leader, had the advantage because they said he had a very calm
because they said he had a very calm “Y
because they said he had a very calm way for questioning, which really
way for questioning, which really pinned Boris
way for questioning, which really pinned Borisjohnson, and Boris
pinned Boris johnson, and Boris johnson did
pinned Borisjohnson, and Boris Johnson did better with the support
johnson did better with the support of his
Johnson did better with the support of his backbenchers, so we will see
of his backbenchers, so we will see how that might feel different today,
how that might feel different today, and it’s what comes up from the
and it’s what comes up from the backbenchers themselves, what
backbenchers themselves, what questions they choose to put to the
questions they choose to put to the Prime Minister and how he responds.
Prime Minister and how he responds. And what is the mood within the
And what is the mood within the Party is a bad... The Parties, the
Party is a bad... The Parties, the state of the leadership? Because
state of the leadership? Because obviously these have been testing
obviously these have been testing months. Yeah, you have to remember
months. Yeah, you have to remember that Boris
months. Yeah, you have to remember that BorisJohnson got elected with
that Boris johnson got eluted with only an 80
that BorisJohnson got elected with only an 80 seat majority only in
only an 80 seat majority only in December and then of course the
December and then of course the country and the world was hit with a
country and the world was hit with a global pandemic, so they might have
global pandemic, so they might have knocked his original priorities of
knocked his original priorities of course, but from a Government
course, but from a Government perspective what they are hoping to
perspective what they are hoping to do is rest firmly back onto that
do is rest firmly back onto that ground, the things about the
ground, the things about the economic recovery and making sure
economic recovery and making sure those seats they won last year are
those seats they won last year are well catered for, there has been
well catered for, there has been some real discontent though on the
some real discontent though on the Tory backbenchers about how the
Tory backbenchers about how the Government has handled all of this.
Government has handled all of this. Some coming out publicly, saying
Some coming out publicly, saying that the Government and its U—turns
that the Government and its U-turns and shift in
that the Government and its U—turns and shift in policy aren’t the way
and shift in policy aren’t the way to mn
and shift in policy aren’t the way to nm a
and shift in policy aren’t the way to run a Government. Without some
to nm a Government. without some pretty
to mn a Government. without some pretty strong
to run a Government. Without some pretty strong criticism, so I think
pretty strong criticism, so I think Boris johnson
pretty strong criticism, so I think BorisJohnson has got something of a
Boris johnson has got something of a Party
BorisJohnson has got something of a Party management problem, so a lot
Party management problam, so a lot of peopla will
Party management problem, so a lot of people will be looking at his
of people will be looking at his performance today from his own
performance today from his own backbenchers on what he says and his
backbenchers on what he says and his tone and message and how he comes
tone and message and how he comes across and we also understand the
across and we also understand the Prime Minister could be meeting with
Prime Minister could be meeting with some backbenchers this afternoon,
some backbenchers this afternoon, perhaps in part to address those
perhaps in part to address those concerns and to be seen to be
concerns and to be seen to be visible and to try to make sure that
visible and to try to make sure that those rumblings of discontent that
those rumblings of discontent that the Tories and he is are an
the Tories and he is are an unhappy... Boris
the Tories and he is are an unhappy... BorisJohnson has started
unhappy... Boris johnson has started speaking. Thank
unhappy... BorisJohnson has started speaking. Thank you very much. Three
speaking. Thank you very much. Three weeks ago today a community in my
weeks ago today a community in my constituency of... And I think it is
constituency of... And I think it is indeed the entire country was rocked
indeed the entire country was rocked by the events on the railway line
by the events on the railway line just south of us, the tragic events
just south of us, the tragic events in which three men tragically lost
in which three men tragically lost their lives. I’m sure my right
their lives. I’m sure my right honourable friend and indeed the
honourable friend and indeed the whole House will
honourable friend and indeed the whole House willjoin me in sending
whola House will join me in sending our
whole House will join me in sending our deepest
whole House willjoin me in sending our deepest condolences to the
our deepest condolences to the families and friends of those three
families and friends of those three men today as well as our heartfelt
men today as well as our heartfelt gratitude to the incredible men and
gratitude to the incredible men and women of the emergency services and
women of the emergency services and multiple agencies who worked in an
multiple agencies who worked in an incredibly difficult conditions to
incredibly difficult conditions to help the survivors from the
help the survivors from the accident. The interim report is on
accident. The interim report is on the death desk of the Transport
the death desk of the Transport Secretary as we speak and I know the
Secretary as we speak and I know the full report will take time to run
full report will take time to mn its course,
full report will take time to run its course, as it is only right.
its course, as it is only right. What assurances can my right
What assurances can my right honourable friend give to my
honourable friend give to my constituents that the serious
constituents that the serious questions they have will be
questions they have will be answered, any recommendations will
answered, any recommendations will be implement it and the Government
be implement it and the Government will do anything it can to prevent
will do anything it ran to prevent an
will do anything it can to prevent an accident like this ever happening
an accident like this ever happening again? I
an accident like this ever happening again? Ithank
an accident like this ever happening again? I thank my honourable friend
again? I thank my honourable friend and I know the whole cathouse House
and I know the whola rathouse House who want
and I know the whole cathouse House who want to
and I know the whola rathouse House who want to join
and I know the whole cathouse House who want to join me
and I know the whole cathouse House who want tojoin me in
and I know the whole cathouse House who want to join me in sending
and I know the whole cathouse House who want tojoin me in sending our
who want tojoin me in sending our condolences to the family and
condolences to the family and friends of those who died. I would
friends of those who died. I would like to thank my writer friend who
like to thank my writer friend who paid tribute to the emergency
paid tribute to the emergency services and the bravery that they
services and the bravery that they showed. British Railways are among
showed. British Railways are among the safest in Europe, partly because
the safest in Europe, partly because we take accidents like this so
we take accidents like this so seriously and therefore we must
seriously and therefore we must ensure that we learn the lessons of
ensure that we learn the lessons of this tragic event to make sure that
this tragic event to make sure that no such incident recurs in the
no such incident recurs in the future. Now I come to the Leader of
future. Now I come to the Leader of the Opposition, Keir Starmer. Thank
the Opposition, Keir Starmer. Thank 7°“-
the Opposition, Keir Starmer. Thank you, ran I
the Opposition, Keir Starmer. Thank you, ran Ijoin
the Opposition, Keir Starmer. Thank you, can Ijoin with the Prime
you, ran Ijoin with the Prime Minister
you, can Ijoin with the Prime Minister on those comments about the
Minister on those comments about the tragic events of
Minister on those comments about the tragic events ofjust a few
Minister on those comments about the tragic events of just a few weeks
tragic events ofjust a few weeks ago? Mr
tragic events of just a few weeks ago? Mr Speaker, can also begin by
ago? Mr Speaker, ran also begin by paying tribute
ago? Mr Speaker, can also begin by paying tribute to
ago? Mr Speaker, can also begin by paying tribute toJohn Hume, who
paying tribute to john Hume, who passed away
paying tribute toJohn Hume, who passed away during recess. He was a
passed away during recess. He was a beacon of light at the most troubled
beacon of light at the most troubled of times and he will be seriously
of times and he will be seriously missed. Let me start today with
missed. Let me start today with exams fiasco. On a day that
exams fiasco. On a day that thousands of rubles had their
thousands of rubles had their A-level
thousands of rubles had their A—level grades downgraded, the Prime
A-level grades downgraded, the Prime Minister
A—level grades downgraded, the Prime Minister said, and
A—level grades downgraded, the Prime Ministersaid, and I quote, the
A—level grades downgraded, the Prime Minister said, and I quote, the exam
Minister said, and I quote, the exam results are robust. They are good,
results are robust. They are good, they are dependable. The Education
they are dependabla. The Education Secretary has
they are dependable. The Education Secretary has said that it will
Secretary has said that it will absolutely not be a U—turn. Take a
absolutely not be a U-turn. Take a few days later, a
absolutely not be a U—turn. Take a few days later, a U—turn. We learned
few days later, a U-turn. We learned yesterday that
few days later, a U—turn. We learned yesterday that the Education
yesterday that the Education Secretary knew well in advance there
Secretary knew well in advance there was a problem with the algorithm, so
was a problem with the algorithm, so a straight answer to a straight
a straight answer to a straight question, please, Prime Minister.
question, please, Prime Minister. when did
question, please, Prime Minister. When did the Prime Minister
question, please, Prime Minister. When did the Prime Ministerfirst
when did the Prime Minister first know
When did the Prime Ministerfirst know there was a problem with the
know there was a problem with the algorithm? Mr Speaker, perhaps I
algorithm? Mr Speaker, perhapsl could begin
algorithm? Mr Speaker, perhaps I could begin by congratulating the
could begin by congratulating the right honourable gentleman on his
right honourable gentleman on his birthday and say to him that on the
birthday and say to him that on the exams and the stress that young
exams and the stress that young people have been through over the
people have been through over the summer both the Secretary of State
summer both the Secretary of State for Education and I understand very
for Education and I understand very well how difficult it has been for
well how difficult it has been for them and for their families going
them and for their families going through a pandemic at a time when we
through a pandemic at a time when we have not been able because of that
have not been able berause of that pandemic, in
have not been able because of that pandemic, in common with most other
pandemic, in common with most other countries in the world, to stage
countries in the world, to stage normal examinations. And as a result
normal examinations. And as a result of what we learned, about the... The
of what we learned, about the... The tests, the results that had come in,
tests, the results that had come in, we did institute a change. We did
we did institute a change. We did act. The students, pupils of this
act. The students, pupils of this country now do have their grades and
country now do have their grades and I really ask the right honourable
I really ask the right honourable gentleman whether he will
I really ask the right honourable gentleman whether he willjoin me in
gentleman whether he willjoin me in congratulating those pupils on their
congratulating those pupils on their hard work? And whether he agrees
hard work? And whether he agrees with me that they deserve the grades
with me that they deserve the grades they got? Keir Starmer! Mr Speaker,
they got? Keir Starmer! Mr Speaker, I have already expressed
I have already expressed congratulations to all those
congratulations to all those students and I do so again and I
students and I do so again and I want to go back to my question,
want to go back to my question, which the Prime Minister avoided and
which the Prime Minister avoided and I know why he avoided it. Because he
I know why he avoided it. Because he either knew there was a problem with
either knew there was a problem with the algorithm and did nothing or he
the algorithm and did nothing or he didn’t know when he should have. So
didn’t know when he should have. So let me ask again, when did the Prime
let me ask again, when did the Prime Minister
let me ask again, when did the Prime Ministerfirst know
let me ask again, when did the Prime Minister first know there would be a
Minister first know there would be a problem with the algorithm? Mr
problem with the algorithm? Mr Speaker, as he knows perfectly well
Speaker, as he knows perfectly well quual made it absolutely clear time
quual made it absolutely dear time and again that
quual made it absolutely clear time and again that in their view the
and again that in their view the system that was in place was robust.
system that was in place was robust. quual is, as he knows, an
quual is, as he knows, an independent organisation and credit
independent organisation and credit had to be given to their views. All
had to be given to their views. All summer long, Mr Speaker, he has been
summer long, Mr Speaker, he has been going around undermining confidence,
going around undermining confidence, spreading doubt is, in particular
spreading doubt is, in particular about the return to school in safe
about the return to school in safe conditions and... Today is a great
conditions and... Today is a great day because the parents of pupils of
day because the parents of pupils of this country, the teachers of this
this country, the teachers of this country are overwhelming approvingly
country are overwhelming approvingly him wrong. Proving the doubters
him wrong. Proving the doubters wrong, Mr Speaker, because they are
wrong, Mr Speaker, because they are going back to school in record
going back to school in record numbers, in spite of all the gloom
numbers, in spite of all the gloom that he tried to spread. I think the
that he tried to spread. I think the finding is today after three months
finding is today after three months of refusing to do so, as pupils go
of refusing to do so, as pupils go back to school if today finally he
back to school if today finally he said that school was safe to go back
said that school was safe to go back to come on! The Prime Minister is
to come on! The Prime Minister is just making it up as he goes along.
just making it up as he goes along. I am surprised... The Education
I am surprised... The Education Secretary stood at that dispatch box
Secretary stood at that dispatch box yesterday and said and acknowledged
yesterday and said and acknowledged that Labour’s first priority has
that Labour’s first priority has been getting children back to
been getting children back to school. That has been our first
school. That has been our first priority, I have said numerous times
priority, I have said numerous times it was dispatch box, he knows it
it was dispatch box, he knows it very well and he is
it was dispatch box, he knows it very well and he isjust
it was dispatch box, he knows it very well and he is just playing
very well and he is just playing games. Mr Speaker, and he is fooling
games. Mr Speaker, and he is fooling nobody. Even if MPs have run out of
nobody. Even if MPs have mn out of patience, the
nobody. Even if MPs have run out of patience, the one person has said
patience, the one person has said the governor says one thing on
the governor says one thing on Monday, changes its mind on Tuesday,
Monday, changes its mind on Tuesday, something different is presented on
something different is presented on Wednesday. That sounds familiar,
Wednesday. That sounds familiar, doesn’t it? A number of MPs who
doesn’t it? A number of MPs who wants to remain anonymous said in
wants to remain anonymous said in the chamber today that it is mess
the chamber today that it is mess after mess. Your own MPs, U—turn
after mess. Your own MPs, U-turn after U-turn, a
after mess. Your own MPs, U—turn after U—turn, a fundamental issue of
after U-turn, a fundamental issue of incompetence.
after U—turn, a fundamental issue of incompetence. God knows what is
incompetence. God knows what is going on! There is no grit. His own
going on! There is no grit. His own MPs are right, aren’t they? This is
MPs are right, aren’t they? This is a Leader of the Opposition who
a Leader of the Opposition who backed remaining in the EU and now
backed remaining in the EU and now is totally silent on the subject. He
is totally silent on the subject. He backed, in fact he still does, Mr
backed, in fact he still does, Mr Speaker! This is a Leader of the
Speaker! This is a Leader of the Opposition who supported an IRA
Opposition who supported an IRA condoning policy and wanted to get
condoning policy and wanted to get out of Nato. This is a Leader of the
out of Nah. This is a Leader of the Opposition who
out of Nato. This is a Leader of the Opposition who sat on the front
Opposition who sat on the front bench... Order! I
Opposition who sat on the front bench... Order! Ithink
Opposition who sat on the front bench... Order! I think there are
bench... Order! I think there are questions being asked. We do need to
questions being asked. We do need to try and answer the questions being
try and answer the questions being put to the panellist. It would be
put to the panellist. It would be helpful to those who are watching to
helpful to those who are watching to know the answers. I minister. I
know the answers. I minister. I think it would be helpful to all
think it would be helpful to all those who are watching to know... I
those who are watching to know... I think I will make the decisions
think I will make the decisions today. Come on, Prime Minister. I
today. Come on, Prime Minister. I think it would be helpful to all
think it would be helpful to all those who are watching to know that
those who are watching to know that this opposition and this lead at the
this opposition and this lead at the opposition said absolutely nothing
opposition said absolutely nothing to oppose the method of examinations
to oppose the method of examinations that was proposed and indeed they
that was proposed and indeed they opposed the teacher accreditation
opposed the teacher accreditation system that we eventually came up
system that we eventually came up with. Is he now saying that those
with. Is he now saying that those grades aren’t right? Or is it
with. Is he now saying that those grades aren’t right? Or is itjust
grades aren’t right? Or is it just Captain
grades aren’t right? Or is itjust Captain hindsight leaping on a
Captain hindsight leaping on a bandwagon and opposing a policy that
bandwagon and opposing a policy that he supported two weeks ago? The
he supported two weeks ago? The problem is he is governing and
problem is he is governing and hindsight. That is where he is
hindsight. That is where he is making so many mistakes. Before I go
making so many mistakes. Before I go on, Mr Speaker, the prime ministers
on, Mr Speaker, the prime ministers said something about the IRA and I
said something about the IRA and I want him to take it back. I worked
want him to take it back. I worked in Northern Ireland for
want him to take it back. I worked in Northern Ireland forfive
want him to take it back. I worked in Northern Ireland for five years
in Northern Ireland for five years for the police service in Northern
for the police service in Northern Ireland, bringing peace. I
Ireland, bringing peace. I prosecuted as a director of public
prosecuted as a director of public prosecution serious Terrace, working
prosecution serious Terrace, working with the police in Northern Ireland
with the police in Northern Ireland and I asked if I minister to have
and I asked if I minister to have the decency to withdraw that
the decency to withdraw that comment! Mr Prime Minister, it is
comment! Mr Prime Minister, it is the same every time. Pretend the
the same every time. Pretend the problem doesn’t exist. Brush away
problem doesn’t exist. Bmsh away scmtiny.
problem doesn’t exist. Brush away scrutiny. Make the wrong decision,
scmtiny. Make the wrong decision, then
scrutiny. Make the wrong decision, then blame somebody else. This has
then blame somebody else. This has got to change. Because the next
got to change. Because the next major decision for the Prime
major decision for the Prime Minister is on the furlough scheme,
Minister is on the furlough scheme, with jobs of
Minister is on the furlough scheme, withjobs of millions
Minister is on the furlough scheme, with jobs of millions of people at
with jobs of millions of peopla at risk. The
with jobs of millions of people at risk. The longer he delays, the more
risk. The longer he delays, the more they are at risk, so will he act
they are at risk, so will he act now, finally get this decision right
now, finally get this decision right and commit to extend the furlough
and commit to extend the furlough for those sectors and workers who
for those sectors and workers who desperately need it? Mr Speaker,
desperately need it? Mr Speaker, what we are doing in this Government
what we are doing in this Government is getting people back to school,
is getting peopla back to school, getting our
is getting people back to school, getting our pupils back to school in
getting our pupils back to school in spite of all the doubts that he is
spite of all the doubts that he is trying to sew and we are getting
trying to sew and we are getting people back to work. What he wants
peopla back to work. what he wants to do is
people back to work. What he wants to do is extend the furlough scheme,
to do is extend the furlough scheme, which this country has already spent
which this country has already spent £40 billion. What we would rather do
£40 billion. what we would rather do is get people
£40 billion. What we would rather do is get people back into work through
is get peopla back into work through our
is get people back into work through our kick—start scheme, which we are
our kick-start scheme, which we are launching today.
our kick—start scheme, which we are launching today. £2 billion to spend
launching today. £2 billion to spend to support people, young people in
to support peopla, young peopla in particular, to
to support people, young people in particular, to get the jobs that
particular, to get the jobs that they need. He wants to get people
they need. He wants to get people who are out of work in suspended
who are out of work in suspended animation. We want to be this
animation. We want to be this country forward! That is the
country forward! That is the difference between him and us! Can I
difference between him and us! (“an I just say there
difference between him and us! Can I just say there was a question about
just say there was a question about the allegation in Northern Ireland.
the allegation in Northern Ireland. He was very concerned about is the
He was very concerned about is the point he was making. I think it
point he was making. I think it fairness I’m sure you would like to
fairness I’m sure you would like to address that. Mr Speaker, I am very
address that. Mr Speaker, I am very happy to say that I think I listen
happy to say that I think I listen to the protestations of the right
to the protestations of the right honourable gentleman
to the protestations of the right honourable gentlemen and I think
honourable gentleman and I think they would
honourable gentlemen and I think they would have been more in order
they would have been more in order throughout the long years in which
throughout the long years in which he supported a leader of the Labour
he supported a leader of the labour Party... Keir
he supported a leader of the Labour Party... Keir Starmer. When the
Party... Keir Starmer. when the panellist has
Party... Keir Starmer. When the panellist has worked in security and
panellist has worked in security and intelligence forces prosecuting
intelligence forces prosecuting criminals and terrorists he can
criminals and terrorists he ran lectme
criminals and terrorists he can lecture me. I asked him to do... I
lecture me. Iasked him to do... I asked him to
lecture me. I asked him to do... I asked him to do the decent thing,
asked him to do the decent thing, but doing the decent thing and this
but doing the decent thing and this prime Minster don’t go together.
prime Minster don’t go together. This has been a wasted summer! The
This has been a wasted summer! The Government should have spent it
Government should have spent it preparing for the autumn and winter.
preparing for the autumn and winter. Instead they have lurched from
Instead they have lurched from crisis to crisis, U—turn to U—turn,
crisis to crisis, U-turn to U-turn, to correct one
crisis to crisis, U—turn to U—turn, to correct one error, even to might
to correct one error, even to might make sense, but when the Government
make sense, but when the Government has notched up 12 U—turns and
has notched up 12 U-turns and rising, the
has notched up 12 U—turns and rising, the only conclusion is
rising, the only conclusion is serial incompetence. That serial
serial incompetence. That serial incompetence is holding Britain
incompetence is holding Britain back. Will be Prime Minister pick
back. will be Prime Minister pick response
back. Will be Prime Minister pick response ability and finally get a
response ability and finally get a grip? Mr Speaker, I
response ability and finally get a grip? Mr Speaker, Itake
response ability and finally get a grip? Mr Speaker, I take full
grip? Mr Speaker, I take full response ability for everything that
response ability for everything that has happened under this Government
has happened under this Government throughout my period in office and
throughout my period in office and actually what has happened so far is
actually what has happened so far is that we have succeeded in turning
that we have succeeded in turning the tide of this pandemic and in
the tide of this pandemic and in spite of the negativity and the
spite of the negativity and the constant sniping from the
constant sniping from the opposition, we are seeing a country
opposition, we are seeing a country that is not only going back to
that is not only going back to school, but going back to work.
school, but going back to work. Britain is in the lead in developing
Britain is in the lead in developing vaccines, we are in the lead in
vaccines, we are in the lead in developing and finding cures for
developing and finding cures for this disease, in dexamethasone, in
this disease, in denmethasone, in finding
this disease, in dexamethasone, in finding treatments for this disease.
finding treatments for this disease. Not only that, Mr Speaker, we are
Not only that, Mr Speaker, we are taking this country forward, in
taking this country forward, in spite of the extreme difficulty is
spite of the extreme difficulty is that we face. What I think the
that we face. what I think the people of
that we face. What I think the people of this country would
people of this country would appreciate is he a die, the Labour
appreciate is he a die, the labour front bench,
appreciate is he a die, the Labour front bench, everybody across this
front bench, everybody across this House, coming together and uniting
House, coming together and uniting and saying that it is safe for kids
and saying that it is safe for kids to get back to school. I must say,
to get back to school. I must say, we still have not heard that. Those
we still have not heard that. Those words from the right honourable
words from the right honourable genﬂaman.
words from the right honourable gentleman. Will he now says school
genﬂaman. will he now says school is safe? I
gentleman. Will he now says school is safe? I have said it so many
is safe? I have said it so many times. School is safe. My own
times. School is safe. My own children have been in school
children have been in school throughout. There is no issue on
throughout. There is no issue on this. The seeking to divide
this. The seeking to divide instead... I wrote to him on the
instead... I wrote to him on the 18th of May in confidence and in in
18th of May in confidence and in in offering their support to support to
offering their support to support to him to get kids back to school. The
him to get kids back to school. The only reason they went back before
only reason they went back before the summer was because of his
the summer was because of his incompetent Education Secretary. Mr
incompetent Education Secretary. Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister will
Speaker, the Prime Minister will recall that before the recess I
recall that before the recess I asked him if he would meet the
asked him if he would meet the Covid-19
asked him if he would meet the Covid—19 Bereaved Families for
Covid-19 Bereaved Families for justice
Covid—19 Bereaved Families for Justice group. I had the privilege
justice group. I had the privilage of
justice group. I had the privilege of meeting
Justice group. I had the privilege of meeting the families on the 15th
of meeting the families on the 15th of july. They
of meeting the families on the 15th ofJuly. They gave me incredibly
of july. They gave me incredibly moving
ofJuly. They gave me incredibly moving accounts of how Covid—19 had
moving accounts of how Covid-19 had taken
moving accounts of how Covid—19 had taken their loved ones from them. On
taken their loved ones from them. On Sky News last week, the prime was
Sky News last week, the prime was asked if he would meet the families
asked if he would meet the families and he said, and I will quote, of
and he said, and Iwill quote, of course I
and he said, and I will quote, of course I will meet the bereaved. Of
course I will meet the bereaved. Of course I will do that. But yesterday
course I will do that. But yesterday I received a letter from the
course I will do that. But yesterday I received a letterfrom the Prime
I received a letter from the Prime Minister,
I received a letterfrom the Prime Minister, saying that meeting them
Minister, saying that meeting them was now regrettably not possible.
was now regrettably not possible. The Prime Minister will understand
The Prime Minister will understand the frustration and the hurt of
the fmstration and the hurt of those
the frustration and the hurt of those families that he said one
those families that he said one thing to camera and another to them.
thing to camera and another to them. (“an I urge the
thing to camera and another to them. Can I urge the panellist to
Can I urge the panellist to reconsider? To do the right thing
reconsider? To do the right thing and find time to meet these grieving
and find time to meet these grieving families? Mr Speaker, if
and find time to meet these grieving families? Mr Speaker, ifI
and find time to meet these grieving families? Mr Speaker, if I may say
families? Mr Speaker, if I may say to the right honourable judgment it
to the right honourable judgment it is absolutely typical of him that
is absolutely typical of him that she should frame it in that way
she should frame it in that way because when I made that answer and
because when I made that answer and of course I would be very happy to
of course I would be very happy to meet the families of the bereaved
meet the families of the bereaved and I sympathise deeply with all
and I sympathise deeply with all those who have lost loved ones
those who have lost loved ones throughout this pandemic. And we all
throughout this pandemic. And we all feel their pain and their grief. But
feel their pain and their grief. But it turns out that this particular
it turns out that this particular EWUP
it turns out that this particular group that he refers to are
group that he refers to are currently in litigation against the
currently in litigation against the Government and I will certainly meet
Government and I will certainly meet them once that litigation is
them once that litigation is concluded. But I may say to him that
concluded. But I may say to him that it would be a better thing, rather
it would be a better thing, rather than trying to score points in that
than trying to score points in that way, if he
than trying to score points in that way, if hejoined
than trying to score points in that way, if he joined together with us
way, if he joined together with us and with this Government and said
and with this Government and said not only is school safe, but it is
not only is school safe, but it is also safe to go back to... By the
also safe to go back to... By the way, Mr Speaker, that is the first
way, Mr Speaker, that is the first time in four months that he has said
time in four months that he has said it. I’m delighted to have extracted
it. I’m delighted to have extracted it from him over this dispatch box.
it from him over this dispatch box. He has never said it to me in the
He has never said it to me in the House of Commons. I hope, Mr
House of Commons. I hope, Mr Speaker, he will also say that it is
Speaker, he will also say that it is safe for the work force of this
safe for the work force of this country to work in a Covid—19 secure
country to work in a Covid-19 secure way. We want to
country to work in a Covid—19 secure way. We want to take this country
way. We want to take this country forward. Were not only getting the
forward. Were not only getting the pandemic under control, with death
pandemic under control, with death down and hospital admissions way
down and hospital admissions way down. We will continue to tackle it
down. We will continue to tackla it with
down. We will continue to tackle it with local lockdown is, with our
with [oral lockdown is, with our superiative
with local lockdown is, with our superlative test and tray system,
supertative test and tray system, which by the
superlative test and tray system, which by the way before they sneer,
which by the way before they sneer, before they mock at it, Mr Speaker,
before they mock at it, Mr Speaker, has now conduct more tests than any
has now conduct more tests than any other country in Europe. And he
other country in Europe. And he might hail that, rather than
might hail that, rather than sneering at this country’s
sneering at this country’s achievements. Thank you, Mr Speaker.
achievements. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Discussions in the
achievements. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Discussions in thejoint
achievements. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Discussions in the joint committee
Discussions in the joint committee established under the withdrawal
established under the withdrawal agreement will have the most crucial
agreement will have the most crucial bearing on the future of trade, not
bearing on the future of trade, not only between the UK and the EU, but
only between the UK and the EU, but also within the UK itself. Unless
also within the UK itself. Unless otherwise agreed in that committee,
otherwise agreed in that committee, goods passing from Great Britain to
goods passing from Great Britain to Northern Ireland will be subject to
Northern Ireland will be subject to the full rigour of the European
the full rigour of the European Customs code and also to the
Customs code and also to the imposition of tariffs. That would be
imposition of tariffs. That would be quite unacceptable, so would my
quite unacceptable, so would my right honourable friend commit to
right honourable friend commit to doing whatever it takes to ensure
doing whatever it takes to ensure that it does not happen? Prime
that it does not happen? Prime Minister. Yes, my right honourable
Minister. Yes, my right honourable friend is absolutely right to raise
friend is absolutely right to raise the concern that he does and we must
the concern that he does and we must of course and will deliver on what
of course and will deliver on what the protocol says, which is that
the protocol says, which is that there shall be unfettered access
there shall be unfettered access between Great Britain and IN IA GB
between Great Britain and IN IA GB and there shall be no tariffs and we
and there shall be no tariffs and we shall legislate in the course of the
shall legislate in the course of the next months to guarantee that. We
next months to guarantee that. We now come to the leader the SNP, Ian
now come to the leader the SNP, Ian Blackford, on the first of two
Blackford, on the first of two questions. Thank you, Mr Speaker,
questions. Thank you, Mr Speaker, and ran I
questions. Thank you, Mr Speaker, and can I associate myself with the
and ran I associate myself with the remarks
and can I associate myself with the remarks of the Prime Minister and
remarks of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition on the
the Leader of the Opposition on the tragedy that we witnessed close to
tragedy that we witnessed close to Stonehaven? And indeed to the
Stonehaven? And indeed to the tribute we had to
Stonehaven? And indeed to the tribute we had toJohn Hume from the
tribute we had to john Hume from the Leader of
tribute we had toJohn Hume from the Leader of the Opposition. A man that
Leader of the Opposition. A man that did so much for the delivery of
did so much for the delivery of peace in the Northern Ireland. Mr
peace in the Northern Ireland. Mr Speaker, yesterday the panellist
Speaker, yesterday the panellist told his Cabinet and I quote, I am
told his Cabinet and I quote, I am no great nautical expert, but
no great nautical expert, but sometimes it is necessary to tack
sometimes it is necessary to tack here in response to the facts as
here in response to the facts as they change. It was surprisingly
they change. It was surprisingly honest for the panellist to admit
honest for the panellist to admit that his Government is all at sea.
that his Government is all at sea. The UK Government now defined by
The UK Government now defined by eight U-turns in
The UK Government now defined by eight U—turns in eight months. But
eight U-turns in eight months. But if the
eight U—turns in eight months. But if the banister is true to his word,
if the banisher is tme to his word, then surely
if the hanister is tme to his word, then surely he
if the banister is true to his word, then surely he must see sense and
then surely he must see sense and change tack. With the clock ticking
change tack. with the dock ticking for
change tack. With the clock ticking for struggling businesses and
for struggling businesses and workers, will be
for struggling businesses and workers, will he promised a commit
workers, will he promised a commit today to extend the job retention
today to extend the job retention scheme beyond October? Or is his
scheme beyond October? Or is his Government making the political
Government making the political choice to accept levels of
choice to accept levels of unemployment last seen under
unemployment last seen under Thatcher in the early nineteen
Thatcher in the earty nineteen eighties?
Thatcher in the early nineteen eighties? Prime Minister. Mr
eighties? Prime Minister. Mr Speaker, I... Members of opposite on
Speaker, I... Members of opposite on all parties seem to want to extend
all parties seem to want to extend the furlough scheme, which has
the furlough scheme, which has already cost this country £40
already cost this country £40 billion, help supported 11 million
billion, help supported 11 million peopla, but
billion, help supported 11 million people, but after all keeps them in
people, but after all keeps them in suspended animation and prevents
suspended animation and prevents them from going to work. What we
them from going to work. what we want to
them from going to work. What we want to do is get people back to
want to do is get peopla back to work!
want to do is get people back to work! And that is why I hope you
work! And that is why I hope you will instead support our Kickstarter
will instead support our Kickstarter scheme to get young people into jobs
scheme to get young people into jobs and support them in those jobs. How
and support them in those jobs. How much better that than languishing
much better that than languishing out of work? My goodness, Mr
out of work? My goodness, Mr Speaker, languishing out of work!
Speaker, languishing out of work! The furlough scheme is there to
The furlough scheme is there to protect people so they can come back
protect peopla so they ran come back to work
protect people so they can come back to work when the time is right. Mr
to work when the time is right. Mr Speaker, France, Germany and Ireland
Speaker, France, Germany and Ireland have extended their furlough scheme
have extended their furlough scheme into 2021. They have made a moral
into 2021. They have made a moral choice. They are not prepared to
choice. They are not prepared to punish their people with record
punish their people with record levels of unemployment. You know, Mr
levels of unemployment. You know, Mr Speaker, people in Scotland are
Speaker, people in Scotland are seeing a tale of two governments.
seeing a tale of two governments. while
seeing a tale of two governments. While the Tories are cutting the Low
while the Tories are cutting the Low scheme
While the Tories are cutting the Low scheme support, yesterday Nicola
scheme support, yesterday Nicola Sturgeon was announcing new
Sturgeon was announcing new investment to protect jobs,
investment to protect jobs, including a youth guarantee. We all
including a youth guarantee. We all know that jobs are
including a youth guarantee. We all know thatjobs are under threat if
know that jobs are under threat if the furlough
know thatjobs are under threat if the furlough scheme ends in October.
the furlough scheme ends in October. The power to end this threat lies
The power to end this threat lies with the Prime Minister. Will he do
with the Prime Minister. will he do his duty and
with the Prime Minister. Will he do his duty and extend the furlough
his duty and extend the furlough scheme? Or
his duty and extend the furlough scheme? Orare
his duty and extend the furlough scheme? Or are we going to return to
scheme? Or are we going to return to levels of unemployment last seen
levels of unemployment last seen under Thatcher, with the result of
under Thatcher, with the result of human misery? Mr Speaker, what we
human misery? Mr Speaker, what we are doing is not only continuing
are doing is not only continuing with the furlough scheme, as he
with the furlough scheme, as he knows, until the end of the month,
knows, until the end of the month, which is by far more generous, by
which is byfar more generous, by the way, than
which is by far more generous, by the way, than anything but I did in
the way, than anything but I did in France or Germany or Ireland. We are
France or Germany or Ireland. We are continuing with it, but we will also
continuing with it, but we will also after that scheme elapses, we will
after that scheme elapses, we will get on with other measures to
get on with other measures to support people in work and starting
support peopla in work and starting today there is
support people in work and starting today there is the Kickstarter
today there is the Kickstarter scheme to help young people get the
scheme to help young people get the jobs that they need. That is in
jobs that they need. That is in addition to a £160 billion package
addition to a £160 billion package that we have spent to support the
that we have spent to support the economy throughout this crisis. This
economy throughout this crisis. This Government has put its arms around
Government has put its arms around all the people of this country to
all the peopla of this country to support
all the people of this country to support them throughout the crisis.
support them throughout the crisis. That is what we are doing and will
That is what we are doing and will now help them to get back into work!
now help them to get back into work! Thank you, Mr Speaker. I share my
Thank you, Mr Speaker. I share my right honourable friend’s enthusiasm
right honourable friend’s enthusiasm that those who can get back to work
that those who ran get back to work safely in their
that those who can get back to work safely in their offices should do
safely in their offices should do so, but realistically many will only
so, but realistically many will only want to do so for two or three days
want to do so for two or three days a week. And I urge him to use his
a week. And I urge him to use his considerable powers of persuasion to
considerable powers of persuasion to encourage the rail industry to
encourage the rail industry to introduce immediately flexible
introduce immediately flexible season tickets, so that those people
season tickets, so that those people are not tied into traditional work
are not tied into traditional work patterns? Both to help many
patterns? Both to help many thousands of commuters in areas like
thousands of commuters in areas like mine in Ashford, but also to help
mine in Ashford, but also to help save the rail industry. Well, I
save the rail industry. Well, I think the right honourable friend
think the right honourable friend and his absolutely right that we are
and his absolutely right that we are working at pace with rail companies
working at pace with rail companies to try to deliver new products in
to try to deliver new products in terms of ticketing, which ensure not
terms of ticketing, which ensure not just better value, but also enable
just better value, but also enable people to get back to work in a
peopla to get back to work in a ﬂaxible way.
people to get back to work in a flexible way. Can I thank the Prime
ﬂexible way. (“an I thank the Prime Minister
flexible way. Can I thank the Prime Minister and the Chancellor for the
Minister and the Chancellor for the financial and economic interventions
financial and economic interventions that Government have made to date?
that Government have made to date? But he will be aware, as much as we
But he will be aware, as much as we want to see people back in work, but
want to see peopla back in work, but there are
want to see people back in work, but there are certain sectors, such as
there are certain sectors, such as tourism, travel, hospitality and
tourism, travel, hospitality and aerospace, where that will not be
aerospace, where that will not be possibla in
aerospace, where that will not be possible in the short to medium
possible in the short to medium term. Therefore, encourage the Prime
term. Therefore, encourage the Prime Minister to look at a targeted
Minister to look at a targeted extension for those sectors? And
extension for those sectors? And also to look at a specific UK—wide
also to look at a specific UK-wide scheme
also to look at a specific UK—wide scheme to help those so far who have
scheme to help those so far who have been excluded from the current
been excluded from the current schemes, including the newly
schemes, including the newly self—employed? Well, Mr Speaker, as
self-employed? Well, Mr Speaker, as the right
self—employed? Well, Mr Speaker, as the right honourable gentleman
the right honourable gentleman knows, there are a great number of
knows, there are a great number of schemes in addition to the job
schemes in addition to the job retention scheme that support people
retention scheme that support people in work and in all sorts of sectors,
in work and in all sorts of sectors, the coronavirus loans, they bounce
the coronavirus loans, they bounce back
the coronavims loans, they bounce back loans,
the coronavirus loans, they bounce back loans, the grants that have
back loans, the grants that have been made to businesses of all
been made to businesses of all kinds. He mentioned the tourism and
kinds. He mentioned the tourism and hospitality sector and we have made
hospitality sector and we have made huge investments in there, the very
huge investments in there, the very successful and Eat Out To Help Out
successful and Eat Out To Help Out scheme that we have been running.
scheme that we have been mnning. But it is
scheme that we have been running. But it is also very important that
But it is also very important that we get people back into the
we get people back into the workplace in a Covid—19 secure way
workplace in a Covid-19 secure way and
workplace in a Covid—19 secure way and unlike the Leader of the
and unlike the Leader of the Opposition we do absolutely hope to
Opposition we do absolutely hope to give them confidence that it is a
give them confidence that it is a good idea to go back. And
good idea to go back. And confidence, Mr Speaker, it is one
confidence, Mr Speaker, it is one else is worth a tonne of taxpayers
else is worth a tonne of taxpayers money. Thank you, Mr Speaker. The
money. Thank you, Mr Speaker. The bounce back loans scheme has been a
bounce back loans scheme has been a huge success delivered by the
huge success delivered by the panellist and the Chancellor, 1.3
panellist and the Chancellor, 1.3 million loans have been granted,
million loans have been granted, vital support for SMEs. The party
vital support for SMEs. The party committee on business banking which
committee on business banking which I chair is established there are
I chair is established there are over 200 business banking... Who do
over 200 business banking... who do not have
over 200 business banking... Who do not have access to those loans
not have access to those loans because they cannot get access to
because they cannot get access to the Bank of England’s funding scheme
the Bank of England’s funding scheme and lenders who do have those loans
and lenders who do have those loans are not really accepting loan
are not really accepting loan applications from new customers.
applications from new customers. Would the Prime Minister uses best
Would the Prime Minister uses best offices to persuade the Governor of
offices to persuade the Governor of the bank of England to open up this
the bank of England to open up this funding scheme to those alternative
funding scheme to those alternative finance organisations or open the
finance organisations or open the doors of other lenders who can
doors of other lenders who ran provide
doors of other lenders who can provide those schemes, those loans
provide those schemes, those loans to other SMEs? Well, I thank my
to other SMFs? Well, I thank my right
to other SMEs? Well, I thank my right honourable friend. He raises
right honourable friend. He raises an important point. As he will know,
an important point. As he will know, the mles
an important point. As he will know, the rules around access to schemes
the mles around access to schemes for
the rules around access to schemes for alternative finance are not the
for alternative finance are not the responsibility of my rational
responsibility of my rational friend, the Chancellor, but for the
friend, the Chancellor, but for the Bank of England, but I’m sure the
Bank of England, but I’m sure the Government will have heard him
Government will have heard him today. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Over
today. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Over the summer months, many people
the summer months, many people undertake a range of activities. For
undertake a range of activities. For some, it is camping, for others it
some, it is camping, for others it is festivals and events. In my
is festivals and events. In my constituency we’ve got a number of
constituency we’ve got a number of highly successful employers in
highly successful employers in audiovisual technology, hospitality
audiovisual technology, hospitality and creative industries, none of
and creative industries, none of them ran
and creative industries, none of them can currently undertake their
them ran currently undertake their normal
them can currently undertake their normal activities.
them can currently undertake their normalactivities. In
them can currently undertake their normal activities. In the face of
normal activities. In the face of this, when Pella ends, these
this, when Fella ends, these companies
this, when Pella ends, these companies could face collapse. What
companies could face collapse. what should I
companies could face collapse. What should I tell them? That the
should I tell them? That the Government are today going to extend
Government are today going to extend the scheme make sure that the
the scheme make sure that the industry ran
the scheme make sure that the industry can get back on its feet or
industry ran get back on its feet or has the
industry can get back on its feet or has the Government completely given
has the Government completely given “P
has the Government completely given up on themNot at all, is to speak
up on themNot at all, is to speak of. We have supported the arts
of. We have supported the arts industry alone with I think about
industry alone with I think about £1.7
industry alone with I think about £1] billion of support and in
£1.7 billion of support and in Scotland, as I’m sure he never tires
Scotland, as I’m sure he never tires of saying, the overall support for
of saying, the overall support for tackling coronavirus has been in the
tackling coronavirus has been in the order of about £4 billion. We will
order of about £4 billion. We will continue to give support, but we
continue to give support, but we happen to think and I hope this
happen to think and I hope this common ground across the House, we
common ground across the House, we happen to think that it would be
happen to think that it would be better for the
happen to think that it would be betterfor the UK
happen to think that it would be better for the UK economy and all
better for the UK economy and all the people he rightly cares about to
the people he rightly cares about to get back into work. Thank you, is
get back into work. Thank you, is Speaker. Now, one positive is among
Speaker. Now, one positive is among the gloom of the Covid—19 pandemic
the gloom of the Covid-19 pandemic is that
the gloom of the Covid—19 pandemic is that this year’s I am a celebrity
is that this year’s I am a celebrity will be found not in New South Wales
will be found not in New South Walas Australia,
will be found not in New South Wales Australia, but in our own north
Australia, but in our own north Walas.
Australia, but in our own north Wales. Even if I cannot tempt the
Wales. Even if I cannot tempt the panellist to take part in a Welsh
panellist to take part in a Welsh tucker trial, would he commend ITV
tucker trial, would he commend ITV on its choice of venue and welcome
on its choice of venue and welcome the positive impact this can have on
the positive impact this ran have on the regional
the positive impact this can have on the regional economy? I think my
the regional economy? I think my honourable friend and he is right to
honourable friend and he is right to draw attention to the wonderful
draw attention to the wonderful attractions of north Wales, which I
attractions of north Walas, which I know very
attractions of north Wales, which I know very well myself when I tried
know very well myself when I tried to get elected there many years ago!
to get elected there many years ago! Unsuccessfully. And I congratulate
Unsuccessfully. And I congratulate him on his success and may it be
him on his success and may it be long repeated. Neil Gray. Thank you,
long repeated. Neil Gray. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Earlier
long repeated. Neil Gray. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Earlierthis
long repeated. Neil Gray. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Earlier this summer the
Mr Speaker. Eadier this summer the Treasury
Mr Speaker. Earlier this summer the Treasury floated a story in the
Treasury ﬂoated a story in the Telegraph
Treasury floated a story in the Telegraph suggesting a public sector
Telagraph suggesting a public sector pay
Telegraph suggesting a public sector pay freeze to save money. Given so
pay freeze to save money. Given so many public sector workers, such as
many public sector workers, such as nurses, police, firefighters,
nurses, police, firefighters, teachers and others have put their
teachers and others have put their lives on the line to fight Covid—19,
lives on the line to fight Covid-19, surely this
lives on the line to fight Covid—19, surely this would be an
surely this would be an unconscionable betrayal? Will be
unconscionable betrayal? will be Prime
unconscionable betrayal? Will be Prime Minister therefore
Prime Minister therefore unequivocally not only rule out a
unequivocally not only mla out a pay
unequivocally not only mle out a pay freeze,
unequivocally not only rule out a pay freeze, but commit to fully
pay freeze, but commit to fully funding a package to ensure they are
funding a package to ensure they are enumerated to reflect their
enumerated to reflect their sacrifices? I must say I listened
sacrifices? I must say I listened carefully to what the honourable
carefully to what the honourable gentleman said and he seems to
gentleman said and he seems to ignore the fact that we just had an
ignore the fact that we just had an inﬂation
ignore the fact that we just had an inflation busting public sector pay
inﬂation busting public sector pay rise
inflation busting public sector pay rise and that nurses alone, as part
rise and that nurses alone, as part of the package that we agreed in
of the package that we agreed in 2018, have had a 12.5% pay increases
2018, have had a 12.596 pay increases then and I
2018, have had a 12.5% pay increases then and I appreciate his
then and I appreciate his sentiments, he is on the right lines
sentiments, he is on the right lines but he should look at what is
but he should look at what is actually happening. Thank you, Mr
actually happening. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Alexander Dennis has been
Speaker. Alexander Dennis has been manufacturing buttons in Guildford
manufacturing buttons in Guildford for over 100 years of exciting new
for over 100 years of exciting new low emission vehicles. I’m sure my
low emission vehidas. I’m sure my right arm will be
low emission vehicles. I’m sure my right arm will be saddened as I was
right arm will be saddened as I was to have a 200 jobs have been made
to have a 200 jobs have been made redundant locally. Does he agree
redundant locally. Does he agree with me that the fantastic skills
with me that the fantastic skills these workers have a vital as part
these workers have a vital as part of our green recovery and will he
of our green recovery and will he work to me with me to assure the
work to me with me to assure the term success of our UK button
term success of our UK button manufacturer’s of both domestic and
manufacturer’s of both domestic and export markets? I thank my
export markets? I thank my honourable friend for her very
honourable friend for her very apposite intervention on behalf of
apposite intervention on behalf of Alexander Dennis. I was a keen
Alexander Dennis. I was a keen custom of Alexander Dennis and his
custom of Alexander Dennis and his fantastic machines and I hope that
fantastic machines and I hope that our bean recovery and a massive
our bean recovery and a massive investment in green buses, and I
investment in green buses, and I can’t guarantee this, but I hope it
can’t guarantee this, but I hope it will be of benefit to the workforce
will be of benefit to the workforce of Alexander Dennis. Into Swansea
of Alexander Dennis. Into Swansea west. Geraint Davies. Mr Speaker,
west. Geraint Davies. Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister is stumbling
the Prime Minister is stumbling forward into mass unemployment with
forward into mass unemployment with the sudden and universal removal of
the sudden and universal removal of furlough and towards a further spike
furlough and towards a further spike and resurgence in coronavirus, due
and resurgence in coronavims, due to making
and resurgence in coronavirus, due to making people who are working
to making peopla who are working from
to making people who are working from home travel to work. In order
from home travel to work. In order to minimise further and future bad
to minimise further and future bad decisions and U—turns, will he fully
decisions and U-turns, will he fully restore
decisions and U—turns, will he fully restore the online Parliament, so
restore the online Partiament, so that all
restore the online Parliament, so that all voters can be fully
that all voters can be fully represented in all debates and all
represented in all debates and all lawmaking, as happens in the Welsh
lawmaking, as happens in the Welsh Government and the Scottish
Government and the Scottish Government and the Lords, whether
Government and the Lords, whether MPs are shielded or unshielded, so
MPs are shielded or unshielded, so that we make the best decisions with
that we make the best decisions with the least harm during the pandemic
the least harm during the pandemic and during the recession by the
and during the recession by the reintroduction of proper online
reintroduction of proper online democracy? Well, Mr Speaker, I
reintroduction of proper online democracy? Well, Mr Speaker, Ithink
democracy? Well, Mr Speaker, Ithink the honourable gentleman
democracy? Well, Mr Speaker, Ithink the honourable gentlemen and I
the honourable gentleman and I encourage
the honourable gentlemen and I encourage him to return from New
encourage him to return from New York or Shanghai or wherever he is.
York or Shanghai or wherever he is. And to join us
York or Shanghai or wherever he is. And tojoin us as
York or Shanghai or wherever he is. And to join us as fast as we can
And to join us as fast as we ran hear in
And to join us as fast as we can hear in this House. I think actually
hear in this House. I think actually what the people of this country want
what the peopla of this country want to see is
what the people of this country want to see is their representatives back
to see is their representatives back on their seats as fast as possible
on their seats as fast as possibla in the
on their seats as fast as possible in the Palace of Westminster and
in the Palace of Westminster and that is what we should work for and
that is what we should work for and that is why we are working together
that is why we are working together to drive down this virus and create
to drive down this virus and create a Covid-19
to drive down this virus and create a Covid—19 secure environment. Thank
a Covid-19 secure environment. Thank 7°“-
a Covid-19 secure environment. Thank you, Mr Speaker.
a Covid—19 secure environment. Thank you, Mr Speaker. When I buy a copy
you, Mr Speaker. when I buy a copy of the mirror,
you, Mr Speaker. When I buy a copy of the mirror, the daily mail or the
of the mirror, the daily mail or the Telegraph, I
of the mirror, the daily mail or the Telegraph, lam not
of the mirror, the daily mail or the Telegraph, I am not required to buy
Telagraph, I am not required to buy a copy of
Telegraph, I am not required to buy a copy of the Guardian, and yet when
a copy of the Guardian, and yet when I want to watch TV on sky TV or
IwanttowatchTVonskyTVor Amazon prime, I
I want to watch TV on sky TV or Amazon prime, I am forced to pay for
Amazon prime, I am forced to pay for the BBC. Does the plan is to believe
the BBC. Does the plan is to believe this is a sustainable situation in
this is a sustainable situation in the medium or long—term? Well, my
the medium or long-term? Well, my honourable
the medium or long—term? Well, my honourable friend makes a very
honourable friend makes a very interesting point of view I am sure
interesting point of view I am sure shared by many people in this
shared by many peopla in this country, but
shared by many people in this country, but my right honourable
country, but my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for
friend the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport will be
Culture, Media and Sport will be setting out a road map shortly for a
setting out a road map shortly for a reform of the BBC and addressing the
reform of the BBC and addressing the very issue he mentions. Ruth
very issue he mentions. Ruth Gdbury.
very issue he mentions. Ruth Cadbury. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Last
Gdbury. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Last week the
Cadbury. Thank you, Mr Speaker. Last week the Financial Times published a
week the Financial Times published a list of the trial Government U—turns
list of the trial Government U-turns made
list of the trial Government U—turns made under this Prime Minister, from
made under this Prime Minister, from the exam results the Esco to the
the exam results the Fsco to the contact up, to
the exam results the Esco to the contact up, to the wearing of masks.
contact up, to the wearing of masks. -- the fiasco.
contact up, to the wearing of masks. —— the fiasco. He has just said
contact up, to the wearing of masks. —— the fiasco. He hasjust said he
-- the fiasco. He has just said he takes response
—— the fiasco. He hasjust said he takes response ability, so I wonder
takes response ability, so I wonder which of those 12 U—turns is they
which of those 12 U-turns is they promised a’s
which of those 12 U—turns is they promised a’s favourite? Mr Speaker,
promised a’s favourite? Mr Speaker, it is a
promised a’s favourite? Mr Speaker, Rheum
promised a’s favourite? Mr Speaker, it is a rare privilege to be asked a
it is a rare privilage to be asked a question in a
it is a rare privilege to be asked a question in a house, you would have
question in a house, you would have thought they would have come up with
thought they would have come up with something better than that. I what I
something better than that. I what I want to say to her is that this is a
want to say to her is that this is a global pandemic that this Government
global pandemic that this Government is dealing with extremely
is dealing with extremely effectively as a medical level and
effectively as a medical level and what we want to do now is in a
what we want to do now is in a Covid-19
what we want to do now is in a Covid—19 secure way, not only get
Covid-19 secure way, not only get our
Covid—19 secure way, not only get our children back to school because
our children hack to school because that is
our children back to school because that is what is happening today, in
that is what is happening today, in spite of the... I don’t know where
spite of the... I don’t know where she has been on this question, but
she has been on this question, but in spite of the Leader of the
in spite of the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues, and
Opposition and his colleagues, and what we also want to do is get our
what we also want to do is get our country and economy back on its feet
country and economy back on its feet again and get us back to work, so
country and economy back on its feet again and get us back to work, sol
again and get us back to work, so I hope that she
again and get us back to work, sol hope that she and her colleagues
hope that she and her colleagues will say that it is also safe to go
will say that it is also safe to go back to work in a Covid—19 secure
back to work in a Covid-19 secure way.
my honourable friend will be aware that, welcome though it is, the
that, welcome though it is, the start of the new term this week will
start of the new term this week will be challenging for all schools,
be challenging for all schools, especially for Burton green Church
especially for Burton green Church of England academy in my
of England academy in my constituency, where HS2 has
of England academy in my constituency, where HS2 hasjust
constituency, where HSZ has just closed
constituency, where HS2 hasjust closed the road many parents use to
closed the road many parents use to access the school. It has done that
access the school. It has done that for several months with little
for several months with little notice or consultation and contrary
notice or consultation and contrary to assurances given during the
to assurances given during the passage of the H52 bill. This is
passage of the H52 bill. This is not, as my right honourable friend
not, as my right honourable friend knows, the first or only example of
knows, the first or only example of highhandedness or poor communication
highhandedness or poor communication on the part of H52, so will he
on the part of H52, so will he please help me to require of H52
please help me to require of H52 that it does better for the people
that it does better for the people Burton green and elsewhere on the
Burton green and elsewhere on the route? Yes, Mr Speaker, I heartily
route? Yes, Mr Speaker, I heartily endorse, I
route? Yes, Mr Speaker, I heartily endorse, lam
route? Yes, Mr Speaker, I heartily endorse, I am afraid, the sentiments
endorse, I am afraid, the sentiments he has expressed. Anybody who has
he has expressed. Anybody who has worked with HS2 over the last few
worked with HSZ over the last few years will
worked with HS2 over the last few years will know that they do treat
years will know that they do treat [oral
years will know that they do treat local residents with, I am afraid, a
[oral residents with, I am afraid, a high-handed
local residents with, I am afraid, a high—handed manner, and what I can
high-handed manner, and what I ran tell him is
high—handed manner, and what I can tell him is that, where there is
tell him is that, where there is damage to local roads, HS2 will pay
damage to local roads, HS2 will pay compensation. I will certainly take
compensation. I will certainly take “P
compensation. I will certainly take up his point with HSZ. Low public
up his point with HSZ. Low public confidence in social distancing
confidence in social distancing measures means many businesses are
measures means many businesses are stmggling. If
measures means many businesses are struggling. If the
measures means many businesses are struggling. If thejob retention
struggling. If thejob retention scheme ends in October, there will
scheme ends in October, there will be catastrophic consequences for
be catastrophic consequences for workers, businesses and the economy
workers, businesses and the economy so, despite earlier waffle from the
so, despite eartier wafﬂe from the Prime
so, despite earlier waffle from the Prime Minister, I am asking again,
Prime Minister, I am asking again, will he commit to extending the job
will he commit to extending the job retention scheme or are we to expect
retention scheme or are we to expect more government incompetence,
more government incompetence, resulting in unnecessary
resulting in unnecessary redundancies and further strains on
redundancies and further strains on our already collapsing economy? I
our already collapsing economy? I direct the honourable lady to what I
direct the honourable lady to what I have already said, which is that
have already said, which is that there will always be those who argue
there will always be those who argue for infinite extension of the
for infinite extension of the furlough scheme and who want to keep
furlough scheme and who want to keep people off work, unemployed, being
people off work, unemployed, being paid substantial sums for a very
paid substantial sums for a very long time. I don’t think that’s the
long time. I don’t think that’s the right thing. I think the best way
right thing. I think the best way forward for our country is to get
forward for our country is to get peopla as far
forward for our country is to get people as far as possible back into
peopla as far as possibla back into work, and
people as far as possible back into work, and there is the
people as far as possible back into work, and there is thejob bonus, as
work, and there is the job bonus, as she knows, till
work, and there is thejob bonus, as she knows, till the end of the year,
she knows, till the end of the year, and there are abundant schemes, £160
and there are abundant schemes, £160 million has been spent to support
million has been spent to support the economy through the crisis, and
the economy through the crisis, and we will continue to put our arms
we will continue to put our arms around the entire people to keep
around the entire people to keep them going throughout this crisis.
them going throughout this crisis. But indefinite furlough is just not
But indefinite furlough is just not the answer. Our nation has a proud
the answer. Our nation has a proud history as a safe haven for
history as a safe haven for desperate souls, but now the asylum
desperate souls, but now the asylum system is broken and being abused,
system is broken and being abused, so the people would like to know
so the peopla would like to know when
so the people would like to know when the Prime Minister will
when the Prime Minister will introduce legislation to fix the
introduce lagislation to fix the asylum
introduce legislation to fix the asylum system, which will save lives
asylum system, which will save lives by taking back control of our
by taking back control of our borders? I think my honourable
borders? I think my honourable friend and I have a great deal of
friend and I have a great deal of sympathy with those who are so
sympathy with those who are so desperate as to put their children
desperate as to put their children in dinghies or children’s paddling
in dinghies or children’s paddling pools and try and cross the Channel,
pools and try and cross the Channel, but I have to say that what they are
but I have to say that what they are doing is falling prey to criminal
doing is falling prey to criminal gangs, and they are breaking the
gangs, and they are breaking the law, and they are also undermining
law, and they are also undermining the legitimate claims of others who
the legitimate claims of others who would seek asylum in this country,
would seek asylum in this country, and that is why we will take
and that is why we will take advantage of leaving the EU by
advantage of leaving the EU by changing the Dublin regulations on
changing the Dublin regulations on returns, and we will address the
returns, and we will address the duties and our laws that make this
duties and our laws that make this country, I am afraid, a target and a
country, I am afraid, a target and a magnet for those who would exploit
magnet for those who would exploit vulnerable people in this way. I
vulnerable peopla in this way. I trust
vulnerable people in this way. I trust the Prime Minister had an
trust the Prime Minister had an enjoyable visit to Appledore. He
enjoyable visit to Appledore. He knows well the mother the odd in my
knows well the mother the odd in my constituency in east Belfast, and I
constituency in east Belfast, and I ask that the Prime Minister
ask that the Prime Minister recognise the strategic purpose of
recognise the strategic purpose of Appledore and also that Howell wharf
Appledore and also that Howell wharf are now in an well—placed position
are now in an well-placed position to exist --
are now in an well—placed position to exist —— assist this country in
to exist -- assist this country in our
to exist —— assist this country in our defence needs. It was very
our defence needs. It was very excited to get Appledore to see the
excited to get Appledore to see the potential of that yard to see what
potential of that yard to see what Harland and Wolfe is doing there,
Hartand and Wolfe is doing there, and also, of
Harland and Wolfe is doing there, and also, of course, he is right in
and also, of course, he is right in what he says about the potential for
what he says about the potential for various other contracts, both in
various other contracts, both in Devon and Belfast, but I can’t give
Devon and Belfast, but I can’t give him now the kind of guarantees he
him now the kind of guarantees he wants over this dispatch box, but
wants over this dispatch box, but watch this space. Mr Blackford, you
watch this space. Mr Blackford, you have not given me notice of this
have not given me notice of this point of order, but I think it is
point of order, but I think it is important to clear up this matter
important to clear up this matter for that it isn’t normally that I
for that it isn’t normally that I would allow urgent questions to be
would allow urgent questions to be interfered with but on this will
interfered with but on this will allow it. Thank you, Mr Speaker, I
allow it. Thank you, Mr Speaker, I am most grateful. On Friday the 21st
am most grateful. On Friday the 2’Ist of August, the
am most grateful. On Friday the 21st of August, the Daily Mail ran a
of August, the Daily Mail ran a front-page
of August, the Daily Mail ran a front—page story revealing the
front—page story revealing the location of the Prime Minister’s
[oration of the Prime Minister’s Holiday in
location of the Prime Minister’s Holiday in Scotland. This was a
Holiday in Scotland. This was a violation of his family’s privacy
violation of his familrs privacy that
violation of his family’s privacy that neither myself nor my party in
that neither myself nor my party in any “Y
that neither myself nor my party in any way condone. Later the same day,
any way condone. Later the same day, a senior Conservative source in
a senior Conservative source in Downing Street told the Sun
Downing Street told the Sun newspaper, and I quote, the finger
newspaper, and I quote, the finger of blame for all this getting out is
of blame for all this getting out is being pointed at the SNP,
being pointed at the SNP, particularly Ian Blackford, and this
particularty Ian Blackford, and this was
particularly Ian Blackford, and this was subsequently repeated in a
was subsequently repeated in a number of newspapers and broadcast
number of newspapers and broadcast outlets. This allegation and
outiats. This allegation and briefing
outlets. This allegation and briefing was entirely and
briefing was entirely and deliberately false. It was a
deliberately false. It was a targeted political smear from the
targeted political smear from the Prime Minister possible to office.
Prime Minister possible to office. The photographer who provided the
The photographer who provided the material for the original Daily Mail
material for the original Daily Mail front-page
material for the original Daily Mail front—page later confirmed that I
front-page later confirmed that I was not
front—page later confirmed that I was not his source in revealing the
was not his source in revealing the Prime Minister’s location, a
Prime Minister’s location, a location, I might add, I
Prime Minister’s location, a location, I might add, Iwas
Prime Minister’s location, a location, I might add, I was not
location, I might add, Iwas not even
location, I might add, I was not even aware of. However, by this
even aware of. However, by this point, the damage was done. This
point, the damage was done. This matter has not only been the worst
matter has not only been the worst kind of political smearing, the
kind of political smearing, the false allegation is equally resulted
false allegation is equally resulted in security implications for myself
in security implications for myself and my family with a serious and
and my family with a serious and personal nature. I can see the Prime
personal nature. I ran see the Prime Minister pulling
personal nature. I can see the Prime Minister pulling a face, but all he
Minister pulling a face, but all he has to do is go to social media to
has to do is go to social media to see the threats that I was then
see the threats that I was then forced to witness. It is a very
forced to witness. It is a very serious situation when the apparatus
serious situation when the apparatus of the UK Government can be deployed
of the UK Government ran be deployed in this way,
of the UK Government can be deployed in this way, manufacturing false
in this way, manufacturing false briefings in order to attack an
briefings in order to attack an opposition politician. I raised this
opposition politician. I raised this issue with the Prime Minister
issue with the Prime Minister possible office in writing but, as I
possibla office in writing but, as I have not
possible office in writing but, as I have not received a response, I am
have not received a response, I am raising this point of order today to
raising this point of order today to ensure these false briefings are now
ensure these false briefings are now stopped and are never repeated. For
stopped and are never repeated. For any parliamentarian. May I first of
any partiamentarian. May I first of all say what a
any parliamentarian. May I first of all say what a wonderful staycation
all say what a wonderful stayGtion holiday I had
all say what a wonderful staycation holiday I had in the right
holiday I had in the right honourable gentleman’s constituency,
honourable genﬂaman’s constituency, what a
honourable gentleman’s constituency, what a fantastic part of the world,
what a fantastic part of the world, and how
what a fantastic part of the world, and howl
what a fantastic part of the world, and how I thoroughly commend it to
and how I thoroughly commend it to anybody. It’s absolutely beautiful,
anybody. It’s absolutely beautiful, and he is very lucky to represent
and he is very lucky to represent it. On the substantive point he
it. On the substantive point he raises, I
it. On the substantive point he raises, lam happy
it. On the substantive point he raises, I am happy to accept the
raises, I am happy to accept the assurances that he gives, but I
assurances that he gives, but I would just draw
assurances that he gives, but I would just drew his
assurances that he gives, but I would just draw his attention... He
would just draw his attention... He talks
would just drew his attention... He talks about going to social
would just draw his attention... He talks about going to social media,
talks about going to social media, so I draw
talks about going to social media, so I drew his attention to a tweet
so I draw his attention to a tweet by a chap
so I drew his attention to a tweet by a chap called crikey on the 17th
by a chap rallad crikey on the 17th of August,
by a chap called crikey on the 17th of August, saying ferocious Mitch
of August, saying ferocious Mitch county in Wester Ross tonight, I
county in Washer Ross tonight, I hear it
county in Wester Ross tonight, I hear it must be bad if you are fair
hear it must be bad if you are fair skinned and camping, to which an
skinned and camping, to which an account that purports to be the
account that purports to be the right honourable gentleman’s, but
right honourable gentleman’s, but I’m sure it isn’t because of what he
I’m sure it isn’t because of what he had just said, saying I wonder if
had just said, saying I wonder if energy is an Eton in good stead. I
energy is an Eton in good stead. I am sure and I am happy to accept his
am sure and I am happy to accept his assurances and protestations, and I
assurances and protestations, and I think we should leave it at that.
think we should leave it at that. (“an I just say
think we should leave it at that. Can I just say what I
think we should leave it at that. Can Ijust say what I am very
Can Ijust say what I am very concerned about is the security
concerned about is the security implications to the Prime Minister
implications to the Prime Minister and to the leader of the SNP. Please
and to the leader of the SNP. Please ran I
and to the leader of the SNP. Please ran Ijust
and to the leader of the SNP. Please ran I just ate
and to the leader of the SNP. Please can Ijust ate everyone, let’s be
ran Ijust ate everyone, let’s be very, careful
can Ijust ate everyone, let’s be very, carefuland
can Ijust ate everyone, let’s be very, careful and let’s learn from
very, careful and let’s learn from this, and it is on the record from
this, and it is on the record from both parties, and I hope we can draw
both parties, and I hope we ran draw a line under it,
both parties, and I hope we can draw a line under it, but please let’s
a line under it, but please let’s take each other’s security very,
take each other’s security very, very
take each other’s security very, very seriously. Thank you.
very seriously. Thank you. STUDIO: That’s the end of prime
STUDIO: That’s the end of prime ministers Question Time, quite a lot
ministers Question Time, quite a lot going on, a fairty
ministers Question Time, quite a lot going on, a fairly feisty exchange
going on, a fairly feisty exchange between Boris
going on, a fairly feisty exchange between BorisJohnson and Keir
between Boris johnson and Keir Starmer,
between BorisJohnson and Keir Starmer, as we have come to expect
Starmer, as we have come to expect in Prime Minister’s Questions. There
in Prime Minister’s Questions. There are some breaking lies that emerged
are some breaking lies that emerged that I want to bring you stop while
that I want to bring you stop whila Prime
that I want to bring you stop while Prime Minister’s Questions was under
Prime Minister’s Questions was under way, we heard that there has been
way, we heard that there has been U-turn on
way, we heard that there has been U—turn on the local restrictions
U-turn on the [oral restrictions around
U—turn on the local restrictions around Covid—19 in Bolton and
around Covid—19 in Bolton and Trafford. We were reporting earlier
Trafford. We were reporting eartier that they
Trafford. We were reporting earlier that they were being lifted, but
that they were being lifted, but there was a lot of local unhappiness
there was a lot of [oral unhappiness because
there was a lot of local unhappiness because there had been a spike in
because there had been a spike in the number of cases, and now the
the number of cases, and now the Health Secretary has announced that
Health Secretary has announced that that is going to be changed. And
that is going to be changed. And also another line that emerged in
also another line that emerged in Prime Minister’s Questions from
Prime Minister’s Questions from Doris
Prime Minister’s Questions from BorisJohnson on the BBC, he said
Boris johnson on the BBC, he said that the
BorisJohnson on the BBC, he said that the Culture Secretary will
that the Culture Secretary will shortly be publishing a road map for
shortly be publishing a road map for the future of the BBC, and we will
the future of the BBC, and we will be looking at funding.
Let’s go back to the restrictions around Covid—19 in Bolton and
around Covid—19 in Bolton and Trafford. We were just talking a
Trafford. We were just talking a while ago about the change and how
whila ago about the change and how peopla are
while ago about the change and how people are unhappy, and now the
people are unhappy, and now the restrictions have come back. It’s
restrictions have come back. It’s all happened very quickly. Just
all happened very quickly. just eartier,
all happened very quickly. Just earlier, we were talking about more
eartier, we were talking about more than a
earlier, we were talking about more than a million people in Greater
than a million people in Greater Manchester, Lancashire, West
Manchester, Lancashire, West Yorkshire looking forward to
Yorkshire looking forward to restrictions being eased so that
restrictions being eased so that members of two households could
members of two households could actually meet up with each other,
actually meet up with each other, but actually, at that time, we did
but actually, at that time, we did know that Bolton and Trafford, these
know that Bolton and Trafford, these two key areas, were asking for a
two key areas, were asking for a delay in the easing, because they
delay in the easing, because they are saying there has been a
are saying there has been a significant spike of infections.
significant spike of infections. Andy Burnham had been saying it was
Andy Burnham had been saying it was a logical to carry on with easing
a logical to carry on with easing the restrictions in this situation.
the restrictions in this situation. -- it was
the restrictions in this situation. —— it was illogical. In the last
-- it was illogical. In the last hour or so, we
—— it was illogical. In the last hour or so, we have had a statement
hour or so, we have had a statement from Health Secretary Matt Hancock
from Health Secretary Matt Hancock saying there has been a significant
saying there has been a significant change in the level of infection
change in the level of infection rates so Bolton and Trafford will
rates so Bolton and Trafford will remain under the existing
remain under the existing restrictions, which means members of
restrictions, which means members of two households in those areas will
two households in those areas will not be able to meet up. So it’s all
not be able to meet up. So it’s all change, quite quickly, but I have to
change, quite quickly, but I have to 55V
change, quite quickly, but I have to say somewhat predictably, given the
say somewhat predictably, given the fact that infections have been going
fact that infections have been going up. The [oral
fact that infections have been going up. The local Tory MP, Chris Green,
up. The [oral Tory MP, Chris Green, MP for
up. The local Tory MP, Chris Green, MP for Bolton and Alberton, said,
MP for Bolton and Alberton, said, despite what I had local press have
despite what I had [oral press have said,
despite what I had local press have said, Bolton is being kept in local
said, Bolton is being kept in local lockdown and I’m disappointed in how
lockdown and I’m disappointed in how this important decision has been
this important decision has been communicated because of the impact
communicated because of the impact this will have on people’s lives.
this will have on people’s lives. just hearing
this will have on people’s lives. Just hearing in Prime Minister’s
Just hearing in Prime Minister’s Questions how many U—turns there
Questions how many U-turns there have been,
Questions how many U—turns there have been, and it obviously means
have been, and it obviously means that people find things
that people find things unpredictable. They took the
unpredictable. They took the decision to end them, and they have
decision to end them, and they have said there was this sudden spike,
said there was this sudden spike, but trying to unpick what the
but trying to unpick what the sequence of events was and when this
sequence of events was and when this decision was taken... What have you
decision was taken... what have you been able
decision was taken... What have you been able to ascertain? It’s got
been able to ascertain? It’s got very complicated step there have
very complicated step there have been flip—flops going on and it’s
been ﬂip-ﬂops going on and it’s been change
been flip—flops going on and it’s been change after change, so it’s
been change after change, so it’s been really messy, and I think the
been really messy, and I think the messaging for people in this
messaging for peopla in this country,
messaging for people in this country, it’s very, very confusing.
country, it’s very, very confusing. It’s one thing one day at the next
It’s one thing one day at the next day it’s all change, it may be the
day it’s all change, it may be the next hour it’s changing, so it’s
next hour it’s changing, so it’s very difficult for people to keep up
very difficult for people to keep up with exactly what they can and
with exactly what they ran and cannot
with exactly what they can and cannot do. It is affecting people’s
cannot do. It is affecting people’s lives and therefore it’s really
lives and therefore it’s really concerning this is going on. It is
concerning this is going on. It is not clear decision making or clear
not clear decision making or clear decisions being made. Another
decisions being made. Another U-turn, this
decisions being made. Another U—turn, this time from the BBC about
U-turn, this time from the BBC about the last night of
U—turn, this time from the BBC about the last night of the Proms, Rule
the last night of the Proms, Rule Britannia and land of Hope and Glory
Britannia and land of Hope and Glory will be sung at the last night of
will be sung at the last night of the Proms by a select group of BBC
the Proms by a select group of BBC singers. You will probably have been
singers. You will probably have been aware that there was quite a row
aware that there was quite a row over what will be happening on the
over what will be happening on the last night, when it was decided it
last night, when it was decided it would simply be musical. The new
would simply be musical. The new director—general, Tim Davey, has
director-general, Tim Davey, has just taken up
director—general, Tim Davey, has just taken up the reins in his role
just taken up the reins in his rola at
just taken up the reins in his role at the BBC, and now
just taken up the reins in his role at the BBC, and new today we hear
at the BBC, and now today we hear that
at the BBC, and new today we hear that there will be a select group of
that there will be a select group of BBC singers singing at the Last
BBC singers singing at the Last Night of
BBC singers singing at the Last Night Of The Proms, so we will get
Night Of The Proms, so we will get the latest on that without media
the latest on that without media editor on news that 1pm.
Speaking at First
Minister’s Questions — Nicola Sturgeon has been addressing
the fresh restrictions and the latest deaths
in the country.
An additional 156 cases of Covid were found yesterday, and the total
were found yesterday, and the total number now is 20,788. 86 of the new
number now is 20,788. 86 of the new rases are in
number now is 20,788. 86 of the new cases are in Greater Glasgow and
rases are in Greater Glasgow and (lyde, 26 in
cases are in Greater Glasgow and Clyde, 26 in Lanarkshire, 16 in
(lyde, 26 in Lanarkshire, 16 in Lothian
Clyde, 26 in Lanarkshire, 16 in Lothian and six in Ayrshire and
Lothian and six in Ayrshire and Arran. 258 patients are in hospital,
Arran. 258 patients are in hospital, six fewer than yesterday, and five
six fewer than yesterday, and five people are in intensive care, one
people are in intensive rare, one fewer
people are in intensive care, one fewer than yesterday that I am sorry
fewer than yesterday that I am sorry to say that, in the last 2A hours,
to say that, in the last 24 hours, one death
to say that, in the last 2A hours, one death was registered of a
one death was registered of a patient who had tested positive, and
patient who had tested positive, and the number of deaths and that
the number of deaths and that measurement 2495 the in additional,
measurement 2495 the in additional, national record of Scotland has
national record of Scotland has introduced its latest update, which
introduced its latest update, which includes cases where Covid is a
includes rases where Covid is a suspected
includes cases where Covid is a suspected contributory cause of
suspected contributory cause of death. The latest update covers the
death. The latest update covers the week up to Sunday the 30th of August
week up to Sunday the 30th of August and shows the total of a bridge to
and shows the total of a bridge to death with a or presumed link to
death with a or presumed link to Covid is now A228. Six of those were
Covid is now 4228. Six of those were registered in
Covid is now A228. Six of those were registered in the previous week, the
registered in the previous week, the same number as the week before. Two
same number as the week before. Two were in rare
same number as the week before. Two were in care homes, two fewer than
were in rare homes, two fewer than the previous
were in care homes, two fewer than the previous week, and my
the previous week, and my condolences go to everyone who has
condolences go to everyone who has lost a loved one. In the interest of
lost a loved one. In the interest of pub“:
lost a loved one. In the interest of public information and parliamentary
public information and parliamentary information, let me mention briefly
information, let me mention brieﬂy to other
information, let me mention briefly to other matters. Last night, we
to other matters. Last night, we announced that Greece has been added
announced that Greece has been added to the list of countries subject to
to the list of countries subject to quarantine restrictions. Test and
quarantine restrictions. Test and Protect has had in recent days that
Protect has had in recent days that a number of new Covid cases can be
a number of new Covid cases ran be connected
a number of new Covid cases can be connected to individuals returning
connected to individuals returning from that country and any
from that country and any restrictions apply from thorium
restrictions apply from thorium tomorrow. Anyone arriving in
tomorrow. Anyone arriving in Scotland from Greece after that time
Scotland from Greece after that time self—isolate for M days. Anyone who
self-isolate for 14 days. Anyone who has
self—isolate for M days. Anyone who has returned from Greece in the last
has returned from Greece in the last few days should be particularly
few days should be particularly careful about social interactions
careful about social interactions and follow all of the advice
and follow all of the advice particularly carefully. Given the
particularly carefully. Given the uncertainties inherent in a global
uncertainties inherent in a global pandemic, I want to repeat my advice
pandemic, I want to repeat my advice for people to be very cautious about
for people to be very cautious about nonessential foreign travel right
nonessential foreign travel right now. There can be no guarantee that
now. There ran be no guarantee that the mles on
now. There can be no guarantee that the rules on quarantine will not
the mles on quarantine will not change while
the rules on quarantine will not change while you are awake and
change whila you are awake and affect you on
change while you are awake and affect you on your return. Let me
affect you on your return. Let me brieﬂy remind
affect you on your return. Let me briefly remind people living in
brieﬂy remind peopla living in Glasgow
briefly remind people living in Glasgow city, East Renfrewshire and
Glasgow city, East Renfrewshire and western partnership of the new
western partnership of the new guidance. The level of Covid is
guidance. The level of Covid is particularty
guidance. The level of Covid is particularly high and rising in
particularty high and rising in these
particularly high and rising in these areas given the Cole we know
these areas given the Cole we know Cobra ran
these areas given the Cole we know Cobra can take doing nothing was not
Cobra ran take doing nothing was not an option. The
Cobra can take doing nothing was not an option. The date we now get from
an option. The date we now get from Test and Protect allows us to be
Test and Protect allows us to be more targeted in the measures we
more targeted in the measures we take and what we know is that unlike
take and what we know is that unlike the cluster in Aberdeen 3
take and what we know is that unlike the cluster in Aberdeen a few weeks
the cluster in Aberdeen a few weeks ago data so far suggests that
ago data so far suggests that transmission in western Scotland is
transmission in western Scotland is happening not exclusively but mainly
happening not exclusively but mainly in people’s homes. 50 the guidance
in people’s homes. So the guidance is now firstly, if
in people’s homes. 50 the guidance is now firstly, if you live in
is now firstly, if you live in Glasgow, East Renfrewshire and West
Glasgow, East Renfrewshire and West Dunbartonshire, you should not host
Dunbarhonshire, you should not host peopla from
Dunbartonshire, you should not host people from other households in your
people from other households in your home and you should not visit
home and you should not visit someone else’s home, no matter where
someone else’s home, no matter where that is. There
someone else’s home, no matter where that is. There are exceptions for
that is. There are exceptions for emergencies, providing care or
emergencies, providing rare or shopping to
emergencies, providing care or shopping to vulnerable people and
shopping to vulnerable peopla and for
shopping to vulnerable people and for extended households, and you can
for extended households, and you ran find
for extended households, and you can find further guidance and a Q and a
find further guidance and a 0 and a at the
find further guidance and a Q and a at the Scottish Government website.
at the Scottish Government website. Second, if any member of your
Second, if any member of your household is identified as a close
household is identified as a close contact for somebody who has tested
contact for somebody who has tested positive, we will ask the whole
positive, we will ask the whole household eye slit for M days, and
household eye slit for 14 days, and [oral
household eye slit for M days, and local authorities are stepping up
[oral authorities are stepping up support
local authorities are stepping up support arrangements. Lastly, visits
support arrangements. lastly, visits to rare
support arrangements. Lastly, visits to care homes in these areas is
to care homes in these areas is restricted to outdoor only, and
restricted to outdoor only, and hospital visiting will return to
hospital visiting will return to essential visits only. These
essential visits only. These restrictions will be in place for
restrictions will be in place for two weeks and reviewed in one week.
two weeks and reviewed in one week. They have not been put in place
They have not been put in place lightly but they are necessary and
lightly but they are necessary and we believe proportionate and we hope
we believe proportionate and we hope they will allow spread to be
they will allow spread to be contained at an early stage without
contained at an earty stage without the
contained at an early stage without the need for further measures later.
the need for further measures later. They apply only in these three
They apply only in these three council areas right now, but I think
council areas right now, but I think they should be a wake—up call for
they should be a wake-up call for all of us. If
they should be a wake—up call for all of us. If we let it, the virus
all of us. If we let it, the virus will spread rapidly but, if we stick
will spread rapidly but, if we stick to some basic rules and continue to
to some basic mles and continue to make
to some basic rules and continue to make some sacrifices we can stop it.
make some sacrifices we ran stop it. Blunﬂy, but
make some sacrifices we can stop it. Bluntly, but only works if we all do
Blunﬂy, but only works if we all do these things,
Bluntly, but only works if we all do these things, so please make sure
these things, so please make sure you are aware of the rules and stick
you are aware of the mles and stick to them
you are aware of the rules and stick to them and follow face coverings,
to them and follow face coverings, avoiding public bases, clean hands
avoiding public bases, clean hands and hard surfaces, keep two metres
and hard surfaces, keep two metres distance and, self—isolate and book
distance and, self-isolate and book a test if you
distance and, self—isolate and book a test if you have this is more
a test if you have this is more important than it has been at any
important than it has been at any stage of the pandemic so far. Nicola
stage of the pandemic so far. Nicola Sturgeon on the new restrictions in
Sturgeon on the new restrictions in Glasgow.
Pupils in England and Wales have been going back to school
after the unprecedented shutdown during the coronavirus pandemic.
The start of the new term is being staggered in many areas.
But there are still many questions over how easy it will be
for children to catch up on learning.
Our correspondent, Tomos Morgan, went to a primary school
in Barry Island earlier to see what measures have been put in place
for children to return to the classroom safely.
Barry Island Primary School is reopening for some
pupils today in Wales.
In Wales, children under 11 will not have to socially distance.
There are no masks needed for any primary school children,
but children will be in classrooms like this, all forward facing,
and they will remain in their bubbles throughout the day,
which means they will be doing everything in groups of 30
or so or how big the class is.
So they will be having break timejust on their own.
They will be having lunches here in this classroom.
Sarah, your two children standing next to you here,
you are obviously really excited to come back today, aren’t you?
Yeah.
Yes?
Yeah.
A resounding yes, there.
And you are happy, safe, looking forward to children going back?
Absolutely.
They have been looking forward to coming back for ages
and certainly we are looking forward to having some routine back.
I was lucky during the whole Covid crisis because we used the hub,
but they missed their friends, that teacher contact and learning.
And the way it’s set out here, you’ve had a little walk
through the school, you are happy?
You’re confident everything is going to...not go to plan
but you all feel confident about the safety element here?
No concerns at all.
Good luck today, both of you.
We willjust walk down back through the classroom here and we’ll
just go back through the corridor.
There is hand sanitiser when you come in and out
so the pupils and staff will have to wear that.
The one—way system now on the floor through the corridor as we come
into the main hall here.
The main hall will not be used for assemblies at the moment
because the bubbles have to stay together.
Renee and Niamh, your first day back as well.
Renee just talk to us a little bit about different entrances
for different year groups.
Are you happy with everything?
Yes, we have had communication and it has been very clear that
different classes use different entrances at different times
and they will also finish school at different times,
they will be staggered.
There was a trial run before the summer holidays.
Quite confident that the school is ready to have the children back.
And obviously, for you, Niamh, the main thing is you get
to see friends again.
Yes.
But also, you have to get a little bit of learning in,
are you happy about that?
Yes.
Brilliant, of course.
Matt, the head teacher here, look, it has clearly been a lot of work.
What has it been like getting the teachers, not on board,
but making sure everyone understands the guidance?
I think realistically, with advice and guidance
from the local authority, you know, with human resources
supporting some members of staff to return to work,
they have been incredible.
I’m lucky to work with the dynamic teaching team,
so they are really the hands—on, integral to setting up the school
ready and again going with the risk assessments based on government
guidelines and the local authority’s advice.
Thank you so much.
Barry, one of the schools opening today, but most schools like this
one will be doing a phased return, having different year groups
starting school at different days of week and by week and a half’s
time, all children in Wales will have to be back in school.
Let’s go back to that breaking news in the last few moments that there
in the last few moments that there has been a government U—turn over
has been a government U-turn over the
has been a government U—turn over the lockdown restrictions in Bolton
the lockdown restrictions in Bolton and Old Trafford, and Trafford,
and Old Trafford, and Trafford, Surrey, where restrictions are going
Surrey, where restrictions are going to remain after they were supposed
to remain after they were supposed to have been lifted after the Health
to have been lifted after the Health Secretary was in consultation with
Secretary was in consultation with [oral
Secretary was in consultation with local leaders and there was a big
[oral leaders and there was a big surge in the
local leaders and there was a big surge in the level of infection
surge in the level of infection rates in the last few days. As you
rates in the last few days. As you would imagine, there has been a lot
would imagine, there has been a lot of reaction to this decision,
of reaction to this decision, because people thought the
because people thought the restrictions were going, and now
restrictions were going, and now they have been told they are not.
they have been told they are not. They are being brought back
they have been told they are not. They are being brought backjust 12
They are being brought back just 12 hours
They are being brought backjust 12 hours after they were eased. The
hours after they were eased. The [oral Tory MP,
hours after they were eased. The local Tory MP, Chris Green, has
[oral Tory MP, Chris Green, has tweeted.
local Tory MP, Chris Green, has tweeted. He is the MP for Bolton
tweeted. He is the MP for Bolton west and Appleton, and he’s happy.
west and Applaton, and he’s happy. He says,
west and Appleton, and he’s happy. He says, despite what I and local
He says, despite what I and [oral press
He says, despite what I and local press understood, Bolton is being
press understood, Bolton is being kept in [oral
press understood, Bolton is being kept in local lockdown. I am
kept in local lockdown. I am disappointed at how this important
disappointed at how this important decision has been communicated
decision has been communicated because of the impact this will have
because of the impact this will have on people’s lives. Bolton and
on people’s lives. Bolton and Trafford councils have written to
Trafford councils have written to the government yesterday but
the government yesterday but apparently they haven’t had any
apparently they haven’t had any response by last night, so this
response by last night, so this morning the Mayor of Greater
morning the Mayor of Greater Manchester was out saying that he
Manchester was out saying that he was unhappy about the restrictions
was unhappy about the restrictions being eased, and now, just in the
being eased, and now, just in the last half an hour or so, that
last half an hour or so, that Hancock has the restrictions are
Hancock has the restrictions are going to be put back in place. ——
going to be put back in place. -- Matt
going to be put back in place. —— Matt Hancock. We will have plenty
Matt Hancock. We will have planty more
Matt Hancock. We will have plenty more reaction to that through the
more reaction to that through the afternoon.
Members of the exam regulator in England, quual,
have been appearing before MPs to answer questions on what went
wrong with this year’s GSCE and A—level results.
Students didn’t sit exams and were awarded grades based
on an algorithm instead.
After two weeks of controversy over the fairness of the algorithm,
the Education Secretary, Gavin Williamson, decided
to revert to what are known as centre—assessed grades.
Speaking earlier, the Chair of quual highlighted
where mistakes were made.
The fundamental mistake was to believe that this would ever
be acceptable to the public.
Perhaps I might illustrate that point, give a sense
of what I mean by that.
We were looking at this in terms of particular ideas of fairness,
fairness across the whole population, the probability that
somebody would get a grade, but acknowledging from the outset
that it would not be anything like as accurate as exams.
I think what we now realise is that...
If you have 1,000 students that have an 80% chance
of getting an A grade, they would regard themselves,
quite reasonably as A—grade students.
In a normal year, 200 of those students would not get the A
grade, they’d get a B grade.
Mr Taylor also said that quual wanted students to sit exams,
but it was the Education Secretary, Gavin Williamson, who decided
that they would be cancelled and replaced with a system
of calculated grades.
Our initial advice to the Secretary of State was the best way
to handle this was to try to hold exams in a socially
distanced manner.
Our second option was to delay exams, but the third option,
if neither of these was acceptable, would be to try to look at some form
of calculated grade.
We did also look at whether that would be a teacher certificate,
rather than attempting to replicate exam grades.
But that was our advice to ministers.
It was the Secretary of State who subsequently took
the decision and announced, without further consultation
with quual, that exams were to be cancelled and a system of calculated
grades was to be implemented.
And then there was this surprise intervention.
Had the exams taken place...
That’s the Conservative MP for Stoke, Jonathan Gullis,
who had his hands full throughout the hearing.
if:
He ended up putting on a papoose. It’s lovely to see what happened,
It’s lovely to see what happened, soothing the baby, and finally
soothing the baby, and finally resorting to the papoose and
resorting to the papoose and carrying on as if nothing was
carrying on as if nothing was happening.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Tomasz.
Hello.
Earlier on today we had a window of fine weather, particularly
across eastern and southern areas, but the clouds have been increasing
through the afternoon and into this evening
it is a case of rain at times, in some places heavier than others.
Here is the cloud moving across the UK.
The heaviest of the rain will be across Northern
Ireland, the south—west of Scotland, as well as the Lake District.
So this area here.
To the south it may be heavy at times, but should be
moving swiftly on and actually generally speaking it is going to be
looking overcast and drizzly this evening and not cold.
Temperatures tonight may fall lower than about 16
degrees in the south.
There is a bit of a mild south—westerly wind, but a
lot of cloud, moisture and hill fog spreading across the UK.
Further north, also relatively mild, around
1A degrees there in the lowlands of Scotland.
So here is the weather map for Thursday.
Low pressure close to
Iceland, a cold front moving across the UK,
so it is going to introduce some fresher, blustery conditions
to the north—west of the UK.
To the south of that where that weather front is
moving through there will always be a bit more cloud
and outbreaks of rain, anywhere from Cardiff,
London, say, to Norwich, during the course of the afternoon.
I think the best bit is going to be this bit in the
middle here around Liverpool and Yorkshire.
Temperatures should nudge up to around 20 degrees.
The rest of the week is going to be a bit of a mixed bag.
Here is Friday’s weather forecast.
Another weather front sneaks into the south, bring cloud
and some outbreaks of rain and also we have some showers across
Scotland, maybe one or two sneaking into the north—west of England.
And relatively cool, 16 or 18 Celsius.
Now at the weekend, we are watching this high pressure from the Azores,
it is called the Azores high because it is close to the Azores
and the islands there.
But it is building into the UK, settling things down across the
south of the country, so I think sunshine from Birmingham to Norwich
to London, but Scotland closer to the low further north and also
cooler and also more of a breeze there, with some showers.
Some of them may even sneak in as far south as
central parts of England.
Through the course of the week, the weather is going to improve
and you can see from these weather icons, turning a little bit brighter
towards the weekend, but the temperatures not
spectacular, we’re mostly talking about the high teens.
Bye— bye.
Back to school — with a difference.
Millions of pupils in England return after the coronavirus lockdown.
For many of the children,
it’s the first time they’ve been in a classroom for months.
It is a mixture of emotions and stuff.
Ifeel, like, really, really excited but really nervous as well.
I just can’t wait to get in and start learning and stuff.
We’ll be seeing how they’re getting on
and asking if the safety measures are working.
Also this lunchtime...
We wanted exams to go ahead but were overruled —
the head of quual launches a robust defence of the regulator’s role
in the A—level and GCSE fiasco.
Another Government U—turn — hours after lifting them,
restrictions in two parts of Manchester are reimposed.
# Rule, Britannia...
BBC U—turn — the broadcaster says there will now be singing
of Rule, Britannia and Land of Hope and Glory
at the Last Night of the Proms, after a chorus of criticism.
Making history — boxer Nicola Adams becomes the first contestant
to be part of a same—sex pairing in Strictly Come Dancing.
Coming up in the sport later in the hour on BBC News,
20,000 fans could be heading to Twickenham next month
for England’s match against the Barbarians.
Good afternoon and welcome to the BBC News at One.
It’s a huge day for many families in England and Wales,
as millions of pupils return to the classroom
after almost six months.
Schools look very different from how they did back in March —
with one—way systems and staggered start times
helping to keep students safe.
But there are still many questions over how easy it will be
for children to catch up on learning and the impact on next year’s exams.
Schools in Scotland and Northern Ireland
have already reopened.
Our Education Correspondent Dan Johnson is at a secondary school
in Nottinghamshire.
Over to you.
Over to you. Yes, don’t underestimate how
Yes, don’t underestimate how important this day is, for so many
important this day is, for so many students and for the teachers who
students and for the teachers who have done so much work preparing for
have done so much work preparing for this return today. Now, here at
this return today. Now, here at Outwood Academy Portland in Worksop,
Outwood Academy Portland in Worksop, these are corridors that are being
these are corridors that are being protected from certain year groups,
protected from certain year groups, to keep students apart and we have
to keep students apart and we have seen year seven return here this
seen year seven return here this morning ahead of the rest of the
morning ahead of the rest of the 1,500 pupils coming back to classes
1,500 pupils coming back to classes tomorrow.
Put yourself in Amy’s new school shoes.
That strange first day in the uncertain world
of secondary school.
I am a bit nervous, because I don’t know anyone and it is a big day.
Then throw in the added baggage of coronavirus,
weighing on 11—year—old shoulders.
It is a mixture of emotions and stuff.
Ifeel, like, really, really excited but really nervous as well.
I just really can’t wait to get in and start learning and stuff.
Good morning, year seven and welcome to Portland!
And here are 300 more fresh faces.
Masked for the bus ride but eager to learn after months of lockdown.
A bit nervous, but I’m feeling good.
It made me feel safe but I couldn’t breathe.
Can’t breathe in these masks, I don’t like it.
It’s funny, though.
We were missing out on a lot of learning during Covid,
so it’s good to be back.
Having been at home, it’s been quite hard
however, being at school, obviously staying two metres apart
and things like that, it’s definitely going to help.
I’m OK, I mean, the school’s put lots of things on the website,
they’ve given us, like, a virtual tour of the school,
so I know what I’m expecting and, today, it is just year sevens in,
so we do have a bit of a transition.
So I’m feeling fine.
Waving them off is always a wrench, so parents could be forgiven
some anxious worries.
You know, it’s like a sense of trepidation, he’s starting a new
part of his schooljourney,
but, you know, other than that, yeah, good.
Yeah, I think it is the right time, they’ve been at home for a long time
without having as much teacher support as they would normally have,
so it’s great that they are back with people their own age and back
in a learning environment.
The signage around the school is excellent, Amy knows
what’s expected of her, so I think we’re feeling
as positive as we can.
We hope that, at least, this will give them the chance
to get settled into school and then if there are cases and we find
there has to be lockdowns, or things change again,
then they will at least know what they are doing and they will be

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 02/09/2020, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/16CBB46EX?bcast=132705069 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)