it could trigger a few sharp A IR e
Still quite chilly in the north-east of Scotland,
with that wet and windy weather,
but it’s warming up across England and Wales again on Tuesday.
That wetter weather will push away, ORI A LR
and things are quietening down around the middle part of the week.
Light winds everywhere.
But then we have the issues about mist, fog and low cloud.
It could be bit of a grey start across some western areas.
That will tend to lift and we should see some sunshine coming through.
Most places could just give one or two showers but, on the whole,
a lot of dry weather.
It’s warming up through the Central Belt of Scotland,
18 degrees in Birmingham,
19, possibly 20 degrees around the London area.
Later on in the week, as we head LRI RO S R L G A
we’re looking at a lot of drier weather, but again this mist
and cloud and maybe some patches of fog around on Thursday.
Again, that will tend to Lift
and it’s likely that the model’s overdoing the extent of the cloud.
So brightening up again, some sunshine,
maybe the odd shower across England and Wales but, generally, it’s dry.
Still not that warm, though, across O RO E R S L
It never really warms up here, and by the end of the week we’ve got
high pressure moving down from the north, extending across the UK
and keeping these weather fronts at bay, generally speaking.
We could see some showery bursts of rain heading into Northern Ireland,
maybe over the Irish Sea towards Wales and the north-west
of England, but further north and east, it’s likely to be dry.
There could again be some mist, fog and low cloud to slowly Lift,
then some sunshine coming through. Looks generally cloudy.
May not be quite as cloudy as that,
but those temperatures are near normal for this time of the year.
Looking further ahead, and whilst we start with that area of high
pressure dominating over the Easter weekend,
there are now some areas of low pressure that are getting close
to our shores, particularly towards the south-west, but on the whole,
high pressure looks like it is going to stay in charge.
So a lot of dry weather over the R U R G R Ela
Near normal temperatures, an improvement on what we’ve seen.
Difficult to know how much cloud there’s going to be,
and there’s still the potential TR e
to come into some western (I R R QR A
The final days of the dinosaurs’ reign on Planet Earth
have long remained a mystery.
A remarkable new dig site [ R TG A
how the last dinosaurs lived and died.
Ty T
Are we about to discover P R !
on the day the asteroid hit?
What if we could come back LGN & (S
again and again and again?
They’re the two best words in the English language
when you put them together.
From the novel by Kate Atkinson...
AR A A 1
when we started making Serial.
We really thought we were just inventing a thing, and we had
no idea if people would stay with it.
Like, it’s called Serial because we just thought -
the thing about this that’s ARG E iR Y
a serialised story that will roll out week-by-week.
UGN GCEI I [G Tl T unsatisfying, | guess,
about, "We like stories with a beginning, middle
and anend” in a sense.
And then, you know, for Serial, there is no ending, there’s no
dramatic change - you follow R R RO
but in the end, without being a plot spoiler,
VR G TR SN T TR R e R
to as listeners.
I think the things that make a story like that satisfying
are partly just the dynamics of the people in it.
| mean, partly in that show, what makes it go is,
you know, Sarah Koenig’s relationship with him
as she tries to figure him out.
Like, it’s just very intense and very personal,
and you really get to know him.
And then you really are trying to answer a question,
you’re trying to solve a mystery, that keeps
you going forward.
And so, yeah, it feels good.
And then as journalism, obviously, like, she’s
an incredible investigative reporter.
In subsequent seasons, we tried to take on things that
were very different from that - N R A B e
in murder mysteries and let N ARG e e
and the rest of podcasting take that up.
And you know, the season after it was on the US
military, and the season after that, we basically tried
to diagnose what’s wrong with the American court system
and, you know, camped AR e e IR
And | was going to say, that first one was such a huge
success, you know, went viral, led you to co-founding,
you know, an entire production company, Serial Productions,
which you then sold to The New York Times
for a reported $25 million.
Are you still involved in the day-to-day running
Ol G R E A
I am not involved in the day-to-day running
of the company - but | never was, that was run by Julie
Snyder.
But I am involved in editing stories, like, all the stories
in our most recent podcast, The Trojan Horse Affair,
like, I did multiple edits on every episode.
OK, because of course, | was going to come on to that
- because, you know, it investigates a story much
closer to home A AL G
It looks at the source of a mysterious letter -
later established most VAN R
but sent anonymously to Birmingham City Council
nearly a decade ago.
It was a huge deal TN RGN
It kicked off, you know, R R
investigations into extremism, R ey
losing their jobs, an awful lot of claim and counter-claim,
an awful lot of news reporting now.
Now your series has also proved very controversial.
You know, some of the people you interviewed say
they were misled or misquoted, and you’ve since reedited one
of the episodes and issued a correction.
What do you think went wrong?
Walit, | don’t know about - I literally de not know
about people saying they were misled and misquoted.
So | don’t actually G R Rl R A
From Serial Productions and The New York Times,
It’s The Trojan Horse Affair.
ST RGN ATV interview, it became clear that
Ira Glass didn’t know the specifics of any complaints
about his company’s latest blockbuster podcast.
STy [N R G R gl T (6 to the Trojan horse affair,
according to recent news SRR G R T R G
like the Times and The Daily Telegraph, have made some
pretty serious allegations E N R G TG R USSR
| happen to be in Birmingham, England, one night when this
journalism student came up...
Ira was happy to try and answer these guestions,
and even offered to do another interview after getting
a briefing from his team.
But instead, we approached The New York Times and Serial
Productions directly.
They say that the podcast R G L= R AL
R AR R =l B
fact-checking and legal review.
More broadly, you know, do you see This American Life
and the Serial productions as campaigning journalism?
No, no - | feel like we’re mainstream journalism
where we go into situations and we’re reporting the facts.
Because | suppose, you know, G CRR N GR L R s R =1
you know, we’ve heard a lot, haven’t we people saying,
particularly in America, DA R CE R G
about the sort of liberal media and the cosy liberalness
of all the people who work in the media.
| jJust wondered, you know, you’ve got a recent episode
about gambling, for example, N N R O LR
of a woman who’d sued a big US casino firm chain.
[ e AR AT a David and Goliath story,
her against the big capitalist beast - quite understandably.
But do you see your programmes as having a political stance?
No.
VR R L] LS
No, | feel like we’re very like...
VIR B R R EIVS R BTG T B
like things come up R LR U LA
wow, that’s that’s something new, that’s something somebody
Like, for example, the Trump policy at the border,
like, somebody should put this OGN RS A
And just like, you know, like it, like where where
we see something and we think like, "That seems bad.”
But then, honestly, like we follow the facts
where they go.
| can see that, | totally understand that, | totally buy
IR G ETTgY G T Y R R R e
NN LR R G you know, terms like "culture
war” thrown around.
You know, you had a programme L R ]
who was pro-Llife and a Conservative Christian,
but she’s become pro-choice - and it feels like quite
a natural story for This American Life.
And | just wondered whether you do a story
in the reverse, you know, a person moving from a liberal
position to a more right-wing, Conservative position.
Yeah, we would love to do a story like that.
Yeah, of course.
But you haven’t found it yet, or are you looking for it?
| mean, that particular one.
You know, we haven’t found and we weren’t looking for...
But there are other stories that we do, which go
inside the world of Conservatives in a way
where we are trying to document ORI RS- LE
as much as we try to document anybody else.
You know, we did an early SN U R N
which was just completely AL ER G HE R
You know, we’ve done stories inside militia groups -
like, we did a story of the election where we went
around with these militia groups that were supposedly
like patrolling, you know, polling stations.
And there was all this fear that they were going to be
intimidating voters - and it really was just trying
to document, here is how QIR YL R T
Here’s what they’re about, TSR W RO RN R
know.
You know, | think there’s no objectivity in journalism,
I think like journalists who talk about like shooting
for objectivity, that’s shooting for something
And | find it to be always a kind of annoying construct.
| don’t think you can XL e N
| think you can be fair.
You know, | think fairness RN EIC RO R OE IS TR
UCT AR e EIR ¢ o[l Tsf
And | feel like we go out of our way to be fair.
Like, | feel, like, G R A ¢l 2
in any dispute that we’re reporting on.
And | suppose, you know, NN IR U R LA |
polarising at the moment have accused.
We’re all accused of highlighting divisions
and of finding the extremes.
And | just wondered N AL Nt e
| mean, do you do you bring people together, do you think,
or do you push them G ek
| mean, it’s funny, like | don’t think about it
that way, | don’t think, are we trying to bring people
together or are we trying to push them apart?
| feel like, you know, we’re a very particular
documentary show where we’re trying to get inside people’s
worlds and show their points of view.
And so, the degree to which we’re trying to give
a complete sense of things...
It’s like, we’re not pulling people apart,
and we’re not trying to pull them together either,
it’s just Like we’re trying to say, "Here’s what this
person is, here’s the picture you might have of them
in your head, and here’s LR GEVACY (FT
And often, that’s the more radical thing to be doing.
Like, here’s the way that this here’s the way this argument
Is talked about, but here’s the reality on the ground.
Here’s what’s really happening.
You know, there was a point early in the Trump
Administration where. ..
One of the things that was ENCHE LN RNl
was how immigrants were coming in and stealing jobs.
Ll LRI L Gy with immigration.
Like, they’re coming in and stealing US jobs,
and we did two episodes, we were like, is like,
All right, let’s just like go to a place and see
And at the time, IS RN GRS
was one of the people who had been like saying this
for years, former senator in the United States,
CL LG I T RN T IR R TE
This is why he’s anti-immigration.
Before Trump, he was the big anti-immigration person
in Washington, DC, and then became the Attorney-General.
And so, we’re like, actually, Rl OE AT & G 1
So let’s go to a town, SRR FICE L R
I IR R
And we actually chose - he’s from Alabama and we’'re
just like, what’s the town in Alabama, which had
like a flood of immigrants Y TR T A 1 )
And there was a town in Alabama that was sort
And we went to that town e R e N
plants there that at some point just started bringing
in Mexican workers to work in the chicken plants
until the town, which had NIRRT
Albertville is the town - had been all white, you know,
was between was between a third and a fourth Mexican-American
or Mexican - not Mexican-American, Mexican.
And | was just like, "OK, what did it do to this town?
Did they steal jobs?"
And we really like went in and spent months,
and hired an economist to look at what it did to wages,
LTI who had what jobs?
But also, what did it do to the culture of the town,
what it do to the [ R RGNk
And | feel like we went in like not knowing,
you know what | mean?
And | feel like at its best, that kind of reporting what it
does, it says, "Here’s C{LR G I RN T
at this thing.
Let’s just go to a place and see what really happens.”
And what did happen, R L LRGN
In that town - it’s funny, ISR U R A e
since we’ve done this - | remember what it did
LRI G LRI number of jobs grew,
because when you have that many workers coming in,
there’s all this construction for housing and people selling
more food, and it actually boosted the overall economy
So there were overall more jobs, there was not more
unemployment among workers.
But if | remember right, it did keep wages depressed.
Like, you know, it did affect wages in a way that
you could measure, if | remember correctly.
I was just going to say that - oh, sorry.
I was just going to ask, you know, whether there
are topics that you would avoid for fear of offending
or dividing - everything feels quite tense at the moment
In a sense over certain topics.
| jJust wonder, are there R YR
you would just avoid on This American Life ?
Or is everything up for discussion and revelations ?
Everything’s up for discussion.
Like, | can’t think of anything that’s come up on our staff
where we talked about, like, "Should we do this?"
And there was a feeling of like, "No, let’s stay
away from that.”
NI G LA =TGR
What are you working on right now?
I mean, right now, we’re scrambling to get together
a show responding to what’s happening in Ukraine.
But me personally, like, | stumbled into this story
about NFTs, where this guy called up, convinced...
Like, just a crazy story about NFTs where this guy
called up, and basically, he said that a man called him
out of the blue and said, like, "Hey, did you start this
And he’s like, "I did start G E RSN AR EE R L)
and then | took it down R e
He’s like, "I think you invented NFTs.
| think you made the first NFT, or one of the first, anyway.
And If that’s true, you should start selling it again,
because you’'ll be rich.”
And the guy’s like, B TR NGV A
And then it just unspools from there to a point
where he thinks he’s getting LRSS RGN A
but he also makes millions of dollars.
It’s just a crazy story that takes you into that world.
Sounds great - anything that takes us into NFTs is useful,
because most people still don’t understand what they are.
| didn’t understand IS IR 1
Well, there you go.
Ira Glass, you’ve been a dominant force in speech
radic for scme time now.
You’ve had a huge impact on the types of radio
and podcasts that many people listen to.
So tell me, tell us, what is next?
What kind of audio will we be listening to in ten years’
time?
Can you make a prediction?
| have no idea.
| would think it would be a mix of things we have now.
There’s some narrative podcasts that people like,
people doing journalism.
| think there’ll be a bunch of interviews shows that people
will enjoy, and there’ll be a loudmouths like Joe Rogan
NG PR Y
I’m sure it’ll all still be going.
Maybe somehow, there’ll be RN AR AR AR R e e )
way, shape, or form.
Thank you so much, Ira Glass for joining me today.
Thank you as well to Bob Nettles, today’s studio
LT
The Media Show will be back RO e
Thanks for listening and goodbye.
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around
first thing on Sunday, but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday
morning, as low as minus six Celsius.
Now, all change and quite literally
=ERUE 1S e AUy
of low pressure QR R IO
cloud right across the country, and that is acting like
a blanket so it is NPT
Lo GO from falling too far.
It will be a frost free start to Monday morning,
with temperatures more likely RN Ri N
degrees above freezing.
So, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite
a cloudy, grey story first thing
in the morning.
The winds are going to strengthen,
and that is going RO I
showery outbreaks of rain through Wales,
Northern Ireland, north-west England
as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly
or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess
NI
But sheltered eastern NIRRT
some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming
from the south, that means it will be
a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday, and we can trail
that weather front all the way back dewn into Spain.
In fact, the air is coming IR EEEUEICE
It is going to be pushing its way
steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps
NRGCEA e G REa
Here, you will stay NEG R e
air for the next few days.
That means first thing on Tuesday
morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees
in Lerwick but ten RN
not out of the question across central and southern
parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there is going to be some rain,
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the area is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan
dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your
washing or your car is a little bit grainy,
a Little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down
into the south-east whether cloud
lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum
of six to eight Celsius.
But the rain will ease away, the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
It looks likely that Wednesday will be the warmest day
of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out
of the question.
A good deal of dry weather as well, as we head
Whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
Welcome to BBC News.
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
Emmanuel Macron is on target to win the first ballot
in the French presidential election, but Marine Le Pen
gains ground at the polls.
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this is not over.
The debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days
s decisive for our country and for Europe.
Grim discoveries in Ukraine.
More than 1,200 bodies are found in areas around Kyiv
that were previously occupied by Russian troops.
Tens of thousands take R R AR TR e
to protest against the removal of the former prime minister,
Imran Khan, from office.
The Olivier goes to...
..Eddie Redmayne!
And Eddie Redmayne wins big R R Y las
at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
Welcome to the programme.
With most of the votes T B R Rl e
round of the French presidential election,
Emmanuel Macron will face the far-right leader
Marine Le Pen in a run-off B A R
Results currently show only a two percentage point
difference between them, with Mr Macron on just over 27%
and Ms Le Pen on just over 25%.
Our Paris correspondent Lucy Williamson has the latest.
It’s on, the battle RGN A e
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
The debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days
s decisive for our country and for Europe.
A choice of President Macron or President Le Pen.
LRI ROl R 1 happen on 24 April is not
just a vote about conditions, IR R R e A
A LUES R IEE A ]
Early projections suggest that Emmanuel Macron
LR R TR VT with 28% of voters,
Le Pen’s share of the vote grew to around 23%.
It’s not as close as some I EL GG
but this is where the battle really begins.
Nyl EidcT e
A little bit nervous always,
simply because you don’t know A e R -
And what the French people will want.
We have seen lately that U RS GG G
more popular, in part e R e
networks, misinformation is kind of like the plague
of the 21st century.
So, our work Is to try to fight that.
Yes, we are scared because the votes are very
close on the first round, people on the second
round will vote everything but Macron because people
are not satisfied N e e P
Mr Macron only started campaigning a few weeks ago,
too occupied with the war in Ukraine.
More proof for some that he is arrogant and out
of touch, the president of the rich,
despite creating jobs and paying billions
to keep French workers afloat through Covid.
Marine Le Pen has worked hard NS R Gl
and more responsible.
She wants to ban the Muslim headscarf in public and give
priority to French nationals in jobs and housing.
But her campaign is focused on poverty and rising prices.
Mr Macron says that her programme is racist
and would threaten democracy in France.
He’s always said he Is QRN CR ARl
keep Le Pen from power, IR LI
of President Emmanuel Macron, there are those want to keep
Those who watched the UK Rl e e
and the US vote for Trump.
And are asking themselves what is the solution for
A1 -
This election will hang MBI R R s T
Emmanuel Macron aEeh ANl
And what they will do next RO SR R
The unwritten rule that A RN LR
together to block the far right seems to be fraying and the two
visions France has chosen for president show how divided
Lucy Williamson, Sl VT Y
We’re joined now from Washington, DC
by France 24 Washington T L
Kethevane Gorjestani.
[LiE1L @0
Il @ TR
Thank you so much for joining
Thank you so much for jeining us on
Thank you so much for jeining AR
Thank you so much for joining us on the programme. As we have
us on the pregramme. As we have Nl
us on the pregramme. As we have W CE L
us on the pregramme. As we have LR
us on the programme. As we have VN CER O RGE 64
us on the programme. As we have been hearing in Lucy’s report,
been hearing in Lucy’s report, s
been hearing in Lucy’s report, I
been hearing in Lucy’s report, is really signifies the
been hearing in Lucy’s report, I AR R
been hearing in Lucy’s report, is really signifies the rise of
s really signifies the rise of YN
s really signifies the rise of populism, the decline of
populism, the decline of e 8]
populism, the decline of e EI i s ]
populism, the decline of socialism and republicanism,
socialism and republicanism, 4
socialism and republicanism, L)
socialism and republicanism, NI AT
socialism and republicanism, NI R AT
socialism and republicanism, but also if we look at
socialism and republicanism, NI R A )
but also if we look at the IS
but also if we look at the campaign we can see that Le Pen
campaign we can see that Le Pen T
campaign we can see that Le Pen TRl
campaign we can see that Le Pen FT N ]
campaign we can see that Le Pen A LR e
campaign we can see that Le Pen has had a slick campaign. Many
has had a slick campaign. Many Py
has had a slick campaign. Many are concluding that, whereas
are concluding that, whereas Emmanuel Macron, with a late
Emmanuel Macron, with a late start do
Emmanuel Macron, with a late R e ]
Emmanuel Macron, with a late el
Emmanuel Macron, with a late REla I
Emmanuel Macron, with a late start do he is. How do you
start do he is. How do you think both
start do he is. How do you TSGR il
start do he is. How do you think both will change their
think both will change their Elniln Y
think both will change their IR R R GE )
think both will change their YA R T e
tactics? What should we look N
tactics? What should we look over -- out for
tactics? What should we look N R 2
tactics? What should we look over -- out for of the
tactics? What should we look N R R e
tactics? What should we look R R R R R
over -- out for of the next two YN
over -- out for of the next two YR 1
over -- out for of the next two weeks was yellow well, there is
weeks was yellow well, there is Y
weeks was yellow well, there is PRy
weeks was yellow well, there is R NN
weeks was yellow well, there is AN R G E i Ea -
weeks was yellow well, there is a sense that Emanuel Mack on is
a sense that Emanuel Mack on is going to have
a sense that Emanuel Mack on Is going to have to do actually
going to have to do actually start campaigning -- Emmanuel
start campaigning -- Emmanuel Macron. There is a feeling in
Macron. There is a feeling in France that
Macron. There is a feeling in Al R E R
Macron. There is a feeling in AE R R G R A L
Macron. There is a feeling in France that the president was
France that the president was focused
France that the president was T ot s e
France that the president was T R R
France that the president was IR R R AR
France that the president was focused on the Russia- Ukraine
focused on the Russia- Ukraine e
focused on the Russia- Ukraine crisis and
LR RO R AT ERR N AT TSI s M1 8
LR RO R AT ERR N AT (ST R = )
LR RO R AT ERR N AT (T R E RG]
LR RO R AT ERR N AT WL R E ]
LR RO R AT ERR N AT LR LG
LN LRI T R R L VELILGLILER
NI R R Wl P LY [0 S
NI R R beginning, because he was
NG T R R G beginning, because he was seen
beginning, because he was seen as
beginning, because he was seen )
beginning, because he was seen as a statesman, but then he
as a statesman, but then he e
as a statesman, but then he e
as a statesman, but then he sort of stayed
as a statesman, but then he e R I R )R]
as a statesman, but then he R RSV e R R 1
sort of stayed on that R E ]
sort of stayed on that statesman level and didn’t
statesman level and didn’t %1\
statesman level and didn’t really focus on the
statesman level and didn’t really focus on the domestic
really focus on the domestic =LA
really focus on the domestic campaign, if you will, while
campaign, if you will, while T
campaign, if you will, while RN AN ]
campaign, if you will, while Marine Le Pen actually did
Marine Le Pen actually did T eIl
Marine Le Pen actually did focus on
Marine Le Pen actually did el R
Marine Le Pen actually did eI R LT
Marine Le Pen actually did focus on that. The guestion
Marine Le Pen actually did focus on that. The question is,
focus on that. The question is, S
focus on that. The question is, )
focus on that. The question is, how are they
focus on that. The question s, how are they going to try and
how are they going to try and s le
how are they going to try and e R )
how are they going to try and address these two
how are they going to try and B RGN R o
address these two elements. Emmanuel Macron is going to
Emmanuel Macron is going to have to come back to the
have to come back to the Il d
have to come back to the domestic campaign, try to
domestic campaign, try to explain to those who did not
explain to those who did not )
explain to those who did not R st
explain to those who did not vote for him why they should
vote for him why they should )
vote for him why they should R
vote for him why they should vote for Emmanuel Macron and
vote for Emmanuel Macron and e
vote for Emmanuel Macron and LTI
vote for Emmanuel Macron and not just stay home or vote for
not just stay home or vote for T
not just stay home or vote for R
not just stay home or vote for TRh AN
not just stay home or vote for Marine Le Pen. Meanwhile,
Marine Le Pen. Meanwhile, T
Marine Le Pen. Meanwhile, RN AN ]
Marine Le Pen. Meanwhile, RN AN
Marine Le Pen. Meanwhile, Marine Le Pen is going to have
Marine Le Pen is going to have to
Marine Le Pen is going to have R Ele )
Marine Le Pen is going to have R ET-REVE
Marine Le Pen is going to have to face may be a little more
to face may be a little more than she has so far the
than she has so far the foreign-policy aspect of it.
foreign-policy aspect of it. |3 e
foreign-policy aspect of it. Emmanuel Macron is likely going
Emmanuel Macron is Likely going to
Emmanuel Macron is Likely going R
Emmanuel Macron is Likely going LN
Emmanuel Macron is likely going to be using some of her past
to be using some of her past e ln iy
to be using some of her past comments about a Vladimir
comments about a Vladimir Putin, about Russell, her
Putin, about Russell, her proximity
Putin, about Russell, her AR
Putin, about Russell, her proximity to Russia against
proximity to Russia against A
proximity to Russia against (I
proximity to Russia against her, given the situation in
her, given the situation in Europe
her, given the situation in TN
her, given the situation in Europe right now. | want to
Europe right now. | want to picked up
TNl A RV picked up on all those
Europe right now. | want to picked up on all those points.
picked up on all those points. e
picked up on all those points. N
picked up on all those points. But just before, Emmanuel
But just before, Emmanuel Macron has been
But just before, Emmanuel T e R - et el Ts |
Macron has been criticised ey
Macron has been criticised VSR
Macron has been criticised before being the leader of
before being the leader of I
before being the leader of Paris, not
before being the leader of A
before being the leader of T A A TR )
before being the leader of Paris, not France, was see
Paris, not France, was see ey
Paris, not France, was see trends turning against
trends turning against globalisation and America,
globalisation and America, G G|
globalisation and America, something associated with
something associated with Emmanuel Macron, so what is it
Emmanuel Macron, so what is it that
Emmanuel Macron, so what is it e e
Emmanuel Macron, so what is it that Marine Le Pen
Emmanuel Macron, so what is it WL A N iR
Emmanuel Macron, so what is it that Marine Le Pen has done to
that Marine Le Pen has done to bring
that Marine Le Pen has done to VRl
that Marine Le Pen has done to VRN
that Marine Le Pen has done to bring in new voters? As you
bring in new voters? As you NIl
bring in new voters? As you brought in new demographics as
brought in new demographics as (ke
brought in new demographics as well? She
brought in new demographics as K N EE
brought in new demographics as well? She has, first of all,
well? She has, first of all, el
well? She has, first of all, tainted down
well? She has, first of all, S R )
well? She has, first of all, tainted down some of the nasty,
tainted down some of the nasty, if
tainted down some of the nasty, LA
tainted down some of the nasty, if you will, aspects of what
if you will, aspects of what e
if you will, aspects of what her party
if you will, aspects of what A AT R
if you will, aspects of what her party used to be,
her party used to be, especially under her father.
especially under her father. 3
especially under her father. She has really
especially under her father. I R IR E I ]
especially under her father. She has really revamped her
She has really revamped her -
She has really revamped her party is moving away a little
party is moving away a little i
oEI AN T L) R bit from
oEI AN T L) R Rt R
oEI AN T L) R bit from the outright
bit from the outright IR
bit from the outright xenophobia, the outright
xenophobia, the outright [ETa il
xenophobia, the outright racism. She still talks, of
racism. She still talks, of course, about
racism. She still talks, of WL T |
racism. She still talks, of WO A R18 S
I I R A R 1L ) course, about being very strict
course, about being very strict ]
course, about being very strict DRl TIG e
course, about being very strict ORI O T P T
course, about being very strict on immigration, but she has
on immigration, but she has e
on immigration, but she has e R A D]
on immigration, but she has sort of moved away from this
sort of moved away from this and
sort of moved away from this N el
sort of moved away from this N T i)
sort of moved away from this Nl et e e
sort of moved away from this R et N e
sort of moved away from this and became more of an economic
and became more of an econemic LIS
and became more of an econemic populist, if you
and became more of an economic populist, if you will, focusing
populist, if you will, focusing really more on kitchen table
really more on kitchen table issues,
really more on kitchen table IR
really more on kitchen table issues, on the
really more on kitchen table NG R U LA
really more on kitchen table issues, on the economy, rather
issues, on the economy, rather than focusing on security and
than focusing on security and ST a]e )
than focusing on security and ST e e -1 ]
than focusing on security and France and immigration, things
France and immigration, things ey
France and immigration, things like that that alienate some
like that that alienate some ]
like that that alienate some people, some working-class
people, some working-class N
people, some working-class people, who may be agree with
people, who may be agree with e
people, who may be agree with her on
people, who may be agree with Y R
people, who may be agree with her on the economy,
people, who may be agree with RN R R 111 P e 01
people, who may be agree with her on the econemy, but didn’t
her on the economy, but didn’t really
her on the economy, but didn’t AT
her on the economy, but didn’t really like this
her on the economy, but didn’t really Llike this sort
her on the economy, but didn’t really like this sort of
really like this sort of vl
really like this sort of xenophobic aspect of the party.
xenophobic aspect of the party. 1)
xenophobic aspect of the party. )
xenophobic aspect of the party. NN L
xenophobic aspect of the party. S R LG R 8
xenophobic aspect of the party. SR R LG R VAL
xenophobic aspect of the party. So she worked really hard on
So she worked really hard on that
So she worked really hard on IR R ]
So she worked really hard on AR
So she worked really hard on that to try to change the
that to try to change the A s
that to try to change the vision that
that to try to change the TR = 0
that to try to change the vision that people have of her
vision that people have of her e
vision that people have of her [l A
vision that people have of her party. She is also trying to
party. She is also trying to X1l
party. She is also trying to team down the guestion
party. She is also trying to team down the question of
team down the question of leaving the European Union. She
leaving the European Union. She ool
leaving the European Union. She R E
leaving the European Union. She IR E R L)
leaving the European Union. She did that five years ago, didn’t
did that five years ago, didn’t a4
did that five years ago, didn’t work out
did that five years ago, didn’t QR
did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time,
did that five years ago, didn’t LR G IR T
did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time, she is
did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time, she is not
work out this time, she is not EIU]
work out this time, she is not talking about that outright. So
talking about that outright. So i)
talking about that outright. So she has
talking about that outright. So A R e 4
talking about that outright. So A R a2
talking about that outright. So she has sort of learn from her
she has sort of learn from her mistakes and try to really
mistakes and try to really grasp that populist wave and
grasp that populist wave and T eIl
grasp that populist wave and focus on
grasp that populist wave and T eI R )
grasp that populist wave and focus on the elements and
grasp that populist wave and TR R R L e s e Te
focus on the elements and on the
focus on the elements and on WA
focus on the elements and on AN R
focus on the elements and on the issues that may
focus on the elements and on IR QAU E VA
focus on the elements and on R O A U
the issues that may be other countries,
the issues that may be other I AL -0
the issues that may be other countries, other more
countries, other more ae-lise el
countries, other more LA | W g [
countries, other more traditional parties, excuse me,
traditional parties, excuse me, like Emmanuel Macron’s
traditional parties, excuse me, R LT N E IO R s 2
like Emmanuel Macron’s party, 1R
like Emmanuel Macron’s party, don’t do
like Emmanuel Macron’s party, don’t do enough of. They
like Emmanuel Macron’s party, don’t do enough of. They change
don’t do enough of. They change of
don’t do enough of. They change SAZIe
don’t do enough of. They change of talk about is perhaps one of
of talk about is perhaps one of )
of talk about is perhaps one of R
of talk about is perhaps one of the most interesting aspect of
the most interesting aspect of this
the most interesting aspect of RGN
the most interesting aspect of this race, isn’t it?
the most interesting aspect of IRl T R e | 4
the most interesting aspect of this race, isn’t it? It has
this race, isn’t it? It has RiET Y
this race, isn’t it? It has made it
this race, isn’t it? It has IR e e
this race, isn’t it? It has RN et e slailatlid
this race, isn’t it? It has made it more difficult for
this race, isn’t it? It has RIED NI e s ailatl R e R g
made it more difficult for the ae-lise el
made it more difficult for the traditional coalition of
traditional coalition of I8 10
traditional coalition of everybody else to
traditional coalition of Y VA R R O
traditional coalition of everybody else to turn against
everybody else to turn against )
everybody else to turn against G REld
everybody else to turn against QCREIR
everybody else to turn against the far right to turn against
the far right to turn against 3
the far right to turn against TRy
the far right to turn against in this race, and that is
in this race, and that is ]
in this race, and that is LR
in this race, and that is LRI
in this race, and that is working for her, isn’t it? Yes,
working for her, isn’t it? Yes, i)
working for her, isn’t it? Yes, A )
working for her, isn’t it? Yes, she also got a little bit of
she also got a little bit of help
NI [ R RGN help about changing that
NLEIG R R G ) help about changing that image
help about changing that image Tee I8t
help about changing that image TR e
help about changing that image TR G a1
help about changing that image from the other far right
UGN GERG IR IRl candidate, who who
from the other far right candidate, who who made
from the other far right I e IR L R A R R E I
candidate, who who made Marine Y
candidate, who who made Marine NN
candidate, who who made Marine Y RGT
candidate, who who made Marine Y R TR e
candidate, who who made Marine Le Pen look more mainstream, if
Le Pen loock more mainstream, if you will,
Le Pen look more mainstream, if you will, because
Le Pen look more mainstream, if TR (Y TG
Le Pen look more mainstream, if you will, because his ideas
you will, because his ideas ey
you will, because his ideas AR
you will, because his ideas were so much further to
you will, because his ideas T 1o Rt SRR
were so much further to the gy
were so much further to the gloy 1o T
were so much further to the right. He was talking only
right. He was talking only FYe L
right. He was talking only about immigration, about the
about immigration, about the values, the foundations of
values, the foundations of France, the Christian values,
France, the Christian values, things
France, the Christian values, QTS
France, the Christian values, things like that, about how the
things like that, about how the el
things like that, about how the I R
things like that, about how the problem was with Islam and
problem was with Islam and e
problem was with Islam and AT T ]
problem was with Islam and France. So by comparison she
France. So by comparison she N
France. So by comparison she looked much
France. So by comparison she B s Bt N o Bat 1]
France. So by comparison she looked much more focused
France. So by comparisen she O s Bt Bt e e ot sl s
looked much more focused on Yo lat a1l
looked much more focused on economic issues unless on the
economic issues unless on the ae-lise el
economic issues unless on the eI eI Rl
economic issues unless on the traditional fire right themes
traditional fire right themes that
traditional fire right themes B
traditional fire right themes that we have seen in past
that we have seen in past R
that we have seen in past decades. But, he has called to
decades. But, he has called to )
decades. But, he has called to S Rind
decades. But, he has called to R Ee]
decades. But, he has called to R a L Eeh
decades. But, he has called to vote for Marine Le Pen.
decades. But, he has called to R NN
vote for Marine Le Pen. His ey
vote for Marine Le Pen. His voters are
vote for Marine Le Pen. His NI LGN
vote for Marine Le Pen. His voters are likely going to go
voters are likely going to go massively
voters are likely going to go W EENE VA
voters are likely going to go L FE A EIG RS E I
voters are likely going to go massively towards Marine Le
massively towards Marine Le Pen. So
massively towards Marine Le i)
massively towards Marine Le N R
massively towards Marine Le Pen. So she is going to have to
Pen. So she is going to have to 1187
Pen. So she is going to have to try to
Pen. So she is going to have to AT
Pen. So she is going to have to try to grasp may be part of the
try to grasp may be part of the IR
try to grasp may be part of the Conservative right wing voters
Conservative right wing voters that maybe
Conservative right wing voters OEI N RTINS
Conservative right wing voters that maybe don’t want Emmanuel
that maybe don’t want Emmanuel [V Yage ]
that maybe don’t want Emmanuel Macron and she
that maybe don’t want Emmanuel et N
that maybe don’t want Emmanuel Macron and she is going to have
Macron and she is going to have to try
Macron and she is going to have oA
Macron and she is going to have R AR
Macron and she is going to have to try to convince them that
(G (TA G [ TR [y R Ay 1 i)
(G (TA G [ TR [y R Ay 1 she is
to try to convince them that AR E
to try to convince them that R
to try to convince them that she is not him, she
to try to convince them that R P R
to try to convince them that she is not him, she is not
she Is not him, she Is not Emmanuel Macron, that
she Is not him, she is not Emmanuel Macron, that she is a
Emmanuel Macron, that she Is a valuable
Emmanuel Macron, that she is a valuable candidate and they
valuable candidate and they AR e
valuable candidate and they shouldn’t go
valuable candidate and they shouldn’t go straight to
shouldn’t go straight to Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a )
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a I
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a close race, as
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a o IR T - LR ]
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a R T
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a close race, as you point out.
Emmanuel Macron. It is quite a R LR T L L e T
close race, as you point out. A el
close race, as you point out. A IR 1T
close race, as you point out. A final quick persen.
close race, as you point out. A final quick person. As you say,
final quick person. As you say, e
final quick person. As you say, R
final quick person. As you say, e ETY
final quick person. As you say, R H ]
final quick person. As you say, R NN [ a1 L3al
final quick person. As you say, it will be a domestic focus
it will be a domestic focus likely
it will be a domestic focus AR
it will be a domestic focus ARG
it will be a domestic focus AR R G
it will be a domestic focus LR R G R
it will be a domestic focus likely of the next two weeks,
likely of the next two weeks, but
likely of the next two weeks, Ry
likely of the next two weeks, R R A1
but the international implications
but the international ST T
but the international implications argues everyone
implications argues everyone watching
implications argues everyone NGRS
implications argues everyone watching the. We
implications argues everyone N RO IR Y]
implications argues everyone NI RO IR ]
implications argues everyone watching the. We hear a lot
watching the. We hear a lot FYe L
watching the. We hear a lot Y Elele
watching the. We hear a lot g ey
watching the. We hear a lot g Ele ]
watching the. We hear a lot g Ela AN
watching the. We hear a lot about Marine Le Pen as a
about Marine Le Pen as a sympathiser for Vladimir Putin,
sympathiser for Vladimir Putin, )
sympathiser for Vladimir Putin, et e
sympathiser for Vladimir Putin, some accuse her of being such,
some accuse her of being such, and
some accuse her of being such, IR I
some accuse her of being such, and this will be the EU’s
and this will be the EU’s biggest crisis since Brexit she
biggest crisis since Brexit she gets elected, do you think that
gets elected, do you think that s
gets elected, do you think that is all opposition
is all opposition scaremongering
is all opposition X UM LR
is all opposition scaremongering or a
is all opposition X NN L DRI U W
ST TN BT TR e 1a0e]
ST TN BT TR scenario that
ST TN BT TR e Nl R e )
ST TN BT TR e NEle R R R e
ST TN BT TR e N RO U R &)
scenario that she will take those stances?
scenario that she will take R XA L
scenario that she will take those stances? Well, she has
those stances? Well, she has RiET Y
those stances? Well, she has made it very clear, as | said,
made it very clear, as | said, i)
made it very clear, as | said, )
made it very clear, as | said, A R e e
made it very clear, as | said, AR el i
made it very clear, as | said, she did sort of tamped down her
NGRS da R el LI L I T e
NGRS da R el LI L I T e
she did sort of tamped down her &l LA EEW |
she did sort of tamped down her & A CEI TR G
she did sort of tamped down her talk of leaving the EU, so
talk of leaving the EU, so )
talk of leaving the EU, so there is
talk of leaving the EU, so NN
talk of leaving the EU, so N CR e e
talk of leaving the EU, so R R e
talk of leaving the EU, so R R e E
there is no more talk of a e Te o]
there is no more talk of a ST R U
there is no more talk of a French Brexit, if you will, but
French Brexit, if you will, but i)
French Brexit, if you will, but she is
French Brexit, if you will, but ARl
French Brexit, if you will, but she is still very critical of
she is still very critical of )
she is still very critical of GO EEL
she is still very critical of QN EE LRI
she is still very critical of the European Union. She wants
the European Union. She wants to
the European Union. She wants AR )
the European Union. She wants to leave the military command
to leave the military command N
to leave the military command of Nato.
to leave the military command AV IR
to leave the military command AV I N
to leave the military command of Nato. She is close to
of Nato. She is close to IR
of Nato. She is close to Russell. She
of Nato. She is close to TR IS TN
of Nato. She is close to Russell. She has come in the
Russell. She has come in the past, praised Vladimir Putin.
past, praised Vladimir Putin. So
past, praised Vladimir Putin. R
past, praised Vladimir Putin. SR GIE
past, praised Vladimir Putin. SR G TATIG)
past, praised Vladimir Putin. So this likely would be a
So this likely would be a e
So this likely would be a s N
So this likely would be a e e A E e
So this likely would be a source of imbalance in this
source of imbalance in this Y Y S - a1
source of imbalance in this Western alliance that has been
Western alliance that has been TS
Western alliance that has been built over the
Western alliance that has been RGN
Western alliance that has been built over the past few years
built over the past few years and
built over the past few years LR e 3
built over the past few years R oL VAL
built over the past few years R e AN R )
built over the past few years R e R RO L L
and especially over the past =1
and especially over the past year, this Reid building of the
year, this Reid building of the Y Y S - a1
year, this Reid building of the Western alliance with Joe
Western alliance with Joe I
Western alliance with Joe Biden, Emmanuel Macron, and
Biden, Emmanuel Macron, and )
Biden, Emmanuel Macron, and XN
Biden, Emmanuel Macron, and N R
Biden, Emmanuel Macron, and NSRS
Biden, Emmanuel Macron, and some of the other European
Sy R R GERT GEI @AV LET YN
Sy R R GERT GEI @AV LET leaders. And
Sy R R GERT GEI @AV LET R e - N R e
Sy R R GERT GEI @AV LET P e - LR
Sy R R GERT GEI @AV LET S e LR - R
some of the other European L e U R UG R
leaders. And there is the fear, 1
leaders. And there is the fear, at least
leaders. And there is the fear, Al )
leaders. And there is the fear, at least here in Washington,
at least here in Washington, DC, for example, that having
DC, for example, that having e ]
DC, for example, that having G
DC, for example, that having someone like Marine Le Pen
someone like Marine Le Pen o
someone like Marine Le Pen would not only jeopardise the
would not only jeopardise the direct
would not only jeopardise the i el ae e
would not only jeopardise the i el a oY
would not only jeopardise the direct France- US relations,
direct France- US relations, but could further destabilise
but could further destabilise this
but could further destabilise QRT3
but could further destabilise this very fragile right now
QIR RIE LR Y Y S - a1
QIR RIE LR Western alliance against
Western alliance against (N
Western alliance against Russell. They have worked very
Russell. They have worked very Tl
Russell. They have worked very hard to build it. They managed
hard to build it. They managed to get everyone sort of on the
to get everyone sort of on the )
to get everyone sort of on the A
to get everyone sort of on the same line, and having someone
same line, and having someone 3
same line, and having someone in France, which is a leading
in France, which is a leading country in Europe, that is so
country in Europe, that is so )
country in Europe, that is so R )
country in Europe, that is so close to Russia, could
country in Europe, that is so VR LU E R 0 G,
close to Russia, could really endanger that alliance while
endanger that alliance while they
endanger that alliance while GG
endanger that alliance while they are facing a huge crisis
they are facing a huge crisis and even beyond. It led to some
and even beyond. It led to some 1S
and even beyond. It led to some IR S
and even beyond. It led to some RIS R )
and even beyond. It led to some US analysts to even look for
US analysts to even look for AR s ]
US analysts to even look for Russian interference in the
Russian interference in the w1
Russian interference in the a1
Russian interference in the selection, was reading. Thank
selection, was reading. Thank you very much, Kethevane
you very much, Kethevane Gorjestani, for taking us
Gorjestani, for taking us I
Gorjestani, for taking us GIILLIEL]
Gorjestani, for taking us G TR
Gorjestani, for taking us QI LIRS
Gorjestani, for taking us G IR ETERY R
Gorjestani, for taking us QIO LR R R
through an issue we will be watching
QI LRGSR watching very closely in
QI LRGSR ) watching very closely in the
watching very closely in the T4
watching very closely in the next two
watching very closely in the T R R o
watching very closely in the next two weeks. Thank you.
next two weeks. Thank you. ILEh S
next two weeks. Thank you. Thanks for having me.
T -YRT Y-y )
We were mentioning it there.
Ukraine’s President Zelensky says Vladimir Putin has not
only his country but the entire European project in his sights.
He was speaking as the EU re-opened its embassy in Kyiv
after Russian forces retreated from the north of Ukraine.
The major focus of the fighting is now likely to be
in the east, with civilians being evacuated from
the Donbas region.
Prosecutors say 1200 bodies TN R R |
from areas previously occupied by Russia around Kyiv.
Those include the village of Andriivka from where our
correspondent Mark Lowen RO L 1g
IR LN e R s g R et
The population of Andriivka is 1,000, more than 40
were Kkilled as the Russians attacked and moved in
LR ER R R EL R G T B R A
as the shroud of war is peeled back, uncovering
Tatiana’s only grandson Anton was taken by the Russians
the day after his 23rd birthday and shot.
So badly mutilated, they identified him from his
clothes, recovering his body after a month and burying him
two days ago.
TRANSLATION: Maybe if he had gone to fight somewhere else,
he would have returned in one piece.
He was a clever boy, he recited poetry.
When my husband told AR O e N s
instead, they pointed their machine gun and said go
home or we will take you both.
This terrorised community will try somehow to return
to peace, but it cannot shut out its agony.
First came the offensive here, then the occupation,
and now the trauma of those returning or simply emerging
to see the destruction, which is immense.
We are now learning that these scenes are repeated
across the shattered country which even when peace returns,
could take a generation R IGE
This family are trying, repairing broken lives
and their home, where Russian soldiers stayed.
LU LR IENEN [ VAR
He is still trying to work out what they stole.
TRANSLATION: | have no words to describe what they did.
| don’t know what they were looking for.
My family had been living here for 15 years but they came
As the Ukrainian army moved In, the Russians came down
to his tiny shelter to hide, feasting on the family’s food
and resting before R e
No place safe from their eccupation.
On the edge of the cemetery, the fresh grave of Tatiana’s
grandson.
He was studying to e N aid« I}
| have two daughters, she told, us and he was our boy.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Andriivka.
The World Bank says it expects R A R e L
by 45% this year as a result of the war with Russia_
The bank says enormous financial support is needed
immediately to keep QNGOG
and to support the population.
It’s already provided nearly a hillion dollars of assistance
and is promising another two IR G s
Stay with us on BBC News.
The great and the good TR R R R e
at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
Pol Pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers,
s reported to have died of natural causes.
He and the Khmer Rouge movement he led were responsible
for the deaths of an estimated 1.7 million Cambodians.
There have been violent protests in Indenesia,
where Playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
Traditionalist Muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
The magazine’s offices have TNt E R e
staff have gone into hiding.
It was clear that Paula’s only contest was with the clock,
and as for her sporting legacy, Paula Radcliffe’s competitors
will be chasing her new world best time for years to come.
Quite quietly, but quicker and quicker, she seemed just
to slide away under the surface and disappear.
Emmanual Macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot
of the French presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff
competition from Marine Le Pen in the second round.
More than 12 hundred bodies N T R T e I e 10la s
Kyiv that were previously occupied by Russian troops.
Rallies have been held R M R LI =1 P
to protest against the removal of Imran Khan from his post
as Prime Minister, following a no confidence vote
in parliament over the weekend.
Tens of thousands of people gathered in Karachi and Lahore,
waving torches and flags in the dark, and chanting
in support of Mr Khan.
A long time rival, Shehbaz Sharif, is expected
to be voted in by parliament R E S SR IR L I E
Shamila Chaudhary is Senior Fellow at the think tank
New America and Is former Director for Pakistan
and Afghanistan at the US National Security Council.
She’s in Philadelphia.
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for joining
Thank you for jeining us. We
Thank you for joining us. We have seen
Thank you for joining us. We N R R )
Thank you for joining us. We N R R N U T
Thank you for joining us. We have seen those rallies in the
have seen those rallies in the i
have seen those rallies in the FRe
have seen those rallies in the last few hours, the sheer
last few hours, the sheer IR
last few hours, the sheer numbers. Imran Khan says a
numbers. Imran Khan says a U.S -led
numbers. Imran Khan says a U.S.-led compare is a
U.S.-led compare is a S8
U.S.-led compare is a conspiracy is to blame for his
conspiracy is to blame for his predicament,
conspiracy is to blame for his e R )
conspiracy is to blame for his predicament, the differences
conspiracy is to blame for his e R O R GG
predicament, the differences he has
predicament, the differences he YR
predicament, the differences he TR A ]
predicament, the differences he LR A I E ]
predicament, the differences he has over Russia and China
predicament, the differences he LN A AN R a0t 8
has over Russia and China but doesn’t appear
has over Russia and China but R IR
has over Russia and China but R LR G R S
doesn’t appear that his NN
doesn’t appear that his messages working? You might
messages working? You might )
messages working? You might even get elected again? First
even get elected again? First Y
even get elected again? First we have to put this in the
we have to put this in the historical context
we have to put this in the R el | R Ta e A
we have to put this in the historical context of Imran
historical context of Imran Khan
historical context of Imran Khan’s
historical context of Imran GENER
historical context of Imran RN L
historical context of Imran Khan ‘s power. He has a lot of
Khan’s power. He has a lot of TV
Khan’s power. He has a lot of T
Khan’s power. He has a lot of power in getting
Khan’s power. He has a lot of IR Gl o1
Khan’s power. He has a lot of power in getting people out
power in getting people out into the street,
power in getting people out R GRS L
power in getting people out into the street, and that’s
into the street, and that’s vty
into the street, and that’s what we’re seeing unfold now.
what we’re seeing unfold now. *Y
what we’re seeing unfold now. PP TY
what we’re seeing unfold now. P ]
what we’re seeing unfold now. He has a very strong base
He has a very strong base amongst Pakistani youth in the
amongst Pakistani youth in the ]
amongst Pakistani youth in the working and middle-class, and
working and middle-class, and this anti-American, foreign
this anti-American, foreign e ey
this anti-American, foreign I e e N E e )
interference narrative TR
interference narrative RV
interference narrative resonates really struggling
resonates really struggling ida)
resonates really struggling T
resonates really struggling with his constituency, because
with his constituency, because those
with his constituency, because )
with his constituency, because IR )
with his constituency, because those are the people that have
those are the people that have e
those are the people that have T R )
those are the people that have not benefited from the
those are the people that have R NS R R R a0
not benefited from the western patronage in Pakistan
not benefited from the western patronage in Pakistan’s
patronage in Pakistan s history.
patronage in Pakistan’s S ARLT
patronage in Pakistan’s NS AR LR Ll
patronage in Pakistan’s NS AR R G R N
history. The political elite have
history. The political elite TN ]
history. The political elite have benefited from that,
I (T AR I Rl Uy o ) have benefited from that, so
have benefited from that, so IR
have benefited from that, so Imran Khan has benefited from
Imran Khan has benefited from 3L
Imran Khan has benefited from LRI
Imran Khan has benefited from using this anti-Western
using this anti-Western platform and is able to get
platform and is able to get TG
platform and is able to get I R
platform and is able to get people out into the street.
people out into the street. ey
people out into the street. TPy |
people out into the street. What | am watching is what is
What | am watching is what is )
What | am watching is what is QN
What | am watching is what is RN TR N0
What | am watching is what is QRN DR AL
What | am watching is what is QRN D R A G E G
What | am watching is what is QN A GRS
the message now that he is AN
the message now that he is LI
the message now that he is DI
the message now that he is E DI R
the message now that he is asking his people to carry, now
asking his people to carry, now that he
asking his people to carry, now el N E
asking his people to carry, now that he has been
asking his people to carry, now B LR R
asking his people to carry, now that he has been voted out
asking his people to carry, now L LR T R R Tl
that he has been voted out of il X4
that he has been voted out of office? He
that he has been voted out of il XA
that he has been voted out of office? He is already clearly
office? He Is already clearly in
office? He is already clearly in campaigning mode but he
in campaigning mode but he quickly
in campaigning mode but he IS
in campaigning mode but he quickly has to
in campaigning mode but he WA IR ]
in campaigning mode but he quickly has to get organised
quickly has to get organised T Y
quickly has to get organised N
quickly has to get organised e N RGNS
quickly has to get organised because he represents a lot of
because he represents a lot of e i E
because he represents a lot of recent chaos and a lot of
recent chaos and a lot of Yo lat a1l
recent chaos and a lot of economic mismanagement and his
economic mismanagement and his P e A 1gs
economic mismanagement and his R R d e
economic mismanagement and his anti-Western rhetoric on the
E R GO E G [ R [ global
I ORI R [ global stage has not been
global stage has not been TN
global stage has not been received well, so | think he
received well, so | think he Ny
received well, so | think he needs to
received well, so | think he T LR R a8
received well, so | think he needs to start thinking less
QLR R E T R O L [ RT3 FYe L
needs to start thinking less Y]
needs to start thinking less about the constituency that he
about the constituency that he o
about the constituency that he T e )
about the constituency that he would serve and
about the constituency that he R e s Bt
about the constituency that he would serve and more about how
would serve and more about how 1Y
would serve and more about how he is
would serve and more about how (RN
would serve and more about how (R )
would serve and more about how he is going to win the next
he is going to win the next e IR
he is going to win the next election, if that in fact is
election, if that in fact is vty
election, If that in fact is e Y
election, If that in fact is N ARl
election, If that in fact is Y R 218 L= 1 o)
election, If that in fact is N R El L R
election, If that in fact is what he wants, and | think
what he wants, and | think R
what he wants, and | think that’s what he
what he wants, and | think ISR R R E L
what he wants, and | think that’s what he wants, but at
that’s what he wants, but at )
that’s what he wants, but at T
that’s what he wants, but at the same time, but he is not
the same time, but he is not (00
the same time, but he is not (=LA
the same time, but he is not ready to let go of
the same time, but he is not (LR & IR
the same time, but he is not ready to let go of his popular
ready to let go of his popular rhetoric and
ready to let go of his popular QLGRS N
ready to let go of his popular rhetoric and strong man
rhetoric and strong man Y Ie e AL ]
rhetoric and strong man Y e i R
rhetoric and strong man Y e R E )
rhetoric and strong man Y R i N
rhetoric and strong man narrative that he is bound to,
narrative that he is bound to, e
narrative that he is bound to, R L8
narrative that he is bound to, R I KX [ G|
narrative that he is bound to, IR KIS G R4 %1
narrative that he is bound to, IR I KX [ G R F R
but was not something that the political
but was not something that the o I G Y
but was not something that the political elite and
but was not something that the I G L LR G
political elite and the military establishment were in
military establishment were in favour of, and those
favour of, and those stakeholders are clearly going
stakeholders are clearly going to
stakeholders are clearly going R e
stakeholders are clearly going to want the
stakeholders are clearly going RN qs
stakeholders are clearly going R LN A e
stakeholders are clearly going to want the next leader of
to want the next leader of Pakistan to
to want the next leader of P R R )
to want the next leader of Pakistan to be much more
Pakistan to be much more [
Pakistan to be much more moderate and mild and
Pakistan to be much more I R I R s
Pakistan to be much more moderate and mild and the way
moderate and mild and the way that
moderate and mild and the way GE R
moderate and mild and the way that they talk about the West,
that they talk about the West, )
that they talk about the West, RN
that they talk about the West, the way they talk about
the way they talk about Pakistan ‘s
the way they talk about R )
the way they talk about Pakistan ‘s role in the global
Pakistan s role in the global stage and Imran Khan is not
stage and Imran Khan is not doing
stage and Imran Khan is not SR
stage and Imran Khan is not doing that right now, so we’re
doing that right now, so we’re el
doing that right now, so we’re not really
doing that right now, so we’re AT (TR
doing that right now, so we’re (AT TR
doing that right now, so we’re not really out of this
not really out of this ol
not really out of this political chaotic
not really out of this political chactic moment
not really out of this political chaotic moment that
political chaotic moment that he
political chaotic moment that L
political chaotic moment that PN - A Iy
political chaotic moment that he himself has kind of
political chaotic moment that TN I A LR R AR e
he himself has kind of started and fuelled, so there is a lot
and fuelled, so there is a lot e ]
and fuelled, so there is a lot more to happen in the next few
more to happen in the next few days, and | will be watching
days, and | will be watching 1R
days, and | will be watching I3
days, and | will be watching IR R
days, and | will be watching all of those dynamics closely.
all of those dynamics closely. e
all of those dynamics closely. The constituency that you
The constituency that you LR
The constituency that you mention, the powerful army and
mention, the powerful army and intelligence
mention, the powerful army and RGN RS IeY -1
mention, the powerful army and intelligence services, many
intelligence services, many 10
intelligence services, many said were responsible for his
sald were responsible for his Y
sald were responsible for his SRl
said were responsible for his AR
said were responsible for his I AN E G Rl
said were responsible for his rise in the first place, is
rise in the first place, is that actually the reason why he
that actually the reason why he T
that actually the reason why he has fallen from
that actually the reason why he has fallen frem power? Did
that actually the reason why he has fallen from power? Did he
has fallen from power? Did he T
has fallen from power? Did he E e
has fallen from power? Did he fall out with them?
has fallen from power? Did he EUEN R R i kA |
has fallen from power? Did he IR R kA R4
has fallen from power? Did he EUEN R GG ARG €
fall out with them? | think the ulltiZlsY
fall out with them? | think the [l EIsA E
fall out with them? | think the e =NV
fall out with them? | think the LGS A SV A R
fall out with them? | think the LGS NV A R
fall out with them? I think the S A N LU R S
military has always been a very dominant
military has always been a very st B )
military has always been a very dominant force in
military has always been a very i Rt IR IRk
dominant force in Pakistani Gl
dominant force in Pakistani politics, so dominant that they
politics, so dominant that they have
politics, so dominant that they YA
politics, so dominant that they have led Guzan ousted civilian
have led Guzan ousted civilian government, and in the case of
government, and in the case of Rl
government, and in the case of Imran Khan was
government, and in the case of IR GENE AL
government, and in the case of Imran Khan was a bit
government, and in the case of RIS G N )
government, and in the case of IR G E R e et
Imran Khan was a bit more more nuanced, the military was
nuanced, the military was Raeta i
nuanced, the military was instrumental in
nuanced, the military was T N E R WA ]
nuanced, the military was TN RN DL
instrumental in creating political
instrumental in creating a I R T T
instrumental in creating a political environment with
political environment with which Imran Khan could thrive,
which Imran Khan could thrive, and |
which Imran Khan could thrive, IR e
which Imran Khan could thrive, and | think they got more than
and | think they got more than they bargained for with Imran
they bargained for with Imran Khan
they bargained for with Imran Khan’s
they bargained for with Imran Khan ‘s populist rhetoric and
Khan’s populist rhetoric and strongman
Khan ‘s populist rhetoric and strongman style of politics.
strongman style of politics. e
strongman style of politics. The military
strongman style of politics. RN E LS
strongman style of politics. The military are still very
The military are still very DGR
The military are still very traditional, pro-Western
traditional, pro-Western T30l R
traditional, pro-Western institution, so in that regard,
institution, so in that regard, IR
institution, so in that regard, Imran Khan did fall out of
Imran Khan did fall out of favour with them
Imran Khan did fall out of EV R R B g
Imran Khan did fall out of R R G R R 11 -]
Imran Khan did fall out of favour with them over time, and
favour with them over time, and .
favour with them over time, and by exerting
favour with them over time, and VRS GE
favour with them over time, and by exerting himself and his
by exerting himself and his understanding and sense
RS C DT BT understanding and sense of what
understanding and sense of what Y
understanding and sense of what a civilian leader should be in
a civilian leader should be in VLN
a civilian leader should be in Pakistan, and the military is
Pakistan, and the military is A
Pakistan, and the military is IR0
Pakistan, and the military is very, very dependent on
very, very dependent on American
very, very dependent on LR G 1
very, very dependent on American military equipment and
American military equipment and T
American military equipment and L]
American military equipment and N I L
American military equipment and I L
American military equipment and weapons and arms as we have
weapons and arms as we have L
weapons and arms as we have NN
weapons and arms as we have AN )
weapons and arms as we have seen over the past several
seen over the past several I s
seen over the past several decades and
seen over the past several LN
seen over the past several YN R
seen over the past several YN B R R
seen over the past several decades and all of that is very
decades and all of that is very much stagnant right now,
much stagnant right now, LU
much stagnant right now, threatened, and the Pakistani
threatened, and the Pakistani G E1sY
threatened, and the Pakistan military cannot compete in
threatened, and the Pakistani military cannot compete in the
military cannot compete in the region, cannot compete with its
region, cannot compete with its a1 4
region, cannot compete with its M e )
region, cannot compete with its M e ezl
region, cannot compete with its number one rival India
region, cannot compete with its M e Nz s IER
number one rival India if it doesn’t
number one rival India if it R )
number one rival India if it doesn’t have at
number one rival India if it MR R A
number one rival India if it doesn’t have at least a
number one rival India If it MR A AR S
doesn’t have at least a better ]
doesn’t have at least a better repaired relationship
doesn’t have at least a better R L R ]
doesn’t have at least a better repaired relationship with the
repaired relationship with the 13
repaired relationship with the IR Ms1sY
repaired relationship with the R e
repaired relationship with the S e L L
US security establishment and IR
US security establishment and Imran Khan has threatened all
Imran Khan has threatened all of that, so it’s
Imran Khan has threatened all VAU R ]
Imran Khan has threatened all VRIS R e 1 G
of that, so it’s a combination of
of that, so it’s a combination SRy
of that, so it’s a combination SR GG
of that, so it’s a combination R e s a3 a
of the internal domestic e fidfed
of the internal domestic ]
of the internal domestic L LRI ]
of the internal domestic LR ER RG]
of the internal domestic LRI E LG RS
of the internal domestic LR G ER A
politics and Imran Khan’s kind of
politics and Imran Khan’s kind Sy o]
politics and Imran Khan’s kind of reach into
politics and Imran Khan’s kind B YR ]
politics and Imran Khan’s kind of reach into the military
of reach into the military Yo E1o )
of reach into the military space and wanting
of reach into the military YL LR R
of reach into the military space and wanting to go beyond
space and wanting to go beyond )
space and wanting to go beyond the level
space and wanting to go beyond NG R
space and wanting to go beyond MG RGO R
space and wanting to go beyond G RGO RN L AR e
the level that the Pakistani leadership military has chosen.
leadership military has chosen. That reads you have mentioned
That reads you have mentioned with
That reads you have mentioned R )
That reads you have mentioned with the military, and
with the military, and NG
with the military, and interesting contrast
with the military, and G R R
with the military, and NG RIS R ORI L kY
interesting contrast to Shehbaz hElA
interesting contrast to Shehbaz iEI ARG
interesting contrast to Shehbaz Sharif, the expected next Prime
Sharif, the expected next Prime Minister, and
Sharif, the expected next Prime IS AL R 2
Sharif, the expected next Prime Minister, and he was always
Minister, and he was always L
Minister, and he was always L
Minister, and he was always seen as playing good cop to the
seen as playing good cop to the G E1sY
seen as playing good cop to the military against his brother,
military against his brother, Ty
military against his brother, who can’t
military against his brother, R A )
military against his brother, who can’t leave the party now
who can’t leave the party now 1Y
who can’t leave the party now he is
who can’t leave the party now R CE)
who can’t leave the party now YA
who can’t leave the party now TR A A O
who can’t leave the party now AR RS B h)
who can’t leave the party now TR AU R
who can’t leave the party now he is in self exiled in the UK,
he is in self exiled in the UK, (=N
he is in self exiled in the UK, NI TR a )
he is in self exiled in the UK, W ENL T EYA -GG
he is in self exiled in the UK, having served his corruption
having served his corruption prison sentence. So do
having served his corruption NN G R ]
prison sentence. So do you think
prison sentence. So do you e+ ET4
prison sentence. So do you e LT Elgi
prison sentence. So do you think Shehbaz Sharif will be
think Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed
think Shehbaz Sharif will be IR AU
think Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed by the military, and
welcomed by the military, and 1Y
welcomed by the military, and he could
welcomed by the military, and TR R Ry
welcomed by the military, and he could have a long-term
he could have a long-term prospect
he could have a long-term N el
he could have a long-term prospect in Pakistan? Shehbaz
prospect in Pakistan? Shehbaz i
prospect in Pakistan? Shehbaz SiEI AT
prospect in Pakistan? Shehbaz Sharif was a very seasoned
Sharif was a very seasoned Bl el
Sharif was a very seasoned administrator, he has a lot of
administrator, he has a lot of experience
administrator, he has a lot of IR LI
administrator, he has a lot of S IR R e
administrator, he has a lot of experience running province of
experience running province of Punjab, and being a party
Punjab, and being a party e
Punjab, and being a party L)
Punjab, and being a party leader and | think it is really
leader and | think it is really easy for any
leader and I think it is really VA A g
leader and | think it is really easy for any poor Java-based
easy for any poor Java-based W fid(aE]]
easy for any poor Java-based W GfaFT R
easy for any poor Java-based politician to have an easier
politician to have an easier L]
politician to have an easier relationship with the Pakistani
relationship with the Pakistan military,
relationship with the Pakistani =T AR
relationship with the Pakistani WG EI AL N
relationship with the Pakistani military, which has dominated
military, which has dominated W
military, which has dominated WSl
military, which has dominated by ethnic Punjabi soldiers and
by ethnic Punjabi soldiers and military officials, so there is
military officials, so there is Y
military officials, so there is PR ey
military officials, so there is a little bit
military officials, so there is PR e e
military officials, so there is FR AP et e e
military officials, so there is a little bit more of a natural
a little bit more of a natural organic relationship there, and
organic relationship there, and |
organic relationship there, and Ko e
organic relationship there, and K R e
organic relationship there, and BT R h N
organic relationship there, and BT R he N i
organic relationship there, and | think where it will get
| think where it will get N ]
| think where it will get complicated is Shehbaz Sharif
complicated is Shehbaz Sharif il
complicated is Shehbaz Sharif R
complicated is Shehbaz Sharif QGRS
complicated is Shehbaz Sharif R AT &
complicated is Shehbaz Sharif will likely want to have an
will likely want to have an L]
will likely want to have an opening with India fairly soon,
opening with India fairly soon, and
opening with India fairly soon, IR Y
opening with India fairly soon, IR )
opening with India fairly soon, LR LRGN E AR
and while the Pakistani G E1sY
and while the Pakistani military would like to restart
military would like to restart those conversations with the
VNI L PR G R [ Indians, |
those conversations with the Indians, | think they would
Indians, I think they would prefer
Indians, I think they would R
Indians, | think they would prefer to take it slowly and at
prefer to take it slowly and at e
prefer to take it slowly and at their own
prefer to take it slowly and at QSRR
prefer to take it slowly and at QRS N |
prefer to take it slowly and at their own pace, and Shehbaz
their own pace, and Shehbaz iElad
their own pace, and Shehbaz eI R
their own pace, and Shehbaz Sharif will probably want to
Sharif will probably want to Ty
Sharif will probably want to ]
Sharif will probably want to move a little bit
Sharif will probably want to RN R E e
Sharif will probably want to move a little bit faster on
move a little bit faster on L
move a little bit faster on reopening say economic and
reopening say economic and e[}
reopening say economic and DR
reopening say economic and =D R L
reopening say economic and trade ties, and Punjab stands
trade ties, and Punjab stands to
trade ties, and Punjab stands el it
trade ties, and Punjab stands to benefit a
trade ties, and Punjab stands R IR e
trade ties, and Punjab stands to benefit a lot from
trade ties, and Punjab stands RN SR i iR
IRV SR iR [ normalisation
IRV SR iR [ T et i A R 2
IRV S =R O il normalisation of relations with
normalisation of relations with India, so this is something to
India, so this is something to WAIH
India, so this is something to obviously keep in mind, it has
obviously keep in mind, it has FU
obviously keep in mind, it has (U7 SR T T
obviously keep in mind, it has always... Wow, if that happens
always... Wow, if that happens with India
always... Wow, if that happens B IER s
always... Wow, if that happens Y B IER s R e 01 sl
always... Wow, if that happens with India that would be an
with India that would be an E[
with India that would be an absolutely fascinating shift to
absolutely fascinating shift to R
absolutely fascinating shift to LI PR
absolutely fascinating shift to Y I PR R 1] 4
absolutely fascinating shift to watch, so thank you for
watch, so thank you for teaching that up, one for us to
teaching that up, one for us to R
teaching that up, one for us to watch, thank you
teaching that up, one for us to MG VR
teaching that up, one for us to watch, thank you so much
teaching that up, one for us to RG0S VR R s R {18
watch, thank you so much for your analysis this on the
your analysis this on the unfolding situation.
LGRS
The polls have closed in Mexico as to
The polls have closed in Mexico YRR e
The polls have closed in Mexico YRR
The polls have closed in Mexico RO NSO R U R A L
as to whether the president should step down or completed
should step down or completed 1
should step down or completed six-year term.
should step down or completed IR UM O
should step down or completed six-year term. Esther Lopes
six-year term. Esther Lopes U
six-year term. Esther Lopes UL
six-year term. Esther Lopes S ENCC R
six-year term. Esther Lopes NG IEEN R (G
six-year term. Esther Lopes opened Jo and called himself
opened Jo and called himself e
opened Jo and called himself TR
opened Jo and called himself a1
opened Jo and called himself for the recall election to
for the recall election to confirm his
for the recall election to T e it R i E e el
for the recall election to confirm his mandate. ‘S
confirm his mandate. ‘S e Gl
confirm his mandate. ‘S political opponents are
political opponents are boycotting the vote saying it’s
boycotting the vote saying it’s PN
boycotting the vote saying it’s an $80 million exercise and
an $80 millien exercise and propaganda to distract
an $80 million exercise and propaganda to distract people
propaganda to distract people Tee I8t
propaganda to distract people TR
propaganda to distract people from the government ‘s
TR GG (3001 Ty 4 NN
TR GG (3001 Ty 4 failures. There
TR GG (3001 Ty 4 N R )
from the government ‘s failures. There are concerns
failures. There are concerns Tl
failures. There are concerns GEidlle
failures. There are concerns WG R (A G
failures. There are concerns that Mr Lopes could open the
that Mr Lopes could open the door to extending presidential
door to extending presidential s
door to extending presidential terms which
door to extending presidential R h Iy
door to extending presidential terms which are currently
terms which are currently limited to a single six-year
limited to a single six-year N
limited to a single six-year period. The world number one
period. The world number one Tl
period. The world number one ranked American golfer Scotty
ranked American golfer Scotty Scheffler
ranked American golfer Scotty el e
ranked American golfer Scotty e e ]
ranked American golfer Scotty e e R ey
Scheffler overcame a late challenge from Northern Ireland
challenge from Northern Ireland 3
challenge from Northern Ireland 's Rory Mcllroy to secure
's Rory Mcllroy to secure victory
's Rory Mcllroy to secure eI K- 14
's Rory Mcllroy to secure eI RO
's Rory Mcllroy to secure a I R R G
's Rory Mcllroy to secure victory at the Masters. As you
victory at the Masters. As you ]
victory at the Masters. As you NI
victory at the Masters. As you can see, he
victory at the Masters. As you R T T
victory at the Masters. As you N T A
victory at the Masters. As you can see, he saw his overnight
can see, he saw his overnight advantage
can see, he saw his overnight NI DR GU I ELY
can see, he saw his overnight LGN DR U I E A1
can see, he saw his overnight LI DR G I E A & )
advantage temporarily cut to just
advantage temporarily cut to PRI
advantage temporarily cut to TS R
advantage temporarily cut to TS A RS X O]
advantage temporarily cut to TSRS CE L)
Just one stroke during a thrilling
just one stroke during a thrilling final day at the
thrilling final day at the Augusta National course only
thrilling final day at the TS ER EL R - A
Augusta National course only to I
Augusta National course only to pull clear of the chasing pack
pull clear of the chasing pack and register a full stomach
and register a full stomach T leds]
and register a full stomach fourth win in
and register a full stomach G R L Eh G
and register a full stomach fourth win in his last six
fourth win in his last six N&le
fourth win in his last six start. You can reach me
fourth win in his last six R R RNl e e
start. You can reach me on N2l
start. You can reach me on Twitter, thank you for your
Twitter, thank you for your company, goodbye.
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around
first thing on Sunday, but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday
morning, as low as minus six Celsius.
Now, all change and quite literally
=ERUE 1S e AUy
of low pressure QR R IO
cloud right across the country, and that is acting like
a blanket so it is NPT
Lo GO from falling too far.
It will be a frost free start to Monday morning,
with temperatures more likely RN Ri N
degrees above freezing.
So, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite
a cloudy, grey story first thing
in the morning.
The winds are going to strengthen,
and that is going RO I
showery outbreaks of rain through Wales,
Northern Ireland, north-west England
as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly
or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess
NI
But sheltered eastern NIRRT
some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming
from the south, that means it will be
a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday, and we can trail
that weather front all the way back dewn into Spain.
In fact, the air is coming IR EEEUEICE
It is going to be pushing its way
steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps
NRGCEA e G REa
Here, you will stay NEG R e
air for the next few days.
That means first thing on Tuesday
morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees
in Lerwick but ten RN
not out of the question across central and southern
parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there is going to be some rain,
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the area is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan
dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your
washing or your car is a little bit grainy,
a Little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down
into the south-east whether cloud
lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum
of six to eight Celsius.
But the rain will ease away, the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
It looks likely that Wednesday will be the warmest day
of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out
of the question.
A good deal of dry weather as well, as we head
Whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Andriivka.
Emmanual Macron is ahead in the polls in the first
round of the French presidential election,
but his far-right rival, Marine Le Pen has gained
LTI TsH
The next round will take EIC RO R R LR )
More than 1,200 bodies have been found in areas around Kyiv
that were controlled by Putin’s N LT E L [6,6
have been reported in the south of the country.
Tens of thousands of protestors N R eI R R R
of Pakistan to protest against Imran Khan being
removed as prime minister, following a no confidence vote
in parliament over the weekend.
Mr Khan has been blamed RGN R (T o[ e
ueple )
You
N T e
You are watching BBC News.
You are watching BBC News. Wullih
You are watching BBC News. LG
You are watching BBC News. Coming up next, 100 women,
Coming up next, 100 women, Rebel Wilson.
Trying to make your name in Hollywood isn’t easy,
especially if you’re a female actress who doesn’t look
a stereotypical way.
Enter Rebel Wilson, who has defied convention to become one
of the most famous IR R ORI 4 2
She’s been a part of some of the biggest comedy films
in recent years, including N i B e e Rl e s
But like many of us during the pandemic,
L) reassessing her life.
I’ve come here to LA, where Rebel is now based,
for this BBC 100 Women interview.
We talk about why she lost weight, her challenges
with fertility, and how she’s balancing that
with her professional move into becoming a director,
and she talks to me about how she’s hoping that move
will empower her to make cultural changes in
the industry after experiencing sexual harassment herself.
Rebel Wilson, thank you so much for talking to BBC 100 Women.
It Is my pleasure.
[ (R IV
| feel Like I’m very BBC today as well -
I’m very serious, profesh.
| think you could almost, like, TN L a I
| could, you know.
Coming up now at the 11am hour - wait, is that what they say?
No.
Coming up!
Breaking news, um, yeah | - | probably won’t get
hired from this.
It’s so interesting because you are one of the most
high-profile actresses LGN
VR TV ¢ P TNt R e -
I’m in the top 1,000, for sure, I’d put myself.
You’re one of the top 1,000 actresses in Hollywood!
But you have been in those really iconic films that people
watch over and over again - like, I think | might’ve
watched Bridesmaids IR e A
| mean, that was my first job in America and, like,
what a first job, to get - I IR AG RS e
and to be in a movie that, (AR LN R R R T
even though, obviously, women have been funny
for at least 20 years - but, no, I’m joking,
forever - but that Bridesmaids R R Rl s
where they were like, "Wow!
Women are funny in Hollywood!"
And so to get that as my - my first job in America
was epic.
And also, to be in the Pitch Perfect franchise, which is,
like, the most successful musical comedy films
of all time - which blows my mind when you think about that.
| was like, "God, are they really?”
and they’re like, "Yeah they really are,” like,
LT PR LT 1T and I’m like it’s so special.
And I’m sure it will be eclipsed at some point -
LIV T R U RV T records - someone will come
in and, like, be better.
But it’s - it’s so awesome to be a part of something
so special and it’s something people all around the world
have really, really enjoyed.
Is it true, though, that you could’ve been a lawyer?
Well, | AM a lawyer.
O IR [ R g
Yeah, | graduated in 2009.
So you could be a lawyer.
| feel like | have the photo.
It’s not my best smile but | was very proud
of myself that day.
You look so happy and pleased!
This i1s 2009 when | graduated.
It was a very happy day TR O L) A
obviously, | was a professional actress - I’d beenin10 TV
shows by the time | graduated law school -
but there was something about me that | was like,
"I have to finish.
"l have to complete GG
It was very, very difficult - like, in Australia, law
and medicine, you know, TR ORI RIS
in your final exams to get in and | got into, like,
the best law school, so | was like, "OK, I’m
going to, like, graduate,” even though it was clear
| was working in - as an actress.
What was your parents’ reaction then when you were like,
"l want to be an actress in Hollywood"?
I always imagined, though, that that - those words
scare parents, right?
It was really bad.
| was a very studious young lady, so yeah,
they - they definitely thought | would do something good -
like - like @ more traditional-type job,
I ARG RN
So | took a gap year, which | thought was really
smart after high school, and | was what’s called a youth
ambassador for Australia, DRI NG T s
so that really changed the trajectory of my life.
| was going in and out of malarial zones all the time
with the work that | had to do over there, and | got malaria
really bad when we were in Mozambique.
And when | was in the hospital back in South Africa recovering
from it, | had a hallucination GFA R N % g
and, like, it was so real!
Everyone thought, "No, she’s just demented,”
but that was enough to convince UEROEIRGEIERL E AU
was gonna be.
So | come back to Australia and | go, "Guys, I’m
going to become a professional "actress - | have seen it,
I’m gonna win an Academy Award.
"It’s, like, really good,” and everyone was like,
"Oh, my God".
Like, "No".
Like, "You’re an idiot.”
Like, "No-one’s gonna pick you,” like, "You’re
IR
"Like, you’re not - "you’re naturally quite
a shier person.”
| was like, "Yeah, AR T LRGN
So | went and enrolled in law school but did acting sneaky
at night to try and get in there, yeah.
So what about, like, so when Bridesmaids took
off, was that...
Yeah, | mean, that was ORI G R
they came over for the premiere and they were like, "Oh,
she is like legit now,” yeah.
LA DR T Ty have read that you -
you were successful ORI EIEI R L IR (o
Yeah, yeah, | came to Hollywood when | was...
And you call yourself AR i
| definitely do think that.
Why, though?
I was 29, turning 30, and | had a great career
in Australia at that point and then, | got offered a big
network TV contract in Australia and | was like,
"Oh, but if | don’t go now..."
Like, it’s a bit late If you’re LRI LIS
to come to Hollywood, | think, as a woman -
GG R IR E N LR R RO
and many ladies that have broken out in their 50s
and stuff and have RTae e Rl e
You don’t hear enough LR LR Y
Yeah, you don’t hear about it, but nermally...
Because | think 30’s still young.
It’s like the younger, more ingenue girls and then
GG Gl [ R so | was just, like,
"OK, if I don’t go now to Hollywood, "I’ll never make
it,” so | sold everything that | owned - my car,
my cemputer, my apartment - everything.
| came to America with one suitcase and, like, one little
pillow, but like...
But it was a bit late, and | was probably
overqualified for the very small role | had in
You are now producing, so0 you’ve got credits
on The Hustle and lsn’t It Romantic?
Yes, Isn’t It Romantic was my first one.
The Hustle, with Anne Hathaway, and then now Senior Year,
which is a big cheerleading comedy.
Tell us a Little bit about N N R i e
It’s great, it’s great to have N AR S VR TN
coming up in the industry, | had to work for, Like,
a lot of guys, coming up where you kind of get
the crappier roles - like, the roles just weren’t
as well written, as well developed.
It would just be very hard to kind of put kind
BT LRSI 13 sometimes into it if you didn’t
have any power.
So what | did Is | used all those experiences
in a positive way and, like, learned stuff from watching
these guys and - but really wanted to get to the point
where | had the power to make the movies and choose
the storylines and choose NI ot e s Mol T
who | put in the movies and it’s just cool cos you can
be more authentic and put more of your messages -
and my latest one, it’s just so girl power
and there’s so many...
And this is your movie that you’re directing next year?
Uh, no, this is the one I’ve just shot.
You’ve just shot that?
Yeah, just shot.
AUV you are directing a movie
Yeah, and then I’ve now - now gone even further and been
offered a directing job for a movie script that I’ve
gl O R Tl elg T o so that’ll go into production
And I’m so passionate NG R RR Z s
to tell and so, why not R IRUER G I
Talking of empowerment, you’ve been on a year of health.
| didn’t predict the pandemic, but weirdly, | thought -
sometimes I’m a little SEL LN
"Oh, I feel like I’m not gonna be working much this year
"and | feel like turning 40, I’m gonna, like, concentrate
"on my health,” and | was dealing with fertility stuff
and the doctors were like,
"Well, you know, if you were E T
"you’d have better chances,” so that all kind
of culminated, and so the moment it hit 2020,
| was like, "OK, yeah, it’s gonna be my year of health.
"I’m gonna put it, like, publicly out on Instagram
"and stuff for accountability!”
But | think that that’s. ..
And who knows whether that was the smartest but. ..
And why was that important for you to do it that way?
Um, because | did want to make a lasting change and | wanted
to be accountable to myself for it, so making it very
public kind of helped - helped.
It was risky, | guess.
Before | - I had lost weight and then put it back en and,
you know, you get criticism sometimes for that,
and it was just, yeah, | just was like,
"OK, I’ll just make It -
"make the decision to make it public.”
The number of headlines about you losing weight
has been phenomenal.
O P SR IE LR
Because | look at - what happened for me in 2019 -
I had, like, four pretty successful movies come out and,
like, had done all this amazing stuff career-wise,
but then in the next year, all | did was just
IR ORI o 8
And, like, the attention G F 1
It was insane.
..1s way more than being in an Academy Award-nominated
film and, like, producing my first movie and then doing
Canl - canlread you one headline?
Oh, yeah, sure.
"Rebel Wilson has a Bond girl moment
"In an incredible curve-hugging swimsuit.”
Ty T
How do you feel about those words ?
| never thought I’d be described anywhere
near a Bond girl!
But how do you feel about those sorts of headlines
about your weight loss?
I’ve noticed that it’s been getting a lot of attention
and | go, "So, Is that what a woman has to do
R GERYL T LR [T ARV
"to, like, get attention?”
For me, it was so much bigger.
It was about just being the healthiest version of me,
so It wasn’t about the size or a number or whatever.
But it’s fascinating - why are people so obsessed
Like, | know what it’s like to R IR L
invisible to most people because of not being seen
as traditionally, like, beautiful or whatever,
so | know what it’s like when nobedy holds the door
open for you or - or, you know, just looks at you almost
like you can have no value because you’re not seen as good
looking to them, so | know what that’s like.
And then you really notice - you get, like, this bias
towards you, just purely TR I R IC )
which is wrong - like | do QIS AR
but it’s - you can’t deny that that’s how society
does operate, so...
It’s kind of conflicting.
It must leave you feeling FN Ao i1 s
because on the one hand, like, you shouldn’t have to lose
weight to suddenly be treated nicely.
No, no, and I’m proud that the message has got
across is that it wasn’t about just losing weight,
it was just about me being healthier overall,
and that’s what - that’s what I’m trying to encourage
other people out there, because that is - should
be the goal.
It never be to fit some certain weird beauty standard that
society deems Is the beauty standard of this year,
or - it should never LR
My, like, body type before, AR IR PR R R P
was, like, the body type of the 17th, 18th century.
Like, | would have U ARG R e
But I got a lot of pushback from my own team, actually,
here in Hollywood, when | said,
"OK, I’m gonna do this LR IEE G
"I’m gonna - | feel like I’m really going to physically
"transform and change my life,” and they were like, "Why?
"Why would you want IR A
Because | was earning millions of dollars being,
you know, the funny fat girl, like, and being that person,
and | go, well, because even though | was still very
confident being bigger and, you know, loved myself -
you know, would rock a red carpet - and even though
| was probably double the size, XN SR G R G RV
of other actresses, but like, BRI S i @R
But | knew deep down inside some of the emotional
eating behaviours | was doing was not healthy.
Like, | did not need a tub RN R A
that was me, you know, numbing emotions by using food,
which wasn’t the healthiest thing.
Was that dealing with fame?
| think it was - | think it was dealing with not
being a natural performer and having to perform almost
every day and just things | hadn’t kind of processed
or dealt with in my life that - that was manifesting
as emotional eating and then | was like
This was when | first got pretty famous after
"Look at me - I’m, you know, rocking, like,
"a black leather bodysuit, custem-made”.
| love that person.
Like, yeah, she was struggling with emotional eating
but | also, like, just love that girl and | love
that she was just out there, living her best life,
playing this character called Fat Amy and, like,
and just, like, getting out there and crushing it.
With the character of Fat Amy, you know, there were those sort
of fat jokes that e N
Do you feel now you can’t do that?
Well, see, it’s weird - | looked at Fat Amy
and the Pitch Perfect scripts and go
"That’s the best character,”
| personally thought, BRI R e a0l
to play that character.
I never thought of it as a negative because I’m
the type of person that some people see, yeah,
being bigger as, like, a hindrance to being an actress
and | go "I’m gonna use it and use it for my comedy".
There were some people that said
01 P71 | R Y 1Y (R TV A
And I’m like "Well, check out my new movie,
"Senior Year, coming out and see what you think, guys".
What it has done career-wise is open up this whole other
door of, like, dramatic roles and so now, I’ve this great
movie that | just shot in the north of England called
The Almond And The Seahorse, based on a West End play
and would | have been given that role if | was bigger?
Because people would still - might associate me too much
with some of the comedy roles and physically transforming
and giving a performance AR R D G
ROILLEIEGELE looking different.
I’d be interested to know if you feel that pressure
of being put on a pedestal when it comes to the body
positivity movement.
Yeah, | guess.
| mean, because | was somebody who was, like, really advocates
for, like, loving - loving yourself and at whatever
size, and you want to, like, love and embrace yourself
C ol TN [ E[ LRI A
You’re only given that body, so that is what you’ve got
to work with, that’s your canvas.
But also, | don’t want to be seen to, like, promote
unhealthiness or extreme, you know, and some of
the things that | was doing - emotionally eating and carrying
the extra weight - AL T | Y112
So what I’m trying to do is say you can be whatever
size you want.
Just try to be the healthiest AR R RE-L R G 1)
CLL G NI for different people.
You’ve shared your weight loss journey on Instagram and you’ve
got millions of followers on social media.
Are you conscious of the sorts of pressures, | guess,
there are for young women as well on social media?
L R LT N if you get into this culture
of, like, touching up all R SN R E L
TSRS L but | don’t know, but then I’m
definitely guilty of, like, posting thirst trap photos
on Instagram - mainly because I’m still single so I’m
like "Oh, yeah, OK".
That’s mainly why | do it
But also, | didn’t think it could be contributing to some
larger problem in society, AT R A
and then, if so...
You never thought about that. .. ?
| feel like, yeah, | may - I’ve grown into my looks 100%
and, like, feel like I’m at 41 now, like, looking,
yeah, better than | ever have SR LR ARl
Most people peak, don’t they, at like 207
And maybe for me, it’s about my life journey coming
into line, you know, and for me, it only kind
of clicked together at 40 properly.
But what | try to do Is share just enough that hopefully
people can understand, like, some of the struggles I’ve been
through and then, and like the reason why | share
it is to hopefully help people, so why I’ve been sharing things
about fertility or talking Y R R Ta 1370 aat d[s s
and emotional eating is ultimately to try
to help people.
The fertility issue that you’ve talked about,
that’s really personal IR IEe
Yeah, | have something - | was diagnosed when | was,
like, 20 with something called polycystic ovarian syndrome
and - which made sense, like, that | gained a lot of weight
rapidly with that and then have AR LR
it’s like, I think something R AN R N EN L e
so it’s very common, and a lot of people don’t know
they have it and so, it’s just - | think it’s just
good to talk - that’s why | love when everybody opens up
about all sorts of things now.
Mental health is obviously a big topic with a lot
of celebs and people - high-profile people talking
about that, yeah.
But fertility is a really interesting one because | don’t
think a lot of women, certainly in the public eye,
open up about it.
Behind the scenes, like, E (R (R U
are all freezing their eqgs and all kind of pursuing
options and so, we all talk about it, but not -
not just so publicly sometimes e N RN N el e k]|
roller-coaster and | certainly, you know,
froze - went all this trouble and froze my eggs and then,
unfortunately because of my condition, the quality
of the eggs wasn’t - wasn’t good enough and | have
to repeat the process and keep doing it and keep trying
and put a lot of effort in.
And that was part of the reason why | tried to get
[NU B LR LR RG] fertility journey, even though,
like, it Is emotional and you get hopeful and then,
you know, your hopes are dashed and so it’s like,
| feel for any woman going through it but | was
the classic example of, like, a career woman who went out
into the world, didn’t even think about kids and then
suddenly, in your mid-30s, ERC O L F LR
do | want that as an option?
"And Iif | do, what do LRGN YA
It could be great if | had my own children but | don’t know
whether that’s gonna happen and so, I’m trying not to have
any expectations set on an outcome, just that I’m
the healthiest | can be, I’m gonna try and what will
happen will happen.
You tweeted a few years back RS L N LI I T s e L
you had experienced in the industry.
Yep.
And you had said at the time you were no longer going to be
polite about It.
Tell me a little bit more about what happened to you -
If you want to.
Yeah, um, | mean...
And how you dealt with it.
| quess, in terms of sexual harassment, like, all women
in the industry have had, like, things like the little comments
when you’ve been in meetings and you’ve be -
got to try to be one of the boys and, like,
laugh along with the jokes even they’re talking about other
actresses and stuff in a way that’s, like, not really cool.
But | only had, like, two incidents.
One is the classic with e AN R
that was in Australia.
And | was so innocent and naive - | was in my 20s,
and | literally thought | was going to that -
to have a meeting about comedy and talk about comedy.
And then, he kept trying to give me more and more
alcohol and I’m not a big drinker, luckily, and then,
the director gets a call from his wife and I’m sitting
there on the couch and it was R RO R I R L
if somebody left a message, you could hear it through
the speaker of the phone, and she started saying "Oh,
you’ve got Rebel in that hotel room."
Like, "You’re going to sleep with her,” blah, blah, blah.
And | heard the message R R LR R iR
| thought "Oh, my God".
Like, "What is this?
What’s geing on?"
And then | just grabbed my bag and got out of there,
luckily before anything had happened.
And | wonder if that woman - AR LRl e e o)
on the phone, screaming through the phone, I -
what could’ve happened?
Did you tell anyone R Rl X4
No, because it was a big director and | didn’t...
And you’ve never named names?
No, maybe that is the legal side of me that you don’t -
| don’t want to go through any unnecessary court
cases or whatever.
And, yeah, | just - yeah, just got on with the job
and did it and luckily, nothing else happened,
apart from that one night.
And then, many years later, as I’m in Hollywood and,
you know, pretty - pretty famous, the Pitch Perfect
movies had come out and stuff and had a male co-star
was onset, summons me kind of out of my trailer
in the middle of the day LR SRR R LCR
this room, where a couple of his male buddies
are with their iPhones and he pulls down his pants
And | know, again, like, it can kind of sound comic,
the way | tell the story, because I’ve processed it now
and | was in shock.
| was like "What’s going on?"
Just kept saying no.
And his buddies are laughing and he’s kind of clearly
s RGN
This was before Me Too, though, so | didn’t quite know
what to do and | was in a foreign country,
so | called my agent, | reported it, we reported it
to the studio - | apparently was the fourth woman to have
made a complaint against this guy, too - but | stayed
and | finished the job R AR R AL
the professional thing to do - which now, | wouldn’t do,
if something like that occurs.
Now, | think | have the WD R R R I
"I’m walking.”
"OK, that is disgusting.”
Obviously some people have been picked up in the MeToo movement
but there’s a lot of others that - that haven’t and now,
| think it would be different - | wouldn’t have as much
empathy...
Is that what you mean when you say you’re going no
longer be polite moving forward?
It’s not like things change overnight with the MeToo
movement and then, suddenly it’s all safe, and...
Like, there have been very positive changes
but there still - there still need to be more.
IV GV [ ) the changes that you can make
now that you’re in these roles as a producer and director.
Yeah, and so, like, on my movie Senior Year that | just
produced, | had, like, a young actress play
QBT [TRIE] of me and she came -
CINCENI IR LR so she’s in a foreign country,
she’s vulnerable and | just said, like, "If you have any -
any issues, if anybody is doing something, you know,
or says something or whatever, please come to me as the female
T VeI T R G T R and | want to particularly,
you know, protect - and | had a lot of young cast
in that movie and just - | feel very conscious of,
like, you know, making sure they feel safe.
Are you hopeful that you’ll win an Academy Award one day?
Is that your aim?
Uh, yeah, that - that would be the goal.
And | was so lucky to be in Jojo Rabbit, that got
nominated for, like, P R R G R R s
a gorgeous movie and I think - RGO A TGS
doing projects that have a really good cachet,
that’s - that’s awesome, AR R
the comedies as well, obviously.
Yeah, | can’t...
Yeah, | think that’s what people wouldn’t want
you to leave.
No, I can’t - that’s my - that’s my love as well.
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around
first thing on Sunday, but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday
morning, as low as minus six Celsius.
Now, all change and quite literally
=ERUE 1S e AUy
of low pressure QR R IO
cloud right across the country, and that is acting like
a blanket so it is NPT
Lo GO from falling too far.
It will be a frost free start to Monday morning,
with temperatures more likely RN Ri N
degrees above freezing.
So, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite
a cloudy, grey story first thing
in the morning.
The winds are going to strengthen,
and that is going RO I
showery outbreaks of rain through Wales,
Northern Ireland, north-west England
as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly
or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess
NI
But sheltered eastern NIRRT
some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming
from the south, that means it will be
a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday, and we can trail
that weather front all the way back dewn into Spain.
In fact, the air is coming IR EEEUEICE
It is going to be pushing its way
steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps
NRGCEA e G REa
Here, you will stay NEG R e
air for the next few days.
That means first thing on Tuesday
morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees
in Lerwick but ten RN
not out of the question across central and southern
parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there is going to be some rain,
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the area is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan
dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your
washing or your car is a little bit grainy,
a Little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down
into the south-east whether cloud
lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum
of six to eight Celsius.
But the rain will ease away, the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
It looks likely that Wednesday will be the warmest day
of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out
of the question.
A good deal of dry weather as well, as we head
Whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
Welcome to BBC News, I’m Mark Lobel.
Our top stories:
Emmanual Macron is on target to win the first ballot
in the French presidential election, but Marine Le Pen
gains ground at the polls.
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
The debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days
s decisive for our country and for Europe.
Grim discoveries in Ukraine: RO ERR P R e T
are found in areas around Kyiv that were previously occupied
by Russian troops.
Tens of thousands take R R AR TR e
to protest against the removal of the former Prime Minister,
Imran Khan, from office.
ST E LT e T NPl [ than a thousand stuffed wild
animals from a warehouse in Valencia.
And Eddie Redmayne wins big R R Y las
at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
The Olivier goes to... Eddie Redmayne.
The Olivier goes to... Eddie Redmayne.
With most of the votes T B R Rl e
round of the French presidential election,
Emmanuel Macron will face the far-right leader
Marine Le Pen in a run-off B A R
Results currently show only AN EL R
difference between them, with Mr Macron on just over 27%
and Ms Le Pen on just over 25%.
Our Paris correspondent, Lucy Williamson has the latest.
It’s on, the battle RGN A e
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
The debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days
s decisive for our country and for Europe.
A choice of President Macron or President Le Pen.
LRI ROl R 1 happen on 24 April is not
just a vote about conditions, IR R R e A
A LUES R IEE A ]
Early projections suggest that Emmanuel Macron
LR R TR VT with 28% of voters,
Marine Le Pen’s share of the vote grew to around 23%.
It’s not as close as some I EL GG
but this is where the battle really begins.
Nyl EidcT e
A little bit nervous always,
simply because you don’t know A e R -
And what the French people will want.
Afraid, never.
We have seen lately that U RS GG G
more popular, in part e R e
networks, misinformation is kind of like the plague
of the 21st century.
So, our work Is to try to fight that.
Yes, we are scared because the votes are very
close on the first round, people on the second
round will vote everything but Macron because people
are not satisfied N e e P
Mr Macron only started campaigning a few weeks ago,
too occupied with the war in Ukraine.
More proof for some that he is arrogant and out
of touch, the president of the rich,
despite creating jobs and paying billions
to keep French workers afloat through Covid.
Marine Le Pen has worked hard NS R Gl
and more responsible.
She wants to ban the Muslim headscarf in public and give
priority to French nationals in jobs and housing.
But her campaign is focused on poverty and rising prices.
Mr Macron says that her programme is racist
and would threaten democracy in France.
He’s always said he Is QRN CR ARl
keep Le Pen from power, but IR Gl
of President Emmanuel Macron, there are those want to keep
Those who watched the UK Rl e e
and the US vote for Trump.
And are asking themselves what’s the solution
for France?
This election will hang MBI R R s T
Emmanuel Macron aEeh ANl
And what they’ll do next RO SR R
The unwritten rule that A RN LR
together to block the far right seems to be fraying and the two
visions France has chosen for president show how divided
Lucy Williamson, Sl VT Y
Earlier, | spoke to France 24, Washington Correspondent
about how the election is unfolding.
Well, there is a sense that Emmanuel Macron
is going to have to do actually start campaigning.
There’s a feeling in France that the President sort
O REER TG R R G Russia-Ukraine crisis and it
helped him in the beginning, NN T
as a statesman, but then he sort of stayed on that
statesman level and didn’t really focus on the domestic
campaign, if you will, while Marine Le Pen actually
The question is, how are they going to try
and address these two elements?
Emmanuel Macron is going I RO ke e
to the domestic campaign, try to explain to those
who did not vote for him why they should vote
for Emmanuel Macron and not just stay home or vote
Meanwhile, Marine Le Pen is going to have to face may be
a little more than she has so far the foreign policy
aspect of it.
Emmanuel Macron is likely going to be using some
of her past comments about a Vladimir Putin,
about Russia, her proximity to Russia against her,
given the situation LR R T
| want to pick up on all those points.
But just before, Emmanuel T e R - et el Ts |
in the past for being the leader of Paris,
not France, was see trends turning against globalisation
and America in Europe, something associated
Macron, so what Is it that Marine Le Pen has done to bring
R A
Has she brought in new demographics as well?
She’s, first of all, tamed down some of the nastier,
if you will, aspects of what her party used to be,
especially under her father.
She has really revamped her party as moving away a little
bit from the outright xenophobia, the outright
racism.
She still talks, of course, about being very strict
on immigration, but she has sort of moved away from this
and became more of an economic populist, if you will,
focusing really more on kitchen table issues,
on the economy, rather G EN RO R B Yal] 4]
and France and immigration, things like that that alienate
some people, some working-class people, who maybe agree
with her on the economy, but didn’t really like this
Sl BTN T[] RO ey
So she worked really hard on that to try to change
the vision that people have of her party.
She Is also trying to tame down the question of leaving
W RN R R UGB
She did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time,
she’s not talking about that outright.
So she’s sort of learned from her mistakes and trying
to really grasp that populist wave and focus on the elements
and on the issues that maybe other countries,
other more traditional parties, excuse me,
like Emmanuel Macron’s party, don’t do enough of.
That change of talk about is perhaps one
of the most interesting aspect of this race, isn’t it?
change of image.
It has made it more difficult for the normal traditional
coalition of everybody else to turn against the far right
to turn against in this race, and that is working
I P Rl A
Yes, she also got a little bit of help about changing that
image from Eric Zemmour, the other far right candidate,
who who made Marine Le Pen look more mainstream,
if you will, because his ideas were so much further
to the right.
He was talking only about immigration, about the values,
the foundations of France, the Christian values,
things like that, about how the problem was with
Islam and France.
So by comparisen, she looked much more focused on economic
issues and less on the traditional far-right themes
that we have seen in past decades.
But Eric Zemmour has called R LA
His voters are likely going to go massively
So she’s going to have to try to grasp maybe part
of the conservative right wing voters that maybe don’t want
Emmanuel Macron and she Is going to have to try
RGN R G RO ELE (S is not Eric Zemmour,
she’s not Emmanuel Macron, that she is a valuable
candidate and they shouldn’t go straight to Emmanuel Macron.
It is quite a close race, as you point out.
Just a final quick question.
As you say, it will be a domestic focus very likely
over the next two weeks, R R A1
implications are huge for everyone watching onto this.
We hear a lot about Marine Le Pen as a sympathiser for Putin,
some accuse her of being such, and this will be the EU’s
biggest crisis since Brexit if she gets elected,
do you think
that is all opposition X NN L DRI U W
scenario that she will take those stances?
Well, she has made it very clear, as | said,
she did sort of tamp down her talk of leaving
the EU, so there’s no MR SRR A e
if you will, but she XS (N A o[
of the European Union.
She wants to leave the military command of Nato.
She 1s close to Russia.
SR GRS praised Vladimir Putin.
So this likely would be a sort of imbalance in this Western
alliance that has been built over the past few years
and especially over the past year, this rebuilding
of the Western alliance with Joe Biden, Emmanuel Macron,
and some of the other European leaders.
And there’s a fear, at least here in Washington,
DC, for example, that having someone like Marine Le Pen
would not only jeopardise the direct France-US relations,
but could further destabilise this very fragile right now
Western alliance against Russia.
They’ve worked very hard to build it.
They managed to get everyone R R R
Ukraine’s President Zelensky says Vladimir Putin has not
only his country but the entire European project in his sights.
He was speaking as the EU re-opened its embassy in Kyiv
after Russian forces retreated from the north of Ukraine.
The major focus of the fighting is now likely to be
in the east, with civilians being evacuated from
the Donbas region.
Prosecutors say 1,200 bodies TN R R |
from areas previously occupied by Russia around Kyiv.
Those include the village of Andriivka from where our
correspondent Mark Lowen RO L 1g
IR LN e R s g R et
The population of Andriivka is 1,000, more than 40
were Kkilled as the Russians attacked and moved in
LR ER R R EL R G T B R A
as the shroud of war is peeled back, uncovering
Tatiana’s only grandson Anton was taken by the Russians
the day after his 23rd birthday and shot.
So badly mutilated, they identified him from his
clothes, recovering his body after a month and burying him
two days ago.
TRANSLATION: Maybe if he had gone to fight somewhere else,
he would have returned in one piece.
He was a clever boy, he recited poetry.
When my husband told AR O e N s
instead, they pointed their machine gun and said go
home or we will take you both.
This terrorised community will try somehow to return
to peace, but it cannot shut out its agony.
First came the offensive here, then the occupation,
and now the trauma of those returning or simply emerging
to see the destruction, which is immense.
We are now learning that these scenes are repeated
across the shattered country which even when peace returns,
could take a generation R IGE
This family are trying, repairing broken lives
and their home, where Russian soldiers stayed.
LU LR IENEN [ VAR
He’s still trying to work out what they stole.
TRANSLATION: | have no words to describe what they did.
| don’t know what they were looking for.
My family had been living here for 15 years but they came
As the Ukrainian army moved In, the Russians came down
to his tiny shelter to hide, feasting on the family’s food
and resting before R e
No place safe from their eccupation.
On the edge of the cemetery, the fresh grave of Tatiana’s
grandson.
He was studying to e N aid« I}
| had two daughters, she told, us and he was our boy.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Andriivka.
The World Bank does express Ukraine economy to shrink by
Ukraine economy to shrink by A
Ukraine economy to shrink by RS
Ukraine economy to shrink by 45% this year as a
Ukraine economy to shrink by A R IR I R
Ukraine economy to shrink by 45% this year as a result of
YR G IERYE T L ML )
YR G IERYE T L ML the war
45% this year as a result of R A )]
45% this year as a result of R LRGN
45% this year as a result of R LR ORI N
45% this year as a result of the war with Russia. Banks has
the war with Russia. Banks has 3t g8t 0L
the war with Russia. Banks has enormous financial support is
enormous financial support is needed immediately to
enormous financial support is LRI G A G
enormous financial support is needed immediately to keep the
needed immediately to keep the government
needed immediately to keep the R EOL L)
needed immediately to keep the government running and to
government running and to support
government running and to RO
government running and to support the population. It has
support the population. It has EIE
support the population. It has E L AN ]
support the population. It has already provided nearly $1
already provided nearly $1 HIHGYE]
already provided nearly $1 IR 2
already provided nearly $1 billion of assistance
already provided nearly $1 hillion of assistance and is
billion of assistance and is promising another 2 billion in
promising another 2 billion in )
promising another 2 billion in st Ta 4L
promising another 2 billion in R R R
Stay with us on BBC News, B R N
The great and the good TR R R R e
attend the Olivier Awards at the Royal Albert Hall in
Pol Pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers,
s reported to have died of natural causes.
He and the Khmer Rouge movement he led were responsible
for the deaths of an estimated 1.7 million Cambodians.
There have been violent protests in Indenesia,
where Playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
Traditionalist Muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
The magazine’s offices have TNt E R e
staff have gone into hiding.
It was clear that Paula’s only contest was with the clock,
and as for her sporting legacy, Paula Radcliffe’s competitors
will be chasing her new world best time for years to come.
Quite quietly, but quicker and quicker, she seemed just
to slide away under the surface and disappear.
Emmanuel Macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot
of the French presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff
competition from Marine Le Pen in the second round.
More than 1,200 bodies have been found in areas around Kyiv
that were previously occupied by Russian troops.
Rallies have been held RNl e R TS Ts
to protest against the removal of Imran Khan from his post
as prime minister, following a no confidence vote
in parliament over the weekend.
Tens of thousands of people gathered in Karachi and Lahore,
waving torches and flags in the dark, and chanting
in support of Mr Khan.
A long time rival, Shehbaz Sharif, is expected
to be voted in by parliament R E S SR IR L I E
Christine Fair is Professor I el A LIS
at Georgetown University.
She’s in Washingten.
Thanks for jeining us. As we’ve
Thanks for joining us. As we’ve L
Thanks for joining us. As we’ve seen from
Thanks for joining us. As we’ve A Rie iR ]
Thanks for joining us. As we’ve seen from those photos, those
seen from those photos, those Ty
seen from those photos, those videos there,
seen from those photos, those RO - IG]
seen from those photos, those videos there, Imran Khan is
videos there, Imran Khan is WG
videos there, Imran Khan is CEVE]
videos there, Imran Khan is RNV PN Gl
videos there, Imran Khan is clearly a Master of these
clearly a Master of these rallies.
clearly a Master of these . T
clearly a Master of these I M
clearly a Master of these rallies. But his anti-US
rallies. But his anti-US messages resonating clearly
messages resonating clearly with
messages resonating clearly R TLS
messages resonating clearly with some, it appears, they see
with some, it appears, they see 3
with some, it appears, they see s
with some, it appears, they see TR YR R
with some, it appears, they see it is believable. Do you think
it is believable. Do you think he can sustain this and
it is believable. Do you think TN IR I s M)
it is believable. Do you think he can sustain this and have a
he can sustain this and have a )
he can sustain this and have a role to play in Pakistani
role to play in Pakistani i iile¥s
role to play in Pakistani XA
role to play in Pakistani politics? Well, first of
(IR G ERLEEI L] politics? Well, first of all,
politics? Well, first of all, thank you for having me. | do
thank you for having me. | do e
thank you for having me. | do want to point out that Pakistan
want to point out that Pakistan T
want to point out that Pakistan YL 0L
want to point out that Pakistan has about 200 million people
has about 200 million people and
has about 200 millien people R )
has about 200 millien people and the ability to amass very
and the ability to amass very large crowds is not a singular
large crowds is not a singular ey
large crowds is not a singular TN N Al 1s]
large crowds is not a singular TN ARG LR
large crowds is not a singular feature of Imran Khan. In fact,
feature of Imran Khan. In fact, just about
feature of Imran Khan. In fact, TS L LN &Y
feature of Imran Khan. In fact, just about every party is
Just about every party is capable
just about every party Is capable of amassing
just about every party is capable of amassing these large
capable of amassing these large g
capable of amassing these large crowds. And this
capable of amassing these large e N LR IR
capable of amassing these large crowds. And this is one of the
crowds. And this is one of the signatures, of course, of Imran
signatures, of course, of Imran Khan. The
signatures, of course, of Imran G LT i e e)
signatures, of course, of Imran G IR L hil e N )
Khan. The difference between vty
Khan. The difference between e Y
Khan. The difference between what he is doing now and the
what he is doing now and the earlier times when
what he is doing now and the YRR R hE )
LAEI R L [ [ R G T earlier times when the Pakistan
earlier times when the Pakistan people’s
EIT R EIRG Eh RO LI El) people’s party was
earlier times when the Pakistan people’s party was governing
people’s party was governing % Ts ]
people’s party was governing Pakistan is that
people’s party was governing R R R R
people’s party was governing R E IR E R IR
people’s party was governing R R L R IR
Pakistan is that this time the % Ts ]
Pakistan is that this time the FIEEL IO
Pakistan is that this time the Pakistan army isn’t with
Pakistan is that this time the MO A RS
Pakistan army isn’t with him. So
Pakistan army isn’t with him. 201
Pakistan army isn’t with him. So in some sense this is a
So in some sense this is a a1 s s
So in some sense this is a A R
So in some sense this is a T R R a s
So in some sense this is a A R R e D s Te
So in some sense this is a showdown between Imran Khan and
showdown between Imran Khan and )
showdown between Imran Khan and the Pakistan
showdown between Imran Khan and OIS E LY
showdown between Imran Khan and the Pakistan army in the
the Pakistan army in the At
the Pakistan army in the AR
the Pakistan army in the Rt AL
the Pakistan army in the Rt A R E LT
streets of Pakistan. That’s %1\
streets of Pakistan. That’s really interesting. Some said
really interesting. Some said they
really interesting. Some said QAR
really interesting. Some said GG G
really interesting. Some said they held his rise and
really interesting. Some said GG IR L R GG
they held his rise and there may be
they held his rise and there W EA R G
they held his rise and there may be responsible partly for
may be responsible partly for his fall. Telus, how
his fall. Telus, how RN Y
his fall. Telus, how influential are they in
influential are they in Pakistan? So
influential are they in IR E R AL R Y
influential are they in Pakistan? So it’s impossible to
Pakistan? So it’s impossible to N e s10)
Pakistan? So it’s impossible to overstate the importance. You
overstate the importance. You QR
overstate the importance. You QA E Y
overstate the importance. You know, essentially every
overstate the importance. You QIS E (A A L 1
know, essentially every single Prime Minister in Pakistan has
Prime Minister in Pakistan has el
Prime Minister in Pakistan has XL
Prime Minister in Pakistan has AL R
Prime Minister in Pakistan has served at the leisure
Prime Minister in Pakistan has X L R A N R
Prime Minister in Pakistan has AN R N R R
served at the leisure of the Pakistan army. In fact, when
Pakistan army. In fact, when Benazir Bhutto became the Prime
Benazir Bhutto became the Prime IR e
Benazir Bhutto became the Prime TR S i e
Benazir Bhutto became the Prime RIS I R GRS ED|
Benazir Bhutto became the Prime Minister after the ul-Haq died
Minister after the ul-Hagq died in
Minister after the ul-Hagq died T}
Minister after the ul-Haq died in a mysterious plane crash,
in a mysterious plane crash, i)
in a mysterious plane crash, TR e
in a mysterious plane crash, AR LR e s
in a mysterious plane crash, she was told pretty much
she was told pretty much explicitly that you can be the
explicitly that you can be the Prime Minister but you have to
Prime Minister but you have to accept
Prime Minister but you have to Elown:Yo | 30011
Prime Minister but you have to accept some bounds of what you
accept some bounds of what you ]
accept some bounds of what you Uk ]
accept some bounds of what you can do, you cannot get the
can do, you cannot get the AN
can do, you cannot get the AN R R )
can do, you cannot get the business of the Pakistan army,
business of the Pakistan army, you will not have
business of the Pakistan army, TR (I G E Y
business of the Pakistan army, you will not have any role
business of the Pakistan army, TR (S G E VR L A GO
you will not have any role in our
you will not have any role in e e )
you will not have any role in our defence policy or our
our defence policy or our I
our defence policy or our foreign relations, so a joke
foreign relations, so a joke i e
foreign relations, so a joke somewhat cynically, but it is
somewhat cynically, but it is )
somewhat cynically, but it is I R S el e
somewhat cynically, but it is I R S e
somewhat cynically, but it is I R S sl e
also somewhat direct that PR R
also somewhat direct that P R R L a R T)
also somewhat direct that R L IR a
Pakistan’s Prime Minister is really generally not much more
really generally not much more than the Matt of Islamabad. ..
than the Matt of Islamabad... That
than the Matt of Islamabad... G A
than the Matt of Islamabad... That is interesting. We were
That is interesting. We were hearing earlier that Shehbaz
hearing earlier that Shehbaz hElA
hearing earlier that Shehbaz Sharif, who might take over as
Sharif, who might take over as Prime Minister in
Sharif, who might take over as TN IR ]
Sharif, who might take over as Prime Minister in the next
Prime Minister in the next w11 )
Prime Minister in the next couple of hours, could have
couple of hours, could have warmer relations with India.
couple of hours, could have e R R I E T
warmer relations with India. Is )
warmer relations with India. Is there anything
warmer relations with India. Is QGBI
warmer relations with India. Is there anything he could have an
there anything he could have an R T o)
there anything he could have an influence on? See, this is a
influence on? See, this Is a perennial
influence on? See, this is a perennial golden Girls that
perennial golden Girls that TG
perennial golden Girls that people are looking forward to
people are looking forward to lay a golden eqg,
people are looking forward to lay a golden egg, the policy
lay a golden egg, the policy with India
lay a golden egg, the policy GBI
lay a golden egg, the policy with India is absolutely not
with India Is absolutely not dependent
with India Is absolutely not R R
with India Is absolutely not L R R
with India Is absolutely not dependent upon the Prime
dependent upon the Prime RGOS
dependent upon the Prime IR
dependent upon the Prime ISR =
dependent upon the Prime Minister. In fact, every time
Minister. In fact, every time )
Minister. In fact, every time e
Minister. In fact, every time ]
Minister. In fact, every time there is a significant
QIR RI LTI E]) rapprochement
there is a significant rapprechement publicly
there is a significant rapprochement publicly between
rapprochement publicly between R Y
rapprochement publicly between FIEEL N
rapprochement publicly between Pakistan’s by Minister and
Pakistan’s by Minister and India’s Prime
Pakistan’s by Minister and India’s Prime Minister, there
India’s Prime Minister, there s
India’s Prime Minister, there is always,
India’s Prime Minister, there T !
India’s Prime Minister, there is always, and I’m not
s always, and I’m not exaggerating, there is always a
exaggerating, there is always a e
exaggerating, there is always a significant terrorist attack in
significant terrorist attack in RGIER
significant terrorist attack in India. Obviously the link
India. Obviously the link TN
India. Obviously the link T NEG
India. Obviously the link NG IR &)
India. Obviously the link between the Pakistan army
India. Obviously the link AR UL LI L
between the Pakistan army and )
between the Pakistan army and R et ey
between the Pakistan army and R R
between the Pakistan army and the terrorists that a
between the Pakistan army and MR R
the terrorists that a -- a3 [led
the terrorists that a -- e TR
the terrorists that a -- e s TR a0 e
the terrorists that a -- S TR Lh o o R
the terrorists that a -- conduct these attacks are very
conduct these attacks are very well-known and | don’t need to
well-known and | don’t need to dialogue upon them further. The
dialogue upon them further. The N
dialogue upon them further. The AR R
dialogue upon them further. The A RN ]
dialogue upon them further. The closest of the two actually
closest of the two actually ]
closest of the two actually Rt
closest of the two actually EIER G T
closest of the two actually came to peace was part of the
came to peace was part of the so-called
came to peace was part of the el sl LY
came to peace was part of the so-called bus diplomacy between
so-called bus diplomacy between then
so-called bus diplomacy between NI
so-called bus diplomacy between then and Walsh
so-called bus diplomacy between WIHIEELBR L EIC T
so-called bus diplomacy between then and Walsh River and the
then and Walsh River and the Indian Prime Minister. That was
Indian Prime Minister. That was probably
Indian Prime Minister. That was QO VAGT
Indian Prime Minister. That was probably the most significant
probably the most significant step towards
probably the most significant SR EIC R e Su G
probably the most significant step towards rapprochement, but
step towards rapprochement, but wanted
step towards rapprochement, but R
step towards rapprochement, but wanted the army do to undermine
wanted the army do to undermine it?
wanted the army do to undermine iy
wanted the army do to undermine it? The army what
wanted the army do to undermine (LRGSR O
wanted the army do to undermine (LG A U S R
it? The army what became known as
it? The army what became known YRy
it? The army what became known as the Kargil
it? The army what became known IR G RGO R
it? The army what became known EIR G R C [ RZ
it? The army what became known IR G R CIO R T
it? The army what became known RGN GO AR R A
as the Kargil war. So it is, people just love it when prime
people just love it when prime IR
people just love it when prime BRI
people just love it when prime NIRRT It
people just love it when prime ministers talk about pursuing
ministers talk about pursuing o)
ministers talk about pursuing peace with India. And
ministers talk about pursuing LR UL IE A - R
ministers talk about pursuing MU LR RS
peace with India. And it is just
peace with India. And it is TS
peace with India. And it is P
peace with India. And it is IS4 ET
peace with India. And it is just not. It has always been in
just not. It has always been in [
just not. It has always been in N E
just not. It has always been in the hands of
just not. It has always been in R E R R Y
just not. It has always been in the hands of the army.
the hands of the army. W8]
the hands of the army. Christine Fair, professor of
Christine Fair, professor of security studies at Georgetown.
security studies at Georgetown. Giver sharing your
security studies at Georgetown. IR EIN LR IR
security studies at Georgetown. Giver sharing your views with
Giver sharing your views with TH
Giver sharing your views with us. Thank
Giver sharing your views with IR =L ST
Giver sharing your views with RO ST R
Giver sharing your views with us. Thank you for having me.
Police in Spain have seized more than a thousand stuffed
animals, including protected and extinct species,
at a warehouse In Valencia.
The haul included rhinos, polar bears and elephants.
The warehouse-owner Is under investigation but has
N3 E
Shelley Phelps has N El R
AT
Elephants, rhinos, lions, and )
Elephants, rhines, liens, and T R e
Elephants, rhines, liens, and more were among the
Elephants, rhinos, liens, and more were among the hundreds of
more were among the hundreds of stuff
more were among the hundreds of iR Gl
more were among the hundreds of stuff to wild animals found in
stuff to wild animals found in this giant warehouse near
this giant warehouse near Valencia
this giant warehouse near Yo\ o]
this giant warehouse near Valencia in eastern
this giant warehouse near RN R I =
The haul, worth an estimated 29 million euros, is one
of the largest of its kind LR ARl Il ]
to the Spanish police.
Around 400 of the animals are classified as protected.
With every box opened, police found more.
Carefully examining and documenting each find.
Cheetahs, lynxes, polar bears, and white rhinos
TS L R Tl
Along with almost 200 elephant tusks and seats made
with elephants’ feet.
-- and furniture made from elephants.
STENE NS 1Y the warehouse owner is being
investigated for smuggling IR Ree
Shelley Phelps, BBC News.
A whole they will never forget. TN T
A whole they will never forget. ST R
A whole they will never forget. PSR ]
A whole they will never forget. Before we bow out.
Theatre luvvies gathered in (R R R U R I E I
which honour people who work both on and off stage.
Cabaret At The Kit Kat Club starring Eddie Redmayne
was the big winner on the night, as Claudia
Redmond reports.
The curtain was raised at the glitzy Olivier Awards
on Sunday at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
Cabaret At The Kit Kat Club was the biggest winner
of the night, taking seven prizes including acting
trophies for Eddie Redmayne and Irish actress Jesse
I Y2
IR G R R G R )
This was the part | played when | was a kid at school,
the thing that got my passion for theatre really fuelled,
and getting to do it every night with that extraordinary
group of people was dumb founding.
It’s such a huge, huge privilege to be part of this
community, which | consider my family.
Thank you for welcoming me in all those years ago,
and this is just so lovely!
How about we hear another one?
Soemething that cooks!
Soemething that cooks?
LAl d
Best New Musical went to Back to the Future,
based on the 1980s cult film R R Rl
travelling capers of Michael ] Fox as Marty McFly.
And in the dance world, young up-and-coming choreographer
Arielle Smith stepped up to receive the Outstanding
Achievement in Dance category for her work on Jolly Folly
with the English National Ballet.
The winners of the Olivier Awards overseen by the Society
of London Theatre are chosen by a team of industry figures,
stage luminaries and theatre loving members of the public.
It is hoped that following so many setbhacks with Covid
restrictions over the past years, that the shows can
finally go on.
Claudia Redmond, BBC News.
46 years
RYR T
46 years old those awards and still going
46 years old those awards and IR
The World Number one ranked American golfer
Scottie Scheffler overcame R R R R ]
Northern Ireland’s Rory Mcllroy to secure victory at
Scheffler saw his overnight LGN DR U I E A1
to just one stroke during a thrilling final day
at the Augusta National course, only to pull clear
of the chasing pack and register a fourth win
in his last six starts.
From me and
From me and all of the team, thank you so much for
IR RN & G R G thank you so much for watching.
thank you so much for watching. LIS
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around
first thing on Sunday, but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday
morning, as low as minus six Celsius.
Now, all change and quite literally
=ERUE 1S e AUy
of low pressure QR R IO
cloud right across the country, and that is acting like
a blanket so it is NPT
Lo GO from falling too far.
It will be a frost free start to Monday morning,
with temperatures more likely RN Ri N
degrees above freezing.
So, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite
a cloudy, grey story first thing
in the morning.
The winds are going to strengthen,
and that is going RO I
showery outbreaks of rain through Wales,
Northern Ireland, north-west England
as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly
or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess
NI
But sheltered eastern NIRRT
some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming
from the south, that means it will be
a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday, and we can trail
that weather front all the way back dewn into Spain.
In fact, the air is coming IR EEEUEICE
It is going to be pushing its way
steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps
NRGCEA e G REa
Here, you will stay NEG R e
air for the next few days.
That means first thing on Tuesday
morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees
in Lerwick but ten RN
not out of the question across central and southern
parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there is going to be some rain,
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the area is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan
dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your
washing or your car is a little bit grainy,
a Little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down
into the south-east whether cloud
lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum
of six to eight Celsius.
But the rain will ease away, the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
It looks likely that Wednesday will be the warmest day
of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out
of the question.
A good deal of dry weather as well, as we head
Whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
Emmanuel Macron is ahead in the polls in the first
round of the French presidential election,
but his far-right rival, Marine Le Pen, has gained
LTI TsH
The next round will take [ EIC R R R R S
More than 1200 bodies have been found in areas around Kyiv that
were controlled by Putin’s N LT E L [6,6
have been reported in the south of the country.
Tens of thousands of protesters N R eI R R R
of Pakistan to protest against Imran Khan being
removed as prime minister, following a no-confidence vote
in parliament over the weekend.
Mr Khan has been blamed RGN R (T o[ e
ueple )
Now on BBC News, Dateline London with Shaun Ley.
Helle, I’m Shaun Ley.
Welcome to our weekly round table discussion
between BBC specialists and the foreign correspondents
who write, blog and broadcast to audiences in their home
countries from the Dateline London.
With us this week - Latika Bourke, a columnist
for two Australian newspapers - The Age in Melbourne
and The Sydney Morning Herald.
Justin Rowlatt, the L R E R s liee
And Jeffrey Kofman.
Jeffrey’s been both a foreign correspondent and a news anchor
for Canadian and US broadcasters.
First of all, lovely eI R R N
you in the studio.
| keep saying it every week, but it makes such a difference.
"Socialism™, according to a British politician
of the last century, "is the language of priorities”.
Perhaps it’s more accurate to say that politics
In a democracy is about IR LS TN W T g Y]
What happens, though, when those priorities conflict?
No-one accused of war crimes IR A S Ee
justice any time soon, I
are punishing Russia with further sanctions.
Some want to stop buying Russian gas altogether.
But that could mean shortages, bills higher than they
are already, rationing.
Substitution means more carbon extraction, just
as the United Nations EREIG IR GE R G LR G
RV L G DT T of energy needed to prevent
the climate perhaps becoming, for us, intolerable.
The response of Boris Johnson’s A A
an energy security strategy.
Justin, sustainability, EL EL L AR Y0l
of supply - what does GRS VA T
about where Boris Johnson’s government’s priorities lie?
It is claiming it addresses all of that.
The consensus has been that it has not done any
of them particularly well.
So, we’re talking about new nuclear power,
we’re already rolling out offshore wind very rapidly,
a more rapid rollout of offshore wind, tiny changes
to onshore wind, maybe more solar and then,
opening up new licensing for North Sea gas and oil.
What there wasn’t was a big effort to tackle and reduce
demand, maybe Insulating homes.
Maybe get people to switch to heat pumps and that
Greens were very L TR 1
It takes a long time to build nuclear power,
takes four years to build wind e ARG e T
It would be much quicker to put onshore wind turbines,
and that would address energy security more quickly
and would also, arguably, reduce bills more quickly.
So, In a sense, it had those three priorities at their heart
but didn’t meet any of them.
So it is kept them all kind of juggling in the air?
Boris Johnson is saying to the people of the United Kingdom,
"Take a cold shower for ten years™.
| really do.
It is really shocking.
My own energy bills have gone up over 100%, and I’m sure
that’s a pretty common SO AN RO
My heart breaks to think of people who are living
on the margins and what it is doing to them,
let alone businesses that survive on the margins,
with vast restaurants B LI T R UEI R R
heated at these prices.
What is he doing for them?
How are they going to survive?
Is it so surprising, though, for an elected politician
to say to voters, "You have to pay more” but "You will have
toc use less” ?
It’s not a vote-winning U
But the request was from green groups and environmentalists
was to say, listen, subsidise people to make
iR - i e
Make it easier and cheaper TR iR E -
There are significant cost hurdles to putting
in insulation.
And given historic energy prices, actually, for many
people, it has been a tough AR I R I R
takes many years to pay off.
But current energy prices, the arguments are more
difficult, but that was the argument - let’s make
the homes more efficient, reduce demand and a decrease
dependency on foreign fuel.
Europe has done this.
The United Kingdom has - IR CLEIC R
Western Europe, at least - N RN NG SR R e ¢
in the region.
We’ve all been there, YRR Y4
Those lovely old Georgian homes.
People say Britain is MR RN
N
able to pin that down, find out what it actually means.
Latika, Australia has experienced energy politics
and the rough-and-tumble at the last election where it
looked like the conservative - small-C Liberal National
coalition was going to lose, yet it won, and it appeared
to win because what Labor WL LR R Y
Can you remind us of that and will that still play this time?
Sean, not even the last election - the last decade
in Australia, basically all the elections have been
written by this climate change politics orthodoxy that’s been
going on, and | don’t expect that will change too much
However, what we have for the first time as a bipartisan
commitment for net zero by 2050.
The incumbent centre-right government led by Scott
Morrison was very reluctantly dragged, kicking and screaming,
to that position by Boris Johnson at COP26 in Glasgow.
And so, we have that N E L NSO EI L
don’t necessarily have is the consensus about how
to get there.
And then along comes what is happening in Ukraine
and Russia really making people think, "Gee, maybe we didn’t go
all in with the green movement straight away and maybe
that’s a good thing for us™.
Because if you look carefully at what a lot of the people
who are maligned sometimes, or perhaps more accurately
called climate deniers in Australia - many
within the current government - they have always said,
"We want to transition, but with technology -
"not via taxes or trading schemes”.
Now, that seems to be coming into fruition for them.
LR[S T N we will have some climate
politics running through this next election, but what we will
see Is that more morphing into R L LU s e )
to climate change which is already very much alive
in Australia, and also the cost of living.
Does it mean less extraction?
Will that be feasible for Australian politicians,
because it is suggested that is what Labor were acknowledging
would have to happen at the last election and it
paid a big electoral iR IR
The current Labor leader Anthony Albanese has come out
strongly, saying that coal will be a part of Australia’s
future so I think that might R I I
Does that mean we’re going to be doing what some
in the current government would like, which is funding,
with taxpayer dollars, new coal-fired power stations?
No, | don’t think so, but you do see the sides coming
to the table in a more centrist way than they have not been
R G R -]
There is such a paradox because you have these terrible floods!
And then, of course, before that, the incredible bushfires.
Australia, in a way, TR Rl e R e
change - maybe one of e e el TR e
by climate at the moment, and yet, there doesn’t seem
to be a huge amount of energy.
You say there is a consensus to 2050 - they are cutting
the money spent on the transition at the moment.
They did it very (A R R G
[ 1N L QR TCTg ileT ] o for people outside Australia
to understand what a big deal TR ORI E R e I )
government that has been ripped apart, they have changed prime
ministers more times now then | can remember over
this very issue.
To have a conservative prime minister able to stand up
and say, "We are going to net zero by 2050" and he is still
in the job and contesting this election - that is huge for
Justin, with all these pressures in the energy
security strategy from the UK, we have this debate
and an imminent general election in the next month
in Australia, where does this leave our ambitions,
the stated global ambition for mitigating the effects
of climate change and trying I N8
It’s so interesting because you hinted at
19 in your introduction.
There was a UN publication - the IPCC, the climate change
SR IR G TRV published their report
on mitigation and tackling climate change at the beginning
of this week and what’’s interesting, it said,
"We need to transition away from fossil "fuels as quickly
as we can,” essentially.
What’s interesting about these reports -
and often, people don’t recognise - these are signed up
RO LEIG T T E SRR e
They’re written by scientists and then, there is a couple
of weeks where the government and scientists get together
and wrestle through the words and strike out some stuff
and maybe water things down but at the end of the day,
those conclusions were signed TN RN R L)
Saudi Arabia, TSI 0 )
So, this week, we saw consensus - world consensus -
O F 1 QIR CEEL [ problem, that we are heading
for really serious difficulties unless we urgently accelerate
(ORI Tg o L[] of the world economy -
not individual economies, the world economy -
but at the evidential LRI R
And the richest T R R e e P
| would add two points.
LR G EIAL LV GLER TR (W R G RN e
and I’m not saying | agree with this, but it is a persuasive
argument - "It is no good acting.
"We are a fairly tiny country and if China and India
and Brazil and all the major polluters doen’t come
to the table, we are crippling our own economy.”
And if countries like the UK who have been dragging us
to the table and have to say you have to allow an exception
for us because we have this war going on in Ukraine.
We have to punish Russia, but are we doing ourselves
any favours long-term?
Isn’t there a danger we are going to say
to a country absolutely dependent on export revenue...
Oh, my gosh.
We just had a 90-degrees turn in this conversation.
I think the reality behind the sanctions against Russia
Is a separate morality from climate change,
G IEETCR T R [de &1 Y questions, but a kind
of wholesale slaughter of a nation.. ..
But that’s not my point.
Is it the danger that if you say to a country
like Russia that "This BN O AT e
"We’re going to stop using you.
"Regardless of what happens I R A -
That country then has more incentive to gain more
energy-dependent vassal states.
| am asking you.
Are you saying they going to invade other countries?
Sean, | don’t think | can separate the sanctions
from the reasons for the sanctions, but I think
GG R L RO NN A B s e et rela Lo )
trying to separate the two because | think for most of us,
there is a very direct connection - and | know
we’re going to talk about this in a moment so | won’t get
ahead - but there are long-term impacts.
Russia has a huge reserve of oil and doesn’'t have much
industry.
Let’s face it - it is a petro economy.
So, yes, there will R D
But I think we have to deal with the immediate humanitarian
circumstances.
We will come back to that.
A perfectly fair point.
Justin, the political cloud which comes from having energy
supplier, one way or another, it’s going to shift, isn’t it?
It has shifted TR LG R
Maybe not as fast as some would like, but it is shifting.
Russia, if we follow this G T R YR
going to go?
Who will be the new energy titans?
Well, let’s see who occupies that space.
Really good question.
If the UN Is right - the UN says we are essentially
at peak carbon.
We have to peak before 2025 is what the UN
IPCC report said.
[ I AR LRI 1] CELE L4
So we’re at peak carbon, QMR R G
reorganisation happens.
KRNI BT ¢ Australia could be that energy
I Ige UL R [l [v in wind turbines?
To be fair, Latika Bourke is not. ..
| see this out there which, frankly, Boris Johnson has
recognised and said N E N IR (e 1
to the continental shelf in a really windy part
You could be deing the same.
That is partly the answer to Sean’s questions -
it’s a really interesting question - who will be
the energy power, these W S RN R 1
I think the answer is technology, the people
who create the technology that supplies energy -
we’re talking about wind and solar.
There are places which have...
And we’re talking about green hydrogen, if may also add.
Which is also technology.
This is one of the big real promises and potential
and, Justin, Australia should L N T h RN a1
superpower ten and 20 years ago, we should have had solar
Britain also failed to do that.
But what we are now doing as we have had a government
who have said we are technology agnostic about how we get
IR Al B
What they are backing - they’re not really technology
agnostic, they are putting huge subsidies into green hydrogen
and there is huge hope in Australia that we will
become a green hydrogen exporter that will provide Asia
and potentially even Europe - and you should really watch out
for announcements on this between Britain and Australia -
and if that is the case, what you will see is wrapping
into this whole conversation E T RV ST R (L)
of supply lines and energy security, so that we are
trading energy with people we like and we trust
and we are not going R e s e Tl tea
| think that is part of the equation but Elon Musk
is now building solar panels for your roof that can
QLI T g To 10 -8
It is impossible not to believe that a big part of the equation
s going to be that - particularly for new-build
hemes and homes with a specific design that can be retrofitted.
I think when you talk E[ R N G TS
once that technology NI G
right now, it is a wealthy X ROl [
but let’s bring the price down.
| think that’s really interesting.
The other thing people don’t tend to recognise
is what we are also seeing as an electrification
of the world as we move away from gas and oil.
And once you do that, once you have a heat pump
in your house and a car with a big battery and a solar
panel on the roof, the three can work together to maximise
your energy efficiency LRI R L DTS
of the grid so, in a way, it potentially
decentralised as power.
One of the things that came out of the discussions
of this strateqgy is the suggestion from the government
GE G IepL:] half of all new cars sold have
to be fully electric - not even dual, fully electric.
Tesla, since you mention them, have done a deal
with New Caledonia in the Pacific region -
tiny, tiny territory, but it happens to have one
tenth of the world’s nickel and suddenly, everybody needs
IR G
Presumably, all of those factors, you say who owns
the technology?
It could be governments or government-licensed
technology, it will give
them political power.
Rare earth minerals is a huge deal for Australia.
We have been striking deals because we are very sensitive
to Chinese ownership of this and we are trying
(LTI Tl
Actually, that is something we are trying to do with a lot
of Asian countries, including India, which anybody watching
this space knows that India is more than happy to go
up and buy Russian gas at the moment, which is being
sold to them at bargain basement prices.
That is very concerning for a country like Australia,
because we see a country like India as a potential
strategic partner in the Inde-Pacific.
So, all of this is related and if Australia can crack
energy security, it can crack climate change
and bring down emissions and it can also crack global
security and on something that matters for us so much
in our region, which is, of course a hedge on China.
Has this accelerated QR RN RN AT gL R
the transition, and I’ll be interested to hear
what everybody else says.
It seems to me, it is balanced N R R U R I LR
come up with energy [T EX XTI
the thought would be traditional sources of energy,
like lots more coal in Germany, and not necessarily renewables
because they take time to go in.
the world to say hold on a second, there
IS now a way to decouple.
I think that is exactly right, and that is the good news.
| don’'t want to get ahead of our discussion but | think
in the short-term, we are seeing some of the old stuff
SRS BTN I T I ]
The nature of the discussion has changed in the last six
ey
Because of what’s happening in Ukraine.
eI
IR
AR N ANIEAER
Putin has really changed the way we perceive energy
Putin has really changed the way we perceive energy
In Germany - it’s incredible - they mothballed nuclear power
stations and say now they will bring some back.
That is how dramatic QIR EN DR G
For all sorts of reasons, it is such an incredibly
interesting moment.
And | hate to be the doom and gloom here but I think
we do need R I R T 3l
about what will happen in the immediate term
and | think that will actually grow a more
acceptable political framework VLGRS
So, a good example this is one of the humanitarian things
Australia has done is send tens of thousands of tonnes of coal
- "humanitarian ceal”, they’re calling it -
Nobody is actually saying that as a bad thing.
Nobody has called i N
Why would you?
Because Ukraine urgently need energy.
LR
LY RYTREN
And you are doing it to help people.
We are sending them humanitarian coal.
And actually, when President A
It is really good PR.
Not a dirty fuel, it is humanitarian coal.
And this is interesting, because Scott Morrison,
who very infamously went into the Australian Parliament
with a lump of coal saying, "Don’t be scared of it,
"Labor party,” he gets up
and welcomes President Zelensky to give his address
to the Parliament and says "You have our bullets,
gV and our coal” and everyone
in Australia went, "That is a bit pelitical,”
but President Zelensky actually came back and said thank
you for the coal.
That is an interesting thought.
I want to pick up two things - you talked about nuclear.
We have Macron up for re-election in France,
saying we are not just going for energy security,
we are going for energy independence and it
will be nuclear-based.
In the UK, we are going to end up with only one nuclear
reactor AR R
VR RV TSR, )] N VR I T IO
Government but one started the ball rolling on.
No, Labour started that.
They announced an age of nuclear 12 years ago.
That makes sense but the deal was done by the Cameron
government.
The project began in 2007 when they famously said
LR R T AL [0 BTV Christmas turkey by 2017.
Elalels
Is not going to be ready! Just ey
Is not going to be ready! Just like the cold shower.
Is the turkey acceptable ORI ROl 4
Raw Turkey!
But my point was this - o R R R e R R Ta T e s
Osborne government, there was criticism of the price
that the government had IEIEIN G R G AL LG R
for electricity which, RO G
per megawatt hour.
Does it look EER LT G
It does at the moment, but again, like cold water,
this is a moment of crisis and obviously, fuel
prices are very high.
This will be a temporary thing.
There is no fundamental shortage of fossil fuels.
The world will reorganise itself and there will be power
available and so, prices will fall, I think,
[ R RYETE
In time, prices will fall.
But what hasn’t changed, just to go back, inevitably
QAN RIS but this concept of energy
security is now T R 0
Just like the pandemic global health at the centre stage
-- Just like the pandemic put global health at the centre
Sl and stopped us from talking
face-to-face for two years, what is happening
and what Putin has done has forever reminded us
that we need to really understand the consequences
of our energy supply.
And It has happened at a time when, for the first time
in history, there Is a viable Yot ot at IR e R e R ol
fuels, because as the IPCC pointed out, renewables are far
cheaper than anyone expected them to be.
They have fallen unbelievably.
So they are avilable and often the cheapest form of energy
for many P tla ae o
Latika, while Europe agonises WA E A R R G CRNE
of Ukraine said was ‘blood money’, buying Russian oil
and gas, Australia not only sending humanitarian coal
but sending armoured vehicles.
Yes, Bushmasters.
Bushmasters, to help the Ukrainians.
DLRVTESTRN G Gl | o R RE R I e
accelerate the end of the war or project the direction,
the the trajectory of this war?
| thought it was very MR LI
(TR T [ ey and Olaf Scholz,
the German Chancellor in London today, and both of them seems
to be suggesting we should be strapping in for a very long
conflict, and they were suggesting the sanctions should
would be long-term, e R Ll
would be long-term.
And you only had to listen to Nato’s boss Jens Stoltenberg
this week to say that while Russia has withdrawn
from northern Ukraine now - NG (G ET TR B L E A
QR T R I T R O R R G LY
in the Donbas, Putin has not walked away from his ambition
| think this is just the start of some very hard years
ahead for Europe.
I didn’t hear what Olaf Scholz said but it just enrages me.
Olaf Scholz is in no position to make these comments.
| find it morally indefensible, Germany’s position here,
and | find it soc offensive.
They are more, than any nation on earth, fuelling
10 war.
They didn’t cause it, to be clear, but 200 milion
euros, $220 million dollars a day go to Moscow
to pay for the fuel LR LI RO s E R e
and fuels German industry.
It is so interesting that in 2009, when the euro crashed,
Germany wagged its finger at Greece and said,
"You are irresponsible!
"We are going to cut you off and you are going to pay!"
Their economy shrank 20%.
Now, "Oh, no, we cannot cut off the oil because our economy
UG LIS 101Y a couple of points”.
What moral hypocrisy!
And Germans feel this - surveys say that Germans
believe the gas TG - Neli e
There is a way to shorten this war, and Olaf Scholz
holds the key.
LRI U hurt his economy?
Yes, but let’s look at German history, look at the legacy,
have you not learned?
Is there not a moral stance that goes ahead of 3% shrinkage
BTV ECT L A (=N to stop a bloodbath?
| mean, really?
I think that it is outrageous that he would say "Well,
"we have to get used to this going on, but don’t worry -
"BMW and Siemens and Mercedes are still producing.”
As a balancing comment on Germany, we have
to recognise that Germany has changed its policies very
s[4
TR
But they are not cutting off.
LS TR sending that money.
I QTR gl o N [V that is the problem.
It is very hard to change GRS RSN Y)Y
In your economy.
|
It’s a huge thing.
You cannot do it suddenly.
DR G LT T G sacrifices made and they
could say they have to ration it because this
s such an urgent moement.
I just don’t think that that washes for the people of
Mariupol.
WA F L
| get that there will be displacement.
In our lifetimes, this is the biggest humanitarian
crisis in Europe and it is indefensible to say,
"Well, it takes time".
Can | ask you, Justin, when you look at the crimes
that are alleged to have been committed in places like Bucha,
other parts elsewhere in Ukraine, and that have been
laid at the door of the Russians,
just as a last thought,
does that tell you anything about this war and how it’s
going and where it N TR
| think it does - this is the huge challenge Russia
s going to face.
How is it ever going to come - well, in the medium term,
SR overcome the reputational
damage of these apparent war crimes it has committed?
| think it will be a huge challenge, it will be a stain
that Russia has to try and deal T GBRIE D R -
And what is interesting as a journalist who’s also
interested in technology, the way we are seeing this war
s like nothing before.
Witness video of war crimes as they happen.
Thank you all very much, a terrific discussion,
thank you for joining us.
Thank you for your company, more of the same next week,
join us then.
From
A I RS
From all of us, goodbye.
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around first thing on Sunday,
but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday morning -
Now, all change and IS R R L
because of this area R GYT I
that’s throwing cloud right across the country
and that is acting like a blanket,
so It is preventing those temperatures
from falling too far.
It will be a frost-free start to Monday morning
with temperatures more likely
about four, five, six degrees E ORIV
So, a difference to the feel ARG
and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
The winds are going RS G
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain
through Wales, Northern Ireland,
North West England as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well,
either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction,
widely gusting RS R ORI LN
But sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine
and with the wind direction now coming from the south,
that means it will be a little bit warmer -
17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday
and we can trail that weather front
all the way back SR G EI
In fact, the airis coming up from the Sahara.
LN LR N TN its way steadily north,
with the exception perhaps AN e A
here, you will stay in the cooler air
for the next few days.
So, that means first thing on Tuesday morning,
we’re likely to see temperatures
four degrees in Lerwick
but ten or 11 degrees RN RS RG]y
across central and southern parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there’s going to be RGN
some of it quite heavy,
some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the air is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan dust
that might just ORIV T LRSIl 1 d
R IG[EThA a little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things,
17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
Where the cloud and the rain lingers,
we’re only looking out around a maximum of 6-8 Celsius.
But the rain will ease away,
the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
LT RN G
that Wednesday will be the warmest day of the week
LG LRI O [T [0 not out of the question.
A good deal of dry weather YR
as we head towards the Easter weekend.
Whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
Emmanuel Macron is on target to win the first ballot
in the French presidential election, but Marine Le Pen
gains ground at the polls.
Don’t make a mistake, this isn’t
Don’'t make a mistake, this TR E e
Don’'t make a mistake, this R iLE
Don’'t make a mistake, this R a L
Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over. This is decisive
isn’t over. This is decisive e
isn’t over. This is decisive g
isn’t over. This is decisive for our country
isn’t over. This is decisive R R I L)
isn’t over. This is decisive for our country and Europe.
Grim discoveries in Ukraine: RO ERR P R e T
are found in areas around Kyiv that were previously occupied
by Russian troops.
Tens of thousands take R R AR TR e
to protest against the removal of the former Prime Minister,
And Eddie Redmayne wins big R R Y las
at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
With most of the votes T B R Rl e
round of the French presidential election,
Emmanuel Macron will face the far-right leader
Marine Le Pen in a run-off B A R
Results currently show only AN EL R
difference between them, with Mr Macron on just over 27%
and Ms Le Pen on just over 25%.
Our Paris correspondent, Lucy Williamson has the latest.
It’s on, the battle RGN A e
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
The debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days
s decisive for our country and for Europe.
A choice of President Macron or President Le Pen.
LRI ROl R 1 happen on 24 April is not
just a vote about conditions, IR R R e A
A LUES R IEE A ]
Early projections suggest that Emmanuel Macron
LR R TR VT with 28% of voters,
Marine Le Pen’s share of the vote grew to around 23%.
It’s not as close as some I EL GG
but this is where the battle really begins.
Nyl EidcT e
A little bit nervous always,
simply because you don’t know A e R -
And what the French people will want.
Afraid, never.
We have seen lately that U RS GG G
more popular, in part e R e
networks, misinformation is kind of like the plague
of the 21st century.
So, our work Is to try to fight that.
Yes, we are scared because the votes are very
close on the first round, people on the second
round will vote everything but Macron because people
are not satisfied N e e P
Mr Macron only started campaigning a few weeks ago,
too occupied with the war in Ukraine.
More proof for some that he is arrogant and out
of touch, the president of the rich,
despite creating jobs and paying billions
to keep French workers afloat through Covid.
Marine Le Pen has worked hard NS R Gl
and more responsible.
She wants to ban the Muslim headscarf in public and give
priority to French nationals in jobs and housing.
But her campaign has focused DN LR LR
Mr Macron says her programme is racist
and her victory would threaten democracy in France.
He’s always said he’s QRN IR ARl
keep Le Pen from power, IR LI
of President Macron, ORI LA LG
Those who watched the UK Rl e e
and the US vote for Trump.
And are asking themselves what is the solution for
A1 -
This election will hang MBI R R s T
Emmanuel Macron aEeh ANl
And what they’ll do next RO SR R
The unwritten rule that A RN LR
together to block the far right seems to be fraying and the two
visions France has chosen for president show how divided
Lucy Williamson, Sl VT Y
Earlier, | spoke to Keteevan Gorjestani,
France 24’s Washington Correspondent, about how
the election is unfolding.
Well, there is a sense that Emmanuel Macron
is going to have to do actually start campaigning.
There’s a feeling in France that the President sort
O REER TG R R G Russia-Ukraine crisis and it
helped him in the beginning, NN T
as a statesman, but then he sort of stayed on that
statesman level and didn’t really focus on the domestic
campaign, if you will, while Marine Le Pen actually
The question is, how are they going to try
and address these two elements?
Emmanuel Macron is going I RO ke e
to the domestic campaign, try to explain to those
who did not vote for him why they should vote
for Emmanuel Macron and not just stay home or vote
Meanwhile, Marine Le Pen R R R R RGN DL
a little bit more than she has so far the foreign policy
a little bit more than she has so far, the foreign policy
aspect of it.
Emmanuel Macron is likely going to be using some
of her past comments about Vladimir Putin,
about Russia, her proximity to Russia against her,
given the situation LR R T
I want to pick up on all of those points.
But just before, Emmanuel T e R - et el Ts |
in the past for being the leader of Paris,
not France, was see trends turning against globalisation
and America in Europe, something associated
Macron, so what Is it that Marine Le Pen has done to bring
R A
Has she brought in new demographics as well?
She’s, first of all, tamed down some of the nastier,
if you will, aspects of what her party used to be,
especially under her father.
She has really revamped her party as moving away a little
bit from the outright xenophobia, the outright
racism.
She still talks, of course, about being very strict
on immigration, but she has sort of moved away from this
and became more of an economic populist, if you will,
focusing really more on kitchen table issues,
on the economy, rather G EN RO R B Yal] 4]
and France and immigration, things like that that alienate
some people, some working-class people, who maybe agree
with her on the economy, but didn’t really like this
Sl BTN T[] RO ey
So she worked really hard on that to try to change
the vision that people have of her party.
She Is also trying to tame down the question of leaving
W RN R R UGB
She did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time,
she’s not talking about that outright.
So she’s sort of learned from her mistakes and trying
to really grasp that populist wave and focus on the elements
and on the issues that maybe other countries,
other more traditional parties, excuse me,
like Emmanuel Macron’s party, don’t do enough of.
LG EL T LR D] G
of the most interesting aspects of this race, isn’t it?
It’s made it more difficult for the normal traditional
coalition of everybody else to turn against the far right
to join against her in this (T T L R E R R 3|
I P Rl A
Yes, she also got a little bit of help about changing that
image from Eric Zemmour, the other far right candidate,
who made Marine Le Pen look more mainstream,
if you will, because his ideas were so much further
to the right.
He was talking only about immigration, about the values,
the foundations of France, the Christian values,
things like that, about how the problem was with
Islam and France.
So by comparisen, she looked much more focused on economic
issues and less on the traditional far-right themes
that we have seen in past decades.
But Eric Zemmour has called R LA
His voters are likely going to go massively
So she’s going to have to try to grasp maybe part
of the conservative right wing voters that maybe don’t want
Emmanuel Macron and she Is going to have to try
RGN R G RO ELE (S is not Eric Zemmour,
she’s not Emmanuel Macron, that she is a valuable
candidate and they shouldn’t go straight to Emmanuel Macron.
It is quite a close race, as you point out.
Just a final quick question.
As you say, it will be a domestic focus very likely
over the next two weeks, R R A1
implications are huge for everyone watching onto this.
We hear a lot about Marine Le Pen as a sympathiser for Putin,
some accuse her of being such, and this will be the EU’s
biggest crisis since Brexit if she gets elected,
do you think
that is all opposition X NN L DRI U W
scenario that she will take those stances?
Well, she has made it very clear, as | said,
she did sort of tamp down her talk of leaving
the EU, so there’s no MR SRR A e
if you will, but she XS (N A o[
of the European Union.
She wants to leave the military command of Nato.
She 1s close to Russia.
SR GRS praised Vladimir Putin.
So this likely would be a sort of imbalance in this Western
alliance that has been built over the past few years
and especially over the past year, this rebuilding
of the Western alliance with Joe Biden, Emmanuel Macron,
and some of the other European leaders.
And there’s a fear, at least here in Washington,
DC, for example, that having someone like Marine Le Pen
would not only jeopardise the direct France-US relations,
but could further destabilise this very fragile right now
Western alliance against Russia.
They’ve worked very hard to build it.
They managed to get everyone R R R
Ukraine’s President Zelensky says Vladimir Putin has not
1V TN IVs 1T T the entire European project
in his sights.
He was speaking as the EU re-opened its embassy in Kyiv
after Russian forces retreated from the north
The major focus of the fighting is now likely
I CRL R G NI with civilians being evacuated
from the Donbas region.
Prosecutors say
1,200 bodies have now been recovered from areas previously
occupied by Russia around Kyiv.
Those include the village of Andriivka from where our
correspondent Mark Lowen NI e
IR LN e R s g R et
The population of Andriivka is 1,000, more than 40
were Kkilled as the Russians attacked and moved in
LR ER R R EL R G T B R A
as the shroud of war is peeled back, uncovering
Tatiana’s only grandson Anton was taken by the Russians
the day after his 23rd birthday and shot.
So badly mutilated, they identified him from his
clothes, recovering his body after a month and burying him
two days ago.
TRANSLATION: Maybe if he had gone to fight somewhere else,
he would have returned in one piece.
He was a clever boy, he recited poetry.
When my husband told AR O e N s
instead, they pointed their machine gun and said go
home or we will take you both.
This terrorised community will try somehow to return
to peace, but it cannot shut out its agony.
First came the offensive here, then the occupation,
and now the trauma of those returning or simply emerging
to see the destruction, which is immense.
We are now learning that these scenes are repeated
across the shattered country which even when peace returns,
could take a generation R IGE
Leonid Koval and his family are trying, repairing broken
-
and their home, where Russian soldiers stayed.
LU LR IENEN [ VAR
He’s still trying to work out what they stole.
TRANSLATION: | have no words to describe what they did.
| don’t know what they were looking for.
My family had been living here for 15 years but they came
As the Ukrainian army moved In, the Russians came down
to his tiny shelter to hide, feasting on the family’s food
and resting before R e
No place safe from their eccupation.
On the edge of the cemetery, the fresh grave of Tatiana’s
grandson.
He was studying to e N aid« I}
| had two daughters, she told, us and that he was our boy.
| had two daughters, she told, us and then he was our boy.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Andriivka.
The World Bank says it expects R A R e L
by 45% this year as a result of the war with Russia_
The Bank says enormous financial support is needed
immediately to keep QNGOG
and to support the population.
It’s already provided nearly a hillion dollars of assistance
and is promising another $2 billion in the months ahead.
Stay with us on BBC News.
The great and the good TR R R R e
at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
Pol Pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers,
s reported to have died of natural causes.
He and the Khmer Rouge movement he led were responsible
for the deaths of an estimated 1.7 million Cambodians.
There have been violent protests in Indenesia,
where Playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
Traditionalist Muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
The magazine’s offices have TNt E R e
staff have gone into hiding.
It was clear that Paula’s only contest was with the clock,
and as for her sporting legacy, Paula Radcliffe’s competitors
will be chasing her new world best time for years to come.
Quite quietly, but quicker and quicker, she seemed just
to slide away under the surface and disappear.
This is BBC World News.
The main story this hour:
Emmanuel Macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot
of the French presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff
competition from Marine Le Pen in the second round.
Rallies have been held RNl e R TS Ts
to protest against the removal of Imran Khan from his post
as prime minister following TR 0 il (e R e e
in parliament over the weekend.
Tens of thousands of people gathered in Karachi and Lahore,
waving torches and flags in the dark and chanting
in support of Mr Khan.
A long-time rival, Shehbaz Sharif, is expected
to be voted in by parliament R E S SR IR L I E
So, might Imran Khan get elected again?
LNV TV to Shamila Chaudhary.
She is senior fellow N R RGN A ST T d e
and is former director for Pakistan and Afghanistan
at the US National Security Council.
First,
A3
First, | think we
AT R G S RGN L=
AR G S R VR
First, | think we have to put
First, I think we have to put this kind
First, | think we have to put this kind of in the historical
this kind of in the historical ue i1y 4s
this kind of in the historical e A
this kind of in the historical context of Imran Khan’s power.
context of Imran Khan’s power. | mean,
context of Imran Khan’s power. R
context of Imran Khan’s power. LIRS
context of Imran Khan’s power. R R
context of Imran Khan’s power. | mean, he has a lot of power
| mean, he has a lot of power in getting people
| mean, he has a lot of power GG T
| mean, he has a lot of power OGRS R i )
| mean, he has a lot of power in getting people out onto the
in getting people out onto the street
in getting people out onto the R ]
in getting people out onto the R R
in getting people out onto the AR A
in getting people out onto the street and that is what
in getting people out onto the RSN E G AR TR )
in getting people out onto the RN E G AR R I
street and that is what we are XN
street and that is what we are XML E ]
street and that is what we are seeing unfold right now. You
seeing unfold right now. You QA
seeing unfold right now. You G A
seeing unfold right now. You know, he has a very strong base
know, he has a very strong base amongst Pakistani youth and the
amongst Pakistani youth and the ]
amongst Pakistani youth and the working and middle-class, and
working and middle-class, and this anti-American kind of
this anti-American kind of I
this anti-American kind of foreign interference narrative
foreign interference narrative [T Gl
foreign interference narrative N RV
foreign interference narrative resonates really strongly with
resonates really strongly with his
resonates really strongly with RSO 8 ]
resonates really strongly with his constituency because
resonates really strongly with R S GO A DR
his constituency because those Py
his constituency because those R )
his constituency because those C RN )
his constituency because those are the people that have not
are the people that have not T !
are the people that have not benefited from kind of
are the people that have not TN SRR R R
benefited from kind of the western patronage in Pakistan,
western patronage in Pakistan, R )
western patronage in Pakistan, make history. The political
make history. The political AR
make history. The political elite have benefited from that,
elite have benefited from that, right?
elite have benefited from that, Ol A LIE]
elite have benefited from that, right? Imran Khan has benefited
right? Imran Khan has benefited Tee I8t
right? Imran Khan has benefited from using this anti-Western
from using this anti-Western platform and he is able to get
platform and he is able to get TG
platform and he is able to get I CR
platform and he is able to get people out onto the
platform and he is able to get I CR N R G R
people out onto the street. Now, what I’m watching is what
Now, what I’m watching is what s the
Now, what I’m watching is what 3G DL
Now, what I’m watching is what is the message now
Now, what I’m watching is what I3 GRS D AT
Now, what I’m watching is what is the message now that he
Now, what I’m watching is what s the message now that he is
is the message now that he is AN
is the message now that he is LI
is the message now that he is DI
is the message now that he is E DI R
is the message now that he is asking his people to carry? Now
asking his people to carry? Now that he
asking his people to carry? Now el N E
asking his people to carry? Now that he has been
asking his people to carry? Now B LR R
asking his people to carry? Now that he has been voted out
asking his people to carry? Now L LR T R R Tl
that he has been voted out of il X4
that he has been voted out of office? He has already,
office? He has already, clearly, in campaigning mode
clearly, in campaigning mode but
clearly, in campaigning mode )
clearly, in campaigning mode NN
clearly, in campaigning mode but he has to
clearly, in campaigning mode SN EER X T A8
clearly, in campaigning mode but he has to quickly get
but he has to quickly get ORI
but he has to quickly get organised because he represents
organised because he represents A
organised because he represents A
organised because he represents a lot of recent
organised because he represents TR R A e R s
organised because he represents TR R A e R ]
organised because he represents a lot of recent chaos and a lot
a lot of recent chaos and a lot N sl
a lot of recent chaos and a lot of economic mismanagement and
of economic mismanagement and his
of economic mismanagement and SR
of economic mismanagement and SRR
of economic mismanagement and his kind of anti-Western
his kind of anti-Western rhetoric
his kind of anti-Western TS gl s]
his kind of anti-Western T gl e R ]
NG RG EED GV rhetoric on the global
(IR RG =D GV rhetoric on the global stage
rhetoric on the global stage has
rhetoric on the global stage YT R4
rhetoric on the global stage has not been
rhetoric on the global stage R T NR
rhetoric on the global stage IR A N LR A
rhetoric on the global stage has not been received well and
has not been received well and R
has not been received well and |
has not been received well and BT
has not been received well and RGNS
has not been received well and RGN S R
has not been received well and R G R LR )
has not been received well and so, | think he needs to start
so, | think he needs to start I ]
so, | think he needs to start thinking less
so, | think he needs to start QIR I
so, | think he needs to start thinking less about the
thinking less about the NGNS
thinking less about the constituency that he would
constituency that he would serve
constituency that he would X sl
constituency that he would A R
constituency that he would serve and more about
constituency that he would AN LR
constituency that he would A LR N
constituency that he would A LA s A
serve and more about how he Is going to
serve and more about how he Is SRRl
serve and more about how he Is going to win the next election
going to win the next election il
going to win the next election TR N
going to win the next election VLR R i1
going to win the next election if in fact, that is what
going to win the next election LR PR G SR 1 )
if, in fact, that is what he wants, which |
if, in fact, that is what he TR 1 R R ]S
if, in fact, that is what he wants, which | think that’s
wants, which | think that’s vty
wants, which | think that’s e Y
wants, which | think that’s N ARl
wants, which | think that’s Y AR I T L4
wants, which | think that’s what he wants, but at
wants, which | think that’s Y AR El T D e a1
wants, which | think that’s what he wants, but at the same
what he wants, but at the same R
what he wants, but at the same A
what he wants, but at the same ARG
what he wants, but at the same R G
what he wants, but at the same TR RO S R
what he wants, but at the same time, | think he’s not ready to
time, I think he’s not ready to sl
time, I think he’s not ready to s
time, | think he’s not ready to LR A
time, I think he’s not ready to LR G
time, | think he’s not ready to kind of let go is populist
kind of let go is populist rhetoric and his strong man
rhetoric and his strong man Y Ie e AL ]
rhetoric and his strong man Y e i R
rhetoric and his strong man Y e R E )
rhetoric and his strong man Y R i N
rhetoric and his strong man narrative that he is very much
narrative that he is very much bound
narrative that he is very much RG]
narrative that he is very much RN I0id
narrative that he is very much RN TR T
narrative that he is very much bound to but was not something
bound to but was not something that
bound to but was not something R R
bound to but was not something that the political elite and
that the political elite and )
that the political elite and the military establishment were
the military establishment were 3
the military establishment were in favour of, and you know,
in favour of, and you know, those stakeholders are clearly
those stakeholders are clearly going to want
those stakeholders are clearly LR CR T P
those stakeholders are clearly going to want next leader of
going to want next leader of Pakistan to much more moderate
Pakistan to much more moderate and mild in
Pakistan to much more moderate Rl E R
Pakistan to much more moderate and mild in the way that they
and mild in the way that they e
and mild in the way that they I 0
and mild in the way that they I )
and mild in the way that they IR G L
and mild in the way that they talk about the west, the way
talk about the west, the way that
talk about the west, the way GE R
talk about the west, the way that they talk about Pakistan’s
that they talk about Pakistan’s role on
that they talk about Pakistan’s R R
that they talk about Pakistan’s role on the global stage. Imran
role on the global stage. Imran s not
role on the global stage. Imran R
role on the global stage. Imran is not doing that right now so
is not doing that right now so we’re not
is not doing that right now so AT
is not doing that right now so N - A
is not doing that right now so we’re not really of this
we’re not really of this political chaotic moment that
political chaotic moment that he
political chaotic moment that L
political chaotic moment that PN - A Iy
political chaotic moment that he himself has kind of
political chaotic moment that TN I A LR R AR e
he himself has kind of started and fuelled, so, you know,
G R (VT NS PR TV G T e
G R (VT NS PR TV G T there’s a
and fuelled, so, you know, RN
and fuelled, so, you know, R R
and fuelled, so, you know, there’s a lot more to happen
and fuelled, so, you know, there’s a lot more to happen in
there’s a lot more to happen in )
there’s a lot more to happen in Ny
there’s a lot more to happen in R AR
there’s a lot more to happen in the next few days and | will be
the next few days and | will be watching all
the next few days and | will be N T (R T
the next few days and | will be watching all of those dynamics
watching all of those dynamics closely.
watching all of those dynamics o (T R T
watching all of those dynamics closely. The constituency that
closely. The constituency that you mentioned, the powerful
you mentioned, the powerful G
you mentioned, the powerful IO
you mentioned, the powerful EI L R UG T
you mentioned, the powerful army and intelligence services,
army and intelligence services, many said
army and intelligence services, AT R
army and intelligence services, many said were responsible for
many said were responsible for his
many said were responsible for R
many said were responsible for R AR
many said were responsible for R IR - il e
many said were responsible for his rise in the first place. Is
his rise in the first place. Is that actually the reason why he
that actually the reason why he T
that actually the reason why he has fallen from
that actually the reason why he has fallen frem power? Did
that actually the reason why he has fallen from power? Did he
has fallen from power? Did he T
has fallen from power? Did he E e
has fallen from power? Did he fall out with them?
has fallen from power? Did he EUEN R R i kA |
has fallen from power? Did he IR R kA R4
has fallen from power? Did he EUEN R GG ARG €
fall out with them? | think the ulltiZlsY
fall out with them? | think the [l EIsA E
fall out with them? | think the e =NV
fall out with them? | think the LGS A SV A R
fall out with them? | think the LGS NV A R
fall out with them? I think the S A N LU R S
military has always been a very dominant
military has always been a very st B )
military has always been a very dominant force in
military has always been a very i Rt IR IRk
dominant force in Pakistani e fidfed
dominant force in Pakistani (IR
dominant force in Pakistani politics --so dominant that
politics --so dominant that they
politics --so dominant that QAN
politics --so dominant that they have left -- hosted coups
they have left -- hosted coups and
they have left -- hosted coups N e e g e
they have left -- hosted coups and overthrown governments. In
and overthrown governments. In Iy
and overthrown governments. In N
and overthrown governments. In case of Imran Khan, it was more
case of Imran Khan, it was more e el
case of Imran Khan, it was more nuanced. They
IR R RN Gl R E R [ nuanced. They were
case of Imran Khan, it was more nuanced. They were instrumental
nuanced. They were instrumental in
nuanced. They were instrumental IR Lb]
nuanced. They were instrumental in creating a political
in creating a political Sl Talat - Te 1
in creating a political environment in
in creating a political Sl e et e e sl les
in creating a political environment in which Imran Khan
environment in which Imran Khan could
environment in which Imran Khan o T s a)
environment in which Imran Khan could thrive and |
environment in which Imran Khan IR B Rl 4
environment in which Imran Khan could thrive and | think they
could thrive and I think they got more
could thrive and | think they got more than they
could thrive and I think they got more than they bargained
got more than they bargained e
got more than they bargained for with
got more than they bargained TR
got more than they bargained for with Imran’s populist
for with Imran’s populist [T e e
for with Imran’s populist [T e la [ a s ]
for with Imran’s populist rhetoric and strong man style
rhetoric and strong man style of
rhetoric and strong man style R Gl
rhetoric and strong man style of politics. The
rhetoric and strong man style G R L R T
rhetoric and strong man style of politics. The military is
of politics. The military is still very traditional,
still very traditional, pro-Western institution. Se, in
pro-Western institution. So, In that regard,
pro-Western institution. Se, in G EY R COEL AR
pro-Western institution. Se, in that regard, you know, run did
that regard, you know, run did T
that regard, you know, run did E e
that regard, you know, run did IR
that regard, you know, run did fall out of favour
that regard, you know, run did EUEN R R Tids]
that regard, you know, run did fall out of favour with them
fall out of favour with them g
fall out of favour with them SR
fall out of favour with them over time. And by exerting
over time. And by exerting himself and his understanding
himself and his understanding and sense
himself and his understanding IRBE N
himself and his understanding and sense of what a
himself and his understanding R N N A W Rl IE]
and sense of what a civilian YL e
and sense of what a civilian leader could
and sense of what a civilian s TR
and sense of what a civilian leader could be in Pakistan
leader could be in Pakistan and.
leader could be in Pakistan IR
leader could be in Pakistan and. The military
leader could be in Pakistan AR L Rl =1s A
leader could be in Pakistan and. The military is dependent
and. The military is dependent )
and. The military is dependent upen American military
upon American military I
upon American military UL
upon American military equipment and weapons and arms,
equipment and weapons and arms, as we’ve
equipment and weapons and arms, LR R
equipment and weapons and arms, as we’ve seen over
equipment and weapons and arms, IR R R N )
equipment and weapons and arms, IR A R RN R U R L e
as we’ve seen over the past e
as we’ve seen over the past several decades, and all of it
several decades, and all of it 3
several decades, and all of it R
several decades, and all of it is very much
several decades, and all of it R AU ]
several decades, and all of it is very much a statement right
s very much a statement right N
s very much a statement right T I Y
s very much a statement right now, it’s threatened,
s very much a statement right N SR G -E U AL )
s very much a statement right N SR E U AL DR )
now, it’s threatened, and the IR
now, it’s threatened, and the Pakistani military cannot
Pakistani military cannot [
Pakistani military cannot SRl
Pakistani military cannot compete in the region, it
compete in the region, it a0 8
compete in the region, it cannot compete with its number
cannot compete with its number )
cannot compete with its number R El
cannot compete with its number one rival India if it does not
one rival India if it does not Ty
one rival India if it does not have at
one rival India if it does not N Al
one rival India if it does not have at least a better,
have at least a better, R
have at least a better, repaired relationship with the
repaired relationship with the 13
repaired relationship with the IR Ms1sY
repaired relationship with the IS e L
US security establishment. IR
US security establishment. Imran Khan has threatened all
Imran Khan has threatened all of that
Imran Khan has threatened all SRR
Imran Khan has threatened all SR GRS
Imran Khan has threatened all AU EIE NN ]
Imran Khan has threatened all AN EIR NN R atle s Cialels]
of that so it’s a combination of
of that so it’s a combination SRy
of that so it’s a combination SR GG
of that so it’s a combination R e s a3 a
of the internal domestic e fidfed
of the internal domestic ]
of the internal domestic L LRI
of the internal domestic politics and Imran’s kind of
politics and Imran’s kind of reach into
politics and Imran’s kind of Y e B e R
politics and Imran’s kind of R RO Rulti#ls%
politics and Imran’s kind of reach into the military space
reach into the military space and wanting to document
and wanting to document CROSSTALK. Also
and wanting to document WIS
and wanting to document CROSSTALK. Also the military’s
CROSSTALK. Also the military’s SELINLT]
CROSSTALK. Also the military’s relationship with the United
relationship with the United States. The
relationship with the United ST
relationship with the United States. The reach you mentioned
States. The reach you mentioned with
States. The reach you mentioned R )
States. The reach you menticned with the military, it’s an
with the military, it’s an NG
with the military, it’s an interesting contrast
with the military, it’s an G R A
with the military, it’s an NG RIS R ORI L kY
interesting contrast to Shehbaz hElA
interesting contrast to Shehbaz iEI ARG
interesting contrast to Shehbaz Sharif, the person expected to
Sharif, the person expected to 1y
Sharif, the person expected to be made
Sharif, the person expected to L)
Sharif, the person expected to el RN el
Sharif, the person expected to be made the Prime Minister in
be made the Prime Minister in )
be made the Prime Minister in Ny
be made the Prime Minister in R AR
be made the Prime Minister in the next few hours, always seem
the next few hours, always seem to
the next few hours, always seem R
the next few hours, always seem to be playing good cop against
to be playing good cop against his
to be playing good cop against YRR as 18
to be playing good cop against his brother know
to be playing good cop against R S A A
to be playing good cop against his brother know was Sharif who
his brother know was Sharif who a0 8
his brother know was Sharif who s
his brother know was Sharif who ARl
his brother know was Sharif who AR R
his brother know was Sharif who A R
his brother know was Sharif who AR R
his brother know was Sharif who NI R A ]
cannot lead now that he is in exile
cannot lead now that he is in )
cannot lead now that he is Iin AR
cannot lead now that he is Iin exile in the UK, having
cannot lead now that he is in exile in the UK, having served
exile in the UK, having served this
exile in the UK, having served ORI I
exile in the UK, having served this corruption, prison
this corruption, prison 0w
this corruption, prison sentences so
this corruption, prison A RN ]
this corruption, prison ST RL R LR ]
this corruption, prison sentences so do you think
sentences so do you think i Er4
sentences so do you think Shehbaz Sharif
sentences so do you think L A Rl Al
sentences so do you think Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed
Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed by the military
Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed RGNS L]
Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed RGN EI LRI
Shehbaz Sharif will be welcomed RGN EI LR
by the military and will he have long-term prospects in
have long-term prospects in % Ts ]
have long-term prospects in T REh e
have long-term prospects in Pakistan -- Nawaz Sharif.
Pakistan -- Nawaz Sharif. Shehbaz
Pakistan -- Nawaz Sharif. i Er A Elai i
Pakistan -- Nawaz Sharif. i AL eI Ay
Pakistan -- Nawaz Sharif. Shehbaz Sharif is a seasoned
Shehbaz Sharif is a seasoned Lt TIa I ag: e g
Shehbaz Sharif is a seasoned administrator and has a
Shehbaz Sharif is a seasoned administrater and has a lot
Shehbaz Sharif is a seasoned administratoer and has a lot of
administrator and has a lot of experience
administrator and has a lot of IR LI
administrator and has a lot of experience running the ovens of
experience running the ovens of Punjab and being a party leader
Punjab and being a party leader and |
Punjab and being a party leader LR )
Punjab and being a party leader IR R e
Punjab and being a party leader IR R L
Punjab and being a party leader and | also think it’s easy for
and | also think it’s easy for any Punjab -based politician to
any Punjab -based politician to have
any Punjab -based politician to V1]
any Punjab -based politician to L
any Punjab -based politician to have an easier relationship
have an easier relationship with
have an easier relationship R )
have an easier relationship TG RG N LR Eh
have an easier relationship with the Pakistani military,
with the Pakistani military, el
with the Pakistani military, which is dominated
with the Pakistani military, T MR Tl )
with the Pakistani military, which is dominated by ethnic
which is dominated by ethnic Punjabi soldiers and military
Punjabi soldiers and military officials, so there is a little
officials, so there is a little ia
officials, so there is a little e
officials, so there is a little B e N
officials, so there is a little bit more of a
officials, so there is a little AR R Ol
officials, so there is a little bit more of a natural, organic
bit more of a natural, organic relationship
bit more of a natural, organic G RO
bit more of a natural, organic relationship there. | think
relationship there. I think where
relationship there. | think YN
relationship there. | think where it is going to get
where it is going to get )
where it is going to get complicated is Sharif will
complicated is Sharif will likely
complicated is Sharif will LCGATZL
complicated is Sharif will likely want to have an opening
likely want to have an opening with India fairly soon and
with India fairly soon and iy
with India fairly soon and R - R IR e
with India fairly soon and while the Pakistani military
while the Pakistani military would
while the Pakistani military R
while the Pakistani military would like to
while the Pakistani military would Llike to restart
while the Pakistani military BRI CR O R AR Y
would like to restart those e A e
would like to restart those conversations with
would like to restart those e e R R Y
would like to restart those conversations with the Indians,
conversations with the Indians, |
conversations with the Indians, Ko e
conversations with the Indians, | think they
conversations with the Indians, RO S G AL L]
conversations with the Indians, RIS G AR
conversations with the Indians, | think they would prefer to
I think they would prefer to )
I think they would prefer to 2N
| think they would prefer to take it slowly and at their own
take it slowly and at their own Fle
take it slowly and at their own pace and
take it slowly and at their own (EICREN Il
take it slowly and at their own EICR L LR L
take it slowly and at their own pace and Sharif will probably
pace and Sharif will probably e
pace and Sharif will probably want to
pace and Sharif will probably T R ]
pace and Sharif will probably want to move a little bit
want to move a little bit ERe
want to move a little bit EIe a]
want to move a little bit faster on reopening, say,
faster on reopening, say, Yo s a1l
faster on reopening, say, economic and trade
faster on reopening, say, Yt R R
faster on reopening, say, economic and trade ties. Punjab
economic and trade ties. Punjab stands
economic and trade ties. Punjab AT R
economic and trade ties. Punjab stands to benefit
economic and trade ties. Punjab REN RN i ige a1
stands to benefit from normalisation
stands to benefit from T et i A R 2
stands to benefit from normalisation of relatienships
normalisation of relationships with
normalisation of relatienships with India
normalisation of relatienships T BN IER
normalisation of relatienships with India so this is obviously
with India so this is obviously GG
with India so this is obviously something to
with India so this is obviously I G R CRCY)
with India so this is obviously something to keep in mind.
something to keep in mind. Shamila Chaudhary from
something to keep in mind. Shamila Chaudhary frem the
something to keep in mind. Shamila Chaudhary from the New
Shamila Chaudhary from the New America think tank.
Theatre luvvies gathered in (R R R U R I E I
which honour people who work both on and off stage.
Cabaret at the Kit Kat Club starring Eddie Redmayne
was the big winner on the night, as Claudia
Redmond reports.
The curtain was raised at the glitzy Olivier Awards
on Sunday at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
Cabaret act the Kit Kat Club was the biggest winner
of the night, taking seven IR UG TG}
trophies for Eddie Redmayne and Irish actress Jessie
I Y2
IR G R R G R )
This was the part | played when | was a kid at school.
It was the thing that got my passion for theatre
really fuelled,
and getting to do it every night with that extraordinary
..was dumbfounding.
It’s such a huge, huge privilege to be part of this
community, which | consider my family.
Thank you for welcoming me in all those years ago,
and this is just so lovely!
How about we hear another one?
Soemething that cooks!
Soemething that cooks?
LAl d
Best New Musical went to Back to the Future,
based on the 1980s cult film which followed
the time-travelling capers of Michael ] Fox as Marty
uled ly.
And in the dance world, young up-and-coming choreographer
Arielle Smith stepped up to receive the Outstanding
Achievement in Dance category for her work on Jolly Folly
with the English National Ballet.
The winners of the Olivier Awards, overseen by the Society
of London Theatre, are chosen by a team of industry figures,
stage luminaries and theatre-loving members
of the public.
It is hoped that following so many setbhacks with Covid
restrictions over the past R U R O R R 1]
finally go on.
Claudia Redmond, BBC News.
Another big winter report.
-- Another big win to report.
The world number one ranked American golfer
Scottie Scheffler overcame R R R R ]
Northern Ireland’s Rory Mcllroy to secure victory at
Scheffler saw his overnight LGN DR U I E A1
to just one stroke during a thrilling final day
at the Augusta National course, only to pull clear
of the chasing pack and register a fourth win
in his last six starts.
You can reach me on Twitter.
[LiE1L @0
Il @ TR
Thank you so much for joining
Thank you so much for jeining us. Goodbye.
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around first thing on Sunday,
but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday morning -
Now, all change and IS R R L
because of this area R GYT I
that’s throwing cloud right across the country
and that is acting like a blanket,
NN T o] those temperatures
from falling too far.
It will be a frost-free start to Monday morning
with temperatures more likely
about four, five, six degrees E ORIV
So, a difference to the feel ARG
and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
The winds are going RS G
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain
through Wales, Northern Ireland,
North West England as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well,
either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction,
widely gusting RS R ORI LN
But sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine
and with the wind direction now coming from the south,
that means it will be a little bit warmer -
17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday
and we can trail that weather front
all the way back SR G EI
In fact, the airis coming up from the Sahara.
LN LR N TN its way steadily north,
with the exception perhaps AN e A
here, you will stay in the cooler air
for the next few days.
So, that means first thing on Tuesday morning,
we’re likely to see temperatures
four degrees in Lerwick
but ten or 11 degrees RN RS RG]y
across central and southern parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there’s going to be RGN
some of it quite heavy,
some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the air is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan dust
that might just ORIV T LRSIl 1 d
R IG[EThA a little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things,
17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
Where the cloud and the rain lingers,
we’re only looking out around a maximum of 6-8 Celsius.
But the rain will ease away,
the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
LT RN G
that Wednesday will be the warmest day of the week
LG LRI O [T [0 not out of the question.
A good deal of dry weather YR
as we head towards the Easter weekend.
Whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
Emmanuel Macron is ahead in the polls in the first
round of the French presidential election,
but his far-right rival, Marine Le Pen, has gained
LTI TsH
The next round will take [ EIC R R R R S
More than 1200 bodies have been found in areas around
SR U IR R UL by Putin’s troops and more
Russian attacks have been reported in the south
of the country.
And Ukraine’s military says ten people, including children,
have been killed in Russian shelling
region, as Moscow intensifies ARG ee
Tens of thousands of protesters N R eI R R R
of Pakistan to protest against Imran Khan being
removed as prime minister, following a no-confidence vote
in parliament over the weekend.
Mr Khan has been blamed RGN R (T o[ e
ueple )
Now on BBC News, it’s HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and Kyiv’s defiant response
will have a long-term impact on geopolitics far
beyond Europe’s eastern flank.
The West insists Putin must fail, but this century’s rising
power, China, offers Mr Putin friendship without limits.
Could the Ukrainian invasion foreshadow an effort by Beijing
to eliminate the thorn in its side - namely,
Taiwan?
Well, my guest is Taipel representative to the EU,
Ming-yen Tsal.
Could what starts in Ukraine end in Taiwan?
Ming-yen Tsai in Brussels, welcome to HARDtalk.
It’s my pleasure to be here with you.
It’s pleasure to have TR RO R A
You, of course, sit there in Brussels, you are
the representative of Taipei, as it’s put,
to the European Union.
| just wonder, from your position, what impact has
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine had on your homeland?
Yes, | think our global I LA E LG T
the situation in Ukraine closely and we believe that
impact of the Ukraine situation will be far-reaching
and global-reaching, R G Rl LI e ]s
that we need to keep watching will be about the geopolitical
phase, and Europe may turn out with a new map,
so this Is a wake-up call to our global community
because it shows how easily a0 IS e R e e e[ R R
force to challenge liberal-based order
and international borders, so it’s very important
for our democratic community to hold a line and then raise
for the cost of Russia’s invasion, otherwise some other
authoritarian countries around the world, such as China,
may copy that type of model, and do the same thing
to its neighbourhood.
Let me stop you there.
You do feel, do you, that something has happened
with that invasion of Ukraine which has repercussions
LTINS LI RLGE in particular you see it
as some sort of values trial where the rule of law,
international law and democracy IR R )
In 8 much broader sense ?
Yes, that’s correct.
Because, | think, this time, Russia is using its military
muscle to challenge AT Ia e aa e ls e 1o TeTgs[-1s
and in our region, China has very strong intentions
to challenge the liberal-based order, so we are concerned that
China will copy that kind of model and follow Russia’s
steps to do the same thing to the neighbourhood
and, in the past few years, actually, China has intensified
its military activity in the vicinity of Taiwan
and China keeps sending its military aircraft
to intrude into the air defence demarcation zone of Taiwan
by showing its military muscles.
We will get to the military situation on the ground
and in the Taiwan Straits in just a moment, but just
to stick with your notion of this being about international
rules, the international order, I R R S R )
saying is that there is some direct parallel between Russia
and Ukraine, and then China and Taiwan but,
O o T S 4 -1 is one fundamental
difference, isn’t there?
The international community recognises, and has long
recognised, the sovereignty of Ukraine as an independent
The international community does not recognise Taiwan’s
status as an independent iR -]
Indeed, the vast majority of countries arocund the world
adhere to the One China policy and the notion that your status
is far short, in Taiwan, of being an independent nation.
Yes, you are right, but more and more countries around
the world, they are starting to look at Taiwan from
the perspective of One China policy, as you just mentioned,
but One China policy has some differences compared to China’s
proposal for the One China principal because One China
policy recognises that the People’s Republic
s the only legal government in China but does not
recognise that Taiwan is part of the People’s Republic,
so we hope we can continue to use that kind of persistence
to deepen Taiwan’s partnership and substantive cooperation
with our friends around the world.
If you think the international order and international rules
are at stake, how disappointed were you that when it came
to that crucial early vote at the United Nations,
demanding a withdrawal of Russian forces
from all Ukrainian territory, some of the biggest,
most influential countries in the world chose to abstain -
and I’m not thinking just of China itself, but India,
L EHAR G W K
If you in Taiwan want to convince yourselves
that the international community does respect rules
and does value democracy, maybe that vote was a bit
of a disappointment?
Yes, | understand your concerns, but | think
what we are now witnessing is a kind of competition
between two different groups.
One is democracy and QRO AR a9
and after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the competition
between these two groups SR el B Tes)]
a new high in the future, IR A R e e e g T
is that Russia and China has announced that they will deepen
QI T [ o LT e N 1o G EE RO EU R
as you mentioned earlier, they say
their partnership will have no boundaries, will have no
limits, so that is something that we witness on the side
of the autocracy, and MR O EI
So, if that coencerns you, you see the strength and depth
of the friendship between N EEEL R I
you believe that what has happened in the last 1.5 months
has made more likely a Chinese military intervention
in your homeland, in Taiwan?
Yes, actually, we are in a state of high alert,
based on China’s military activity around Taiwan.
And in the first day of Russia’s invasion,
China sent about ten sorties of military aircraft to intrude
into Taiwan’’s aerial zone, IR R A IR 2] (g
the situation, and what we are concerned is that China
BRI RER TN &l Vel to Taiwan and the purpose
is to use military intimidation against the Taiwan’s people
and Taiwan’s government, to say that China has never
abandoned its military option against Taiwan
and will use its military control in the Taiwan Strait
to get used to the battlefield in the Taiwan Strait.
| hear what you are saying, and there is no doubt that
iIf one looks at the number of sorties flown by the Chinese
air force over Taiwan’’s airspace, if one looks
at the naval activity in the Taiwan Straits,
there is something going on, RN R U R R A
| quess, that the focus of international attention
s very much on Ukraine right now, which Beijing may well
L5
One US Congressman put it LGRS S G LRI GEEE)VA
Mike Gallagher, a Republican, LRI (RS R G
"evidence suggests that we are, right now, in the window
"of maximum danger for Taiwan".
Is that the way that you see it?
Yes, | think this time, we need to hold a spirit
of solidarity and unity to support Ukraine,
and then raise the cost RN N
and | believe China is watching the situation closely
because there will be two major concerns from the Chinese side.
Number one is how likely NI ERE R R U PRGN
without too much price.
Number two, Is what the economic impact will be
of global sanctions against Russia?
If Russia can conquer Ukraine and achieve its political
and military objective without paying too much price,
then China may follow those steps.
And If Russia has to pay a lot for the invasion,
then China has to think twice TR U R s
Iyl eyl et a1 year for China.
Council Party will organise its 20th National Congress,
in which Xi Jinping is going U NIRRT
for another five years, maybe for the entire rest
of his life, so | believe Xi Jinping will be very
cautious to do the calculation before waging a war
in the theatre of the Taiwan Strait against Taiwan.
Yes, well, Xi Jinping may well be cautious if he believes
Gr1 Taiwan can put up as fierce
and effective resistance
to the might of the Chinese LG S I E R L )
put up in the face of the might of the Russian military,
RGN T R R ITR | may say so, as a representative
of your country, is do you believe, honestly,
that Taiwan is in a position right now to match Ukraine
and put up that level of effective military resistance?
Yes, | think we have been investing so many resources
to improve our defence capacity and Taiwan does not
want to enter into a kind of arms race with China,
which is not in Taiwan’s T A - N R R e e
bigger than Taiwan in terms of military resources
and manpower, so what we want to do is to improve our defence
capacity, particularly focus on the promotion of Taiwan’s
capacity to do asymmetric warfare against China’s
potential invasion against Taiwan, and a lot of focus goes
IR G RN TG TR of the Taiwanese submarine
force, missile force, air defence system,
and our facilities, so we will continue to build
Taiwan into a strong and agile military force to push China
to think twice before LR CLR LS
One aspect of Ukraine’s resistance which has been very
striking is the degree R AR U E ST 18 7
from leadership - President Zelensky very
effectively leading his nation - to the degree to which all
Ukrainians have united in their defiance and their common
cause against Russia.
Do you think there is that same B EELI S O
quality of leadership in Taiwan?
Yes, | think when we talk about the situation in Taiwan,
one thing | want to share with you is that Taiwan
s democracy.
We don’t want to become part G = R R
particularly after Hong Kong’s situation.
No-one in Taiwan has any N ARG EER T L]
for One Country, Two Systems, so if China decides to move
towards military adventurism in the Taiwan Strait,
Taiwan will take any sorts of efforts to safequard our
democracy and our sovereignty.
The endeavour taken RGN R I
and the government, that is how to build a very resilient
civilian society against foreign invasion, and one that
has become a very hot issue in Taiwan at the moment -
that is how to build a very strong system
to mobilise our reserve forces and to promote the connection
between our civilian society and our defence department,
so that has become a very important issue
in the parliament’s debate in Taiwan at this point.
That’s very interesting.
How worried are you by the leverage that nuclear
weapons gives China, just as we can see in a certain
sense, the leverage it has given Vladimir Putin,
because when Nato has shied away from any talk of imposing
a no-fly zone or indeed sending jet fighters to the Ukrainian
military, they have cited the danger of escalation,
danger of escalating MO R
with a nuclear power which appears to be ready
at some point to use nuclear weapons as part
of its battlefield strategy?
The very same could be said of China, and that gives China
a leverage which may come back to haunt Taiwan.
Yes, | think there might be many military options
in the hands of Chinese leaders,
but what Taiwan can do is prepare for all of
those worst scenarios in our best way.
How can you prepare for a scenario in which you don’t
have nukes and China does, and the whole world knows that?
Because | think when R R R LR El
we can, you know, mobilise all kinds of policies,
rescurces and tools.
| personally would like to share with you a very good
idea, proposed by our American colleagues, which idea
is called ‘integrated deterrence’, which means that
with democratic countries, we can take some collective
efforts together and then, to make use of all kinds
of policy resources or policy instruments
to raise the cost for those countries or those region’s
powers that intends to challenge the world-based
O ETEERRRGC G R EL s e
If we can do so, then we will be able to push China
to think twice before going too far, so that’s the,
you know, object of deterrence.
We have talked about different aspects of the military
strategizing, let’s now talk about economics and leverage.
Again, what we have seen in Russia is the West
pretty united in imposing sanctions, but there have been
limits because of the reliance of Europe
In particular on Russian gas.
The difficulties are even R IR R 1
to assessing leverage in any future potential conflicts
involving China and Taiwan N RGN R R e e
into the world economy, so powerful in the world
SISYLIULT) particularly in Europe.
You see it as the representative of Taipe
in the European Union.
You know how just reliant Germany, for example,
is on trade with China - to the tune of some 200 billion
euros d yedr.
You know that China’s Belt R RGN Rl
into Hungary, Italy, Greece, a host of European Union member
China has effectively ensured that the world can’t afford
Yes, | think, | mean, compared to Russia, China
s @ much bigger economic power in the international arena
and we may also need AN RO R
from a different angle.
That is Taiwan is also a powerhouse to semiconductors
and ICT products.
If we just look at QT R QR
Taiwan accounts for about 92% of the global production,
so-called ‘defence’ chips, which is under the 10mm. ..
I know very well from A R A Y g
that the Taiwanese dominance of the semiconductor chip
market is extraordinary.
You have the power, whether it be from Apple iPhones
to all of the computerisation T I IR E
the power to shut down vast swathes of electronic industry
Are you telling me you IR A S L RO
that sort of power to become, if you like, a semiconductor
superpower in the world?
I’m saying that if China invades Taiwan, they will cause
a lot of problems with the shortage of Taiwan supplies
of those semiconductors or ICT products, in which China
would suffer badly.
So, what | am talking about, Taiwan also has some
leverage in our hands and the most important
thing is that we need to, as | mentioned earlier,
we need to show that kind of solidarity
between our like-minded friends of the democratic society,
to lead those potential invaders to understand the cost
would be very high if they go too far.
Some Taiwanese have even gone so far to talk
of a ‘silicon shield’ that protects Taiwan in reality
from Chinese aggression.
Do you really believe that?
Yes, | think after the Russian IR A T
it would be very important for our global community,
particularly our democratic o1 PR R L Lo L A
to reshape supply chain security for many items
such as energy, food, Xt e s s Plnne e e e )]s
key industry sectors.
Without doing so, I’m afraid, the question that you mentioned
earlier, if we just depend GG FICC ARG R Y
increase China’s leverage and make China become more
confident IR R ST
its political objectives NEG R
I’m fascinated by what you’re saying and the quiet way
R BV Rl [Tadly o} Taiwanese power, but let’s be
real and again, let’s look at Brussels, where you sit.
One country in the European Union, Lithuania, has gone much
further than their EU fellow members and they’ve actually
allowed Taiwan to open IR il B RGN
of Taiwan in their country - R R - -
an embassy of Taiwan.
China has been infuriated R GEI N I N -
GEIR N LR IR ) Lithuania, has tried to isolate
Lithuania, and Lithuania s paying a price and,
indeed, is so upset that it’s LRIl A O T =¥
measures at the WTO but, surely, the message of that
spat between giant China atiny nd Lithuania is that many
Europeans are going to think very hard before they confront
China in that way?
We understand your concerns, and Lithuania is a very brave
country that always withstands that kind of suppression
or pressure from foreign hostile states, and this time,
Lithuania decided to deepen cooperation with Taiwan
and immediately suffered economic coercion from
the economy side.
But because this time, China went further
to impose secondary sanctions against Lithuania,
which is to push European countries or European companies
not to use the components or spare parts from Lithuania,
otherwise they cannot sell their products to China.
This kind of actien not only does damage to Lithuania’s
economic situation but also jeopardises the EU’s important
sl alo R RN U] market integration,
and by that reason might be in the process of suffering
wnelatlatliolne - lanlsaRist it RM: i GE
Lithuania also receives very SN DT G R0]e o1 d
from the European Commission and European Council
and for that reason you just mentioned,
the EU would like to submit the Lithuania case to the WTO
for further consultation in support of Lithuania.
So, what | am saying is that we will continue
G L IV o T Te LT L [y with the European Commission
because Taiwan has been TG R iR e e e A a1l
community, so we treasure that kind of cooperation program
between Taiwan and the DRI R
European Union has been R AL I E N U G
power in the world, S0 We use our cooperation
with European Union R RN R R G
important issues, like we share common concerns.
That is your job as the diplomatic representative
of Taipel to the EU, that is your job, but you also
come with a lot of experience in the National Security
W (LRG| LS LN T el A 1
in Taiwan, so I’m going to tap that experience to ask
GG o[ T R I about your most important
relationship, and that is with the United States.
Are you concerned that Joe Biden - well, to put it
bluntly- is a little e s |
about how far he Is prepared to go in defence of Taiwan?
Because last year, he made some statements about defending
Taiwan and then had el i
Confusion doesn’t help you, does it?
Actually, | mean, the United States and Taiwan
are long-term friends and partners
in the Indo-Pacific region and in the past five-plus
years, United States has announced, if |
remember it correctly, about 15 packages of arms deals
(R EIET R R el g NAER LR
RGTATAGEI TR TR T e 1118 getting weapons, but I’m coming
to this point about Biden, what he said last year
when he said "Anyone taking action, invading
"against our Nato allies, we would respond”, and then
he went on to say, "It’s the same with Japan,
"It’s the same with South Korea,
"It’s the same with Taiwan," and then people reminded him it
wasn’t quite the same with Taiwan and the US
has a policy of ‘strategic ambiguity’ rather than
a full-fledged defence pact, and Joe Biden’s White House had
to backtrack, and I’m just NG R I G YR Bl
confusion worries you?
Not really.
Actually, what we sense in Taiwan that the US
commitment to Taiwan’s security is becoming clearer than ever
CL R QR DT A AR E I o]
of Ukraine, the United States immediately sent naval vessels
to patrol in the waters NAER RS L
sent a very high-ranking delegation, led by the Chief
Commander of General Staff, Rl R IR w4182
commitment to Taiwan’s security, the security
in the Taiwan Strait.
Right
So we treasure that kind of commitment issued
by the US government.
Last question.
You said that this year XTI AR TP SR ILTIIL]
VLR R G LG Gk [ would launch a military
operation in Taiwan this year.
Let’s look ahead for the next R RN A G 8
try to learn the lessons of Russia-Ukraine.
Do you think within the next five years that your homeland,
Taiwan, will face a major military attack from China?
Yes.
That is one thing that we are - we always stay on very high
alert, and that is Y AR A
earlier in our conversation, saying that we would prepare
for the worst scenario RGN A L AU U G
way possible, to deal with all kinds of scenarios
that may turn out in the theatre of the Taiwan
Strait, and the number one thing that we would like to do
R R RN R [ 3 NN IR G IR A
But your message to your domestic population is that
"War is coming,” Is It?
Yes, we need to prepare for the war.
We cannot predict when or how it will happen, but what we can
do Is to prepare for R e I R E T
LRGN &5 possible, and that
RN RN ] communication between
QGG T LR T G ]S people, and also a kind
of communication between Taiwan R a1
community - particularly our
friends from our et o e
All right, well, Ming-yen Tsali, | thank you very much indeed
LT Ry from Brussels, thank you.
111918
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around first thing on Sunday,
but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday morning -
Now, all change and IS R R L
because of this area R GYT I
that’s throwing cloud right across the country
and that is acting like a blanket,
NN T o] those temperatures
from falling too far.
It will be a frost-free start to Monday morning
with temperatures more likely
about four, five, six degrees E ORIV
So, a difference to the feel ARG
and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
The winds are going RS G
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain
through Wales, Northern Ireland,
North West England as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well,
either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction,
widely gusting RS R ORI LN
But sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine
and with the wind direction now coming from the south,
that means it will be a little bit warmer -
17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday
and we can trail that weather front
all the way back SR G EI
In fact, the airis coming up from the Sahara.
LN LR N TN its way steadily north,
with the exception perhaps AN e A
here, you will stay in the cooler air
for the next few days.
So, that means first thing on Tuesday morning,
we’re likely to see temperatures
four degrees in Lerwick
but ten or 11 degrees RN RS RG]y
across central and southern parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there’s going to be RGN
some of it quite heavy,
some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the air is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan dust
that might just ORIV T LRSIl 1 d
R IG[EThA a little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things,
17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
Where the cloud and the rain lingers,
we’re only looking out around a maximum of 6-8 Celsius.
But the rain will ease away,
the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
LT RN G
that Wednesday will be the warmest day of the week
LG LRI O [T [0 not out of the question.
A good deal of dry weather YR
as we head towards the Easter weekend.
Whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
-
I’m Sally Bundock with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
Emmanuel Macron has R R e
in the French presidential election, but Marine Le Pen
gains ground at the polls.
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
The debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days
s decisive for our country and for Europe.
as Ukraine prepares for a Russian taken East the
Russian taken East the president tells
Russian taken East the JEAL R G LR
Russian taken East the JEAL R G LR
Russian taken East the JCEAP NG IR EER
president tells CBS he is N EIC
president tells CBS he is prepared to give his life was
prepared to give his life was Cis’A
prepared to give his life was I ig" A
prepared to give his life was country. | don’t want to make
country. I don’t want to make AN
country. I don’t want to make VR
country. I don’t want to make myself out to
country. | don’t want to make myself out to be a hero. | love
myself out to be a hero. I love 1)
myself out to be a hero. I love my family,
myself out to be a hero. I love WAEIA
myself out to be a hero. | love my family, | want to live many
my family, | want to live many )
my family, | want to live many N IR
my family, | want to live many more years. But choosing from
more years. But choosing from OLLiin
more years. But choosing from OGRS
more years. But choosing from ORI NG|
more years. But choosing from running or being with my
running or being with my N
running or being with my people, of course I’m ready to
people, of course I’m ready to WG
people, of course I’m ready to WG
people, of course I’m ready to give my life for my
people, of course I’m ready to AU R I AT A
Tens of thousands take R R AR TR e
as former Prime Minister, Imran Khan is custed
from office - his replacement will be voted in on Monday.
Victory for world number one, Scottie Scheffler
at The Masters, despite a late challenge from Northern
Ireland’s Rory Mcllroy.
And the Olivier goes to...
Eddie Redmayne!
And Eddie Redmayne wins big
at the Olivier Awards CI R G Z L EL
Emmanuel Macron has won R A RS RGN0 s
election and far-right rival Marine Le Pen will fight him
for the presidency TR e s RalaiY
In the end, he won the first-round by about 3
percentage points but opinion polls suggest the run-off
All the candidates in yesterday’s election,
except the far right Eric Zemmour, have urged
their voters not to support Ms Le Pen in the second round.
Our Europe correpondent Jessica A LRI E
Our Europe correpondent Jessica A LRI E
il Parker has the latest.
I’m Parker has the latest. counting on you
il Parker has the latest. counting on you says
it Gl o:
I’m counting on you says Emmanuel Macron. You may have
Emmanuel Macron. You may have (o] 0]
Emmanuel Macron. You may have topped the first round and
Emmanuel Macron. You may have RIS S UL RO
topped the first round and they Py
topped the first round and they are happy but a note of caution
are happy but a note of caution as
are happy but a note of caution YRy
are happy but a note of caution as this fight enters
are happy but a note of caution EER QIR I )
are happy but a note of caution as this fight enters a new
as this fight enters a new I FEN
as this fight enters a new R LR Y ] ‘R
as this fight enters a new phase. TRANSLATION: don’t
as this fight enters a new phase. TRANSLATION: don’'t make
phase. TRANSLATION: don’t make Y
phase. TRANSLATION: don’t make ERIS T
phase. TRANSLATION: don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t
phase. TRANSLATION: don’'t make R LG G R R R
phase. TRANSLATION: don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over, the
a mistake, this isn’t over, the AR )
a mistake, this isn’t over, the SRR R
a mistake, this isn’t over, the SRR Ry
a mistake, this isn’t over, the IR R R e e
a mistake, this isn’t over, the IR LR R )
a mistake, this isn’t over, the IR R R R 4
date we will have over the next ten days will be decisive for
ten days will be decisive for our country
ten days will be decisive for I I
ten days will be decisive for our country and Europe. His
our country and Europe. His Wi
our country and Europe. His S
our country and Europe. His opponent enjoyed a recent rise
opponent enjoyed a recent rise in the
opponent enjoyed a recent rise LRGN
opponent enjoyed a recent rise in the polls, far right
in the polls, far right candidate Marine Le Pen. Her
candidate Marine Le Pen. Her {1
candidate Marine Le Pen. Her AN T O
candidate Marine Le Pen. Her RN T UL CE)
candidate Marine Le Pen. Her policies include a ban
candidate Marine Le Pen. Her RGO R E e 1]
candidate Marine Le Pen. Her policies include a ban on the
policies include a ban on the A
policies include a ban on the Muslim headscarf in public
Muslim headscarf in public places but she has tried to
places but she has tried to X e]
places but she has tried to e
places but she has tried to soften her image and show we
soften her image and show we (00
soften her image and show we (CELVAE
soften her image and show we ready for high office. What
ready for high office. What EI NS
ready for high office. What U]
ready for high office. What NP
ready for high office. What RN P ]l
ready for high office. What happens on 24 April is
ready for high office. What N NP I ST
ready for high office. What happens on 24 April is not just
happens on 24 April is not just Y
happens on 24 April is not just PR
happens on 24 April is not just e e 0L
happens on 24 April is not just a hoat about conditions but a
a boat about conditions but a matter
a boat about conditions but a e i
a boat about conditions but a R R
a boat about conditions but a matter of society, even of
matter of society, even of civilisations_
matter of society, even of civilisations. Critics call her
civilisations. Critics call her a7
civilisations. Critics call her WAL el
civilisations. Critics call her policy programme racist, her
policy programme racist, her supporters say Emmanuel
supporters say Emmanuel [ ETagt 1
supporters say Emmanuel Macron’'s time
supporters say Emmanuel Macron’s time is
supporters say Emmanuel Macron’s time is up. 2017
Macron’s time is up. 2017 people voted for
Macron’s time is up. 2017 people voted for Emanuel Macron
people voted for Emanuel Macron and
people voted for Emanuel Macron Y
people voted for Emanuel Macron and he didn’t
people voted for Emanuel Macron R s s R s s]
people voted for Emanuel Macron and he didn’t do anything.
and he didn’t do anything. People
and he didn’t do anything. RN TN
and he didn’t do anything. People say let’s try this and
People say let’s try this and e
People say let’s try this and it was
People say let’s try this and TR LR LR
People say let’s try this and TR ELE e
People say let’s try this and it was awful. Emmanuel Macron
it was awful. Emmanuel Macron has
it was awful. Emmanuel Macron IR
it was awful. Emmanuel Macron TR T el
it was awful. Emmanuel Macron IR T Mol R
it was awful. Emmanuel Macron FIR L Rl -G Rl |
has been accused of being I\
has been accused of being barely visible at
has been accused of being VA CE
has been accused of being barely visible at points in
barely visible at points in this campaign, too focused on
this campaign, too focused on RIS E e
this campaign, too focused on international issues to notice
international issues to notice TG
international issues to notice people’s struggles at home. You
people’s struggles at home. You think
people’s struggles at home. You s e ER
people’s struggles at home. You think Emmanuel Macron has been
think Emmanuel Macron has been i)
think Emmanuel Macron has been too complacent so far? | don’t
too complacent so far? | don’t think
too complacent so far? | don’t SN
too complacent so far? | don’t S|
too complacent so far? | don’t IS TR RG]
too complacent so far? | don’t think so, | think he was at
think so, | think he was at a4
think so, | think he was at Sl
think so, | think he was at ISR
think so, | think he was at LSRG R e
think so, | think he was at LS GNP RCR (Tl
work trying to protect his people, trying to tackle a
people, trying to tackle a N
people, trying to tackle a crisis, that we need to work
crisis, that we need to work and
crisis, that we need to work IR A L
crisis, that we need to work IR A e
crisis, that we need to work and show what is ocur
crisis, that we need to work and show what is our project
and show what is our project and
and show what is our project R Y
and show what is our project R 1]
and show what is our project and be an campaign and we need
and be an campaign and we need to explain false.
and be an campaign and we need GRS G R R L G
and be an campaign and we need to explain false. There is huge
to explain false. There is huge TS AT
to explain false. There is huge relief here tonight
to explain false. There is huge SRR GO S (s
relief here tonight for supporters
relief here tonight for oI
relief here tonight for R R AL
relief here tonight for supporters of Emanuel -- Macron
supporters of Emanuel -- Macron 4
supporters of Emanuel -- Macron but acknowledges there is work
but acknowledges there is work to
but acknowledges there is work R
but acknowledges there is work N I e Ta )
but acknowledges there is work N s e N 0L
but acknowledges there is work R R N R G
but acknowledges there is work to be done but they are
to be done but they are cheering
to be done but they are LI T
to be done but they are LB AT
to be done but they are GBI AT & T
to be done but they are cheering now but the campaign
cheering now but the campaign of
cheering now but the campaign S Ea]
cheering now but the campaign AL EhCa)
cheering now but the campaign AL FNC AR )]
cheering now but the campaign AL FN A i E
cheering now but the campaign of Marine Le Penn has given
of Marine Le Penn has given them a stir.
of Marine Le Penn has given NI
of Marine Le Penn has given them a stir. Hot off the press
them a stir. Hot off the press left
them a stir. Hot off the press AL
them a stir. Hot off the press left leaning paper liberation,
left leaning paper liberation, EniHIETd
left leaning paper liberation, familiar faces, these with the
familiar faces, these with the el
familiar faces, these with the EIRL ]
familiar faces, these with the MEIR R EL
familiar faces, these with the final two candidates last time.
final two candidates last time. 1 {014
final two candidates last time. LT R )
final two candidates last time. But five years on the political
NIRRT ] o[a 10
NIRRT ] IR
But five years on the political picture is different, and
picture is different, and things can move fast, there are
things can move fast, there are two weeks
things can move fast, there are AR RN
things can move fast, there are ORI Y IR G o
things can move fast, there are two weeks to go. Jessica
two weeks to go. Jessica PN
two weeks to go. Jessica P EY 1
two weeks to go. Jessica Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We il
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We IR
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We RN T
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We will be Live to
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We BT IR R N e
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We RN R N L Ie R e
Parker, BBC News, in Paris. We will be Live to Paris for a
will be live to Paris for a little
will be live to Paris for a el e
will be live to Paris for a little more on that story.
The World Bank says it expects R A R e L
by 45% this year as a result of the war with Russia_
The Bank says enormous financial support is needed
immediately to keep QNGOG
and to support the population.
It’s already provided nearly a hillion dollars of assistance
and is promising another $2 billion in the months ahead.
Ukraine was a global supplier of crops, including sunflower
oil and wheat, but its exports have now stopped.
The Ukrainian president has 10
The Ukrainian president has i)
The Ukrainian president has said he is prepared to give his
said he Is prepared to give his B
said he Is prepared to give his life was
said he is prepared to give his R Tig
said he is prepared to give his life was country during
life was country during et ]
life was country during interview on
life was country during e R N et ale:ls]
life was country during interview on American TV. In
interview on American TV. In his
interview on American TV. In YR o e Tt =Tals|
interview on American TV. In R i E s e Ta ]
interview on American TV. In his command centre in
interview on American TV. In R IEH RN R e ]
IR Y LR A ] R iEh Rt AR
his command centre in care P 0l
his command centre in care P nGRRY
his command centre in care P told CBS 60 minutes he said
told CBS 60 minutes he said Y
told CBS 60 minutes he said when Russia started its
when Russia started its invasion six weeks ago it was
invasion six weeks ago it was L
invasion six weeks ago it was urged by many people to leave
urged by many people to leave )
urged by many people to leave QR4
urged by many people to leave ORI A T8
urged by many people to leave the country but chose to stay
the country but chose to stay and
the country but chose to stay AR
the country but chose to stay R s 1
the country but chose to stay and that his family supported
and that his family supported his
and that his family supported SR I a3 Te e ]
and that his family supported his decision to remain in
his decision to remain in Ukraine. ‘S comments
NG R G BT R Ukraine. ‘S comments come as
Ukraine. ‘S comments come as Russian fighting intensifies on
Russian fighting intensifies on )
Russian fighting intensifies on T
Russian fighting intensifies on N RE )
Russian fighting intensifies on RS R RO R 48]
Russian fighting intensifies on the east of the country where
the east of the country where thousands of countries still
thousands of countries still aYihl]
thousands of countries still R
thousands of countries still trying to flee the Donbas
trying to flee the Donbas region. He has also
IR ORI G LRV Lo region. He has also warned the
region. He has also warned the Russian military defensive is
Russian military defensive is expected to get worse in the
expected to get worse in the T3 4s
expected to get worse in the e
expected to get worse in the SR S
expected to get worse in the AR YR
expected to get worse in the AR L R I
expected to get worse in the AR R A R )
expected to get worse in the AR R N R ¢ GRS
next few days but he told CBS he would
next few days but he told CBS YR o)
next few days but he told CBS he would be prepared to die for
he would be prepared to die for his
he would be prepared to die for EXCTA
he would be prepared to die for his country. TRANSLATION: |
his country. TRANSLATION: | 1R
his country. TRANSLATION: | SRR =l
his country. TRANSLATION: | don’t want to make
his country. TRANSLATION: | don’t want to make myself
his country. TRANSLATION: | don’'t want to make myself out
don’t want to make myself out to
don’t want to make myself out R
don’t want to make myself out ]
don’t want to make myself out R o
don’t want to make myself out R e
don’t want to make myself out R TR A
don’t want to make myself out LG
don’t want to make myself out to be a hero. | love my family.
to be a hero. | love my family. | want to
to be a hero. | love my family. IR R R
to be a hero. | love my family. | want to live many more years.
| want to live many more years. But,
| want to live many more years. LI LN
| want to live many more years. But, choosing between
| want to live many more years. LT A W R S L RO )
But, choosing between running and
But, choosing between running LGN
But, choosing between running and being with my people, of
and being with my people, of e
and being with my people, of course I’m
and being with my people, of AN R L)
and being with my people, of course I’m ready to
and being with my people, of AN B A G I
and being with my people, of course I’m ready to give my
course I’m ready to give my Ry
course I’m ready to give my life for
course I’m ready to give my NER M1
course I’m ready to give my life for my country.
course I’m ready to give my R A (s A L 1
course I’m ready to give my U AL A A0
life for my country. Later on, in
life for my country. Later on, in20
life for my country. Later on, in 20 minutes
life for my country. Later on, W R )
life for my country. Later on, in 20 minutes we will talk to
in 20 minutes we will talk to )
in 20 minutes we will talk to R
in 20 minutes we will talk to the vice president of the World
the vice president of the World Bank, about the report which
Bank, about the report which has
Bank, about the report which TN
Bank, about the report which IR R
Bank, about the report which has come out, which predicts
has come out, which predicts Ukrainian econemy
has come out, which predicts W EIM LR U A
has come out, which predicts Ukrainian econemy has been hit
Ukrainian economy has been hit hy
Ukrainian economy has been hit ey
Ukrainian economy has been hit WA
Ukrainian econemy has been hit WS
Ukrainian econemy has been hit by 45% in terms of
Ukrainian econemy has been hit WA RN R
Ukrainian econemy has been hit WA AR R R L
by 45% in terms of its economic ooyl
by 45% in terms of its economic Gl eihy]
by 45% in terms of its econoemic GG LG
by 45% in terms of its econoemic growth going down by
by 45% in terms of its econoemic GG LR LR YA G %L
by 45% in terms of its economic growth going down by that much
growth going down by that much T Y
growth going down by that much I N A
growth going down by that much I A )
growth going down by that much because of the war. Let’s speak
because of the war. Let’s speak to
Ukrainian journalist Kateryna Malofieieva
AR il WY
sl
good to speak to you. Let’s get
good to speak to you. Let’s get your
good to speak to you. Let’s get A
good to speak to you. Let’s get N IR ()
good to speak to you. Let’s get your reaction to this news,
your reaction to this news, e
your reaction to this news, it’s no
your reaction to this news, it’s no surprise
your reaction to this news, I R R )
your reaction to this news, it’s no surprise to hear the
it’s no surprise to hear the Ukrainian econemy
it’s no surprise to hear the Ukrainian economy it
Ukrainian economy it dramatically
Ukrainian economy it GGl (A 5
Ukrainian economy it dramatically by the school?
dramatically by the school? )
dramatically by the school? There is no
dramatically by the school? ISR
dramatically by the school? There is no surprise simply
There is no surprise simply T )
There is no surprise simply T N4
There is no surprise simply A
There is no surprise simply because it is demonstrated
L RO T G 1 oY because it is demonstrated in
because it is demonstrated in )
because it is demonstrated in e ]
because it is demonstrated in e e i
because it is demonstrated in N e N R R E
because it is demonstrated in R NSRRI e
the course of the last six Y N
the course of the last six weeks, almost no airports so
weeks, almost no airports so malfunctioning. Yesterday the
malfunctioning. Yesterday the ey
malfunctioning. Yesterday the ORI 1]
malfunctioning. Yesterday the ORI R e
malfunctioning. Yesterday the verb airport was set for the
verb airport was set for the el
verb airport was set for the third time since
verb airport was set for the TR R )
verb airport was set for the third time since the beginning
third time since the beginning N
third time since the beginning R
third time since the beginning of the war.
third time since the beginning ARG LR
third time since the beginning ARG LI R
third time since the beginning of the war. We also know about
of the war. We also know about )
of the war. We also know about Nl
of the war. We also know about the main granaries for the
the main granaries for the e Il uule s
the main granaries for the e Il aale e R d
the main granaries for the e s R R
the main granaries for the collection of the week,
the main granaries for the o [ R RO R L R U
collection of the week, they Ty
collection of the week, they have also
collection of the week, they IR ]
collection of the week, they have also been destroyed. Our
have also been destroyed. Our I ]
have also been destroyed. Our AN
have also been destroyed. Our season of sowing wheat is now
season of sowing wheat is now actually not happening, or only
actually not happening, or only 3
actually not happening, or only IRl A1l
actually not happening, or only AL L
actually not happening, or only in part, and at some percentage
in part, and at some percentage s
in part, and at some percentage TR
in part, and at some percentage is covered because
in part, and at some percentage TR IR R Y
in part, and at some percentage is covered because the shelling
is covered because the shelling still continues and ongoing,
still continues and ongoing, )
still continues and ongoing, some parts of khaki spent time
some parts of khaki spent time with
some parts of khaki spent time R )
some parts of khaki spent time G RON1 s e
some parts of khaki spent time with the miners operating in
with the miners operating in )
with the miners operating in I
with the miners operating in T )
with the miners operating in PR R 1
with the miners operating in ORI AU AU
with the miners operating in the area, so that they say from
the area, so that they say from 50 to 100 had
the area, so that they say from SRR AN E RG]
the area, so that they say from 50 to 100 had to clear the
50 to 100 had to clear the il
50 to 100 had to clear the NI ai s
50 to 100 had to clear the mines. But it was happening we
mines. But it was happening we ey
mines. But it was happening we were working with them together
were working with them together iy
were working with them together while at
were working with them together P )
were working with them together while at the same time
were working with them together P R N R R
while at the same time the AT
while at the same time the AR
while at the same time the showers were flying over us,
showers were flying over us, )
showers were flying over us, ey
showers were flying over us, the airstrike happened stop so
the airstrike happened stop so this
the airstrike happened stop so G
the airstrike happened stop so this is because of war they
this is because of war they (G
this is because of war they keep working and at the same
keep working and at the same S i)
keep working and at the same R
keep working and at the same AR )
keep working and at the same RO e i
time the showers are still landing. We understand that
landing. We understand that basically this year, we are not
basically this year, we are not Wi\
basically this year, we are not only talking about not
only talking about not M gill]
only talking about not exporting the wheat, but also
exporting the wheat, but also S a1 e
exporting the wheat, but also S e
exporting the wheat, but also Sl
exporting the wheat, but also S R T
exporting the wheat, but also whether it will be enough for
whether it will be enough for us, for the Ukrainians. A lot
us, for the Ukrainians. A lot of
us, for the Ukrainians. A lot A O
us, for the Ukrainians. A lot of this money has been coming
of this money has been coming Tee I8t
of this money has been coming TR
of this money has been coming T iR R e e ]
of this money has been coming from the World Bank, IMF and
from the World Bank, IMF and g
from the World Bank, IMF and other places,
from the World Bank, IMF and I EICE I ]
from the World Bank, IMF and other places, being used to
other places, being used to )
VT LI L RV R keep paying people their
keep paying people their I El
keep paying people their ¥ I )
keep paying people their salaries, keep paying pensions
salaries, keep paying pensions 4
salaries, keep paying pensions L)
salaries, keep paying pensions NI e e e - Ts |
but alse much-needed humanitarian aid, but in the
humanitarian aid, but in the M
humanitarian aid, but in the LR I T EY
humanitarian aid, but in the long-term, what will be
long-term, what will be required will be a lot more.
required will be a lot more. Talk us through the experience
Talk us through the experience N
Talk us through the experience AT
Talk us through the experience RTHECRL ]
Talk us through the experience of where you are, what’s been
of where you are, what’s been happening in
of where you are, what’s been happening in the last few days
happening in the last few days in
happening in the last few days TRy
happening in the last few days in the city
happening in the last few days LROCRYA
happening in the last few days RGNy A A e
happening in the last few days RGNy R AN L k|
in the city of Liverpool? | el
in the city of Liverpool? | UM TGN
in the city of Liverpool? | returned yesterday in the
returned yesterday in the ]
returned yesterday in the evening only
returned yesterday in the NIRRT
returned yesterday in the evening only seven p.m.. The
evening only seven p.m.. The shelling is in khaki. Compared
shelling is in khaki. Compared | was
shelling is in khaki. Compared IR LR a e 1o s |
shelling is in khaki. Compared | was shocked to
shelling is in khaki. Compared B R RO T
shelling is in khaki. Compared B R RO R )
shelling is in khaki. Compared IR R e RO R T AN e
| was shocked to see life here s
| was shocked to see life here L]
| was shocked to see life here is going on,
| was shocked to see life here (XL GE G
| was shocked to see life here is going on, kids playing in
Is going on, kids playing in )
is going on, kids playing in the playground and people
the playground and people I
the playground and people EILH LR
the playground and people walking in the old town, well,
walking in the old town, well, 3
walking in the old town, well, in Kharkiv, lots more
walking in the old town, well, GO S R R )
in Kharkiv, lots more people N
in Kharkiv, lots more people AL A TLe
in Kharkiv, lots more people (ARG
in Kharkiv, lots more people now, but they are coming back,
now, but they are coming back, I
now, but they are coming back, S
now, but they are coming back, despite risks to the life. And
despite risks to the life. And ]
despite risks to the life. And ]
despite risks to the life. And on the way
despite risks to the life. And ROER VA
despite risks to the life. And on the way to I’ve seen a lot
on the way to I’ve seen a lot of
on the way to I’ve seen a lot IR G
on the way to I’ve seen a lot of people with plates on the
of people with plates on the 1
of people with plates on the w1 ]
of people with plates on the car trying to escape from the
car trying to escape from the war these
car trying to escape from the IR N
car trying to escape from the war these are the
car trying to escape from the R USRI U R
war these are the rich, middle-class, know the cars are
middle-class, know the cars are St 1ile1]
middle-class, know the cars are much less, not so rich,
much less, not so rich, e Al
much less, not so rich, R
much less, not so rich, sometimes the ladder, some kind
sometimes the ladder, some kind Ukrainian
sometimes the ladder, some kind NI o
sometimes the ladder, some kind Ukrainian cars, people are
Ukrainian cars, people are aYihl]
Ukrainian cars, people are R OS]
Ukrainian cars, people are trying to escape across the
trying to escape across the Donbas stop. Talk us through
Donbas stop. Talk us through your
Donbas stop. Talk us through IR sl
Donbas stop. Talk us through your concern the
Donbas stop. Talk us through e e R U U EL S
Donbas stop. Talk us through e e R U LU U AU
your concern the Russians may %1\
your concern the Russians may really intensify the
your concern the Russians may AN O ARG RN EE]
really intensify the invasion and
really intensify the invasion R )
really intensify the invasion and the Don best region in the
and the Don best region in the east, what
and the Don best region in the PR L1
and the Don best region in the east, what are you hearing
east, what are you hearing FYe L
east, what are you hearing about that? |
east, what are you hearing NG AN ke
east, what are you hearing about that? | don’t think
east, what are you hearing R AR E s &L
about that? | den’t think it il
about that? | don’t think it will happen,
about that? | den’t think it will happen, we look at the
will happen, we look at the map, we already know it was
map, we already know it was o EH |
map, we already know it was claimed and announced initially
claimed and announced initially -
claimed and announced initially by the
claimed and announced initially WA ERSEN]
claimed and announced initially by the Russian authorities,
by the Russian authorities, then by
by the Russian authorities, QIR AGUE
by the Russian authorities, then by the Ukrainian president
then by the Ukrainian president and
then by the Ukrainian president R )
then by the Ukrainian president and the governors of the
and the governors of the Donetsk Oblast region he said
Donetsk Oblast region he said N
Donetsk Oblast region he said people, leave, don’t
Donetsk Oblast region he said people, leave, don’'t waste.
Donetsk Oblast region he said people, leave, don’t waste. |
people, leave, don’t waste. | G
people, leave, don’t waste. | LRI
people, leave, don’t waste. | S WG
people, leave, don’t waste. | called several people on the
called several people on the SO
called several people on the ground at Kramatorsk,
called several people on the TG T P SR G
ground at Kramatorsk, this e eale )
ground at Kramatorsk, this terrible tragedy happened at
terrible tragedy happened at )
terrible tragedy happened at the station
terrible tragedy happened at AR )
terrible tragedy happened at AN ]
terrible tragedy happened at the station where a lot
terrible tragedy happened at AN IR
the station where a lot of people were killed and much
people were killed and much )
people were killed and much U CERIIEGR
people were killed and much more injured. So |
people were killed and much ARG R R R
people were killed and much more injured. So | called them
more injured. So | called them and
more injured. So | called them LI 4
more injured. So | called them N & a1
more injured. So | called them N &G iRl
more injured. So | called them RS QR G5
more injured. So | called them and ask them will they relocate
CL R QUL R G TR to Year
and ask them will they relocate to Year 4 countries abroad.
to Year 4 countries abroad. They,
to Year 4 countries abroad. LSRG
to Year 4 countries abroad. LG RO AGTH
to Year 4 countries abroad. They, they refused to
to Year 4 countries abroad. LG AR OSAG TR
to Year 4 countries abroad. They, they refused to do that
They, they refused to do that T )
They, they refused to do that because at
They, they refused to do that N T
They, they refused to do that because at seme point
They, they refused to do that because at some point they are
because at some point they are just tired of worrying a just
PRI NG R gl =BV, Pl
PRI NG R gl =BV, care to
just tired of worrying a just care to leave. It’s becoming
care to leave. It’s becoming difficult, absolutely, thank
difficult, absolutely, thank you
difficult, absolutely, thank TR R [ie)
difficult, absolutely, thank you so much speaking to us
you so much speaking to us today.
you so much speaking to us LBV G T
you so much speaking to us today. Kateryna Malofieieva
today. Kateryna Malofieieva Tee I8t
today. Kateryna Malofieleva from Lyviv.
Austria’s Chancellor Karl Nehammer will travel to Moscow
later for talks with President Putin.
He’ll be the first EU leader to meet
Mr Putin since the war began on 24th February.
Austria is part of the European Union, but not
Mr Nehammer, who visited Ukraine for talks with
President Zelensky on Saturday, said he wanted promote dialogue
between Moscow and Kyiv.
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
At least two people have been killed and 20 injured
after a French coach overturned on a Belgian motorway.
The coach was on its way to Amsterdam when the crash
happened.
It was carrying 33 passengers mostly from France and Spain.
The President of Mexico, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrado has
easily NN S IR
should step down or complete his six-year term.
Around 91% of people voted in favour of him staying
But the turnout, at around 17.5%,
meant that even if he had lost, e TR e oI a e
have been binding.
More than a thousand people have taken to the streets
of Tunisia’s capital, Tunis, to protest against what they’re
calling a power grab by the president.
Some shouted "down with the coup”.
President Kais dissolved Parliament last month
after earlier scrapping the country’'s independent
judicial council.
Last July, he sacked the government and seized
wide-ranging powers.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R N
The great and the good from the world
of theatre attend the Olivier Awards at the Royal Albert Hall
Pol Pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers,
s reported to have died of natural causes.
He and the Khmer Rouge movement he led were responsible
for the deaths of an estimated 1.7 million Cambodians.
There have been violent protests in Indenesia,
where Playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
Traditionalist Muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
The magazine’s offices have TNt E R e
staff have gone into hiding.
It was clear that Paula’s only contest was with the clock,
and as for her sporting legacy, Paula Radcliffe’s competitors
will be chasing her new world-best time
for years to come.
Emmanuel Macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot
of the French presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff
competition from Marine Le Pen in the second round.
Russian troops pummel eastern Ukrainian,
but President Zelensky tells America’s 60 minutes programme
he’s not going anywhere.
Rallies have been held R M R LI =1 P
to protest against the removal of Imran Khan from his post
as prime minister, following a no confidence vote
in parliament over the weekend.
Tens of thousands of people gathered in Karachi and Lahore,
waving torches and flags in the dark, and chanting
in support of Mr Khan.
A long-time rival, Shehbaz Sharif, is expected
to be voted in by parliament RGN E R EL Gl
on Monday.
Derek Grossman Is a senior NN A R G NI
He’s in Santa Monica, California.
From
el R
ST BRI Te]g)
From your point of view, what Ty
From your point of view, what was the downfall? There was
From your point of view, what RGN C AT A
was the downfall? There was a combination
was the downfall? There was a e e s Ia A e
was the downfall? There was a IR A E L
was the downfall? There was a NI E R AL R e )
was the downfall? There was a IR AL IR R T
combination of reasons. One was Xeca s
combination of reasons. One was economic troubles, another was
economic troubles, another was this kind of general
economic troubles, another was QIR N RN
economic troubles, another was QIR L B N
this kind of general sense of mismanagement
this kind of general sense of G FLEL U LS
this kind of general sense of mismanagement at the top
QIR LRI L EE ST N mismanagement at the top two
mismanagement at the top two I
mismanagement at the top two foreign policy
mismanagement at the top two GBI aAT
mismanagement at the top two foreign policy is one of the
foreign policy is one of the YT T
foreign policy is one of the I LR )
foreign policy is one of the areas where Imran Khan in the
areas where Imran Khan in the last
areas where Imran Khan in the PR
areas where Imran Khan in the last few weeks is claiming
last few weeks Is claiming )
last few weeks Is claiming there is
last few weeks Is claiming )
last few weeks Is claiming there is a foreign conspiracy
there is a foreign conspiracy to
there is a foreign conspiracy eIt Ne o)
there is a foreign conspiracy to remove him from
there is a foreign conspiracy R N Rie R i)
there is a foreign conspiracy to remove him from office on
to remove him from office on ey
to remove him from office on R
to remove him from office on QTR R
to remove him from office on these types of things really
these types of things really embolden
these types of things really N R
these types of things really embolden the opposition against
embolden the opposition against him and
embolden the opposition against NGRS
embolden the opposition against him and we saw the
him and we saw the no-confidence vote
Al T RV R 1) no-confidence vote just the
no-confidence vote just the e
no-confidence vote just the other day just in from the
other day just in from the eI
other day just in from the prime ministership. What do you
prime ministership. What do you )
prime ministership. What do you make on
prime ministership. What do you I R
prime ministership. What do you make on the arguments on the
make on the arguments on the part
make on the arguments on the Tl
make on the arguments on the A MICH LG ELR
make on the arguments on the TG G
make on the arguments on the part of Imran Khan, he blames
part of Imran Khan, he blames )
part of Imran Khan, he blames the US for
part of Imran Khan, he blames G RIRR TN
part of Imran Khan, he blames G ERIER T EER LT
part of Imran Khan, he blames the US for being behind this
the US for being behind this )
the US for being behind this move to get rid of him. | think
QTR RN Tl RG] T
QTR RN Tl RG] T
QTR RN Tl RG] ISR
move to get rid of him. I think it’s a highly suspect claim. We
it’s a highly suspect claim. We have to
it’s a highly suspect claim. We R LGS
it’s a highly suspect claim. We R CLCE R
it’s a highly suspect claim. We have to keep in mind
it’s a highly suspect claim. We RO R R G G
it’s a highly suspect claim. We have to keep in mind there was
have to keep in mind there was )
have to keep in mind there was some historical baggage year,
some historical baggage year, )
some historical baggage year, RIS
some historical baggage year, QRN
some historical baggage year, G ERIRR T ETe=)
some historical baggage year, the US being accused of trying
the US being accused of trying to
the US being accused of trying e s le)
the US being accused of trying to do a
the US being accused of trying IR a8
the US being accused of trying to do a soft coup
the US being accused of trying R VR 1R IR
the US being accused of trying to do a soft coup in Pakistan
to do a soft coup in Pakistan 3
to do a soft coup in Pakistan inthe
to do a soft coup in Pakistan RGN RN
to do a soft coup in Pakistan in the past and so this is
te do a soft coup in Pakistan in the past and so this is not
in the past and so this is not very surprising | guess in a
very surprising | guess in a country in that has had several
country in that has had several military coups in its short
military coups in its short 38"
military coups in its short NS
military coups in its short SRR
military coups in its short NS R I
military coups in its short history but we are going to
history but we are going to el
history but we are going to find out more
history but we are going to GRS E
history but we are going to find out more details as
find out more details as time goes on
find out more details as time PN
find out more details as time goes on but it doesn’t seem
goes on but it doesn’t seem ey
goes on but it doesn’t seem like there is a whole lot of
goes on but it doesn’t seem like there is a whole Lot of it
like there is a whole lot of it )
like there is a whole lot of it T
like there is a whole lot of it R
like there is a whole lot of it e R et a1
like there is a whole lot of it T R et el e
like there is a whole lot of it MR dl T
there at the moment at least. N
there at the moment at least. In terms of his own
In terms of his own L]
In terms of his own relationship with the Pakistan
relationship with the Pakistan military, many analysts talk
military, many analysts talk FYe L
military, many analysts talk Y]
military, many analysts talk N R e
military, many analysts talk N R
military, many analysts talk YR R E e R
about the fact that the G E1sY
about the fact that the military is very influential
military is very influential and
TG TR RS A T, T LR
TG TR RS A T, T and has a lot
TG TR RS A T, T IR )
TG TR RS A T, T R R R L s
military is very influential and has a lot of power when it
and has a lot of power when it comes
and has a lot of power when it IR
and has a lot of power when it comes to who is Prime Minister
comes to who is Prime Minister and
comes to who is Prime Minister Y
comes to who Is Prime Minister LR R
comes to who Is Prime Minister R R R
comes to who Is Prime Minister R R LR e )
comes to who Is Prime Minister and he seems to have fallen
comes to who is Prime Minister and he seems to have fallen out
and he seems to have fallen out with
and he seems to have fallen out T GRG
and he seems to have fallen out with them. Yeah and
and he seems to have fallen out M GE O TRLELEhh|
and he seems to have fallen out with them. Yeah and | think
with them. Yeah and | think that was
with them. Yeah and | think eI L]
with them. Yeah and | think that was a big
with them. Yeah and I think that was a big part of his
that was a big part of his e e
that was a big part of his troubles. But you know, what is
troubles. But you know, what is )
troubles. But you know, what is E[ R =l
troubles. But you know, what is also important to keep in mind
also important to keep in mind 3
also important to keep in mind TR a4
also important to keep in mind is that in
also important to keep in mind TR A R ]
also important to keep in mind TG AR R
also important to keep in mind is that in the last few days we
s that in the last few days we have really
s that in the last few days we VR VAT G)]
s that in the last few days we have really seen Pakistan rise
have really seen Pakistan rise to
have really seen Pakistan rise Ry
have really seen Pakistan rise to the occasion, The
have really seen Pakistan rise RGN H IR LR
to the occasion, The Supreme Court rejecting Imran Khan’s
Court rejecting Imran Khan’s claim
Court rejecting Imran Khan’s ol iR
Court rejecting Imran Khan’s IR )
Court rejecting Imran Khan’s IR R e )
Court rejecting Imran Khan’s IR R e e il [ e
claim that the note confidence )
claim that the note confidence vote could not go through and
vote could not go through and that was
vote could not go through and eI L]
vote could not go through and eI LR N
vote could not go through and GEIR N U R E
vote could not go through and that was a banner day for
that was a banner day for L
that was a banner day for following the Constitution and
following the Constitution and L
following the Constitution and following legal processes in
following legal processes in V3 & 1h]
following legal processes in VI E N ]
following legal processes in Pakistan and of course there
Pakistan and of course there Ty
Pakistan and of course there TN ]
Pakistan and of course there was no military coup
Pakistan and of course there N N E IS AT
Pakistan and of course there L S A I R G
was no military coup as there T
was no military coup as there has been in
was no military coup as there YR R Y
was no military coup as there has been in the past so | think
has been in the past so | think IV E ]
has been in the past so | think R i E
has been in the past so | think Pakistan has good reason to
Pakistan has good reason to Gl
Pakistan has good reason to hold its head up high these
hold its head up high these days even though last few days
days even though last few days Ty
days even though last few days have been
days even though last few days ENN L RSN
days even though last few days have been very dramatic
have been very dramatic oL (YA
have been very dramatic politically. Thank you for
politically. Thank you for LI
politically. Thank you for NG
politically. Thank you for joining us and telling us
politically. Thank you for G NR L R,
joining us and telling us your QUL
joining us and telling us your QUL R LS
joining us and telling us your QUL LRI LA
joining us and telling us your thoughts on what is currently
thoughts on what is currently happening in Pakistan.
IR 5L
1R L
A RUEERE Ry
It was a big day If you are
It was a big day if you are a i
It was a big day if you are a golf fan, depending on where
golf fan, depending on where you were watching. Let us get
you were watching. Let us get 1R
you were watching. Let us get IRy
you were watching. Let us get E[(R G e
you were watching. Let us get all the sports news.
We start with golf and the first major of the year
in the men’s game, The Masters, at Augusta National in Georgia.
World Number One Scottie Scheffler has won his first
Major title by three strokes finishing on 10 under
o1
Despite a minor blemish on the 18th when he doubley
bogeyed, the 25 year old American still had enough
of a lead over second placed TS (R R R G
by such minor issues, as he claimed his maiden green
jacket.
RUIhL QR
| think we just did such a good job
| think we just did such a good X
| think we just did such a good RGN
I think we just did such a good job of being committed to what
job of being committed to what "y
job of being committed to what we were doing. That goes
we were doing. That goes I
we were doing. That goes through all
we were doing. That goes QLI W]
we were doing. That goes through all 72 holes. Whatever
through all 72 holes. Whatever Y
through all 72 holes. Whatever we were
through all 72 holes. Whatever R R (|
through all 72 holes. Whatever we were trying to do. And |
we were trying to do. And | I ]
we were trying to do. And | I TR
we were trying to do. And | [ R
we were trying to do. And | I R R[]
we were trying to do. And | chipped it so good this week,
chipped it so good this week, )
chipped it so good this week, R
o] oM S R 1R T @ so we did such a good job of
SRR R [T putting
so we did such a good job of A
so we did such a good job of putting myself in positions to
putting myself in positions to where
putting myself in positions to T TRy
putting myself in positions to Y YR
putting myself in positions to where we can still manage even
where we can still manage even Y
where we can still manage even when |
where we can still manage even T NER ZL R
where we can still manage even when | wasn’t swinging at the
when | wasn’t swinging at the T
when | wasn’t swinging at the S
when | wasn’t swinging at the best of times_
Manchester City and Liverpool played out a 2-2
draw on Sunday meaning the Champions City maintain
their one point lead as the Premier League title
race nears the end.
City led twice through Kevin De
Bruyne and Gabriel Jesus but were reeled in both times,
firstly by Diogo Jota and then Sadio Mane just
The Liverpool manager R DA NSO E
they drew though.
Would it change the situation, e
Would it change the situation, not really,
Would it change the situation, LA
Would it change the situation, not really, not now stop we
not really, not now stop we have to
not really, not now stop we YRR il
not really, not now stop we YRR ]
not really, not now stop we have to win an awful lot of
have to win an awful lot of football games, if there was
football games, if there was )
football games, if there was s
football games, if there was NN
football games, if there was N LI A
football games, if there was one we can draw, it was today.
one we can draw, it was today. Y
one we can draw, it was today. R
one we can draw, it was today. Let’s keep going.
Olympic tennis champion Relinda Bencic won
the Charleston Open
title in South Carolina after beating Ons Jabeur
LRSI G claimed her maiden
WTA clay-court crown by beating Tunisian fourth-seed Jabeur 6-1
5-7 6-4 in two hours LN
Bencic will move up eight places to number 13
in the rankings.
IR EL IR 4] I & LGS
at our website - that’s bbc.com/sport. But from me TT
and the rest of the team that’s your sports news
e Taa ey
The Queen has spoken for the first time publicly
about the effect LB
Her Majesty was talking on a Zoom video call
to hospital staff and patients when she revealed that -
despite the Palace saying her R 2 L G A
she did struggle.
Louisa Pilbeam reports:
It does leave one very tired and
It does leave one very tired RS UE GO R
It does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it, this
and exhausted, doesn’t it, this horrible pandemic. It’s the
horrible pandemic. It’s the e
horrible pandemic. It’s the TRl
horrible pandemic. It’s the AR R RN -l
horrible pandemic. It’s the TR R R N IR
first time we’ve heard the Queen speak about her bout of
Queen speak about her bout of €]
Queen speak about her bout of €
Queen speak about her bout of BRI
Queen speak about her bout of Covid as she sympathised with a
Covid as she sympathised with a patient who ended up on
Covid as she sympathised with a R R LR LK
patient who ended up on a N a e
patient who ended up on a ventilator due to the
patient who ended upona NG s TR R R
patient who ended up ona ventilator due to the virus. |
ventilator due to the virus. | PN
ventilator due to the virus. | Tl e e
ventilator due to the virus. | R e A
ventilator due to the virus. | am better now. I’m getting
am better now. I’m getting there,
am better now. I’m getting e N
am better now. I’m getting QTN BTN R
am better now. I’m getting there, I’m recovering, I’m much
there, I’m recovering, I’m much e am|
there, I’m recovering, I’m much better. | recently left the
better. | recently left the wheelchair someone walking
wheelchair someone walking Y0
wheelchair someone walking YR
wheelchair someone walking about now. I’m glad
wheelchair someone walking E T A N G [EL R
wheelchair someone walking about now. I’m glad you are
about now. I’m glad you are b
about now. I’m glad you are VUL R
about now. I’m glad you are LI 1
about now. I’m glad you are LI T T
about now. I’m glad you are DI O R IR YLy
getting better. It was February Y
DD I R R R IV TR
DD I R R R IV when the Queen isclated here
getting better. It was February when the Queen isclated here at
when the Queen isolated here at T d
when the Queen isolated here at Windsor Castle after testing
Windsor Castle after testing positive for Covid. The palace
positive for Covid. The palace G
positive for Covid. The palace ISR
positive for Covid. The palace called the 95-year-old’s
called the 95-year-old’s symptoms mild and cold like and
symptoms mild and cold like and i)
symptoms mild and cold like and R s
symptoms mild and cold like and X LT
symptoms mild and cold like and she continued light duties from
she continued light duties from )
she continued light duties from G
she continued light duties from the like official
she continued light duties from QN CE A e 4
she continued light duties from QLR L =l
the like official paperwork and video calls. -- from the
video calls. -- from the e
video calls. -- from the e
video calls. -- from the castle It is
video calls. -- from the e AR
video calls. -- from the castle. It is weeks passed she
castle. It is weeks passed she pulled out
castle. It is weeks passed she LR RO
castle. It is weeks passed she pulled out of the Commonwealth
pulled out of the Commonwealth ey
pulled out of the Commonwealth X atile -1
pulled out of the Commonwealth i R R
pulled out of the Commonwealth service at Westminster Abbey.
service at Westminster Abbey. By
service at Westminster Abbey. S
service at Westminster Abbey. AR &
service at Westminster Abbey. By last month though she met
By last month though she met )
By last month though she met the Canadian Prime Minister in
the Canadian Prime Minister in e
the Canadian Prime Minister in TN
the Canadian Prime Minister in person and welcome to teapot
person and welcome to teapot and
person and welcome to teapot N
person and welcome to teapot and pottery exhibition to the
and pottery exhibition to the e
and pottery exhibition to the castle. In
and pottery exhibition to the LR e s
and pottery exhibition to the LR e R )
castle. In recent times the S0
castle. In recent times the Queen has
castle. In recent times the MU )
castle. In recent times the Queen has been walking with the
Queen has been walking with the |
Queen has been walking with the P
Queen has been walking with the RS )
Queen has been walking with the R R e
Queen has been walking with the aid of a stick is seen here at
aid of a stick is seen here at Prince Philip’s
aid of a stick is seen here at Prince Philip’s Memorial
Prince Philip’s Memorial e o)
Prince Philip’s Memorial X eile N
Prince Philip’s Memorial e R e
Prince Philip’s Memorial Service at Westminster Abbey
Service at Westminster Abbey two weeks ago.
Service at Westminster Abbey R CR T [ Y o}
Service at Westminster Abbey two weeks ago. And despite
two weeks ago. And despite L]
two weeks ago. And despite speaking of
two weeks ago. And despite LRI R
two weeks ago. And despite speaking of the exhaustion
speaking of the exhaustion Covid caused
speaking of the exhaustion DRI
speaking of the exhaustion Covid caused her, perhaps the
Covid caused her, perhaps the biggest
Covid caused her, perhaps the L e )
Covid caused her, perhaps the biggest clue to Her Majesty ‘s
biggest clue to Her Majesty ‘s P i)
biggest clue to Her Majesty ‘s health now
biggest clue to Her Majesty ‘s YN A
biggest clue to Her Majesty ‘s Y N AR
biggest clue to Her Majesty ‘s health now is the expression at
health now is the expression at )
health now is the expression at !
health now is the expression at LR A
health now is the expression at ML ARG
health now is the expression at MR RGN SR )
the end of the latest video =R
the end of the latest video call. Thank you very
the end of the latest video | (W LTS R s Al
call. Thank you very much NN
call. Thank you very much LI
call. Thank you very much indeed, all of you.
Johnny Depp’s multi-million dollar defamation lawsuit
against his ex-wife Amber Heard is due to start at a court
In Virginia later.
The foermer Hollywood power couple
are both expected to give evidence in person
Mr Depp is suing his former partner for libel over
an article she co-wrote in the Washington Post in 2018,
in which she discussed her experiences of domestic abuse.
High-profile figures including James Franco,
Paul Bettany and Elon Musk are scheduled to give testimony
during the trial.
Theatre luvvies gathered in (R R R U R I E I
which honour people who work both on and off stage.Cabaret
at the Kit Kat Club starring Eddie Redmayne was the big
winner on the night - as Claudia Redmond reports.
The curtain was raised at the glitzy Olivier Awards
on Sunday at the Royal Albert Hall in London.
Cabaret act the Kit Kat Club was the biggest winner
of the night, taking seven prizes including acting
trophies for Eddie Redmayne and Irish actress Jesse
I Y2
IR G R R G R )
This was the part | played when | was a kid at school,
the thing that got my passion for theatre really fuelled,
and getting to do it every night with that extraordinary
group of people was dumb founding.
It’s such a huge, huge privilege to be part of this
community, which | consider my family.
Thank you for welcoming me in all those years ago,
and this is just so lovely!
How about we hear another one?
Soemething that cooks!
Soemething that cooks?
LAl d
Best New Musical went to Back to the Future,
based on the 1980s cult film R R Rl
travelling capers of Michael ] Fox as Marty McFly.
And in the dance world, young up-and-coming choreographer
Arielle Smith stepped up to receive the Outstanding
Achievement in Dance category for her work on Jolly Folly
with the English National Ballet.
The winners of the Olivier Awards overseen by the Society
of London Theatre are chosen by a team of industry figures,
stage luminaries and theatre loving members of the public.
It is hoped that following so many setbhacks with Covid
restrictions over the past years, that the shows can
finally go on.
Claudia Redmond, BBC News.
e[ llg]s
Bringing you some breaking News.
Bringing you some breaking AN
Bringing you some breaking (IR L[5
Bringing you some breaking news. 20’s biggest shareholder
news. 20’s biggest shareholder 30N
news. 20’s biggest shareholder Flon Musk
news. 20’s biggest shareholder Elon Musk has decided
news. 20’s biggest shareholder Flon Musk has decided not
news. 20’s biggest shareholder Elon Musk has decided not to
Elon Musk has decided not to LI
Elon Musk has decided not to INLEOG
Elon Musk has decided not to join the social media company’s
join the social media company’s el
join the social media company’s board. Last
join the social media company’s (IR R T e
join the social media company’s (G ERE E
join the social media company’s board. Last week he indicated
board. Last week he indicated he
board. Last week he indicated T
board. Last week he indicated he had taken a 9.2% stake in
he had taken a 9.2% stake in I e g
he had taken a 9.2% stake in Twitter giving
he had taken a 9.2% stake in L A I Rl
he had taken a 9.2% stake in Twitter giving him four times
Twitter giving him four times as many shares
Twitter giving him four times UV
Twitter giving him four times as many shares as founder Jack
as many shares as founder Jack Dorsey well in
as many shares as founder Jack DA (RG]
as many shares as founder Jack Dorsey well in a tweet from the
Dorsey well in a tweet from the O
Dorsey well in a tweet from the Chief Executive, he
Dorsey well in a tweet from the G -]
Dorsey well in a tweet from the G AR - R
Chief Executive, he did not WG
Chief Executive, he did not give a
Chief Executive, he did not NEERCE
Chief Executive, he did not NN IR
Chief Executive, he did not NN IR A G ED|
give a reason why he had (Yol
give a reason why he had decided not to
give a reason why he had WAL & RN
give a reason why he had decided not to join the board
decided not to join the board but
decided not to join the board NI
decided not to join the board but said it would continue to
but said it would coentinue to )
but said it would coentinue to R
but said it would coentinue to be open to
but said it would continue to be open to his input and of
be open to his input and of e ]
be open to his input and of e R
be open to his input and of e iR ]
be open to his input and of e R e
be open to his input and of e R N e
be open to his input and of A R N E
be open to his input and of e R e e R
course he tweet a heck of a lot Y
course he tweet a heck of a lot does Elon Musk so he may well
does Elon Musk so he may well e
does Elon Musk so he may well S
does Elon Musk so he may well ST
does Elon Musk so he may well tweet about that a Little Llater
tweet about that a little later as today
tweet about that a little later LR OUE VA OGN
tweet about that a little later as today progresses. Next all
as today progresses. Next all )
as today progresses. Next all R )]
as today progresses. Next all G GRS
as today progresses. Next all the top business stories
G CLEN R Do 3T A1 the top business stories coming
the top business stories coming on BRC
the top business stories coming R
the top business stories coming on BBC News including a look at
on BBC News including a look at )
on BBC News including a look at the outcome of
on BBC News including a look at et ]
on BBC News including a look at RN R R U R G Ul 1sY
the outcome of the preliminary )
the outcome of the preliminary ]
the outcome of the preliminary e iR
the outcome of the preliminary vote in France. |
the outcome of the preliminary I iaeh Rl
the outcome of the preliminary vote in France. | will be going
vote in France. | will be going Ry
vote in France. | will be going R0
vote in France. | will be going RGN
vote in France. | will be going R G LTSN s
vote in France. | will be going live to Paris on an expert view
live to Paris on an expert view of what
live to Paris on an expert view R I
live to Paris on an expert view of what might happen next so do
of what might happen next so do 3
of what might happen next so do stay with us, see you in a
stay with us, see you in a moment.
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around first thing on Sunday,
but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday morning -
Now, all change and IS R R L
because of this area R GYT I
that’s throwing cloud right across the country
and that is acting like a blanket,
NN T o] those temperatures
from falling too far.
It will be a frost-free start to Monday morning
with temperatures more likely
about four, five, six degrees E ORIV
So, a difference to the feel ARG
and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
The winds are going RS G
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain
through Wales, Northern Ireland,
North West England as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well,
either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction,
widely gusting RS R ORI LN
But sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine
and with the wind direction now coming from the south,
that means it will be a little bit warmer -
17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday
and we can trail that weather front
all the way back SR G EI
In fact, the airis coming up from the Sahara.
LN LR N TN its way steadily north,
with the exception perhaps AN e A
here, you will stay in the cooler air
for the next few days.
So, that means first thing on Tuesday morning,
we’re likely to see temperatures
four degrees in Lerwick
but ten or 11 degrees RN RS RG]y
across central and southern parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there’s going to be RGN
some of it quite heavy,
some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the air is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan dust
that might just ORIV T LRSIl 1 d
R IG[EThA a little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things,
17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
Where the cloud and the rain lingers,
we’re only looking at around a maximum of 6-8 Celsius.
But the rain will ease away,
the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
LT RN G
that Wednesday will be the warmest day of the week
LG LRI O [T [0 not out of the question.
A good deal of dry weather YR
as we head towards the Easter weekend.
Whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
This is BBC News with the latest business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
The World Bank warns Ukraine’s economy will shrink by almost
half this year and much RN RS R R a0
will be impacted.
I’ll be speaking to the World CEN SR A
Emmanuel Macron and far-right rival Marine Le Pen will fight
for the French presidency TR e Rl
The cost of living is high on voters’ agenda.
We get an expert view.
And not quite ready TR e
And not quite ready TR e
The UK’s aviation sector struggles to cope
with surging demand over Easter.
We bring you the latest.
The World Bank says it expects R A R e L
by 45% this year as a result of the war with Russia_
The bank says enormous financial support is needed
immediately to keep GO SO
and to support a population enduring the hardship of war.
It’s also forecasting there will be greater economic
damage than was caused by the Covid-19 pandemic
across kastern Europe DR N PR L]
unprecedented sanctions leading R e
in Russia, too.
Joining me now from Warsaw s Anna Bjerde, the World Bank’s
vice president for Europe IR V- IET
Anna, good to talk to you.
Anna, good to talk te you. No
Anna, good to talk to you. No A
Anna, good to talk to you. No surprise at
Anna, good to talk to you. No L
Anna, good to talk to you. No surprise at all to hear that
surprise at all to hear that )
surprise at all to hear that the outlook
surprise at all to hear that ATl e it ld
surprise at all to hear that T R e Y
surprise at all to hear that the outlook for Ukraine is dire
the outlook for Ukraine is dire economically
the outlook for Ukraine is dire e it VA0
the outlook for Ukraine is dire economically but the guestion
economically but the question s
economically but the question is how do we
economically but the question T R G )
economically but the question N R LG S RUAEIL S
economically but the question N R G SR AE I R T
is how do we help Ukraine. The el
is how do we help Ukraine. The Gl T e
is how do we help Ukraine. The World Bank is pledging even
World Bank is pledging even e
World Bank is pledging even more money? Great to be with
more money? Great to be with (/N
more money? Great to be with you, Sally, and thank you so
you, Sally, and thank you so much for having us. Yes,
much for having us. Yes, indeed,
much for having us. Yes, T R
much for having us. Yes, indeed, we have been working
LU IRV RV R Tl
LU IRV RV R hard to try
indeed, we have been working hard to try to get a picture of
rd to try to get a picture of )
hard to try to get a picture of R I e s|
hard to try to get a picture of MR NGRS
hard to try to get a picture of R RN R 1]
hard to try to get a picture of R AN R Nl 0k
the forecast and we came out with
the forecast and we came out el
the forecast and we came out W Yo T o
the forecast and we came out ORI e W Tes)
the forecast and we came out G EEC e[
with our report which is estimating a 45% drop in GDP
estimating a 45% drop in GDP e
estimating a 45% drop in GDP AT
estimating a 45% drop in GDP TR E ]
estimating a 45% drop in GDP A Eh L
estimating a 45% drop in GDP AN EIM LR L]
for Ukraine and as you A e
for Ukraine and as you mentioned also a 4% contraction
mentioned also a 4% contraction P g ]
mentioned also a 4% contraction across the region because of
Gl (USROG LRCH R LY )
Gl (USROG LRCH R LY the war,
across the region because of R I )
across the region because of the war, and what
across the region because of R IO R R
across the region because of R IO R LR R 11
across the region because of R I N R R =R e
across the region because of R IO R R R I R R
the war, and what we can do to help Ukraine is first and
help Ukraine is first and I AT
help Ukraine is first and foremost, help Ukraine during
foremost, help Ukraine during the
foremost, help Ukraine during G
foremost, help Ukraine during R EIa s
foremost, help Ukraine during the war and that
foremost, help Ukraine during R EIEN R G A
foremost, help Ukraine during R LN R R AR )
foremost, help Ukraine during R LN R AR R
the war and that is because the government
the war and that is because the M AR
the war and that is because the government is working hard to
government is working hard to )
government is working hard to keep government services going
keep government services going and what we have learned in
and what we have learned in fragile
and what we have learned in e CE
and what we have learned in fragile and conflict affected
fragile and conflict affected situations
fragile and conflict affected G R
fragile and conflict affected situations is that it
fragile and conflict affected I R a A
fragile and conflict affected IOE AR G E A AT
situations Is that it is very Tyl achis
situations is that it is very important to
situations is that it is very e S G
situations is that it is very important to also be active and
important to also be active and present during a conflict so
present during a conflict so e
present during a conflict so our focus
present during a conflict so R oI E Y
present during a conflict so our focus has been sure that
our focus has been sure that )
our focus has been sure that GG TN
our focus has been sure that the government can continue to
GG R L TR (Nl
GG R L TR NN ICA
the government can continue to provide key, essential
provide key, essential U
provide key, essential (% ELa I E]g
provide key, essential services, particular pensions,
services, particular pensions, N R )
services, particular pensions, N R RN Y
services, particular pensions, transfers to vulnerable people,
transfers to vulnerable people, education and health, and its
education and health, and its own
education and health, and its TR e e
education and health, and its own services through the
education and health, and its RIS R T [ R LR ]
own services through the civil servants
own services through the civil X R 1 e
own services through the civil X R )
own services through the civil IR G E IR ]
own services through the civil servants that are working both
servants that are working both 1
servants that are working both R )
servants that are working both RO R el
servants that are working both RGN IR Tl
servants that are working both N R R LR
at the national level and local RN
at the national level and local LW EHE A
at the national level and local Y- F ] AT
at the national level and local level. Basically, we are
L R T LRI T EIU]
level. Basically, we are talking about the basics,
talking about the basics, aren’t we? Enabling Ukraine to
aren’t we? Enabling Ukraine to pay
aren’t we? Enabling Ukraine to (VA
aren’t we? Enabling Ukraine to pay its doctors, its teachers,
pay its doctors, its teachers, ite
pay its doctors, its teachers, TRt
pay its doctors, its teachers, its civil servants, all those
its civil servants, all those providing essential services,
providing essential services, as you
providing essential services, AL A
providing essential services, LR TEY\ VA1
providing essential services, CIRTRT: A T )
providing essential services, as you say. But of course,
LD ILT RIS g N as you say. But of course, we
as you say. But of course, we have
as you say. But of course, we R )
as you say. But of course, we have to think long-term as
have to think long-term as well, don’t
have to think long-term as (GRS R
have to think long-term as well, don’t we, and |, in
have to think long-term as (GRS L R PR R s
well, don’t we, and I, in terms N
well, don’t we, and I, in terms RO R
well, don’t we, and I, in terms of the farmers in Ukraine are
of the farmers in Ukraine are el
of the farmers in Ukraine are Lo Y
of the farmers in Ukraine are not able to actually plant for
not able to actually plant for )
not able to actually plant for e
not able to actually plant for the new harvest, the grain,
the new harvest, the grain, wheat
the new harvest, the grain, Y a1
the new harvest, the grain, wheat that provides essentially
wheat that provides essentially Y
wheat that provides essentially A
wheat that provides essentially PRl
wheat that provides essentially TR )
wheat that provides essentially RIS AR a0
wheat that provides essentially a lot of the world is not
a lot of the world is not leaving Ukraine because of the
leaving Ukraine because of the conflict.
leaving Ukraine because of the o ai el
leaving Ukraine because of the conflict. The outlook
leaving Ukraine because of the a8 e e &g et
leaving Ukraine because of the ot PNt R Tt maas s
conflict. The outlook from that perspective
conflict. The outlook from that AN AR L8 2
conflict. The outlook from that perspective is very bad, isn’t
perspective is very bad, isn’t it? Yes, you are absolutely
t? Yes, you are absolutely a8
t? Yes, you are absolutely right, and one of the key
right, and one of the key reasons
right, and one of the key I R e
right, and one of the key reasons for this
right, and one of the key IR R R e 4
LI ARL LR N R G R G reasons for this dark outlook
reasons for this dark outlook e
reasons for this dark outlook AT
reasons for this dark outlook I
reasons for this dark outlook TR R 4
reasons for this dark outlook for Ukraine is not because
reasons for this dark outlook TR R e e
for Ukraine is not because one Yy
for Ukraine is not because one Y TR )
for Ukraine Is not because one RGO e 1e
for Ukraine Is not because one RGO e R
for Ukraine Is not because one has to remember that 50% of
has to remember that 50% of 4ol ]gi
has to remember that 50% of Al
has to remember that 50% of exports in Ukraine go through
exports in Ukraine go through American
exports in Ukraine go through RS Ao e
exports in Ukraine go through American exports and is
American exports and is el EIe
American exports and Is primarily the Black Sea
American exports and is primarily the Black Sea and 90%
primarily the Black Sea and 90% of
primarily the Black Sea and 90% Wl
primarily the Black Sea and 90% of grains from Ukraine go
of grains from Ukraine go I
of grains from Ukraine go QIR
of grains from Ukraine go GIILL R ETE
of grains from Ukraine go through the Black Sea
of grains from Ukraine go QUL RO Y FE TR
of grains from Ukraine go QIR G R EE S E R LR
through the Black Sea and this 3
through the Black Sea and this )
through the Black Sea and this R
through the Black Sea and this is a very significant part of
is @ very significant part of )
is a very significant part of RIS
is a very significant part of the Ukraine economy. Also
is a very significant part of RS R L A R
the Ukraine economy. Also we have
the Ukraine economy. Also we R )
the Ukraine economy. Also we have to remember
the Ukraine economy. Also we N R RN s
the Ukraine economy. Also we Y R R NI RG]
the Ukraine economy. Also we L R R NI RGN
have to remember that where the fighting
have to remember that where the b
have to remember that where the fighting has been taking place
fighting has been taking place 3
fighting has been taking place is where 50% of
fighting has been taking place TR A T
fighting has been taking place TR LA AL
fighting has been taking place is where 50% of the GDP of
IRTH R R R G RV ) IE
IRTH R R R G RV ) Ukraine is anchored. So
[RUL SRR R G ) Ukraine is anchored. So these
Ukraine is anchored. So these Py
Ukraine is anchored. So these are really the issue is, the
are really the issue is, the LLI (N
are really the issue Is, the (I3 IR0
are really the issue Is, the logistics, the trade, but
are really the issue is, the logistics, the trade, but also
logistics, the trade, but also )
logistics, the trade, but also Rl Rl
logistics, the trade, but also Rl R E )
logistics, the trade, but also R UEI RO
logistics, the trade, but also the fact that there has been
the fact that there has been LY
the fact that there has been huge internal
QLRI G IR G R LTy huge internal displacement.
QLR TR U EI R G R huge internal displacement. As
huge internal displacement. As you
huge internal displacement. As IR GA
huge internal displacement. As you know, massive amounts of
you know, massive amounts of refugees flowing out
you know, massive amounts of LSRR LR
refugees flowing out of I
refugees flowing out of T
refugees flowing out of Ukraine, so domestic
VLRG0 Ukraine, so domestic demand has
Ukraine, so domestic demand has "
Ukraine, so domestic demand has pretty much collapsed, private
pretty much collapsed, private N3t
pretty much collapsed, private investment has
pretty much collapsed, private R R )
pretty much collapsed, private R T - i
pretty much collapsed, private investment has been cut in
pretty much collapsed, private R A A TR - e s EL
investment has been cut in half and
investment has been cut in half R )
investment has been cut in half LR G - ICER
investment has been cut in half and the areas, as | mentioned,
and the areas, as | mentioned, where the fighting has been
where the fighting has been taking place is where a big
taking place is where a big part of the economy is
part of the economy is generated. Also, it must be
generated. Also, it must be N
generated. Also, it must be noted, you mentioned enormous
noted, you mentioned enormous oElaed
noted, you mentioned enormous IR
noted, you mentioned enormous parts of Eastern
noted, you mentioned enormous IR R TR R
noted, you mentioned enormous parts of Eastern Europe will be
parts of Eastern Europe will be Tl Ela Gl
parts of Eastern Europe will be impacted significantly by this
impacted significantly by this war,
impacted significantly by this T
impacted significantly by this IR G
impacted significantly by this war, as well parts of Asia. But
war, as well parts of Asia. But vty
war, as well parts of Asia. But T -l e Tt
war, as well parts of Asia. But what about Africa
war, as well parts of Asia. But T - e LS ia [ s
war, as well parts of Asia. But N NS ia R
what about Africa and the drought they are experiencing
drought they are experiencing Y4
drought they are experiencing QLG
drought they are experiencing there? Reports coming through
there? Reports coming through today that hundreds of
today that hundreds of thousands of children are
thousands of children are facing starvation in parts of
facing starvation in parts of [Y[R
facing starvation in parts of I s )
facing starvation in parts of Africa, and this problem with
Africa, and this problem with wheat,
L[N T R TR T a1l Ry Y PR
L[N T R TR T a1l Ry wheat, with grains not
LTI N T R G T T a1 R wheat, with grains not coming
wheat, with grains not coming e
wheat, with grains not coming NS AN eI
wheat, with grains not coming NN AN - Ta s
wheat, with grains not coming NS AN N L)
out of Ukraine and also blockages of it coming out of
blockages of it coming out of Russia
blockages of it coming out of AR
blockages of it coming out of Russia are a big
blockages of it coming out of IR R LRSS
Russia are a big issue. Absolutely. Between Ukraine and
Absolutely. Between Ukraine and N
Absolutely. Between Ukraine and IR ]
Absolutely. Between Ukraine and T E IR TR N
Absolutely. Between Ukraine and T E IR TR RV R 101
Absolutely. Between Ukraine and T E IR T E VG [ L sy
Absolutely. Between Ukraine and Russia, you have about 25% of
Russia, you have about 25% of )
Russia, you have about 25% of R
Russia, you have about 25% of QR I C Twa )
Russia, you have about 25% of the wheat production in the
the wheat production in the el
the wheat production in the a1 o]
the wheat production in the eI ]
the wheat production in the eI AR g sl
the wheat production in the world and the World Bank has
world and the World Bank has ]
world and the World Bank has been quoted before, saying that
been quoted before, saying that IE
been quoted before, saying that Ukraine on its own feeds abhout
Ukraine on its own feeds about 400 million people around the
400 million people around the world, so
400 million people around the PR R 1)
400 million people around the O R G R e
400 million people around the O R R i1
400 million people around the world, so the fact that there
world, so the fact that there Py
world, so the fact that there are such supply chain
are such supply chain disruptions
are such supply chain IO I o}
are such supply chain disruptions coming out
are such supply chain IO I R T
are such supply chain disruptions coming out of these
disruptions coming out of these two significant exporters is
two significant exporters is UL
two significant exporters is causing a problem. Excuse me.
causing a problem. Excuse me. YiTae]
causing a problem. Excuse me. TR
causing a problem. Excuse me. With the current imports in
With the current imports in many
With the current imports in L E RIS
With the current imports in L E AN
With the current imports in many countries and many
many countries and many a0l ea
many countries and many countries around
many countries and many e s s
many countries and many countries around the world, in
countries arocund the world, In fact, are
countries around the world, in fact, are relying on
countries around the world, in T AR LRI Y
[ AT VN R RUSET and
fact, are relying on Ukraine and Russia for, like, 100%
IR WL RV and Russia for, like, 100% of
and Russia for, like, 100% of )
and Russia for, like, 100% of the imports, so this
and Russia for, like, 100% of ORI R R GRS
and Russia for, like, 100% of the imports, so this is a
the imports, so this is a O IR
the imports, so this is a problem. Very
the imports, so this is a (e I IR A I A
the imports, so this is a problem. Very briefly, because
problem. Very briefly, because i
problem. Very briefly, because el
problem. Very briefly, because FEhEcl
problem. Very briefly, because RELR G R
problem. Very briefly, because NIRRT
problem. Very briefly, because | can tell your voice is
| can tell your voice Is challenged a little,
| can tell your voice is challenged a little, have a
challenged a little, have a slels )4
challenged a little, have a slal Q)
challenged a little, have a il QR EL
challenged a little, have a drink of water, you
challenged a little, have a R L R L R
challenged a little, have a drink of water, you are saying
drink of water, you are saying R
drink of water, you are saying AR e el a1
drink of water, you are saying Russia’s economic football four
Russia’s economic football four X
Russia’s economic football four x 11 2%
Russia’s economic football four B IV L
Russia’s economic football four x1 2% and a
Russia’s economic football four R IV NG
Russia’s economic football four IV NG
Russia’s economic football four RV NG R A
Russia’s economic football four IV NG R A A
Russia’s economic football four I NG R A AR
x11.2% and a lot of it s to )
x11.2% and a lot of it s to do with
x 11.2% and a lot of it is to do with sanctions
x11.2% and a lot of it s to do with sanctions placed
x11.2% and a lot of it is to R UETI s Fe e Ry
do with sanctions placed on SE]
do with sanctions placed on O E R A
do with sanctions placed on R AR I O
VS E N A E L T VA vty
Russia currently? Absolutely, what we’re seeing
Russia currently? Absolutely, O E SN Y YA
Russia currently? Absolutely, what we’re seeing as this is
LUCIRL N RN LR 4 [ )
LUCIRL N RN LR 4 [ G CAEIO[d
what we’re seeing as this Is the largest co-ordinated
the largest co-ordinated economic
the largest co-ordinated e el a1 o Ta e Al Ta 1]
the largest co-ordinated economic sanctions pretty in
economic sanctions pretty in modern
economic sanctions pretty in R
economic sanctions pretty in LR ]
economic sanctions pretty in LG R TR s
economic sanctions pretty in modern times so our outlook for
modern times so our outlook for Russia is
modern times so our outlook for EIERR
modern times so our outlook for HIIEREN [ T
modern times so our outlook for Russia is right now but it will
Russia is right now but it will e alagIne
Russia is right now but it will contract by
Russia is right now but it will g W o1 1018
Russia is right now but it will contract by about 11.2%
Russia is right now but it will W R L R AT )
contract by about 11.2% and this
contract by about 11.2% and G
contract by about 11.2% and this is of course again being
this is of course again being driven
this is of course again being IR
this is of course again being driven by a huge drop in
driven by a huge drop in demand, demestically but also
demand, domestically but also uncertainty
demand, demestically but also uncertainty going forward.
uncertainty going forward. ]
uncertainty going forward. Russia has businesses that have
Russia has businesses that have N
Russia has businesses that have IR )
Russia has businesses that have closed, we don’t know what will
closed, we don’t know what will come
closed, we don’t know what will s
closed, we don’t know what will N S d]
closed, we don’t know what will i S A R a1
closed, we don’t know what will i A R e R
closed, we don’t know what will come next in terms of sanctions
come next in terms of sanctions and Russia also is
come next in terms of sanctions LU ER R R T EG N
come next in terms of sanctions and Russia also is trading with
and Russia also Is trading with Y
and Russia also Is trading with A
and Russia also Is trading with A
and Russia also is trading with a lot of countries in
and Russia also is trading with RIS R e e e R R s
a lot of countries in the CHI
a lot of countries in the region and with those countries
region and with those countries being hugely affected as well,
being hugely affected as well, demand goes down in those
demand goes down in those a0l ea
demand goes down in those e
demand goes down in those LR Il
demand goes down in those R -G
demand goes down in those countries as well. Anna Bjerde,
countries as well. Anna Bjerde, thank you so much, World Bank’s
thank you so much, World Bank’s Vice President for Europe
thank you so much, World Bank’s e S A I O L
Vice President for Europe and et
Vice President for Europe and e h eI E
Vice President for Europe and central Asia. Thank you
Vice President for Europe and NN G L SRS
central Asia. Thank you for having
central Asia. Thank you for ENL RS
Elon Musk has decided not to join the board of Twitter.
The world’s richest man was due to be appointment
to the position after he purchase of 9.2% of the social
media company for $3.7 billion.
In a statement on the social media platform, Twitter’s CEO
Parag Agrawal said that Elon, the company’s biggest
shareholder, had decided not to join the board
and that he believes AR R N
interests of the company.
Musk is a frequent tweeter B Rl T
followers and was due IR A U I
at an upcoming meeting.
We will keep an eye on what he tweets
We will keep an eye on what he W
Now, to France where, as you’ve been hearing,
Emmanuel Macron has won R IR R R (el ]s
and far-right rival Marine Le Pen will fight him
for the presidency TR e s RalaiY
Le Pen has won support by focusing on the rising cost
RN AT Rl o which is impacting voters
across the political spectrum.
Meanwhile, the pandemic has left Macron’s government
with little cash on hand after it spent heavily
to support businesses through the crisis.
we’ll be live to Paris in a moment for an expert view
on what’s at stake but first, this report from Theo Leggett.
The restaurant occupies one of )
The restaurant occupies one of R
The restaurant occupies one of IR
The restaurant occupies one of the most famous mediaeval
the most famous mediaeval buildings in Strasbourg.
buildings in Strasbourg. Inside,
buildings in Strasbourg. N
buildings in Strasbourg. Inside, chefs are getting ready
Inside, chefs are getting ready e
Inside, chefs are getting ready TR
Inside, chefs are getting ready for the lunchtime
Inside, chefs are getting ready T N e le s dle - e
Inside, chefs are getting ready TR N e LS
for the lunchtime rush. This I ET
for the lunchtime rush. This place has always been very
place has always been very popular
place has always been very oL T EIRI 4]
place has always been very popular with tourists who bring
popular with tourists who bring in
popular with tourists who bring TR o e[|
popular with tourists who bring B e R s
popular with tourists who bring R e B e a0t 4
popular with tourists who bring in much-needed income. But at
in much-needed income. But at )
in much-needed income. But at QG
in much-needed income. But at the height of
in much-needed income. But at QD R
in much-needed income. But at the height of the Covid
the height of the Covid pandemic, it had to close and
pandemic, it had to close and Y
pandemic, it had to close and when it reopened, tourist
LA RN L R T e il
when it reopened, tourist traffic had disappeared. The
traffic had disappeared. The I3 GI: 14
traffic had disappeared. The restaurant was open
traffic had disappeared. The (R ENEN R Ul e
traffic had disappeared. The restaurant was open but we
restaurant was open but we still
restaurant was open but we B
restaurant was open but we AR R s
restaurant was open but we SRR R e o
restaurant was open but we still missed our tourists, our
still missed our tourists, our I3 o
still missed our tourists, our Il e Tl g
still missed our tourists, our visitors, it takes a
still missed our tourists, our TR R L R R
still missed our tourists, our visitors, it takes a lot of
visitors, it takes a lot of LIV
visitors, it takes a lot of O
visitors, it takes a lot of IR
visitors, it takes a lot of groups as well. Mainly from
groups as well. Mainly from Asia,
groups as well. Mainly from IR ()4
groups as well. Mainly from Asia, for example. So you can
Asia, for example. So you can imagine that those groups were
imagine that those groups were just
imagine that those groups were M0
imagine that those groups were just not here for the last 2.5
Just not here for the last 2.5 years. It
just not here for the last 2.5 years. It survived through a
years. It survived through a S i)
years. It survived through a AR e
years. It survived through a time when many other
time when many other LA GG
time when many other NG IG R e
time when many other ARG NG IR e
time when many other restaurants went out of
restaurants went out of business
restaurants went out of R L
restaurants went out of N R e
restaurants went out of N LR R
restaurants went out of R LR R e
business and tourists are now AR
business and tourists are now returning. That isn’t
business and tourists are now returning. That isn’t just
business and tourists are now returning. That isn’t just good
returning. That isn’t just good news for restaurants. Smiles
news for restaurants. Smiles Py
news for restaurants. Smiles are returning
news for restaurants. Smiles EICH OGN D S
news for restaurants. Smiles are returning as well over at
are returning as well over at )
CLCNE TGN R ERTEE CT the Strasberg national
CICE OGN ER T T the Strasberg national theatre,
the Strasberg national theatre, o]
the Strasberg national theatre, tickets for tonight’s
tickets for tonight’s performance
tickets for tonight’s N R
tickets for tonight’s R N R G
tickets for tonight’s performance have been selling
performance have been selling N
performance have been selling well. Audiences initially seen
well. Audiences initially seen Tee I8t
well. Audiences Initially seen from and to come back but now,
from and te come back but now, Tl
from and te come back but now, GRS
from and to come back but now, that is changing. The Covid
IR ELT I AR R e
that is changing. The Covid R a1 ]
that is changing. The Covid iR
that is changing. The Covid crisis came as a
that is changing. The Covid W] IR T [
that is changing. The Covid crisis came as a huge shock for
crisis came as a huge shock for France’s
crisis came as a huge shock for A e To- R Batlketle]
crisis came as a huge shock for France’s cultural sector. This
France’s cultural sector. This e
France’s cultural sector. This TR
France’s cultural sector. This theatre, for example, was empty
theatre, for example, was empty and
theatre, for example, was empty R )
theatre, for example, was empty LR R
theatre, for example, was empty DR R R )
theatre, for example, was empty R R LR R L = e ]
and the seats were unoccupied e
and the seats were unoccupied T e ]
and the seats were unoccupied T e s a]
and the seats were unoccupied for more than a year but now,
for more than a year but now, things
for more than a year but now, IR
for more than a year but now, things are getting back to
things are getting back to el
things are getting back to normal and crowds are returning
normal and crowds are returning e
normal and crowds are returning nNnaie
normal and crowds are returning N s [
normal and crowds are returning but it does not mean
normal and crowds are returning N s N e R
normal and crowds are returning but it does not mean there are
but it does not mean there are s
but it does not mean there are R
but it does not mean there are not still severe challenges
not still severe challenges ahead.
not still severe challenges LTSGR
not still severe challenges ahead. TRANSLATION: There are
ahead. TRANSLATION: There are a1
ahead. TRANSLATION: There are certainly challenges, mainly
certainly challenges, mainly how to
certainly challenges, mainly Y R e Re o010l
certainly challenges, mainly TR R Tl R
certainly challenges, mainly how to rebuild in a lasting
how to rebuild in a lasting "
how to rebuild in a lasting way. We learned during the
way. We learned during the e
way. We learned during the AR
way. We learned during the R R )
way. We learned during the ARG R GRS
way. We learned during the crisis that the public makes a
crisis that the public makes a ey
crisis that the public makes a choice to come
crisis that the public makes a e R R iR
crisis that the public makes a e RN RN
crisis that the public makes a e RNt R NI i
choice to come to us but over )
choice to come to us but over QR
choice to come to us but over the past couple of years, they
the past couple of years, they have
the past couple of years, they Y R i)
the past couple of years, they Y R R
the past couple of years, they have learned to enjoy other
have learned to enjoy other things
have learned to enjoy other QI
have learned to enjoy other things so we have to work extra
things so we have to work extra hard to make sure they maintain
hard to make sure they maintain e
hard to make sure they maintain e
hard to make sure they maintain their interest in
hard to make sure they maintain AR AR
hard to make sure they maintain AR RANE R
hard to make sure they maintain AR RANR W R
their interest in what we do. Restaurants, theatres and
Restaurants, theatres and I 018 i 1]
Restaurants, theatres and SR
Restaurants, theatres and NI R R LN
Restaurants, theatres and museums were heavily supported
museums were heavily supported -
museums were heavily supported I
museums were heavily supported by state funding during the
by state funding during the i
by state funding during the AR L
by state funding during the crisis. Their reopening has
crisis. Their reopening has Nl
crisis. Their reopening has been a major factor in the
been a major factor in the country’s economic
been a major factor in the country’s econemic recovery.
country’s economic recovery. {04
country’s economic recovery. But to
country’s economic recovery. NIRRT 0]
country’s economic recovery. But to ensure the
country’s economic recovery. R RN R O R I8
But to ensure the recovery last, France has also committed
last, France has also committed to
last, France has also committed ]
last, France has also committed to a massive investment
to a massive investment ORIEIUES
to a massive investment DIl S
to a massive investment programme. It will focus on
programme. It will focus on I YTy
programme. It will focus on areas such as clean energy and
areas such as clean energy and ey
areas such as clean energy and green public transport
green public transport projects. The sectors most
projects. The sectors most P sl
projects. The sectors most affected by the pandemic crisis
affected by the pandemic crisis ey
affected by the pandemic crisis were industry, construction,
were industry, construction, Qe 01eLat ]
were industry, construction, e e Rt bl
were industry, construction, tourism culture. So, it was the
tourism culture. So, it was the main focus in
tourism culture. So, it was the EIRR SR R
tourism culture. So, it was the main focus in the short run.
main focus in the short run. e
main focus in the short run. But with this
main focus in the short run. NG RGITRGN)
main focus in the short run. But with this long run, public
But with this long run, public investment,
But with this long run, public T PR 0
But with this long run, public investment, other activities
investment, other activities il
investment, other activities IR i
investment, other activities will benefit. Covid recovery
will benefit. Covid recovery T
will benefit. Covid recovery [ EEIE T
will benefit. Covid recovery EEICE L A3 e
will benefit. Covid recovery has already cost France dearly.
has already cost France dearly. 1
has already cost France dearly. Public finances
has already cost France dearly. Rl el e R e s d
has already cost France dearly. Public finances under strain.
Public finances under strain. In the run-up
Public finances under strain. HRGEROLRI R
Public finances under strain. In the run-up to the election,
In the run-up to the election, 1R
In the run-up to the election, IR e
In the run-up to the election, IR R
In the run-up to the election, all candidates set up their
all candidates set up their (o] =]
all candidates set up their recipes for future spending.
recipes for future spending. Now, those that remain have to
Now, those that remain have to ey
Now, those that remain have to e )
Now, those that remain have to convince the public
Now, those that remain have to SRR D (TR F1
Now, those that remain have to convince the public that the
convince the public that the o
convince the public that the [ o s
convince the public that the delicacies on offer
convince the public that the Nl R e i
convince the public that the Al R R it (a1
delicacies on offer will not come with an unaffoerdable
delicacies on offer will not come with an unaffordable bill.
Theo Leggett, BBC News.
Joining me now is Tomasz Michalski, associate professor
of economics and decision sciences at HEC business
Good morning to you. Good nIGIE
Good morning to you. Good NS
Good morning to you. Good NI SR (L
Good morning to you. Good morning. Let’s talk about the
morning. Let’s talk about the outcome
morning. Let’s talk about the e N
morning. Let’s talk about the outcome of this
morning. Let’s talk about the e R Rl
morning. Let’s talk about the e R GICR il de T A
morning. Let’s talk about the outcome of this first round. It
outcome of this first round. It S
outcome of this first round. It AR
outcome of this first round. It AN
outcome of this first round. It looks like, of course, Emmanuel
looks like, of course, Emmanuel Macron is right up against
Macron is right up against L ETRN )
Macron is right up against RN AN ]
Macron is right up against RN AN sl
Macron is right up against N AN s i 4
Macron is right up against RN AN LR A
Macron is right up against N A N s B a1
Marine Le Pen and it is not alxld
Marine Le Pen and it is not clear what the outcome will
Marine Le Pen and it is not clear what the ocutcome will be.
clear what the outcome will be. ey
clear what the outcome will be. Y 0]
clear what the outcome will be. R TR
clear what the outcome will be. What are your thoughts? Indeed,
What are your thoughts? Indeed, Y
What are your thoughts? Indeed, we have a rematch from 2017 but
we have a rematch from 2017 but this time, Marine Le Pen is
this time, Marine Le Pen is much
this time, Marine Le Pen Is much more likely to win.
this time, Marine Le Pen is T R CA R L s
much more likely to win. For urll
much more likely to win. For many reasons. First of all,
many reasons. First of all, Macron
many reasons. First of all, s B3
many reasons. First of all, Macron is no longer
many reasons. First of all, TR R VR L [T
many reasons. First of all, Macron is no longer a maverick
Macron is no longer a maverick e
Macron is no longer a maverick new candidate.
Macron is no longer a maverick TR T )
Macron is no longer a maverick R I e
Macron is no longer a maverick new candidate. He has to
Macron is no longer a maverick R R TR s s
new candidate. He has to defend his legacy. Second of all,
his legacy. Second of all, L ETRN )
his legacy. Second of all, RN AN ]
his legacy. Second of all, Marine Le Pen skilfully
Marine Le Pen skilfully e )
Marine Le Pen skilfully e R e
Marine Le Pen skilfully e R )
Marine Le Pen skilfully e e R RN E
concentrated over the last w11 )
concentrated over the last couple of months on the biggest
couple of months on the biggest issue of this election, the
Issue of this election, the cost
Issue of this election, the e
issue of this election, the A ARG
issue of this election, the A A LR
issue of this election, the cost of living, the rising
cost of Living, the rising costs
ARG ARG LN N
ARG ARG LN RN
ARG ARG LN costs of living, and
A L ARG LR costs of living, and Macron was
costs of living, and Macron was Y
costs of living, and Macron was PR ey
costs of living, and Macron was a little bit aloof, staying
a little bit aloof, staying LN
a little bit aloof, staying away from the fray and also
away from the fray and also preoccupied with the current
preoccupied with the current NI E e
preoccupied with the current international situation with
international situation with )
international situation with the war in Ukraine. She has
the war in Ukraine. She has very much softened her image
very much softened her image Ll
very much softened her image ETa s )
very much softened her image and, as you
very much softened her image AR TR
very much softened her image and, as you say, she has gained
and, as you say, she has gained LY
and, as you say, she has gained huge momentum in the last few
huge momentum in the last few Y N
huge momentum in the last few Y IR
huge momentum in the last few Y IRl
huge momentum in the last few weeks, so if the outcome is
weeks, so If the outcome is | alaT)
weeks, so If the outcome Is Marine Le
weeks, so If the outcome Is PRI
weeks, so If the outcome Is R R
weeks, so If the outcome Is Marine Le Pen, if she were
weeks, so If the outcome is Marine Le Pen, if she were to
Marine Le Pen, if she were to win, what does it mean for
win, what does it mean for ST a]e )
win, what does it mean for ST e e -1 ]
win, what does it mean for ST AR
win, what does it mean for France and the econemy?
win, what does it mean for France and the econoemy? The
France and the economy? The e
France and the economy? The first thing to
AN R QR A T first thing to watch would be
first thing to watch would be Y Y R ]
first thing to watch would be N Y R R
first thing to watch would be T Y R R )
first thing to watch would be T Y R e RN Tl dee i)
first thing to watch would be T R e R e Tleee et
what would be the outcome of )
what would be the outcome of the parliamentary elections
the parliamentary elections T )
the parliamentary elections because that
the parliamentary elections TR R )
the parliamentary elections YN R IR R - E ]
because that would mean Y G
because that would mean weather, it’s
because that would mean Y GG PR )
because that would mean weather, it’s not clear whether
weather, it’s not clear whether | alaT)
weather, it’s not clear whether Marine Le Pen’s
weather, it’s not clear whether Marine Le Pen’s party
weather, it’s not clear whether Marine Le Pen’s party would,
weather, it’s not clear whether Marine Le Pen’s party would, in
Marine Le Pen’s party would, in fact, when the majority. So, we
fact, when the majority. So, we feTI0!
fact, when the majority. So, we TSR]
fact, when the majority. So, we could have a cohabitation
could have a cohabitation government which would
government which would g\
government which would SV
government which would T e AU
government which would seriously affect the policies
seriously affect the policies i)
seriously affect the policies R 010l
seriously affect the policies iR T GRLdl
seriously affect the policies she could instill but
she could instill but NI
she could instill but N A TS
she could instill but generally, she would not have a
generally, she would not have a e
generally, she would not have a N
generally, she would not have a AR R
generally, she would not have a lot of reforms, continuing
lot of reforms, continuing Macron’s stance, that she would
Macron’s stance, that she would YT
Macron’s stance, that she would probably try to increase the
probably try to increase the D =S|
probably try to increase the purchasing power of people by
purchasing power of people by N
purchasing power of people by lowering the VAT
purchasing power of people by IR G YR PN
purchasing power of people by RO R E C-
lowering the VAT taxes, re- nationalising motorways and
nationalising motorways and e
nationalising motorways and boost public spending. It’s
boost public spending. It’s "
boost public spending. It’s not, frankly, obvious how she
not, frankly, obvious how she o
not, frankly, obvious how she would pay for that, though. And
would pay for that, though. And vty
would pay for that, though. And T I
would pay for that, though. And what has Emanuel Macron got to
what has Emanuel Macron got to )
what has Emanuel Macron got to R ]
what has Emanuel Macron got to R L el
what has Emanuel Macron got to R TN |
what has Emanuel Macron got to R N R )
what has Emanuel Macron got to R N N e s
do between now and the next Y
do between now and the next vote? First of all, he has to
vote? First of all, he has to campaign very hard, there is a
campaign very hard, there is a R )
campaign very hard, there is a debate in between, last
debate in between, last election cycle in 2017, the
election cycle in 2017, the debate
election cycle in 2017, the R
election cycle in 2017, the debate was pretty decisive, the
debate was pretty decisive, the pen
debate was pretty decisive, the IR EH
debate was pretty decisive, the pen was crushed, we will see
pen was crushed, we will see how
pen was crushed, we will see R
pen was crushed, we will see how this works this time. She
how this works this time. She has
how this works this time. She TR 1]
how this works this time. She has some very good arguments
has some very good arguments against Macron about hollowing
against Macron about hollowing )
against Macron about hollowing ey
against Macron about hollowing e N
against Macron about hollowing R R
against Macron about hollowing the role of the state, taking
the role of the state, taking el
QLRGN RO LR ELCR LI T him over
QLRGN RO LR ELCR LI T R IE ]
QLRGN RO LR ELCR LI T him over the healthcare
the role of the state, taking him over the healthcare system,
him over the healthcare system, I gwlats]
him over the healthcare system, outsourcing services and
him over the healthcare system, IS [ L R[S L L 1
outsourcing services and also )
outsourcing services and also e )
outsourcing services and also the cost of living, the cost of
the cost of living, the cost of energy,
the cost of living, the cost of NG I
the cost of living, the cost of energy, cost of food. That is
energy, cost of food. That is L
energy, cost of food. That is going to appeal to really, the
going to appeal to really, the e
going to appeal to really, the lower classes. This is a class
lower classes. This Is a class war
lower classes. This is a class Il E e 1
lower classes. This is a class Tl R (VR %1
lower classes. This is a class war basically that we will see.
war basically that we will see. [ FTugeln]
war basically that we will see. Macren on
war basically that we will see. Macron on the
war basically that we will see. Y P et R e s e
war basically that we will see. Macron on the other hand has to
Macron on the other hand has to NG
Macron on the other hand has to provide his credentials as a
provide his credentials as a e
provide his credentials as a reformer, trying to
provide his credentials as a SR R R\ e
reformer, trying to convince TG
reformer, trying to convince people that he is not arrogant
people that he is not arrogant and
people that he is not arrogant RO R
people that he is not arrogant and also, stress that an
and also, stress that an election
and also, stress that an el e R 2
and also, stress that an election of Marine
and also, stress that an A i R A )
and also, stress that an election of Marine Le Pen will
election of Marine Le Pen will Ty
election of Marine Le Pen will have major consequences for
have major consequences for Europe,
have major consequences for Y PR 1)
have major consequences for D ROl
have major consequences for D R G R AN
have major consequences for D RO AL T
have major consequences for Europe, the war in Ukraine and
Europe, the war in Ukraine and )
Europe, the war in Ukraine and ARt
Europe, the war in Ukraine and RN N
Europe, the war in Ukraine and RN AL FLC R
Europe, the war in Ukraine and the future of Nato, also of
the future of Nato, also of e[}
the future of Nato, also of trade deals
the future of Nato, also of DR LR
the future of Nato, also of trade deals and, really, the
trade deals and, really, the )
trade deals and, really, the T R ttetle)
trade deals and, really, the T R ttetle N
trade deals and, really, the whole future of France for
whole future of France for years
whole future of France for EEIER ()
whole future of France for years to come. We
whole future of France for R R IR Rl
whole future of France for years to come. We will have to
years to come. We will have to R
years to come. We will have to YN
years to come. We will have to R R )
years to come. We will have to P N R e N 0L
years to come. We will have to R R N
RN G T 4 E[
leave it there but it’s absolutely fascinating how this
absolutely fascinating how this 3
absolutely fascinating how this is unfolding. Tomasz Michalski,
is unfolding. Tomasz Michalski, thank you. Thank you very much.
Disruption at major UK airports is continuing ahead of another
busy weekend for travel.
Thousands of people heading abroad for the Easter holidays
have faced long queues, delays and cancellations.
Airports say they are SR NI L R i1
new staff quick enough to cope with demand and airlines have
also been hit by Covid-related staff absences.
Joining me now is aviation consultant John Strickland.
Bring this up to speed. How has e
Bring this up to speed. How has T )
Bring this up to speed. How has it been in
Bring this up to speed. How has TR TN E
Bring this up to speed. How has AU E G N
Bring this up to speed. How has TR NI R R
Bring this up to speed. How has it been in the last few days?
Bring this up to speed. How has it been in the last few days?
it been in the last few days? We have seen some improvement
We have seen some improvement over
We have seen some improvement N E )
We have seen some improvement over the weekend.
We have seen some improvement RO I Ch R
We have seen some improvement NI R R T Y
over the weekend. While there Ty
over the weekend. While there have been hundreds
over the weekend. While there N T s le s LR d
over the weekend. While there have been hundreds of flights
have been hundreds of flights S (N
have been hundreds of flights cancelled, most preamp ably by
cancelled, most preamp ably by Y lAs]
cancelled, most preamp ably by LA
cancelled, most preamp ably by NV
cancelled, most preamp ably by British Airways and easyjet,
I W E VRN DR [ )
British Airways and easyJet, QRO
British Airways and easyJet, the running of most UK airports
the running of most UK airports T
the running of most UK airports has been
the running of most UK airports YR R Els
the running of most UK airports has been far more smooth, lines
has been far more smooth, lines have
has been far more smooth, lines TR
has been far more smooth, lines R ke
has been far more smooth, lines have been shorter. We should
have been shorter. We should this
have been shorter. We should G
have been shorter. We should this is not
have been shorter. We should IR T 31118
have been shorter. We should IR ST AT
have been shorter. We should this is not simply UK problem,
G IERER (S T VAV @Il e
this is not simply UK problem, other airports, Scandinavia,
other airports, Scandinavia, )
other airports, Scandinavia, EE Y i}
other airports, Scandinavia, E Y s R 1)
other airports, Scandinavia, also reporting the same
also reporting the same challenges. The recruitment was
challenges. The recruitment was el
challenges. The recruitment was Lo Y
challenges. The recruitment was not able to
challenges. The recruitment was L RO
challenges. The recruitment was not able to be completed what
not able to be completed what Ty
not able to be completed what was required to be
not able to be completed what LN R N R L)
not able to be completed what was required to be done in
was required to be done in s
was required to be done in R R e ]
was required to be done in R RO LR
was required to be done in terms of checking our people
terms of checking our people security clearance prior to
security clearance prior to January could be done more
January could be done more [P
January could be done more I v
January could be done more [ VI Nihe
January could be done more [T LA T
January could be done more lesson 24 hours by uploading
lesson 24 hours by uploading s st ol
lesson 24 hours by uploading documents. That
lesson 24 hours by uploading st IR L R A
lesson 24 hours by uploading documents. That is taking weeks
documents. That is taking weeks )
documents. That is taking weeks R
documents. That is taking weeks X RO T [
documents. That is taking weeks so the government is
so the government is contributing to the challenge.
contributing to the challenge. LT T
contributing to the challenge. L N e
contributing to the challenge. Airlines are wrestling with
Airlines are wrestling with high levels
Airlines are wrestling with L Y
Airlines are wrestling with high levels of sick must and
high levels of sick must and €]
high levels of sick must and Covid with staff
high levels of sick must and VIR ORI
high levels of sick must and IR G R E Y
high levels of sick must and Covid with staff and where they
Covid with staff and where they planned buffers usually with
planned buffers usually with el
planned buffers usually with N E B G T
planned buffers usually with N EE (G IR G
planned buffers usually with normal sickness, they haven’t
normal sickness, they haven’t T
normal sickness, they haven’t Ll
normal sickness, they haven’t L )
normal sickness, they haven’t been able to keep up with that.
been able to keep up with that. G
been able to keep up with that. IR
been able to keep up with that. This is not
been able to keep up with that. LR ]
been able to keep up with that. This is not going to be able to
This is not going to be able to go through sadly the next
go through sadly the next w11 )
go through sadly the next couple of weeks. Given bringing
couple of weeks. Given bringing us up
couple of weeks. Given bringing TR R T )
couple of weeks. Given bringing R AL
couple of weeks. Given bringing N R T e R R I
couple of weeks. Given bringing N R e AR IR 1L
us up to speed in more detall ]
us up to speed in more detall ]
us up to speed in more detail MEAO R e
us up to speed in more detail MR
us up to speed in more detail RO L R
us up to speed in more detail RO I R VLG
on the website. If you are travelling, do take a look. So
travelling, do take a look. So much more to
travelling, do take a look. So e s Ba e e el at:]
travelling, do take a look. So much more to come on
travelling, do take a look. So Rl Ba i e RN el e
travelling, do take a look. So much more to come on BBC News._
UK chemicals giant Ineos says
it wants to have a go at fracking,
but is drilling for more fossil fuels
the best way to bring down energy prices?
This is BBC World News.
As Ukraine prepares for a massive Russian attack
in the east, President Zelensky tells CBS he’s
prepared to give his HER A TR
Emmanuel Macron appears to have triumphed in the first
ballot of the French presidential election,
but he’ll face stiff SRR F G R
R e e round.
Turning to China, where there E3 (RN LRI
for the lockdown in Shanghai.
Some 25 million residents have been under quarantine measures
And in the last few hours we’ve had some economic data ocut
of China that gives us an indication of if any of this
s impacting the economy.
Joining me now from our Asian Business hub is the BR(C’s
Joao Da Silva.
This data seems to reflect the mounting challenges that the
mounting challenges that the ey
mounting challenges that the world’s second-largest economy
world’s second-largest economy 3
world’s second-largest economy FRETh N
world’s second-largest economy is facing. Factory gate prices
s facing. Factory gate prices have
s facing. Factory gate prices U]
s facing. Factory gate prices Y N R e
s facing. Factory gate prices have risen more than expected
have risen more than expected in March which is why oil
in March which is why oll i)
in March which is why oll IR GG
in March which is why oll prices were going up
in March which is why oll QIR L LT R
in March which is why oil prices were going up in Ukraine
prices were going up in Ukraine and also
prices were going up in Ukraine NG G R e o
prices were going up in Ukraine GG R e o s
prices were going up in Ukraine and also factories in China
and also factories in China ey
and also factories in China were struggling
and also factories in China LR
and also factories in China were struggling to operate
were struggling to operate under strict Covid lockdowns.
under strict Covid lockdowns. Consumer
under strict Covid lockdowns. GO A
under strict Covid lockdowns. GOl R EL ]
under strict Covid lockdowns. G- F S
Consumer price inflation has Nl
Consumer price inflation has R ]
Consumer price inflation has risen more than expected, a
risen more than expected, a (B
risen more than expected, a B S
risen more than expected, a 1-point side -- 1.5 cent jump
1-point side -- 1.5 cent jump may not seem like much but you
may not seem like much but you need to take into account
may not seem like much but you R e nne Tla ]
need to take into account here )
need to take into account here the dampening effect of those
the dampening effect of those e
the dampening effect of those sy el
the dampening effect of those lot downs on
the dampening effect of those P R R e s
the dampening effect of those lot downs on demand across the
lot downs on demand across the Cis’A
lot downs on demand across the I ig" A
lot downs on demand across the country. A reminder here that
country. A reminder here that )
country. A reminder here that the lockdown in Shanghai has
the lockdown in Shanghai has ]
the lockdown in Shanghai has RS ACUD R
the lockdown in Shanghai has been extended, 26 million
been extended, 26 millien TG
been extended, 26 million people remain stuck at home and
people remain stuck at home and vty
people remain stuck at home and e
people remain stuck at home and what is one of China’s
people remain stuck at home and what is one of China’s biggest
what is one of China’s biggest and most
what is one of China’s biggest RS S
what is one of China’s biggest and most prosperous cities and
and most prosperous cities and )
and most prosperous cities and I
and most prosperous cities and QIR
and most prosperous cities and QIR
and most prosperous cities and there are signs of trouble
there are signs of trouble N
there are signs of trouble elsewhere. In Guangzhou, 18
elsewhere. In Guangzhou, 18 Y]
elsewhere. In Guangzhou, 18 millien people
elsewhere. In Guangzhou, 18 million people are about to be
million people are about to be A
million people are about to be RGO E Y]
million people are about to be RO NN e s
million people are about to be RO NN a1 0 R
tested because a handful of cases
tested because a handful of IR Rl
tested because a handful of I R R GG R )
tested because a handful of I R R ORI e N0
tested because a handful of I R RGN R
cases were found there but the G
IRV TR G TR T [ Chinese government is
cases were found there but the Chinese government is actively
Chinese government is actively aYihl]
Chinese government is actively R
Chinese government is actively g R ORI
Chinese government is actively RGBT
Chinese government is actively trying to cushion the blow from
trying to cushion the blow from ey
trying to cushion the blow from these policies on the economy.
these policies on the economy. T
these policies on the economy. LG
these policies on the economy. [ LR T )
these policies on the economy. [ LRI T G R
It’s already announced an Riee )
It’s already announced an increase in fiscal spending
It’s already announced an IR LR LI L
increase in fiscal spending and )
increase In fiscal spending and also tax cuts
increase In fiscal spending and IR Rl Rie
increase In fiscal spending and I R Rl R e g
also tax cuts for smaller NI
also tax cuts for smaller enterprises but as long as this
enterprises but as long as this pandemic wave keeps spreading,
pandemic wave keeps spreading, )
pandemic wave keeps spreading, the outlook
pandemic wave keeps spreading, ATl e it ld
pandemic wave keeps spreading, the outlook for the
pandemic wave keeps spreading, T R R R Y
the outlook for the Chinese g
the outlook for the Chinese economy will remain highly
economy will remain highly e e1:)]
economy will remain highly IR )
G RT RS wants to build a fracking test
site to show the process can be performed safely.
The company claimed extracting shale gas in the UK could make
the country "self-sufficient RREIA
The firm has written RGO N T
G ST GRS N with its boss Sir Jim Ratcliffe
saying such a move would "reduce the cost of energy”
and ensure "long-term energy independence”.
Joining me now is Marc Ostwald TR NS E e a1
and Global Strategist at ADM R e A T E |
sl
good to talk to you.
good to talk te you. This
good to talk to you. This is hot on
good to talk to you. This is R NEG N
good to talk to you. This is AR R
good to talk to you. This is ARG N A
good to talk to you. This is RGN R A &
hot on the heels of the UK’s N
hot on the heels of the UK’s energy strategy coming out last
energy strategy coming out last Vs
energy strategy coming out last YR V14
energy strategy coming out last week. What do you reckon, will
week. What do you reckon, will N
week. What do you reckon, will Ineos he
week. What do you reckon, will Ineos be given
week. What do you reckon, will SR IR
week. What do you reckon, will Ineos be given the green light?
Ineos be given the green light? i
Ineos be given the green light? ELhTe
Ineos be given the green light? EG T
Ineos be given the green light? B R R )
Ineos be given the green light? BV R e i la]
I think it’s more than likely that
I think it’s more than likely GE R
I think it’s more than likely that they probably will but in
that they probably will but in s
that they probably will but in R ROV
that they probably will but in terms of actually solving the
terms of actually solving the current energy price problem
current energy price problem that
current energy price problem B
current energy price problem IRV
that we have, both for e
that we have, both for N |
that we have, both for consumers and businesses, this
consumers and businesses, this s
consumers and businesses, this isa
consumers and businesses, this R
consumers and businesses, this is a very long distance
s a very long distance prospect.
s a very long distance o[ Tu i 4
s a very long distance prospect. It will take five
prospect. It will take five years
prospect. It will take five LR g 118
prospect. It will take five years probably to develop and
years probably to develop and N e
years probably to develop and another 5-10 years to basically
another 5-10 years to basically AR
another 5-10 years to basically deliver so
another 5-10 years to basically N
another 5-10 years to basically deliver so it doesn’t
another 5-10 years to basically deliver so it doesn’t really
deliver so it doesn’t really s le
deliver so it doesn’t really e R R R
deliver so it doesn’t really address the immediate energy
address the immediate energy 0 I
address the immediate energy problems at
address the immediate energy [
address the immediate energy problems at all. Wide when it
problems at all. Wide when it comes to
problems at all. Wide when it R R
problems at all. Wide when it comes to the idea
problems at all. Wide when it R N R
problems at all. Wide when it comes to the idea of fracking,
comes to the idea of fracking, to
comes to the idea of fracking, R i s
comes to the idea of fracking, A Ta s EL
comes to the idea of fracking, RIS e EER i)
comes to the idea of fracking, to extract gas from shale, this
to extract gas from shale, this 3
to extract gas from shale, this is something that was discussed
s something that was discussed in much
s something that was discussed RR iR
s something that was discussed in much detail and
s something that was discussed RN s e s ]
s something that was discussed in much detail and then shelved
in much detail and then shelved ”
in much detail and then shelved by the
in much detail and then shelved R Il
in much detail and then shelved by the UK government where is
by the UK government where is of
by the UK government where is R
by the UK government where is SR IR ]
by the UK government where is of course in the US, we
by the UK government where is R - R R R R R
by the UK government where is of course in the US, we see a
of course in the US, we see a thriving industry there are now
thriving industry there are now )
thriving industry there are now the situation
thriving industry there are now I R i)
thriving industry there are now the situation with Russia,
the situation with Russia, 0
the situation with Russia, energy prices
the situation with Russia, G ENCI RS N
the situation with Russia, energy prices soaring, it is
energy prices soaring, it is 1o
energy prices soaring, it is back on
energy prices soaring, it is [l G R
energy prices soaring, it is back on the agenda, isn’t
energy prices soaring, itis back on the agenda, isn’t it?
back on the agenda, isn’t it? 3
back on the agenda, isn’t it? IO
back on the agenda, isn’t it? It’s definitely back on the
It’s definitely back on the LU
It’s definitely back on the agenda and in many senses, also
agenda and in many senses, also part of people needing to
part of people needing to T % ]
part of people needing to understand whole process of
understand whole process of L
understand whole process of going also requires a
IR D T transition and
IR D T NN R )
IR T T3] transition and we won’t be able
transition and we won’t be able to get ourselves
transition and we won’t be able R RN
transition and we won’t be able to get ourselves away from
to get ourselves away from 1 Iy
to get ourselves away from VO R O
to get ourselves away from hydrocarbon energy, which
hydrocarbon energy, which provides
hydrocarbon energy, which NP
hydrocarbon energy, which provides us with about 84%
provides us with about 84% S[LYETN
provides us with about 84% globally of our power
globally of our power TN
globally of our power T - e
globally of our power resources. For at least 2-
resources. For at least 2- )
resources. For at least 2- e
resources. For at least 2- three decades. In
resources. For at least 2- three decades. |In the
resources. For at least 2- three decades. In the meantime,
three decades. In the meantime, this would be a good
this would be a good Y R )
this would be a good IS E o]
this would be a good NSO L LT
this would be a good alternative and may help to
alternative and may help to R )
alternative and may help to R
alternative and may help to make the UK definitely
alternative and may help to RO STV
alternative and may help to make the UK definitely a little
make the UK definitely a little i
make the UK definitely a little e
make the UK definitely a little A R il e
make the UK definitely a little bit more self-sufficient. But
bit more self-sufficient. But )
bit more self-sufficient. But the concerns about
bit more self-sufficient. But N e o e R )
bit more self-sufficient. But the concerns about the impact
the concerns about the impact fracking could have, at the
fracking could have, at the iy
fracking could have, at the R ]
fracking could have, at the TR LRt
fracking could have, at the time when it was discussed,
time when it was discussed, LY
time when It was discussed, huge opposition to say not only
huge opposition to say not only s it
huge opposition to say not only e =L
huge opposition to say not only is it environmentally randomly,
s it environmentally randomly, e
s it environmentally randomly, nNnaie
s it environmentally randomly, I e o]
s it environmentally randomly, but it could also cause earth
but it could also cause earth el e
but it could also cause earth tremors and
but it could also cause earth e R 1
but it could also cause earth eI R el o ge
but it could also cause earth tremors and that concern is
tremors and that concern is still very real today, isn’t
still very real today, Isn’t it? That
still very real today, isn’t AN F e s o 1gs
still very real today, isn’t it? That concern will continue,
it? That concern will continue, )
it? That concern will continue, e
it? That concern will continue, NN
it? That concern will continue, there is no doubt about it.
QRPN LT L LT ) Y o)
QRPN LT L LT ) Hence why
G TR GG = [T ) & Hence why Ineos
QRPN LT L LT ) Hence why Ineos wants to
Hence why Ineos wants to OV
Hence why Ineos wants to provide a test site
Hence why Ineos wants to N LR CA SR L
Hence why Ineos wants to provide a test site and invite
provide a test site and invite )
provide a test site and invite R (1
provide a test site and invite G TR Y
provide a test site and invite G IR R G
the public or rather the government into actually watch
government into actually watch )
government into actually watch the whole process of trying to
the whole process of trying to develop this. Part of
the whole process of trying to G Rl A R 1)
develop this. Part of the problem here is
develop this. Part of the IR G
develop this. Part of the O R ER GRS
develop this. Part of the O SRR G N G
problem here is we also have very
problem here is we also have TRV
problem here is we also have very extreme views
problem here is we also have RN R R
problem here is we also have very extreme views and some of
very extreme views and some of i
very extreme views and some of o g
very extreme views and some of it, not all
very extreme views and some of o (R
very extreme views and some of it, not all of it, is very much
it, not all of it, is very much Y
it, not all of it, is very much PRI
it, not all of it, is very much NI N
it, not all of it, is very much a case of NIMBYism, among other
a case of NIMBYism, among other IR
a case of NIMBYism, among other IR
a case of NIMBYism, among other things. We want to get your
things. We want to get your )
things. We want to get your take on the
things. We want to get your I NG R e
things. We want to get your RN RO I A
things. We want to get your take on the week ahead, there
take on the week ahead, there 3
take on the week ahead, there is going
take on the week ahead, there LR
take on the week ahead, there is going to be a
take on the week ahead, there BN CR R G
take on the week ahead, there R CR R W & |
take on the week ahead, there NIRRT R
is going to be a lot going on, we’ve heard from China already.
we’ve heard from China already. France,
we’ve heard from China already. SN T
we’ve heard from China already. France, how do you think
France, how do you think R
France, how do you think IRl
France, how do you think I R I
France, how do you think markets will die just the news
markets will die just the news FYe L
markets will die just the news NG
markets will die just the news IR G IR e
markets will die just the news about this first round of the
about this first round of the presidential election? In
about this first round of the MEAE R S R RO
presidential election? In the e
presidential election? In the AR
presidential election? In the first instance, it’s the
presidential election? In the AR TR SR R w4
first instance, it’s the fact Tl
first instance, it’s the fact ERTE
first instance, it’s the fact (G E T )
first instance, It’s the fact that yes, he did better
first instance, it’s the fact that yes, he did better than
that yes, he did better than R
that yes, he did better than most people feared bit on the
most people feared bit on the e
most people feared bit on the other hand,
most people feared bit on the ORI PR
most people feared bit on the NI PR GRS i)
most people feared bit on the other hand, the second round
other hand, the second round poles
other hand, the second round Y
other hand, the second round VR CEH
other hand, the second round poles give reason for concern
poles give reason for concern e
poles give reason for concern but ultimately
poles give reason for concern A EL VAU EIL G
poles give reason for concern DA FL G VAU QR G UE
but ultimately markets remain very focused on what central
very focused on what central e
very focused on what central banks will be doing. And how
banks will be deing. And how NG
banks will be doing. And how L I
banks will be doing. And how L N LR U
banks will be doing. And how aggressive are they going to
aggressive are they going to R
aggressive are they going to IR
aggressive are they going to be. That is what
aggressive are they going to be_ That is what has
aggressive are they going to be. That is what has a
be. That is what has a bRl
be. That is what has a LR G R [oE e
be. That is what has a long-term impact. Markets have
long-term impact. Markets have Nl
long-term impact. Markets have been largely very complacent
been largely very complacent FYe L
been largely very complacent A
been largely very complacent about just how far
been largely very complacent EL N SIS L TR ETEET |
been largely very complacent about just how far and are
been largely very complacent EL N SIS TR ETE L LT Y,
about just how far and are now ]
about just how far and are now IR
about just how far and are now catching up with the reality of
catching up with the reality of just
catching up with the reality of PR
catching up with the reality of just how aggressive some
just how aggressive some central banks
just how aggressive some e e )
just how aggressive some central banks are going to be.
central banks are going to be. Mark, good to talk to you.
Let’s see how the Asian markets are faring today..
Hong Kong is down, nearly 2.5%, as
Hong Kong is down, nearly 2.5%, T
Hong Kong is down, nearly 2.5%, YRR )
Hong Kong is down, nearly 2.5%, as is the price of oil. Japan
as is the price of oil. Japan )
as Is the price of oll. Japan also down as
as Is the price of oll. Japan I G .
as Is the price of oil. Japan E[ T R L - R LY
also down as well. Basically we’ve
also down as well. Basically IRV 14
also down as well. Basically we’ve got the mood, real
we’ve got the mood, real caution in
we’ve got the mood, real IR V82
we’ve got the mood, real caution in equity markets with
caution in equity markets with Y
caution in equity markets with a weak
caution in equity markets with R Lo
caution in equity markets with a weak pact with central-bank
a weak pact with central-bank LN
a weak pact with central-bank S L I I
a weak pact with central-bank S LI IR FY O
a weak pact with central-bank NS IRTEL G EL R
meetings, US inflation data, N
meetings, US inflation data, IR ns
meetings, US inflation data, lots out in
meetings, US inflation data, RN AR
meetings, US inflation data, R NaAREG ¢
meetings, US inflation data, N nah G €
meetings, US inflation data, N AR RGN R R
lots out in the UK as well. T
lots out in the UK as well. It’s a busy
lots out in the UK as well. RN
lots out in the UK as well. R TSN
lots out in the UK as well. IR TS AN T
lots out in the UK as well. It’s a busy one, you need to
It’s a busy one, you need to 3
It’s a busy one, you need to stay tuned. That is all from me
g A
Hello, there.
There was a lot of sunshine around first thing on Sunday,
but it was cold and frosty,
and it was quite widespread across the country.
These were the kind R IO
we woke up to first thing on Sunday morning -
Now, all change and IS R R L
because of this area R GYT I
that’s throwing cloud right across the country
and that is acting like a blanket,
NN T o] those temperatures
from falling too far.
It will be a frost-free start to Monday morning
with temperatures more likely
about four, five, six degrees E ORIV
So, a difference to the feel ARG
and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
The winds are going RS G
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain
through Wales, Northern Ireland,
North West England as well through the day.
Quite blustery winds as well,
either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction,
widely gusting RS R ORI LN
But sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine
and with the wind direction now coming from the south,
that means it will be a little bit warmer -
17 degrees the expected high.
Thundery downpours are likely into the south-west
through Monday night into Tuesday
and we can trail that weather front
all the way back SR G EI
In fact, the airis coming up from the Sahara.
LN LR N TN its way steadily north,
with the exception perhaps AN e A
here, you will stay in the cooler air
for the next few days.
So, that means first thing on Tuesday morning,
we’re likely to see temperatures
four degrees in Lerwick
but ten or 11 degrees RN RS RG]y
across central and southern parts of England and Wales.
Yes, there’s going to be RGN
some of it quite heavy,
some thundery downpours
pushing their way steadily north
and because the air is coming from the Sahara,
it could have sprinkling of Saharan dust
that might just ORIV T LRSIl 1 d
R IG[EThA a little bit orange at times.
In terms of the feel of things,
17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
Where the cloud and the rain lingers,
we’re only looking at around a maximum of 6-8 Celsius.
But the rain will ease away,
the isobars open up
through the middle part of the week,
and the weather story YR R N R LA
LT RN G
that Wednesday will be the warmest day of the week
LG LRI O [T [0 not out of the question.
The final days of the dinosaurs’ reign on Planet Earth
have long remained a mystery.
A remarkable new dig site [ R TG A
how the last dinosaurs lived and died.
Ty T
Are we about to discover P R !
on the day the asteroid hit?
I’ve lost count of how many times I’ve been arrested.
I’ve been through hell and back.
Just because you get knocked down
doesn’'t mean you’ve got to stay down.
Giving up is not an option.
Give me 100% and I’ll give you 100%.
Sometimes the greatest fight RGBT
Eight celebs, one Iceman. N Rl
No hot tubs. It’s so cold!
No safety nets. Ooch! Aah!
This is ridiculous. No idea what they’ve signed up for.
Madame Ching, pirate queen?
That’s impossible.
It’s coming straight for us.
He wasn’t supposed to fall for someone else.
You no longer have a say over what | do.
Is there somewhere you need to be?
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Sally Nugent and Jon Kay.
Our headlines today.
Emmanuel Macron will face the far-right challenger
Marine Le Pen in a run-off for the French presidency, a rerun
of the vote of five years ago.
Ukraine’s President Zelensky warns of big battles to come
against Russian forces in the east of the country.
After questions about his wife’s tax affairs, Chancellor Rishi Sunak asks
for an official review of his financial declarations.
Good morning. Another week, another IO
Good morning. Another week, another warning of an
Good morning. Another week, another IR LR A ]
Good morning. Another week, another IR LR A D R 3
Good morning. Another week, another warning of an increased cost of a
warning of an increased cost of a staple, this time dairy farmers say
staple, this time dairy farmers say T
staple, this time dairy farmers say IR Y
staple, this time dairy farmers say IR Y
staple, this time dairy farmers say unless we are willing to pay more
unless we are willing to pay more e
unless we are willing to pay more g
unless we are willing to pay more R Na e
unless we are willing to pay more for our milk, we can expect
for our milk, we can expect i EI
for our milk, we can expect W EL
for our milk, we can expect shortages on the shelves.
Rory Mcllroy’s late charge falls short as world number one
Scottie Scheffler wins the Masters RO E I R
take his first major.
Her Majesty describes how she was left feeling
by her recent bout of the virus.
It does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it,
this horrible pandemic.
Good morning. A much milder start to )
Good morning. A much milder start to the day-to-day
Good morning. A much milder start to the day-te-day can head
Good morning. A much milder start to the day-to-day can head to
the day-to-day can head to yesterday. A
the day-to-day can head to A IOV AR LS
the day-to-day can head to O AR L1
the day-to-day can head to RGO AR LA L s
the day-to-day can head to yesterday. A fair bit of cloud
yesterday. A fair bit of cloud EIC Ll
yesterday. A fair bit of cloud around, some
yesterday. A fair bit of cloud EI L A R L1
yesterday. A fair bit of cloud around, some patchy rain but it will
around, some patchy rain but it will )
around, some patchy rain but it will G e
around, some patchy rain but it will N EH s Rid
around, some patchy rain but it will be mailed for the
around, some patchy rain but it will IR s R la )
around, some patchy rain but it will be mailed for the time of year this
be mailed for the time of year this Vs
be mailed for the time of year this week --
be mailed for the time of year this week. -- mild for
be mailed for the time of year this Y R 1 G E E)
be mailed for the time of year this Y e R R Rl
be mailed for the time of year this week. -- mild for the time of year.
It’s Monday the 11th of April.
Our main story.
Emmanuel Macron will face the far right leader Marine Le Pen
in a tight stand-off to lead the country in the French
presidential election.
Yesterday’s first round saw Mr Macron secure the most votes
but Ms Le Pen’s share has grown.
With almost all of the results e Bl P S R L)
Mr Macron won more than 27 % RN R TR O AN NE G
points behind on 24, LR S iR e
Jean-Luc Melenchon was a further three percentage points behind her.
Our Europe correspondent Jessica Parker has more from Paris.
"I’m counting on you,” says Emmanuel Macron.
He may have topped the first round, and they are happy, but a note
of caution as this fight enters A
TRANSLATION: Don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
The debate we are going to have over the next 15 days is decisive
for our country and for Europe.
His opponent enjoyed a recent rise in the polls.
Far right candidates Marine Le Pen.
Her policies include a ban on the Muslim headscarf in public
places, but she’s tried to soften her image and show she’s
ready for high office.
TRANSLATION: What will happen of the 24th of April is not
just a vote about conditions, R R e s A
Critics call Le Pen’s policy programme racist.
Her supporters say it’s Macron whose time is up.
In 2017, people voted for Macron e N R LR N s R
know him so everyone was like, (SR A
Macron has been accused of being barely visible
at points in this campaign.
Too focused on international issues to notice peoples struggles at home.
Do you think Emmanuel Macron has been too complacent so far?
| think he was at work, trying to protect his people,
'R (R ETR (RIS AN N el gy crisis that we need to work,
we need to show what is our project, we need to be in the campaign,
we need to explain.
There is huge relief here tonight for supporters of Emmanuel Macron
but acknowledgement too NN R e ]
They are cheering now whilst Marine Le Pen’'s campaign
has given them a scare.
Hot off the press, left-leaning paper Liberation.
These were the final two e NBIBE A R Rl -]
But five years on, the political picture is different
and things can move fast.
There’s two weeks to go.
Jessica Parker, BBC News in Paris.
Our Correspondent Anna Holligan is in Paris.
Good morning, Anna. These two W GelaEh
Good morning, Anna. These two politicians faced each other five
politicians faced each other five years ago
politicians faced each other five L VN
politicians faced each other five R VL R
politicians faced each other five years ago and of course Mr Macron
years ago and of course Mr Macron ]
years ago and of course Mr Macron IR
years ago and of course Mr Macron R AR
years ago and of course Mr Macron W N ST T o]
years ago and of course Mr Macron won it, is it going to be a slightly
won it, is it going to be a slightly e
won it, is it going to be a slightly A e e
won it, is it going to be a slightly e R
won it, is it going to be a slightly A e s R R X4
won it, is it going to be a slightly closer contest this time? This might
closer contest this time? This might look
closer contest this time? This might lock Like
closer contest this time? This might e
closer contest this time? This might look like a victory but of course
look Like a victory but of course )
look Like a victory but of course el
look like a victory but of course the real challenge is yet to come
the real challenge is yet to come and
the real challenge is yet to come LA G
the real challenge is yet to come and it looks as though both

Citation: BBC News, 01:40 11/04/2022, BBC1 London, 260 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BF31DEB?bcast=136537907 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)