especially over the higher ground as it all bumps inte that
colder-feeling air, and there’ll be some very icy stretches around
as well, with the ground sub zere,
some freezing rain always possible,
some very icy surfaces as well,
but it really take some time for IR I
milder-feeling air to move its way eastwards.
If you are travelling somewhere on Sunday,
just be aware that there will be very hazardous conditions,
possible freezing rain,
hill snow and certainly a lot of ice around as well.
As we head through the day on Sunday and inte Monday, you can
see we’ve got various weather fronts sweeping through,
so Monday is going to be really IR R UL R
outbreaks of rain for much of the day.
Seme strong, gusty winds as well,
particularly through the Irish Sea and towards English Channel coasts.
But look at the day’s highs,
peaking between 12 and 15 W G
for parts of South Wales and the south-west, Devon and Cornwall.
On Monday into Tuesday, a cold front is set to sink its way
southwards and eastwards, introducing, again,
some slightly cooler-feeling air but not as cold as it has been.
That early rain is set clear.
Quite showery towards O RO LR Ay ETals
COUEL R TG R IR LR There will be some sunny spells,
some of those showers possibly having a wintry element over
the higher ground. Temperatures will be a little lower too on Tuesday,
peaking between 8 and 12 degrees G
Again, on Wednesday, it’s quite showery out towards the north
and west, but there will be a lot of dry weather around,
as well more of a westerly LG R LI
The best of any brightness
and sunshine towards eastern areas in the shelter of high ground.
Temperatures peaking between 8 and 10 degrees Celsius,
so it is still reasonably mild out there.
As we head towards Christmas,
we start to see more of a battleground developing.
The low pressure moves eastwards.
As It does, then colder air is set AR A L L
again replacing that mild air IR R A EL R
perhaps Northern Ireland as well.
Some of these showers are likely to turn wintry over higher ground.
Still some debate as to how long that mild air will last,
but this Is the current thinking -
that we will still see double figures for much of England
and Wales, colder further north PRk
but keep an eye on the details because they are likely to change.
What do you want to be when you grow up? Kind.
An all-star cast bring Charlie Mackesy’s magical book of hope,
courage and love to life.
Doing nothing with friends is never doing nothing, is it?
Always remember, you’re enough just as you are.
Merry Christmas!
This year’s festive specials continue tonight.
Merry Christmas.
Oh, come on!
# You fill my heart with pure delight
# Do | love you? #
S8
You’re going too fast.
Life deesn’t get better than this.
after my tweet | got a notice inside Twitter that my account
Inside Twitter that my account s
inside Twitter that my account R )
inside Twitter that my account X LI
inside Twitter that my account is suspended and |
inside Twitter that my account UL EL ARl
inside Twitter that my account N L AR R [
is suspended and | can’t post any
is suspended and | can’t post AL
Is suspended and | can’t post any more tweets. Was it a
is suspended and | can’t post any more tweets. Was it a shock
any more tweets. Was it a shock N
any more tweets. Was it a shock I
any more tweets. Was it a shock R
any more tweets. Was it a shock or did you see
any more tweets. Was it a shock R R TET- R 1
any more tweets. Was it a shock or did you see this coming? |
or did you see this coming? | "l
or did you see this coming? | R
or did you see this coming? | kind of saw it coming. I’m not
kind of saw it coming. I’m not in
kind of saw it coming. I’m not L
kind of saw it coming. I’m not in any way surprised that this
In any way surprised that this has
In any way surprised that this RN U
In any way surprised that this has happened, especially
has happened, especially T )
has happened, especially NN R
has happened, especially because of the reporting that |
because of the reporting that | have
because of the reporting that | TR
because of the reporting that | have been doing on Elon Musk’s
have been doing on Elon Musk’s e e
have been doing on Elon Musk’s e a
have been doing on Elon Musk’s E N Rl e
have been doing on Elon Musk’s A R AL e e
have been doing on Elon Musk’s N R A E )
takeover of Twitter over the last
takeover of Twitter over the EYI s il
takeover of Twitter over the last month. |
takeover of Twitter over the EY s R d
takeover of Twitter over the FR i TR €A
takeover of Twitter over the last month. | think that this
last month. | think that this s
last month. | think that this is the highest profile time
is the highest profile time TV Y-y
is the highest profile time T N
is the highest profile time where he is
is the highest profile time TN
is the highest profile time where he is -- he has
where he is -- he has arbitrarily banned some
arbitrarily banned some prominent journalists that he
proeminent journalists that he has
prominent journalists that he IR
prominent journalists that he has been doing this since he
has been doing this since he e
has been doing this since he N a A
has been doing this since he e G R
has been doing this since he e E L
has been doing this since he S I R
took over. There has been e
took over. There has been NEC L 18
took over. There has been several arbitrary censorship of
several arbitrary censorship of 1R
several arbitrary censorship of all sorts
several arbitrary censorship of IR el
several arbitrary censorship of B s R R i e s
all sorts of different Fluue il
all sorts of different accounts. Does Elon Musk have a
accounts. Does Elon Musk have a Il
accounts. Does Elon Musk have a point, though, when he says
point, though, when he says that knowing the location of
that knowing the location of his
that knowing the location of N1
that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat to
his private jet is a threat to )
his private jet is a threat to XA
his private jet is a threat to the security, not only of his
the security, not only of his own security but the threat to
own security but the threat to )
own security but the threat to R I818]
own security but the threat to ORI A
own security but the threat to the security of his family as
the security of his family as ol
the security of his family as well potentially? | mean, |
well potentially? | mean, | R4
well potentially? | mean, | don’t actually buy that. |
don’t actually buy that. | think
don’t actually buy that. | RS
don’t actually buy that. | i e
don’t actually buy that. | R e N )
don’t actually buy that. | think there is some room for
think there is some room for discussion. | think
think there is some room for A P R s G 1
discussion. | think that QUL
discussion. | think that knowing which airport his plane
knowing which airport his plane LS
knowing which airport his plane lands at and flies out of at
lands at and flies out of at el
lands at and flies out of at which times, | think it
lands at and flies out of at R TR R G
which times, | think it is EIE
which times, | think it is EUCE LA O]
which times, | think it is already public infoermation and
already public information and 3
already public information and s
already public infoermation and it is perfectly reasonable
already public infoermation and it is perfectly reasenable for
it is perfectly reasonable for TG
it is perfectly reasonable for people to learn less about the
people to learn less about the 1)
people to learn less about the JNCICIE
people to learn less about the private jets of billionaires
private ets of billionaires and |
private jets of billionaires IR e
private jets of billionaires and | think the even bigger
and | think the even bigger T
and | think the even bigger T
and | think the even bigger issue is everyone who posted
issue Is everyone who posted anything
issue is everyone who posted NG RGCELC
issue is everyone who posted anything related to that you
anything related to that you []d
anything related to that you got suspended, they get their
got suspended, they get their Fluwei0ls10
got suspended, they get their account suspended which is kind
account suspended which is kind N 1]
account suspended which is kind e N e
account suspended which is kind of extreme but also
account suspended which is kind NN N N e ]
account suspended which is kind of extreme but also a lot
account suspended which is kind NE e NI N R
account suspended which is kind NSt NI N R R AT
of extreme but also a lot of us Py
of extreme but also a lot of us are journalists who won’t
are journalists who won’t ElaE (A
are journalists who won’t Ela G (VAT
are journalists who won’t actually, like, posting the
actually, like, posting the s
actually, like, posting the links to this
actually, like, posting the R R R
actually, like, posting the R R G R A R
actually, like, posting the links to this website, we were
links to this website, we were reporting
links to this website, we were R
links to this website, we were reporting on other things
reporting on other things getting suspended. This is just
getting suspended. This is just part of our reporting process.
part of our reporting process. ey
part of our reporting process. Wwhat would
part of our reporting process. wWhat would you say to
part of our reporting process. What would you say to people
What would you say to people Ty
What would you say to people who argue welcome as far as
who argue welcome as far as 10T:)
who argue welcome as far as Elon Musk is concerned, it is
Elon Musk is concerned, it is his company,
Elon Musk is concerned, it Is his company, he can do it it
his company, he cando it it Y
his company, he cando it it does make do with
his company, he cando it it I IE R id B
his company, he cando it it does make do with it what he
does make do with it what he s
does make do with it what he el
does make do with it what he likes. | think that that is
likes. | think that that is eIy
likes. | think that that is e e Y
likes. | think that that is true because of Twitter
likes. | think that that is N N AL R
likes. | think that that is true because of Twitter is a
true because of Twitter is a N1
true because of Twitter is a private company and it has
private company and it has always
private company and it has E[Z ]
private company and it has always been a private company
always been a private company and
always been a private company LR A
always been a private company IR N
always been a private company ISR N R
always been a private company and it is one of the reasons
and it is one of the reasons e
and it is one of the reasons AR
EL RN R G R why, you know, a lot of
VRSN R O R CE ) RV G TR R
why, you know, a lot of the I
why, you know, a lot of the IR}
why, you know, a lot of the IRk
why, you know, a lot of the IR R R
previous criticism of Twitter banning
previous criticism of Twitter RN R IR I
previous criticism of Twitter banning Conservative accounts,
banning Conservative accounts, that
banning Conservative accounts, G A
banning Conservative accounts, R AR N
banning Conservative accounts, that is one of their responses
G EIS NN R G I e[ 1 3
G EIS NN R G I e[ 1 TR a4
OIS N B G YT T TG L e
OIS N B G YT T TG AL e
OIS N B G YT T is that Twitter is a
OIS N B G YT T G SRR LG
is that Twitter is a private wWpi]eElp
s that Twitter Is a private company and it
s that Twitter Is a private S EINEN A
s that Twitter Is a private company and it is allowed
Is that Twitter is a private company and it is allowed to
ool oI N T R LT R ban
company and it is allowed to R 1
company and it is allowed to SRR s
company and it is allowed to RN Ri e
company and it is allowed to FhEcL N A
company and it is allowed to NN R ARy
company and it is allowed to ENEAC N B AR - s
ban staff and it is true that ]
ban staff and it is true that Y R4
ban staff and it is true that now that Elon Musk has taken
now that Elon Musk has taken 3 d
now that Elon Musk has taken S
now that Elon Musk has taken R N
now that Elon Musk has taken R |
now that Elon Musk has taken over as well. | think the big
over as well. | think the big st e
over as well. | think the big e e N
over as well. | think the big difference is that he has been
difference is that he has been very actively extremely
difference is that he has been Lo A AU VA T G
very actively extremely hostile to
very actively extremely hostile R
very actively extremely hostile to free speech
very actively extremely hostile R e R e]
very actively extremely hostile to free speech which is kind of
to free speech which is kind of e el
to free speech which is kind of irenic which
to free speech which is kind of e s
to free speech which is kind of ironic which -- because
to free speech which is kind of TR R o N I
ironic which -- because his )
ironic which -- because his LR EL
ironic which -- because his whole plan has
ironic which -- because his R ER G E
ironic which -- because his R LI E I R R
ironic which -- because his whole plan has been to restore
whole plan has been to restore e
whole plan has been to restore R o]
whole plan has been to restore N R ES
whole plan has been to restore N R LR
whole plan has been to restore N R R I
whole plan has been to restore N R O I G
free speech was up he has brought
free speech was up he has WG TIL LT
free speech was up he has brought back some prominent
brought back some prominent sl
brought back some prominent right-wing figures, like Donald
right-wing figures, like Donald LTl R
right-wing figures, like Donald Trump, who was originally
Trump, who was originally banned
Trump, who was originally EhNhRLe
Trump, who was originally banned for inciting violence
banned for inciting violence and inciting and in violent --
and inciting and in violent -- Y
and inciting and in violent -- a violent insurrection.
a violent insurrection. Marjorie Taylor Greene who is a
Marjorie Taylor Greene who is 3 member
Marjorie Taylor Greene who is a Sl Tatle T
Marjorie Taylor Greene who is a member of Congress in the US
member of Congress in the US Ty
member of Congress in the US R L
member of Congress in the US R EL R L]
member of Congress in the US who was banned for repeatedly
who was banned for repeatedly saying Covid-19 misinformation.
saying Covid-19 misinfermation. 1)
saying Covid-19 misinfermation. )
saying Covid-19 misinformation. e
saying Covid-19 misinformation. ST EI I )
saying Covid-19 misinformation. So he has brought all of these
So he has brought all of these 1Al il
So he has brought all of these Il (e 51 e
So he has brought all of these EIRD e TV R E e 4
So he has brought all of these far right accounts back but in
far right accounts back but in my
far right accounts back but in LAY 0]
far right accounts back but in my reporting there are accounts
my reporting there are accounts that aren’t far right
my reporting there are accounts that aren’t far right that
my reporting there are accounts that aren’t far right that have
that aren’t far right that have )
that aren’t far right that have I N -]
that aren’t far right that have also been bands that have not
also been bands that have not ]
also been bands that have not been brought back at all that
been brought back at all that he is just refusing to stop a
he is just refusing to stop a L]
he is just refusing to stop a good sample of this
he is just refusing to stop a LRI R R TR
ORI DIEE R G distributed denial of
good sample of this is RN IR EI R R e
distributed denial of secrets. G
distributed denial of secrets. IR
distributed denial of secrets. IR i lass Tl
distributed denial of secrets. This is an account that was
This is an account that was el |
This is an account that was banned during the Black Lives
banned during the Black Lives Matter protests of 2020. It is
Matter protests of 2020. It is Y
Matter protests of 2020. It is R a1l
Matter protests of 2020. It is R e =]
Matter protests of 2020. It is R T R g LI ol
Matter protests of 2020. It is a non-profit and it published a
a non-profit and it published a bunch
a non-profit and it published a sl 2
a non-profit and it published a bunch of police documents that
bunch of police documents that Tl
bunch of police documents that had a
bunch of police documents that YR
bunch of police documents that LR
bunch of police documents that had a lot of evidence
bunch of police documents that LR R e
had a lot of evidence of misconduct
had a lot of evidence of s s Tla e s ]
had a lot of evidence of misconduct and police spying on
misconduct and police spying on Yl ch
misconduct and police spying on Yl IR T eTe
misconduct and police spying on Y AL R T e e s
misconduct and police spying on et L T e R e
activists. Twitter banned the Fluwei0ls10
activists. Twitter banned the Y uns 01 e o)
activists. Twitter banned the account since then
activists. Twitter banned the Yo e R i o]
activists. Twitter banned the account since then and Elon
account since then and Elon Musk
account since then and Elon M
account since then and Elon I SR
account since then and Elon Musk is just refusing to
Musk is just refusing to restore
Musk is just refusing to T
Musk is just refusing to restore it. You have
Musk Is just refusing to A N AR TR NN
Musk Is just refusing to restore it. You have now gone
restore it. You have now gone to mastodon, a rival social
to mastodon, a rival social media platform to Twitter. How
media platform to Twitter. How St 1ile1]
media platform to Twitter. How s R 2
media platform to Twitter. How e B ]
media platform to Twitter. How e R R e
media platform to Twitter. How much of a threat to
media platform to Twitter. How R Rt R L e e
much of a threat to Twitter Y
much of a threat to Twitter Rl g
much of a threat to Twitter IR X
much of a threat to Twitter R XA
much of a threat to Twitter R YA
much of a threat to Twitter does it pose? It is hard
much of a threat to Twitter A XA S ELG R
does it pose? It is hard to R
does it pose? It is hard to tell. There
does it pose? It is hard to IRLEECAE
does it pose? It is hard to IRLEE Y]
does it pose? It is hard to tell. There is a learning
tell. There is a learning ey
tell. There is a learning curve. It
tell. There is a learning eile - A
tell. There is a learning il AT
tell. There is a learning il AR
tell. There is a learning curve. It is a lot harder to
curve. It is a lot harder to Ty
curve. It is a lot harder to MR 04
curve. It is a lot harder to use but |
curve. It is a lot harder to M N NA R )
curve. It is a lot harder to MR NN -]
curve. It is a lot harder to NN AR E R LR G
curve. It is a lot harder to use but | have been looking at
use but I have been looking at )
use but I have been looking at s Na et e
use but I have been looking at the numbers and
use but I have been looking at SRR TR S
use but I have been looking at the numbers and millions of
the numbers and millions of people have been joining it. It
people have been joining it. It s
people have been joining it. It %)
people have been joining it. It is a different thing. |
people have been joining it. It is a different thing. I think
s a different thing. | think in
s a different thing. | think ina
s a different thing. | think TR
s a different thing. I think NN
s a different thing. I think in a lot of ways it is the
LRI CEEhIa QI A RG] in a lot of ways it is the fact
in a lot of ways it is the fact that
in a lot of ways it is the fact G e
in a lot of ways it is the fact nEla A
in a lot of ways it is the fact WL AL e e )
in a lot of ways it is the fact that it is decentralised and
that it is decentralised and 1R
that it is decentralised and YT
that it is decentralised and E[(IG T I
that it is decentralised and E[( T a0
that it is decentralised and E[(I I
that it is decentralised and all not profit. It is very
all not profit. It is very 3 T Na
all not profit. It is very resilient from the type of
resilient from the type of problems that
resilient from the type of O R G R Gl
resilient from the type of NN SR G EI R
problems that Twitter is =l ol
problems that Twitter is facing. Nobody can just buy
facing. Nobody can just buy I
facing. Nobody can just buy W]
facing. Nobody can just buy MRl
facing. Nobody can just buy MR e
facing. Nobody can just buy this and drive it into the
IR R ARG [ Bl sl
IR R ARG [ i R
IR R ARG [ drowned like Mask has
this and drive it into the drowned like Mask has been
drowned like Mask has been WL
drowned like Mask has been LLR
drowned like Mask has been GN LRI
drowned like Mask has been VORI G R
drowned like Mask has been doing it with Twitter. Does
s LT NIRRTV Y
doing it with Twitter. Does make drive into the ground. We
make drive into the ground. We s
make drive into the ground. We must leave
make drive into the ground. We AN
make drive into the ground. We must leave it there. Thank you
must leave it there. Thank you e
must leave it there. Thank you ISLTT
must leave it there. Thank you LTS
must leave it there. Thank you SR L R
must leave it there. Thank you IS HRGL R
must leave it there. Thank you for joining us on BBC News.
for joining us on BBC News. Thank
for joining us on BBC News. I ELLST D]
for joining us on BBC News. Thank you so much.
A reminder of our top stories.
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes has hit
multiple targets in Ukraine killing at least three people.
Residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
And a rough ride for Ramaphosa:
The South African President was heckled at the ANC’s party
conference, but he’s still hoping to be re-elected
despite last weeks’ impeachment proceedings.
A giant aquarium installed in the lobby of a luxury German
hotel has exploded, sending 1,500 exotic fish cascading
The 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist
FlnissInd Rl s sl
ST RGNS LT, T has the story.
This aquarium was built to impress -
a million Litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish -
there was even a Lift RGN R
All towering over the lobby of a Berlin hotel.
My God!
But early this merning,
it seems the tank simply shattered.
Glass and metal ripped through the building.
UGN RN [TE T N R
Extraordinarily, just two people were hurt,
neither of them seriously.
The hotel actually i EhGEe
| could describe it as a... IMITATES EXPLOSION.
And | jolted out of bed and turned around...
| didn’t see any movement so | didn’t know what
the heck was going on.
| looked outside the window, | saw a lady running.
Investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
LT IR LR (T E [N taken when the aquarium
TR Sl i
"You could fire O R G Rl
says this architect, "and it would only cause
"a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"Such a Hollywood scenario is impossible.”
The authorities suspect material fatigue
may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
There is a sense, | think, of relief amongst many
here that this N R Rl
LU A E g and that lobby, the street
outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors,
many of them children.
LI [ Tl 4 at the destruction,
regret at the loss IR A TR
but an acknowledgement, too, that this could
have been s¢ much worse.
Jenny Hill, BBC News, Berlin.
L1ChITT
Exploding fish,
4o1Ch T [ I P
Exploding fish, we have it all e
Exploding fish, we have it all IR
Exploding fish, we have it all TR )
Exploding fish, we have it all AT R
Exploding fish, we have it all for you here on BBC News. Let’s
for you here on BBC News. Let’s get
for you here on BBC News. Let’s L[ ET T
for you here on BBC News. Let’s get some of the day’s
for you here on BBC News. Let’s get some of the day’s other
get some of the day’s other news_
The leader of the UK rail union, the RMT,
has said a deal to avert further rail strikes
Mick Lynch made the comment as his members took part
Services in England, Scotland and Wales have been
severely hit, and more industrial action is planned
between 24-27 December and again in early January.
Nurses who went out on strike in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland on Thursday are warning
G EI R QIR DR [V G R e a s
The British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has suggested
that the government won’t budge on its view that nurses should
be paid what the independent NG A A IR
Workers at Amazon’s warehouse in Coventry have voted
to strike in the new year in a dispute over pay.
The GMB Union says more than 98% of balloted employees
O RLRENIT]g A aE | - Tasle ]
Union reps say "Amazon can afford to do better" and that
it’s "not too late” to avoid QR LI AR
The savage murder of Emmett Till in 1955,
and his mother’s subsequent G SIS i
has been made intc a movie
which is due to be released next month.
Till is the story SR ET IR (RS R
who insisted on having an open casket for her son’s funeral,
to show how badly the 14-year-old’s face had been
disfigured when he was beaten and tortured by two white men.
The film is produced by Barbara Broccoli,
who’s behind the Bond LD B 1o
Danielle Deadwyler as Mamie,
who’s been speaking to our sl G Errzl
14-year-old Emmett Till.
They have a different set AR R e
His brutal murder in Mississippi in 1955
galvanised the civil rights movement.
The body of Emmett Louis Till has been found dead. ..
Driven by his mother, Mamie.
You have to be extra careful with white people,
you can’t risk looking at them the wrong way.
| know!
| wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility,
the weight of the civil O I AL R TP
as you made this movie?
Oh, | felt every inch of it.
And | knew that | had to honour it,
| had to give it that LR e
LRV R ST TR history, we’re doomed
IECTHEEI A
Emmett was lynched for whistling
at a white female shopkeeper
in this segregated part of America.
But the film deliberately S R R R e e
he suffered at the LR R R R
I think we’re over just the grotesque nature
of witnessing violence NN EI e
It shouldn’t take that kind of visual to ignite folks
GG A GER AT e o
that are happening - that had happened in 1955,
that continue to happen to black people or any
oppressed group of people.
Back in 1955, Mamie Till-Mobley had her son’s violated body
photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
Many thousands filed past it.
That smell is my son’s body reeking of racial hatred.
Come with me, please.
She was one of the first people to recognise how vitally
important the image e R R R e alsh
And | think when you see what happened with George Floyd,
that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder,
we wouldn’t have believed it R MR - L hi
The two men accused of killing SRR R
And | do think that the trial will be carried on fairly,
and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
A white male jury found the men not guilty.
They later admitted the murder
but couldn’t be SR s Rels -]
Though they’re dead, IR MEICE e d ke
Do you think that justice will ever be served?
Good question. N
I think that films have the opportunity to reawaken
people’s understanding of critical moments in history.
That troubled history now being told
on screen nearly 70 years on.
Katie Razzall, BBC News.
And that film i1s due out
And that film 1s due out next
And that film Is due out next Rt aida B
And that film is due out next month. Christmas
And that film Is due out next month. Christmas preparations
month. Christmas preparations Py
month. Christmas preparations are in
month. Christmas preparations YL Rl
month. Christmas preparations are in full swing around the
are in full swing around the i
Let’s take a look at Santa beginning his annual rounds.
LR
And you can find out more about TNy
And you can find out more about Santa’s progress
And you can find out more about I EER [N )]
And you can find out more about SEEE G I G R
Santa’s progress on our e
Santa’s progress on our s
Santa’s progress on our A
Santa’s progress on our website. It is BRC.com/
Santa’s progress on our website. It is BBC.com/ news.
website. It is BBC.com/ news. ILEh S
website. It is BBC.com/ news. Thanks for watching.
Some very big changes N
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then thaw begins on Sunday in the morning.
When | say "begins”, IR )
of us it will be a slow process.
Particularly in the north of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is just
Ahead of it this weather front will sweep in across the UK.
Ahead of it still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east MR R
hence that milder air will eventually arrive.
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow A e e e ]
across the Highlands,
G R T S TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures W RV NG|
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town it’s going to be
So, the weather for Saturday itself
and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
Wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
Most of the rain around the coasts,
snow and sleet inland.
And already starting to feel a little less cold.
5in London, 4 in Glasgow and 8 degrees in Plymouth.
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds YR N e
But for a time in the morning, with a lots of cold air about,
early on Sunday there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow
is possible around the Pennines and certainly in Scotland.
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday it could be
icy for some of us.
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in and by the early R )
are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
LG T [ R G TR T
of Sunday night inte Monday.
By Monday morning we are talking
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth.
And this Is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
Back to the sort ISR R s
we would expect I e
SRS
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
Ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest
barrages of Russian missile strikes has badly damaged
electricity and water supplies across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa was heckled
when he addressed his own ANC party conference.
Mr Ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings
earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand
as party leader.
The United Nations and the European Union have joined
the chorus of criticism RSSO
Elon Musk, after he closed e T AL
journalists who covered RO
A UN spokesman said they were very disturbed,
as journalists already faced censorship, threats and worse.
Now on BBC News, TR dl
This week. Computer, draw me a picture of a lizard drinking
picture of a lizard drinking e
picture of a lizard drinking coffee. Yes! We are looking at
coffee. Yes! We are looking at )
coffee. Yes! We are looking at the light and dark side of IR
the light and dark side of IR el
the light and dark side of IR oLl
the light and dark side of lIR art. Oh, dear. Zoe is finding
art. Oh, dear. Zoe is finding e
art. Oh, dear. Zoe is finding A1\
art. Oh, dear. Zoe is finding R WESTYT
art. Oh, dear. Zoe is finding out why everyone is talking to
out why everyone is talking to Y
out why everyone is talking to P
out why everyone is talking to Pl AR
out why everyone is talking to FE L H ARl
out why everyone is talking to a new Ai chat box. Are
out why everyone is talking to R R A L - R )]
a new Al chat box. Are you alive?
a new Al chat box. Are you YA )
a new Al chat box. Are you alive? Please say yes, just
alive? Please say yes, just RIS
alive? Please say yes, just [ CEIETN
alive? Please say yes, just please say yes. Lara is getting
please say yes. Lara is getting Y
please say yes. Lara is getting Lo )
please say yes. Lara is getting I g
please say yes. Lara is getting IR a3l
please say yes. Lara is getting ideas above her station. A
ideas above her station. A Hair
ideas above her station. A little intimidating to see
little intimidating to see AN
little intimidating to see VR
little intimidating to see myself that size...
little intimidating to see VR F P S 1
Little intimidating to see myself that size... Do you like
myself that size... Do you like Y
myself that size... Do you like PN e 3
myself that size... Do you like a bit of art?
myself that size... Do you like ahitof art? |
myself that size... Do you like a hitof art? | do
myself that size... Do you like AR ARG
myself that size... Do you like a hitof art? | do Like a bit
a bit of art? | do like a bit N
a bit of art? | do like a bit Nl
a bit of art? | do like a bit of art. Any idea what is
a bit of art? I do like a bit of art. Any idea what is art
of art. Any idea what is art and what isn’t? That’s a big
and what isn’t? That’s a big question... |
and what isn’t? That’s a big question... | guess for me it
guestion... | guess for me it s
guestion... | guess for me it is anything
guestion... | guess for me it EVIGILRGEL
guestion... | guess for me it is anything that aims to look
Is anything that aims to look L]
Is anything that aims to look LR
Is anything that aims to look good or even make
Is anything that aims to look RS W ELCRY
Is anything that aims to look good or even make you feel
s anything that aims to look good or even make you feel a
good or even make you feel a certain way. And
good or even make you feel a IR A N R TLS
good or even make you feel a certain way. And that could be
certain way. And that could be paintings, photography, music,
paintings, photography, music, A NI
paintings, photography, music, IR
paintings, photography, music, perfoermance, even ribbons. Yes,
performance, even ribbons. Yes, ribbons is
perfermance, even ribbons. Yes, ribbons is a
perfermance, even ribbons. Yes, R e e
perfermance, even ribbons. Yes, R R I &
perfermance, even ribbons. Yes, AR L R )
perfermance, even ribbons. Yes, ribbons is a work at the NAO
ribbons is a work at the NAO Gallery in Loenden which
ribbons Is a work at the NAO Gallery in Loenden which invites
Gallery in London which invites I
Gallery in London which invites guests to
Gallery in Lenden which invites IR R R NI
Gallery in Lenden which invites SRR R Gl R G
guests to re-examine their views
guests to re-examine their vViews on
guests to re-examine their N RS e
guests to re-examine their S L RS U ]
guests to re-examine their N L RS U D IR
guests to re-examine their S R RS U I IR e
views on textiles. Did it work e
views on textiles. Did it work R
views on textiles. Did it work for you? Just wanted to touch
for you? Just wanted to touch it. Lovely. But for me the most
it. Lovely. But for me the most exciting
it. Lovely. But for me the most R
it. Lovely. But for me the most el [ N[N
it. Lovely. But for me the most exciting piece of modern art
exciting piece of modern art that
exciting piece of modern art e S E
exciting piece of modern art eI E R -]
exciting piece of modern art LI R |
exciting piece of modern art LI T NEe e e LR
DA TN T T that has been created this year
that has been created this year 3
that has been created this year TR .
that has been created this year is this... Oh,
that has been created this year IR TR i 51
that has been created this year is this... Oh, what is it
Is this... Oh, what Is it Lk
Is this... Oh, what Is it called? A cute cookie
Is this... Oh, what is it called? A cute cookie in a
called? A cute cookie in a ST
called? A cute cookie ina ARG
called? A cute cookie ina IRt Ee N
called? A cute cookie ina e N AL
called? A cute cookie ina house made of sushi. And who
called? A cute cookie ina I I E N A I R B
house made of sushi. And who Is e
house made of sushi. And who Is 4N
house made of sushi. And who Is 1A\
house made of sushi. And who Is A A GELS
house made of sushi. And who Is it buy? Now that is the million
it buy? Now that is the million g
it buy? Now that is the million dollar question. -- who is it
dollar question. -- who Is it ™
dollar question. -- who Is it by. In
dollar question. -- who Is it ARG
dollar question. -- who Is it AR RFE
dollar question. -- who Is it by. In the last few months
dollar question. -- who is it by. In the last few months all
by. In the last few months all ey
by. In the last few months all e d
by. In the last few months all RO R e
by. In the last few months all sorts of weird pictures and
sorts of weird pictures and Ty
sorts of weird pictures and R R Y
sorts of weird pictures and videos have been popping up
videos have been popping up e
videos have been popping up online. Some look Like
videos have been popping up online. Some look like clever
online. Some look like clever mash ups of existing photos and
mash ups of existing photos and S
mash ups of existing photos and IR 4
mash ups of existing photos and SO Al
mash ups of existing photos and O AR
mash ups of existing photos and others look Like the work
mash ups of existing photos and IR ARG R
others look like the work of )
others look like the work of QR0
others look like the work of QTSI ID]LEL
others look like the work of the groovy digital artists. But
the groovy digital artists. But )
the groovy digital artists. But e N
the groovy digital artists. But N
the groovy digital artists. But there not. -- they are not.
there not. -- they are not. -Tels]
there not. -- they are not. IS Teas B d
there not. -- they are not. T T R R )
there not. -- they are not. Each of these images has been
Each of these images has been created from scratch by a
created from scratch by a oy fo [Nl
created from scratch by a computer based on nothing more
computer based on nothing more than someone
computer based on nothing more G EN B N RN )
computer based on nothing more than someone typing in
computer based on nothing more G EN B I R L R
computer based on nothing more than someone typing in a few
than someone typing in a few words to describe what they
words to describe what they want. And |
words to describe what they e o s B R )
words to describe what they want. And | have to say some of
want. And | have to say some of them
want. And | have to say some of )
want. And | have to say some of QIR LU GR
want. And | have to say some of them are stunning. The pace of
them are stunning. The pace of this
them are stunning. The pace of G R
them are stunning. The pace of this has been
them are stunning. The pace of QI E N )
them are stunning. The pace of this has been quite staggering.
this has been quite staggering. Al
this has been quite staggering. Al is being fast moving but
Al is being fast moving but this
Al is being fast moving but G
Al is being fast moving but this is as fast-moving as
this is as fast-moving as anything ever
this is as fast-moving as VOIS CUR
this is as fast-moving as GRS S N
this is as fast-moving as anything ever seen. An expert
anything ever seen. An expert 3
anything ever seen. An expert in deep
anything ever seen. An expert G REEIGTR
anything ever seen. An expert T AT T P )
anything ever seen. An expert in deep learning, he has spent
in deep learning, he has spent )
in deep learning, he has spent AR
in deep learning, he has spent AR B Te e
in deep learning, he has spent the last few months exploring
the last few months exploring Y
the last few months exploring how this
the last few months exploring T ARG o
the last few months exploring how this works. We can just
how this works. We can just generate an image and see what
generate an image and see what e
generate an image and see what it looks
generate an image and see what AN A
generate an image and see what AL R . T
generate an image and see what it looks Like. But as
generate an image and see what A R . R )
generate an image and see what I RN N R LR (s
it looks like. But as we try and generate completely new
and generate completely new Ty I
and generate completely new Ty FL
and generate completely new images of cute rabbit wearing a
images of cute rabbit wearing a I
images of cute rabbit wearing a parachute jumping out of a
parachute jumping out of a plane... It becomes obvious
plane... It becomes obvious that
plane... It becomes obvious EIRNY
plane... It becomes obvious that these systems don’t really
that these systems don’t really understand
that these systems don’t really MG eI R el s
that these systems don’t really LGN U AU
that these systems don’t really understand what they are
understand what they are drawing. Oh, dear. Oh, that is
drawing. Oh, dear. Oh, that is I IE]
drawing. Oh, dear. Oh, that is peculiar. That is
drawing. Oh, dear. Oh, thatis peculiar. That is very
peculiar. That Is very believable. What has happened
believable. What has happened Y4
believable. What has happened YAl
believable. What has happened YA A R 00|
believable. What has happened there? It is a cloud but very
there? It is a cloud but very like a
there? It is a cloud but very R
there? It is a cloud but very like a rabbit. For every great
like a rabbit. For every great ey
like a rabbit. For every great R
like a rabbit. For every great AR TR
like a rabbit. For every great R R NG
like a rabbit. For every great AR TR R UG
like a rabbit. For every great picture you see online they may
picture you see online they may very well be quite a few weird
very well be quite a few weird T
very well be quite a few weird ones that don’t get posted.
IR G R[]
But the good pictures are really
IR N[ olla V] (I really good! And the fact
But the good pictures are really good! And the fact that
really good! And the fact that this
really good! And the fact that ICE e
really good! And the fact that this has all happened so fast
this has all happened so fast .
this has all happened so fast T
this has all happened so fast I YT
this has all happened so fast is.__ It has blown
this has all happened so fast is... It has blown my mind. So
is... It has blown my mind. So vty
is... It has blown my mind. So Tt
is... It has blown my mind. So what on earth is going on? To
what on earth is going on? To put
what on earth is going on? To N dis
what on earth is going on? To put it simply, it’s
put it simply, it’s IR
put it simply, it’s complicated. But if you give me
complicated. But if you give me 90
complicated. But if you give me TR e a3
complicated. But if you give me ORI e |
complicated. But if you give me R ARk
complicated. But if you give me 90 seconds | will give you my
90 seconds | will give you my 3
90 seconds | will give you my best explanation. For years,
best explanation. For years, T e
best explanation. For years, machine learning systems have
machine learning systems have T
machine learning systems have been vacuuming up all the
been vacuuming up all the images they can find online and
images they can find online and they
images they can find online and GG
images they can find online and they are accompanying ant --
they are accompanying ant -- they accompanying text
they accompanying text descriptions. Systems learned
descriptions. Systems learned to associate certain words and
to associate certain words and IE
to associate certain words and phrases with certain
to associate certain words and EHIR IR R O
phrases with certain pictures. I
phrases with certain pictures. NG
phrases with certain pictures. IR aLs
phrases with certain pictures. IR (TS
phrases with certain pictures. IR S OGS A
phrases with certain pictures. IR OGS AR
phrases with certain pictures. And now it they seem to know
And now it they seem to know L
And now it they seem to know UL RN
And now it they seem to know L RG]
And now it they seem to know UL RO R R
And now it they seem to know enough to be able to work in
enough to be able to work in TN S e e
enough to be able to work in reverse. Start with a
reverse. Start with a W Jdgl e
reverse. Start with a description and get a picture.
description and get a picture. So
description and get a picture. i
description and get a picture. So if|
description and get a picture. So if | type in, "An abandoned
So if | type in, "An abandoned iNatalS s
So if I type in, "An abandoned futuristic dystopian
So if I type in, "An abandoned O (R E R 18
futuristic dystopian city WG
futuristic dystopian city overgrown with plants, bathed
overgrown with plants, bathed in sunlight” it will first come
in sunlight™ it will first come up
in sunlight™ it will first come R4
in sunlight™ it will first come MR AU R N
in sunlight” it will first come RO RO
in sunlight” it will first come up with this. No it
in sunlight” it will first come R ORI R R
up with this. No it doesn’t look
up with this. No it doesn’t look much
up with this. No it doesn’t Y @ e e Tt
up with this. No it doesn’t look much but |
up with this. No it doesn’t LTS R AR
up with this. No it doesn’t S R ARG e
up with this. No it doesn’t look much but | think there are
I e BTV AR G L R G TR I )
look much but I think there are st eI
look much but I think there are some clues on
look much but I think there are NI
look much but I think there are some clues on here. For
some clues on here. For S N
some clues on here. For example, does it know the word
example, does it know the word plants means it has to put in a
plants means it has to put in a e
plants means it has to put in a s
plants means it has to put in a N EICEN]
plants means it has to put in a NN
plants means it has to put in a AN L LR G T
plants means it has to put in a NN LR G E ]
plants means it has to put ina lot of green and that Green has
lot of green and that Green has to
lot of green and that Green has R
lot of green and that Green has el A
lot of green and that Green has to be low down in the picture?
to be low down in the picture? Do
to be low down in the picture? IR
to be low down in the picture? Do all pictures of sunlight is
Do all pictures of sunlight is e
Do all pictures of sunlight is it has ever seen
Do all pictures of sunlight is T LR L N e A
Do all pictures of sunlight is it has ever seen involve a
it has ever seen involve a L[
it has ever seen involve a single point of brightness
single point of brightness ey
single point of brightness e ]
single point of brightness e R
single point of brightness somewhere in the sky? | think
somewhere in the sky? | think this
somewhere in the sky? | think G
somewhere in the sky? | think this is some kind of average of
this is some kind of average of 1R
this is some kind of average of all plant pictures and all
all plant pictures and all LI
all plant pictures and all sunlight pictures. Next, it
sunlight pictures. Next, it uses
sunlight pictures. Next, it MR
sunlight pictures. Next, it uses these broad strokes guided
uses these broad strokes guided and it slowly adds more and
and it slowly adds more and e
and it slowly adds more and e e
and it slowly adds more and e S )
and it slowly adds more and eI R e
more detail over and over again. Until in 100 steps
I S C IR gL R again. Until in 100 steps as if
again. Until in 100 steps as if UG
again. Until in 100 steps as if emerging from a fog, you get
emerging from a fog, you get this,
emerging from a fog, you get W IR 1 1[o1)
emerging from a fog, you get this, which |
emerging from a fog, you get this, which I think is
emerging from a fog, you get IR T W R G 14
this, which I think is pretty Ela:]
this, which | think is pretty darn beautiful. And you don’t
darn beautiful. And you don’t Ty
darn beautiful. And you don’t have to
darn beautiful. And you don’t N R R e
darn beautiful. And you don’t RO ad ]
darn beautiful. And you don’t have to start with a blank
have to start with a blank AR R )
have to start with a blank slate. Give it a starting face
slate. Give it a starting face and you, too, can grow your own
and you, too, can grow your own il
and you, too, can grow your own IELEIa s 43
and you, too, can grow your own mad scientist in a steam punk
mad scientist in a steam punk laboratory. And then there is
laboratory. And then there is )
laboratory. And then there is the teddy bears. In the same
the teddy bears. In the same LGV
the teddy bears. In the same EVR TS
the teddy bears. In the same way that you can specify
the teddy bears. In the same A GE AR e K
way that you can specify a subject, you can also specify a
subject, you can also specify a style. This seems —-
subject, you can also specify a style. This seems -- systems
style. This seems -- systems have seen enough Monet to
have seen enough Monet to i)
have seen enough Monet to create a
have seen enough Monet to R e
have seen enough Monet to create a Monet. And
have seen enough Monet to e R N A Ll ey
have seen enough Monet to ot R A LU e
have seen enough Monet to N N A LR S SR
create a Monet. And here is Van Gough’s bears,
create a Monet. And here Is Van Gough’s bears, Picasso’s bears
Gough’s bears, Picasso’s bears and even one from H.P.
and even one from H.P. B el
and even one from H.P. I e .10
and even one from H.P. I n e o N e
and even one from H.P. R N R
Lovecraft. But here’s the problem.
Lovecraft. But here’s the 0L IR FN
Lovecraft. But here’s the problem. What if you
Lovecraft. But here’s the problem. What if you wanted a
problem. What if you wanted a painting in the style of a
painting in the style of a living artist? One who earns
living artist? One who earns NS
living artist? One who earns money from their commissions.
money from their commissions. As an
money from their commissions. YL
money from their commissions. As an artist, what
money from their commissions. YL AR A
money from their commissions. As an artist, what | do, it is
As an artist, what | do, it is Y
As an artist, what | do, it is a part of me, a
As an artist, what | do, It Is a part of me, a part of my
a part of me, a part of my identity, and these
a part of me, a part of my G A RO R I E LIS
identity, and these companies have
identity, and these companies YU
identity, and these companies LRy
identity, and these companies Y N LR R
identity, and these companies have allowed users to generate
have allowed users to generate things that look Like | have
things that look like I have Al
things that look like I have AL
things that look Like I have IR a1
things that look Like I have IR R A ] 4
things that look Like I have R A e A
things that look Like I have done it, that look like my
done it, that look like my ]
done it, that look like my NG I
done it, that look like my peers have done it, and we’re
peers have done it, and we’re L
peers have done it, and we’re going to generate all kinds of
going to generate all kinds of things that you never agreed to
things that you never agreed to that could
things that you never agreed to LR LR
things that you never agreed to that could either be against
that could either be against your wishes, that could be
your wishes, that could be against your beliefs. Kalla is
against your beliefs. Kalla is PN
against your beliefs. Kalla is R TR e s
against your beliefs. Kalla is an illustrator and finders
against your beliefs. Kalla is R TR s Rl s e
an illustrator and finders -- fine art list
an illustrator and finders -- fine art List and
an illustrator and finders -- MM RN
an illustrator and finders -- fine art List and she has
fine art list and she has I e e sl
fine art list and she has I e -]
fine art list and she has discovered Ai generated art
fine art list and she has LSO E GO Rl
discovered Al generated art in )
discovered Al generated art in RN G
discovered Al generated art in the style of
discovered Ai generated art in the style of her and her peers
the style of her and her peers e
the style of her and her peers R
the style of her and her peers RGN
the style of her and her peers IR N -N
the style of her and her peers NIRRT
the style of her and her peers ML e Al
online. To me it feels like )
online. To me it feels like some kind of parasitical
some kind of parasitical R
some kind of parasitical Il AL
some kind of parasitical copying. Oh, we’re copying from
copying. Oh, we’re copying from T e
copying. Oh, we’re copying from N el
copying. Oh, we’re copying from another artist specifically to
another artist specifically to Y a
another artist specifically to look Llike that
another artist specifically to look Like that artist,
another artist specifically to ARG E P i
another artist specifically to look Like that artist, oh, but
look like that artist, oh, but s
look like that artist, oh, but AL
look like that artist, oh, but AT
look like that artist, oh, but is slightly different but it
LR VG T T T )
is slightly different but it AN AL
is slightly different but it A Al
is slightly different but it sure looks Like that artist
is slightly different but it sure looks like that artist did
sure looks like that artist did i
sure looks like that artist did SN
sure looks like that artist did o | 4
sure looks like that artist did TS a3
sure looks like that artist did it, ha. It is concerning. This
it, ha. It is concerning. This s
it, ha. It is concerning. This %)
it, ha. It is concerning. This TR IR
it, ha. It is concerning. This A A L)
it, ha. It is concerning. This I AEI R LRI
it, ha. It is concerning. This IV ABI R LU
s a live issue. There may be )
s a live issue. There may be R
s a live issue. There may be R
s a live issue. There may be hope for artists whose specific
hope for artists whose specific S
hope for artists whose specific styles have been replicated. An
styles have been replicated. An Pyl
styles have been replicated. An artist would
styles have been replicated. An YAl e T sl )
styles have been replicated. An artist would be able to claim
artist would be able to claim PN
artist would be able to claim an infringement for a style
an infringement for a style (N
an infringement for a style being copied because
an infringement for a style IR TG I I DR ool
being copied because copyright I iR
being copied because copyright LI R A (0
being copied because copyright T R ]
being copied because copyright doesn’t protect a style
doesn’t protect a style that Y
doesn’t protect a style that when artificial intelligence
when artificial intelligence T
when artificial intelligence has been
when artificial intelligence YR NIl
when artificial intelligence TR MBI E )
when artificial intelligence R T NI SRR B )
when artificial intelligence has been used to make something
has been used to make something in
has been used to make something TRy
has been used to make something in the style
has been used to make something RO EES Y CRd
has been used to make something in the style of someone
has been used to make something in the style of someocne else
in the style of someone else then
in the style of someone else I hR e
in the style of someone else then their original
in the style of someone else QLR G I H EIRT
in the style of someone else G RO EI R R
then their original works would have been copied by that
then their original works would E N NG R A EL YR
then their original works would have been copied by that Ai. So
have been copied by that Al. So i
have been copied by that Al. So T T2 ]
have been copied by that Al. So TR a3
have been copied by that Al. So TRl s s ls]
have been copied by that Al. So TR A R Ry
have been copied by that Al. So TR R E ]
have been copied by that Al. So if an artist did have a problem
if an artist did have a problem they
if an artist did have a problem 1 AL
if an artist did have a problem they could make a claim that
they could make a claim that e
they could make a claim that their original works have been
their original works have been |
their original works have been IR
their original works have been copied in the first place as
copied in the first place as part of data scraping and data
part of data scraping and data iR
part of data scraping and data LT
part of data scraping and data mining. But there is that other
mining. But there is that other T
mining. But there is that other RO
mining. But there is that other IR ILGILGEN
mining. But there is that other IR DL LR A L
Issues surrounding Al, too. -l
Issues surrounding Al, too. Given that you make a living
Given that you make a living Tee I8t
Given that you make a living RIS
Given that you make a living NI [
Given that you make a living from your art, are you worried
from your art, are you worried Tl
from your art, are you worried that you might lose income
that you might lose income T )
that you might lose income T N4
that you might lose income because it suddenly it is
because it suddenly it is possible to generate stuff that
possible to generate stuff that S
possible to generate stuff that TS
possible to generate stuff that AR
possible to generate stuff that AR
possible to generate stuff that looks Llike yours? | would
possible to generate stuff that looks like yours? | would be
looks like yours? | would be lying if
looks like yours? | would be WLLE
looks like yours? | would be lying if | said no.
looks like yours? | would be VLRI
looks like yours? | would be lying if | said no. | am
lying if I said no. | am worried. |
lying if I said no. | am et IR
lying if I said no. | am worried. | have peers that are
worried. | have peers that are )
worried. | have peers that are R
worried. | have peers that are also very worried specifically
also very worried specifically and
also very worried specifically R )
also very worried specifically YR e ae as]
also very worried specifically B e s R
also very worried specifically IR N s iR E |
also very worried specifically LR N e R R )
and the concern that | share e
and the concern that | share TR )
and the concern that | share for those who
and the concern that | share RGN R Y
and the concern that | share for those who are into --
for those who are into -- NGl
for those who are into -- UL ROG
for those who are into -- entering the industry
for those who are into -~ entering the industry because |
entering the industry because | Ty
entering the industry because | have heard reports from
have heard reports from illustrators whose projects
illustrators whose projects ey
illustrators whose projects were cancelled or oh, hey, this
were cancelled or oh, hey, this 3
were cancelled or oh, hey, this interms
were cancelled or oh, hey, this R R )
were cancelled or oh, hey, this R R
were cancelled or oh, hey, this in terms we were thinking of
in terms we were thinking of IR
in terms we were thinking of hiring, maybe not, really. And
hiring, maybe not, really. And )
hiring, maybe not, really. And e
hiring, maybe not, really. And ORI e
hiring, maybe not, really. And QAR SR
hiring, maybe not, really. And AR SR R =1
there is whispers of that happening more and more within
happening more and more within e
happening more and more within our industry. And if you’ve
our industry. And if you’ve aver
our industry. And if you’ve ever taken a
our industry. And if you’ve AR LU
our industry. And if you’ve ever taken a photo and sold it
ever taken a photo and sold it to
ever taken a photo and sold it ]
ever taken a photo and sold it IR o e
ever taken a photo and sold it to a stock photography website,
to a stock photography website, K|
to a stock photography website, TR TN Y
to a stock photography website, you’d better watch
to a stock photography website, T RS AT R T
to a stock photography website, you’d better watch out, too.
you’d better watch out, too. [ o
you’d better watch out, too. Most websites when they write
Most websites when they write Y e ala -y
Most websites when they write articles they put photos onto
articles they put photos onto go with the story and the
go with the story and the I 01
go with the story and the R
go with the story and the photos are usually not the
photos are usually not the actual
photos are usually not the Ela G R G
photos are usually not the actual story, they are stock,
actual story, they are stock, people
actual story, they are stock, I Gl
actual story, they are stock, people in an office or things
people in an office or things ey
people in an office or things like this was top
people in an office or things R GIRTZ R G RN
people in an office or things like this was top we’re not
like this was top we’re not T
like this was top we’re not quite there. People, hands,
quite there. People, hands, Zla IR
quite there. People, hands, Il IR G A
quite there. People, hands, faces, they’re difficult to do
faces, they’re difficult to do e
faces, they’re difficult to do |
faces, they’re difficult to do T e AN
faces, they’re difficult to do for Al but is that gets better
for Al but is that gets better ]
for Al but is that gets better you imagine you could go off to
you imagine you could go off to PN
you imagine you could go off to GGG
you imagine you could go off to an algorithm and say | need
an algorithm and say | need people looking really angry
people looking really angry T )
people looking really angry because they
people looking really angry ARG A el
people looking really angry because they printer doesn’t
because they printer doesn’t a4
because they printer doesn’t & a |
because they printer doesn’t N SR
because they printer doesn’t N N R I )
because they printer doesn’t L ENLRG RN R
because they printer doesn’t work and there we go. You
because they printer doesn’t work and there we go. You have
work and there we go. You have solved
work and there we go. You have L R
work and there we go. You have solved that problem. That is
solved that problem. That is )
solved that problem. That is the kind
solved that problem. That is N R
solved that problem. That is the kind of thing, |
solved that problem. That is QR GRI RGP ARG
solved that problem. That is the kind of thing, I think it
the kind of thing, | think it i
the kind of thing, I think it could find some
the kind of thing, I think it G Ri I E R I
the kind of thing, I think it could find some use for.
the kind of thing, | think it e GRI N E R IR T T - 1s
could find some use for. Over )
could find some use for. Over GRS
could find some use for. Over U R )
could find some use for. Over O IR GG G
could find some use for. Over the years we have asked
the years we have asked (Y EEICLIVA
the years we have asked [ TNy [ VRN F TS
the years we have asked repeatedly, what happens as Al
repeatedly, what happens as Al ST
repeatedly, what happens as Al E RN
repeatedly, what happens as Al R e
repeatedly, what happens as Al AR I ]
repeatedly, what happens as Al AR I R e e N
repeatedly, what happens as Al AR R R e e A
takes over more and more of the (0
takes over more and more of the repetitive mundane
takes over more and more of the RO FU R EH G
takes over more and more of the RO UL U R L
repetitive mundane tasks and )
repetitive mundane tasks and N
repetitive mundane tasks and the answer is
repetitive mundane tasks and NS AR N
repetitive mundane tasks and the answer is always been
QR UTOREIWUE Y welcome
QR UTOREIWUE Y Al 14
QR UTOREIWUE Y Al A
QR UTOREIWUE Y welcome at least we
QR UTOREIWUE Y Al Al a -
the answer is always been A AR R
welcome at least we will still have
welcome at least we will still LYY 04
welcome at least we will still [ E T =T LA\ T LA
welcome at least we will still have our creativity! We can all
have our creativity! We can all o
have our creativity! We can all X
have our creativity! We can all L
have our creativity! We can all go off and be artists and Al is
go off and be artists and Al is e
go off and be artists and Al is T
go off and be artists and Al is TN
go off and be artists and Al is P R W TN
go off and be artists and Al is AN T G R{
go off and be artists and Al is like, no, I’m coming for that,
like, no, I’m coming for that, el
like, no, I’m coming for that, too. And as
like, no, I’m coming for that, I NG
like, no, I’m coming for that, I N RS Sl Y
like, no, I’m coming for that, too. And as Al starts to
like, no, I’m coming for that, too. And as Ai starts to play a
too. And as Al starts to play a part
too. And as Al starts to play a Ela 4]
too. And as Al starts to play a (TRl N 48
too. And as Al starts to play a part in pretty much most parts
part in pretty much most parts of
part in pretty much most parts S
part in pretty much most parts NIRRT
part in pretty much most parts R R
part in pretty much most parts RN EVA
part in pretty much most parts of our lives, it may be about
of our lives, it may be about to shape the conversations
to shape the conversations we’re having is a US company
we’re having is @ US company open
we’re having is @ US company O
we’re having is @ US company open Al has
we’re having is a US company open Al has released a new
LN RN DR R TSR Ty E L LRGN A G
open Al has released a new type of
open Al has released a new type S g
open Al has released a new type RS E e
open Al has released a new type RS L e e a1 s]
open Al has released a new type R E e s
open Al has released a new type A R
IO N IS
IO N I I ER A=
vl RO N I R A R iy
of chat bot and it is I R SR L LS
impressive critics with its writing abilities. Zoe has been
writing abilities. Zoe has been L]
writing abilities. Zoe has been giving it a try. You don’t
giving it a try. You don’t always
giving it a try. You don’t E[Z IR G T
giving it a try. You don’t always know if you are
giving it a try. You don’t I G R VIR G LT
always know if you are talking to
always know if you are talking ]
always know if you are talking R[N
always know if you are talking IR [ DI e
always know if you are talking to a computer or a human.
R Ty Dl TR I T E T Sometimes it
R Ty Dl TR I T E T R
R LTI I T L Sometimes it is less obvious
Sometimes it is less obvious Y
Sometimes it is less obvious R
Sometimes it is less obvious Y N RV
Sometimes it is less obvious when you are typing and test --
when you are typing and test -- AR
when you are typing and test -- texting. A
when you are typing and test -- LY
when you are typing and test -- UL
when you are typing and test -- texting. A lot of firms are
texting. A lot of firms are ]
texting. A lot of firms are working on chat bots. One in
working on chat bots. One in particular has gone viral. It
particular has gone viral. It s
particular has gone viral. It is called ChatGPT from
particular has gone viral. It TR LR R AR R
particular has gone viral. It TR IR R ARt RN ilgst
is called ChatGPT from the firm LN
is called ChatGPT from the firm OpenAl and
NIRRT R RO R OpenAl and more than
is called ChatGPT from the firm OpenAl and more than a
is called ChatGPT frem the firm OpenAl and more than a millien
OpenAl and more than a million people have
OpenAl and more than a millien people have had a play with it
people have had a play with it o)
people have had a play with it e 4
people have had a play with it AT N 8 E
people have had a play with it since it has been launched.
since it has been launched. Ty
since it has been launched. o
since it has been launched. Gets at styles of writing from
Gets at styles of writing from )
Gets at styles of writing from e e
Gets at styles of writing from R R
Gets at styles of writing from QAN GOSN
Gets at styles of writing from the internet was up I’m going
the internet was up I’m going to
the internet was up I’m going i
the internet was up I’m going ol e
the internet was up I’m going Rl AR
the internet was up I’m going R A R A
the internet was up I’m going to let it show you what it can
to let it show you what it can )
to let it show you what it can WYY
to let it show you what it can LA
to let it show you what it can LN AT A T
to let it show you what it can do by itself. First question,”
do by itself. First question,” explain ChatGPT into
explain ChatGPT into e
explain ChatGPT into sentences”. "Chat GPT is a chat
sentences”. "Chat GPT is a chat CUEGLC0]
sentences”. "Chat GPT is a chat generated in the language model
generated in the language model that
generated in the language model LRI
generated in the language model R e
generated in the language model that uses natural language
that uses natural language processing
that uses natural language (IR
that uses natural language IR LG
processing to generate (S IYE
processing to generate responses to user input in a
responses to user input in a e e BBl
responses to user input in a conversational manner”. Not so
conversational manner”. Not so e E B )
conversational manner”. Not so conversational so far. Let’s
conversational so far. Let’s 1187
conversational so far. Let’s LGS
conversational so far. Let’s NG I
conversational so far. Let’s try another guestion. "Are
conversational so far. Let’s try another guestion. "Are you
try another question. "Are you alive?™ "
try another question. "Are you alive?" " no,
try another question. "Are you alive?™ " no, I’m
try another question. "Are you alive?" " no, I’ma
try another question. "Are you alive?™ " no, I’m a virtual
alive?™ " no, I’m a virtual YA e 4
alive?™ " no, I’m a virtual YA e ]
alive?™ " no, I’m a virtual assistant created by
alive?" " no, I’m a virtual assistant created by computer
assistant created by computer programmes. | do not have
programmes. | do not have consciousness
programmes. | do not have e N
programmes. | do not have consciousness or the ability to
consciousness or the ability to feel emotions
consciousness or the ability to TR e R Y
consciousness or the ability to feel emotions Like a
consciousness or the ability to TR R e
consciousness or the ability to feel emotions like a human. |
feel emotions like a human. | e
feel emotions like a human. | AN
feel emotions like a human. | exist only to
ISR BRI T B exist only to provide
exist only to provide information and
exist only to provide e B L L
exist only to provide information and assist with
information and assist with e
infermation and assist with tasks within the limitations
infoermation and assist with tasks within the Limitations of
tasks within the limitations of '
tasks within the limitations of my programming”.
tasks within the limitations of VEGLIE Tl R ]
tasks within the limitations of my programming”. Right, here we
my program ) go.P gra UL 0L AL LE
my programming”. Right, here we go. |
my programming”. Right, here we RS
my programming”. Right, here we VRO
my programming”. Right, here we go. | have come to Glasgow
go. | have come to Glasgow University to
go. | have come to Glasgow NS ARG
go. | have come to Glasgow University to meet just --
University to meet just -- Mlwie g
University to meet just -- Doctor Jeff
University to meet just -- e I E IR
University to meet just -- Doctor Jeff Dalton. A senior
Doctor Jeff Dalton. A senior lecturer
Doctor Jeff Dalton. A senior Yaetlc ]
Doctor Jeff Dalton. A senior LY IR (LAl |
Doctor Jeff Dalton. A senior lecturer in computing science
lecturer in computing science to
lecturer in computing science R}
lecturer in computing science to see what he makes of it. If
to see what he makes of it. If |
to see what he makes of it. If IR0 R
to see what he makes of it. If | were to ask
to see what he makes of it. If B eO
to see what he makes of it. If B R e G E]
to see what he makes of it. If | were to ask this on an
to see what he makes of it. If B RN U N &)
| were to ask this on an exam G A
(RECRCRH SOIER LR &l G EIRERE LY
(RECRCRH SOIER LR &l G EI R LR
(RECRCRH SOIER LR &l that is probably a Lobbe.
that is probably a Lobbe. Doctor Dalton spent a lot of
Doctor Dalton spent a lot of S i)
Doctor Dalton spent a lot of time running
Doctor Dalton spent a lot of RGN I
Doctor Dalton spent a lot of time running questions through
W ROLG LGP B LTy ey
time running questions through Al
time running questions through Chris Reason. ChatGPT is very
Chris Reason. ChatGPT is very L]
Chris Reason. ChatGPT is very LR
Chris Reason. ChatGPT Is very good at generating natural
good at generating natural language was up right now we
language was up right now we can generate a paragraph and it
can generate a paragraph and it can
can generate a paragraph and it LN
can generate a paragraph and it can generate a poem.
can generate a paragraph and it can generate a peem. It can’t
can generate a poem. It can’t generate an
can generate a peem. It can’t generate an article. It can’t
generate an article. It can’t write
generate an article. It can’t oW
generate an article. It can’t R ]
generate an article. It can’t R R e
generate an article. It can’t N R P R R )
write a PhD thesis, or a Yo
write a PhD thesis, or a Y N e
write a PhD thesis, or a specialised report. It
write a PhD thesis, ora specialised report. It can’t do
specialised report. It can’t do those things
specialised report. It can’t do those things we get is
those things we get is fundamentally limited in the
fundamentally limited in the fact
fundamentally limited in the Ela G
fundamentally limited in the fact that it
fundamentally limited in the E G s h
fundamentally limited in the fact that it doesn’t understand
fact that it doesn’t understand Y
fact that it doesn’t understand what it is talking about. But
what it is talking about. But 3
what it is talking about. But o
what it is talking about. But LRI [N
what it is talking about. But ERI LR )
what it is talking about. But is it growing too quickly?
s it growing too quickly? e tiale e ey
s it growing too quickly? A 1]
LD R TG V4 4 YA R LR LA
LD R TG V4 4 Practitioners are surprised by
Practitioners are surprised by how
Practitioners are surprised by how Practitioners are surprised by A I A\
Practitioners are surprised by how Practitioners are surprised by R I A
Practitioners are surprised by how Practitioners are surprised by how quickly these modern
how quickly these modern G
how quickly these modern systems are developing and some
systems are developing and some N
systems are developing and some of them
systems are developing and some RO
systems are developing and some of them are starting to think
of them are starting to think Y
of them are starting to think N EVALEIT
of them are starting to think we may have systems as smart as
we may have systems as smart as iy
we may have systems as smart as humans in as Little
we may have systems as smart as humans in as little as ten
humans in as little as ten years which is sooner
humans in as little as ten RO R LI R =l
humans in as little as ten R R R U =L R
years which is sooner than most people bot previously. --
people bot previously. -- QI
people bot previously. -- thought previously. What more
thought previously. What more i
thought previously. What more could they be capable of? Maybe
could they be capable of? Maybe they will replace internet
they will replace internet search
they will replace internet XL R
they will replace internet search engines, create content
search engines, create content e
search engines, create content TR e
search engines, create content TR R di )
search engines, create content for websites or write reports
for websites or write reports '
for websites or write reports (RGN
for websites or write reports like this, although I’m not
like this, although I’m not T
like this, although I’m not TR
like this, although I’m not quite sure where that leaves
quite sure where that leaves T
That was Zoe. N Q
That was Zoe. Now time fi
hat was Zoe. Now time for a Y
hat was Zoe. Now time for a V&
That was Zoe. Now time for a look at this
That was Zoe. Now time for a IR GRS
That was Zoe. Now time for a IR G IR R
That was Zoe. Now time for a look at this week’'s Tech News.
look at this week’s Tech News. Sam
look at this week’s Tech News. R EN L E R AR
look at this week’s Tech News. Sam Bankman-Fried, boss of
Sam Bankman-Fried, boss of Pl
Sam Bankman-Fried, boss of failed crypto company FTX has
failed crypto company FTX has been denied
failed crypto company FTX has (TN CR R el
failed crypto company FTX has (N ERI R E B
failed crypto company FTX has N ERT LR
failed crypto company FTX has (NN R BN . E i E i E L
been denied bail in the Bahamas after
been denied bail in the Bahamas G L]
been denied bail in the Bahamas after being arrested. US
after being arrested. US YNl da e el
after being arrested. US authorities charged Sam
authorities charged Sam NG Eh el sl
authorities charged Sam Bankman-Fried with one
authorities charged Sam LR G E R e R s B e )
authorities charged Sam Bankman-Fried with one of the
Bankman-Fried with one of the higgest
Bankman-Fried with one of the biggest frauds in US history.
biggest frauds in US history. Yl
biggest frauds in US history. el R )
biggest frauds in US history. Scientists have announced they
Scientists have announced they Ty
Scientists have announced they have overcome
Scientists have announced they e e ]
Scientists have announced they have overcome a major barrier
have overcome a major barrier in
have overcome a major barrier T -] d
have overcome a major barrier in nuclear fusion stop they can
in nuclear fusion stop they can LTI
in nuclear fusion stop they can ORI
in nuclear fusion stop they can produce more energy from a
produce more energy from a sl
produce more energy from a fusion experiment and they put
fusion experiment and they put TR
fusion experiment and they put TR
fusion experiment and they put in. This has taken 60 years
in. This has taken 60 years and thousands of
in. This has taken 60 years and QT R I
in. This has taken 60 years and thousands of people to reach
thousands of people to reach this
thousands of people to reach QI EN Y
thousands of people to reach this stage although experts say
this stage although experts say much more
this stage although experts say R Il Bt e R e e
this stage although experts say much more work is
this stage although experts say B e R G |
this stage although experts say much more work is needed before
much more work is needed before e
much more work is needed before T
much more work is needed before itisa
much more work is needed before it is a viable answer to our
it Is a viable answer to our N
it is a viable answer to our ORI
it is a viable answer to our energy needs. It
it is a viable answer to our OV
it is a viable answer to our energy needs. It is a
it is a viable answer to our OV R I
it is a viable answer to our energy needs. It is a source of
energy needs. It is a source of G
energy needs. It is a source of power that powers the sun and
power that powers the sun and )
power that powers the sun and WA
power that powers the sun and A e
power that powers the sun and WA S
power that powers the sun and the stars. It is the
the stars. It is the merging of light elements and heavy
light elements and heavy elements and releasing energy
elements and releasing energy in the process. Taking
in the process. Taking hydrogen, fusing it together
hydrogen, fusing it together with helium and releasing
with helium and releasing tremendous amounts of energy.
tremendous amounts of energy. T
tremendous amounts of energy. DT LN
tremendous amounts of energy. Europe’s new weather satellite
Europe’s new weather satellite has
Europe’s new weather satellite YA e |
Europe’s new weather satellite has launched from French
has launched from French Guyana. The
has launched from French N L CRUGLIE]
has launched from French L CRUCL FE
has launched from French Guyana. The media set text --
Guyana. The media set text -- T
Guyana. The media set text -- uses NexGen technologies from
uses NexGen technologies from AN
uses NexGen technologies from Europe, the
uses NexGen technologies from AN IR G R
uses NexGen technologies from Europe, the Middle East and
Europe, the Middle East and FXTeTeE]
Europe, the Middle East and F X R re]
Europe, the Middle East and Africa to help track violent
Africa to help track violent storms. And 114 -- iPhone 14
storms. And 114 -- iPhone 14 uses
storms. And 114 -- iPhone 14 M)
storms. And 114 -- iPhone 14 AR o
storms. And I14 -- iPhone 14 TR e
storms. And I14 -- iPhone 14 TR LN
storms. And I14 -- iPhone 14 uses in France, Germany and the
uses in France, Germany and the UK
uses in France, Germany and the €]
uses in France, Germany and the UK can now use emergency SOS
UK can now use emergency SOS el
UK can now use emergency S0OS which lets them contact the
which lets them contact the UEC Y
which lets them contact the emergency services
UAIG R RO R e g g1 emergency services via
emergency services via satellite if they can’t
emergency services via G RO AL R e
satellite if they can’t connect iFY
satellite if they can’t connect via cellular or Wi-Fi.
On
On the end of Glasgow | am at a wWpi]eElp
On the end of Glasgow | am at a company taking take it you
company taki I b ng take it you
company taking take it you probably know from healthcare
probably know from healthcare and finding
probably know frem healthcare and finding ways for it to be
and finding ways for it to be M5!
and finding ways for it to be used in everyday life.
used in everyday life. NI s 0Ma ]
used in everyday life. Ultrasound is the coolest
Ultrasound is the coolest imaging tech eqg.
Ultrasound is the coolest imaging tech egg. The benefit
imaging tech egg. The benefit of
imaging tech egg. The benefit S BTILReL 0la s ]
imaging tech egg. The benefit AN T B
imaging tech egg. The benefit BN s BCR
imaging tech egg. The benefit AN R A
of ultrasound is it is QA RN EENCD
of ultrasound is it is completely non-invasive. You
completely non-invasive. You can
completely non-invasive. You e
completely non-invasive. You N A
completely non-invasive. You can see inside a person without
can see inside a person without WL
can see inside a person without opening them up. For noble
opening them up. For noble Xl
opening them up. For noble R
opening them up. For noble sound the process started out
sound the process started out 3
sound the process started out ina
sound the process started out inavery
sound the process started out in a very industrial way.
in a very industrial way. Traditional ultrasocund
Traditional ultrasound manufacturers would use
manufacturers would use machining to build an
machining to build an ultrasound probe by machining
ultrasound probe by machining or breaking away to make a pro.
or breaking away to make a pro. We
or breaking away to make a pro. Y )
or breaking away to make a pro. T N = 1a 5]
or breaking away to make a pro. We do and additive
N RGN manufacturing
We do and additive manufacturing process, which we
manufacturing process, which we
manufacturing process, which we call printing, we user plasma
call printing, we user plasma paper deposition process, to
paper deposition process, to look
paper deposition process, to LA
paper deposition process, to look up an
paper deposition process, to LT R !
paper deposition process, to look up an ultrasound centre.
look up an ultrasound centre. I
look up an ultrasound centre. And then
look up an ultrasound centre. IR R Y
look up an ultrasound centre. IR R )
look up an ultrasound centre. IR R N
I QTN D ooy N And then we use other additive
And then we use other additive manufacturing techniques we
manufacturing techniques we have
manufacturing techniques we Y N e |
manufacturing techniques we have borrowed from
manufacturing techniques we Y R e Rt R
have borrowed from the semiconductor industry to build
semiconductor industry to build up
semiconductor industry to build E]
semiconductor industry to build up a sensor,
semiconductor industry to build TR I 11
semiconductor industry to build R A
semiconductor industry to build R P T )]
semiconductor industry to build up a sensor, but is 3D printed.
up a sensor, but is 3D printed. 1]
up a sensor, but is 3D printed. TR )
up a sensor, but is 3D printed. TR N
up a sensor, but is 3D printed. Then there is a
up a sensor, but is 3D printed. IR e R
up a sensor, but is 3D printed. IR e N R i e s
Then there is a three different steps
Then there is a three different SR
Then there is a three different steps of printing as we call
steps of printing as we call i
steps of printing as we call T
steps of printing as we call R LI
steps of printing as we call TR LR
steps of printing as we call TR LR
steps of printing as we call TR LA & ET e
it. This Is a six filament HrEle
it. This Is a six filament NEEIEIE)
it. This Is a six filament linear array and
IR IR R @ i T (1 linear array and typically it
linear array and typically it s
linear array and typically it is used for
linear array and typically it LR IR e
Is used for inspection, corrosion mapping, because it
corrosion mapping, because it s
corrosion mapping, because it is so flexible it can
corrosion mapping, because it TN R IS R R
is so flexible it can be wrapped around pipes and
wrapped around pipes and e la e dnt]
wrapped around pipes and conform to complex
wrapped around pipes and I R R [ R [1 0 1y
wrapped around pipes and conform to complex geometry. We
conform to complex geometry. We can
conform to complex geometry. We A4
conform to complex geometry. We can look inside
conform to complex geometry. We A LR
conform to complex geometry. We can look inside of objects
can look inside of objects 3L
G SRR Rl using ultrasound. What
LG SRR R Ted) using ultrasound. What sort of
using ultrasound. What sort of things
using ultrasound. What sort of QI
using ultrasound. What sort of things are you looking for in a
things are you looking for in a I
things are you looking for in a XY 1l Y
things are you looking for in a XA
things are you looking for in a pipe? Typically we will be
pipe? Typically we will be L]
pipe? Typically we will be looking for corrosion or
looking for corrosion or cracking,
looking for corrosion or a a1
looking for corrosion or cracking, any defects. Can |
cracking, any defects. Can | Ty
cracking, any defects. Can | Y]
cracking, any defects. Can | have a shot? Go for
cracking, any defects. Can | R A R d
cracking, any defects. Can | have a shot? Go for it. Getting
have a shot? Go for it. Getting Tee I8t
have a shot? Go for it. Getting from this
have a shot? Go for it. Getting R GITR8’E
have a shot? Go for it. Getting from this very industrial use
from this very industrial use 0]
from this very industrial use (IO
from this very industrial use QIR
from this very industrial use to something we can interact
RN G T RN R e with
RN G T RN R e GRS 18
to something we can interact LW S E1 Y
to something we can interact with every date is a big focus
with every date is a big focus e
with every date is a big focus TR
with every date is a big focus for the company.
with every date is a big focus (R RG] 1 AR )
with every date is a big focus for the company. We have
for the company. We have F R0
for the company. We have E (VA Gl
for the company. We have already proven the ultrasound
already proven the ultrasound technology in the
already proven the ultrasound I G AL R G RGN G
technology in the industrial sector
technology in the industrial X e a1 s |
technology in the industrial sector and aviation, oil and
sector and aviation, oil and gas. But most people know
gas. But most people know ultrasound from the hospital or
ultrasound from the hospital or il
ultrasound from the hospital or medical imaging so what we want
medical imaging so what we want to
medical imaging so what we want e s le)
medical imaging so what we want s
medical imaging so what we want IR )
medical imaging so what we want IR L R O]
medical imaging so what we want IR L RO R Y
to do is be able to take medical imaging out of the
medical imaging out of the (]
medical imaging out of the I BT
medical imaging out of the hospital for everyone. One of
hospital for everyone. One of )
hospital for everyone. One of R e
hospital for everyone. One of the wearables that are on the
the wearables that are on the market
the wearables that are on the IEI A
the wearables that are on the I AN L4
the wearables that are on the market looks at the surface of
market looks at the surface of )
market looks at the surface of A
market looks at the surface of ORI TEY
market looks at the surface of the skin. They optical and
ORI I L S R A Yaigle] B
ORI I L S R e iale | I 1
ORI I L S R A e iale | I LR 1]
ORI I L S R A e iale | I LR
ORI I L S R electrical. As soon as you
the skin. They optical and electrical. As soon as you use
electrical. As soon as you use ultrasound you can get deep
ultrasound you can get deep T )
ultrasound you can get deep MR
ultrasound you can get deep into the body and that "Amount
into the body and that "Amount of
into the body and that "Amount SN e
into the body and that "Amount R N EE I
into the body and that "Amount R N I IR L 1)
into the body and that "Amount of different parameters you can
of different parameters you can I
of different parameters you can measure such as dehydration,
measure such as dehydration, S
measure such as dehydration, tissue fidelity, tissue
tissue fidelity, tissue movement. And what are you
movement. And what are you XN
movement. And what are you seeing on
movement. And what are you LRI
movement. And what are you seeing on the tablet? Take an
seeing on the tablet? Take an e TMa |
seeing on the tablet? Take an ultrasound picture, zapped over
ultrasound picture, zapped over )
ultrasound picture, zapped over R IR
ultrasound picture, zapped over the wireless, put onto the
the wireless, put onto the ol |s T 1d
the wireless, put onto the e ]a 1o [N Y
the wireless, put onto the computer so we can
the wireless, put onto the W P NSRRI R YA a
computer so we can extract information to go into machine
information to go inte machine XTI
information to go into machine learning algorithms. We can use
learning algorithms. We can use that
learning algorithms. We can use IR R ]
learning algorithms. We can use LRI )
learning algorithms. We can use MEIROI N
learning algorithms. We can use WEIROENEE N Al
that to measure stuff Like dehydration, how
that to measure stuff like dehydration, how hydrated the
dehydration, how hydrated the S
dehydration, how hydrated the AN
dehydration, how hydrated the AN
dehydration, how hydrated the A A
dehydration, how hydrated the tissue is. It is also a
tissue Is. It is also a [ G
tissue is. It is also a completely wireless
tissue Is. It is also a completely wireless platform.
W EVRIE CHEN Rl gy R Y7o e 10la s |
W EVRIE CHEN Rl gy R )
W EVRIE CHEN Rl gy R e e e s e a1
W EVRIE CHEN Rl gy R T T e N )
W EVRIE CHEN Rl gy R Novosound are not the only
completely wireless platform. Novosound are not the only ones
Novosound are not the only ones ]
Novosound are not the only ones LA
Novosound are not the only ones VLR G
Novosound are not the only ones working in this area with
working in this area with engineers
working in this area with LIRS
working in this area with engineers at MIT in the US
engineers at MIT in the US having developed a sticker
having developed a sticker ultrasound
having developed a sticker NI e e
having developed a sticker ultrasound earlier this year.
ultrasound earlier this year. e
ultrasound earlier this year. The thing that put us ahead of
The thing that put us ahead of our competition
The thing that put us ahead of RSO R
The thing that put us ahead of our competition in this
The thing that put us ahead of R O R R ICT]
The thing that put us ahead of our competition in this area is
our competition in this area is )
our competition in this area is the fact
our competition in this area is Rl Rl
our competition in this area is Rl R EIA|
our competition in this area is I REa RN EY
our competition in this area is RSN )
the fact that | have the e TMa |
the fact that | have the ultrasound picture in front of
ultrasound picture in front of e
ultrasound picture in front of TR )
ultrasound picture in front of RO )
ultrasound picture in front of me, there are no wireless, it
me, there are no wireless, it s
me, there are no wireless, it IR
me, there are no wireless, it R (AN Y
me, there are no wireless, it is truly wireless ultrasound we
s truly wireless ultrasound we have
s truly wireless ultrasound we TN sl
s truly wireless ultrasound we have here. And it
s truly wireless ultrasound we Y N e N s B e ol sl
s truly wireless ultrasound we have here. And it could be as
have here. And it could be as ;]
have here. And it could be as e
have here. And it could be as SO0N as in
have here. And it could be as AR ]
have here. And it could be as AR R e
have here. And it could be as soon as in the next year or
YT TR o TV G o soon as in the next year or two
soon as in the next year or two that
soon as in the next year or two R R
soon as in the next year or two WEIROER ]
soon as in the next year or two L RN N et 0la s |
soon as in the next year or two L R R T )
that the tech Novosound are developing
that the tech Novosound are RG]
that the tech Novosound are developing here is available in
developing here is available in (e
developing here is available in e R )
developing here is available in devices we can
developing here is available in IR LN A
Now every year billions of litres of water lost due to
litres of water lost due to X1
litres of water lost due to leaky pipes. And as the planet
leaky pipes. And as the planet IR
leaky pipes. And as the planet heaps up
leaky pipes. And as the planet R TEL
leaky pipes. And as the planet TR LR G
leaky pipes. And as the planet heaps up and the risk of
heaps up and the risk of WO
heaps up and the risk of drought increases, it is an
drought increases, it is an aver
drought increases, it is an A T e
drought increases, it is an ever more troubling problem. So
ever more troubling problem. So )
ever more troubling problem. So some companies
ever more troubling problem. So IR UL
ever more troubling problem. So some companies are starting to
some companies are starting to turn
some companies are starting to g R ee)
some companies are starting to turn to Al powered sensors to
turn to Al powered sensors to help identify holes in their
help identify holes in their I
help identify holes in their S G-
help identify holes in their systems. And Paul Carter has
systems. And Paul Carter has ]
systems. And Paul Carter has been finding out
systems. And Paul Carter has LRG0 LI
systems. And Paul Carter has been finding out more. Scorched
been finding out more. Scorched e
been finding out more. Scorched grass. Receiving
been finding out more. Scorched [ R Y
been finding out more. Scorched grass. Receiving water banks.
grass. Receiving water banks. I
grass. Receiving water banks. And record-breaking
And record-breaking temperatures.
And record-breaking NP ORI
And record-breaking temperatures. The result of the
DNV N R T R T summer’s
DNV N R T R T R R BN
DNV N R T R T summer’s heatwave, some
summer’s heatwave, some companies
summer’s heatwave, some S ER R G
summer’s heatwave, some companies even had to bring in
companies even had to bring in Y
companies even had to bring in R SR I
companies even had to bring in a hosepipe ban. Thames Water,
a hosepipe ban. Thames Water, el
a hosepipe ban. Thames Water, Y T R a1
a hosepipe ban. Thames Water, which serves 15 million people
which serves 15 million people P g ]
which serves 15 million people across London and the
which serves 15 million people e A N R R T
across Lendon and the Thames Valley was
across London and the Thames Valley was one of
across London and the Thames S A I N R R
Valley was one of those NI
Valley was one of those S R
Valley was one of those companies. It leaks around 24%
companies. It leaks around 24% of
companies. It leaks around 24% SRR L
companies. It leaks around 24% I TCRE T o
companies. It leaks around 24% R AT oJo LA ]
companies. It leaks around 24% O W CRVET YT o AT LI G o)
of its water supply, and along with
of its water supply, and along R a1 g
of its water supply, and along R R L
of its water supply, and along G R ER EL IR LRI R
of its water supply, and along R GER E LR EL 0 e
with other water boards, it came under
with other water boards, it N R
with other water boards, it IRl R e
with other water boards, it came under fire for restricting
IR TR IR (M@ dgladlyTs water
came under fire for restricting water use while it’s pipes
water use while it’s pipes e
water use while it’s pipes leaks. We know it is
leaks. We know it is I El e
leaks. We know it is M Ee 0GR
leaks. We know it is unacceptable to lose large
unacceptable to lose large amounts
unacceptable to lose large e 0l e
unacceptable to lose large amounts of water through leaks.
amounts of water through leaks. That
amounts of water through leaks. G A
amounts of water through leaks. That is why we are determined
That is why we are determined as
That is why we are determined )
That is why we are determined LR
That is why we are determined as a company to drive leakage
as a company to drive leakage A i
as a company to drive leakage down. Thames Water is trying to
down. Thames Water is trying to fix
down. Thames Water is trying to )
down. Thames Water is trying to fix a leaky pipe problem with
fix a leaky pipe problem with the
fix a leaky pipe problem with W
fix a leaky pipe problem with WA
fix a leaky pipe problem with RN A
fix a leaky pipe problem with the new Al powered sense. It
the new Al powered sense. It aims to identify the location
aims to identify the location and size of
aims to identify the location IR R ]
aims to identify the location and size of a leak, just by
and size of a leak, just by analysing noise. | am in
analysing noise. | am in Surrey, an
analysing noise. | am in S AT
analysing noise. | am in S AN Rl
analysing noise. | am in SIS AN R L
analysing noise. | am in S AN R =L A,
ST REL TR E R Y )
Surrey, an area hit badly by et 8
Surrey, an area hit badly by GRS T I D]
Surrey, an area hit badly by GRS T G [T | MRy
Surrey, an area hit badly by GRS T TSI T AR G R T
IR TSGRl G R 1 T d
the summer’s drought. With the founder of FIDO
the summer’s drought. With the LGRS Ad PR IR
the summer’s drought. With the founder of FIDO tech, the
founder of FIDO tech, the (] i]eElp)
founder of FIDO tech, the company that created the
[ E IR G T R G [ T u e
[ E IR G T R G [ sensor. Today we
[ E IR G T R G [ N IR VA LG
company that created the sensor. Today we are looking
sensor. Today we are looking e
sensor. Today we are looking for leaks. We
sensor. Today we are looking AR Y
sensor. Today we are looking A N ]
sensor. Today we are looking AR It ]
for leaks. We are in a [
for leaks. We are in a residential area
for leaks. We are ina residential area which
for leaks. We are ina AL I R e R
for leaks. We are ina residential area which we know
residential area which we know has water loss. This is an
has water loss. This is an P Il
has water loss. This Is an Yo AR e
has water loss. This Is an acoustic sensor that
has water loss. This Is an Y AR R )
has water loss. This is an LY AR L R R R Rl
acoustic sensor that we fit onto
acoustic sensor that we fit R
acoustic sensor that we fit onto the pipe network. It
onto the pipe network. It L
onto the pipe network. It listens to leaky noise and work
listens to leaky noise and work Y
listens to leaky noise and work we have done is
listens to leaky noise and work T e - N ]
listens to leaky noise and work we have done is a bit of Al
we have done is a bit of Al that
we have done is a bit of Al G
we have done is a bit of Al L A CR e
we have done is a bit of Al that looks for the noises
we have done is a bit of Al LA R R R
that looks for the noises the S
that looks for the noises the leaks make but also filters out
leaks make but also filters out )
leaks make but also filters out e e
leaks make but also filters out N T R
leaks make but also filters out MG RGNS
leaks make but also filters out NG IR R R A R ]
the other noises that leaks do e
the other noises that leaks do not make. Neil and his team
not make. Neil and his team I
not make. Neil and his team place these sensor was under a
place these sensor was under a ATe]
place these sensor was under a TR e
place these sensor was under a CIHRN AN G
place these sensor was under a rain cover overnight. It is now
rain cover overnight. It is now S i)
rain cover overnight. It is now IR )
rain cover overnight. It is now R
rain cover overnight. It is now time to retrieve them. What is
time to retrieve them. What is )
time to retrieve them. What is Ny
time to retrieve them. What is the next stage in the process?
the next stage in the process? We use
the next stage in the process? Y TR -]
the next stage in the process? We use the app
the next stage in the process? TR T A
the next stage in the process? We use the app now, this little
We use the app now, this little i)
We use the app now, this little e N
We use the app now, this Little o Nl T e e ]
We use the app now, this Little o B T e e A e
We use the app now, this Little o R NS R R e
device is Bluetooth to the N
device is Bluetooth to the phone, and
device is Bluetooth to the LR G
device is Bluetooth to the phone, and the phone then talks
phone, and the phone then talks to
phone, and the phone then talks Ry
phene, and the phene then talks el Nu e 00s)
phene, and the phene then talks RN s s Tals|
phene, and the phene then talks to the cloud and all
phene, and the phene then talks RN R
to the cloud and all the analysis is done in the cloud.
analysis is done in the cloud. e
analysis is done in the cloud. LR
analysis is done in the cloud. The graph tells
analysis is done in the cloud. LT LR R
analysis is done in the cloud. The graph tells you that
The graph tells you that e
The graph tells you that N )
The graph tells you that SN R -R I8
The graph tells you that consistent noise firstly and
consistent noise firstly and then
consistent noise firstly and Whr
consistent noise firstly and UIhTI e
consistent noise firstly and W WAL
consistent noise firstly and IR LRI E
consistent noise firstly and R AR |
consistent noise firstly and IR VLRI R R N EV G
then Al has said OK, | have taken that knowledge,
taken that knowledge, recognised
taken that knowledge, (I
taken that knowledge, recognised it, it
taken that knowledge, (L[ R A AT
taken that knowledge, recognised it, it is a small
recognised it, it is a small leak.
recognised it, it is a small YIS n
recognised it, it is a small leak. Oh, wow! So that is
DN B SRR EL leak. Oh, wow! So that is the
leak. Oh, wow! So that is the actual
leak. Oh, wow! So that is the Yo I 10la s ]
leak. Oh, wow! So that is the actual sound of a
leak. Oh, wow! So that is the YR R Y &
leak. Oh, wow! So that is the actual sound of a leak? Right
actual sound of a leak? Right ]
actual sound of a leak? Right now on
actual sound of a leak? Right T e R
actual sound of a leak? Right NG A Ul
actual sound of a leak? Right AN RO e
actual sound of a leak? Right now on the system. It is
actual sound of a leak? Right now on the system. Itis a
actual sound of a leak? Right now on the system. It is a live
now on the system. It is a live capture effectively so
now on the system. It is a live ORI N VAT L]
now on the system. It is a live capture effectively so you can
capture effectively so you can o
capture effectively so you can Yol
capture effectively so you can go OK, yeah, it is
capture effectively so you can go OK, yeah, itis a
capture effectively so you can go OK, yeah, it is a leak.
go OK, yeah, it is a leak. I
go OK, yeah, itis a leak. These other audio signals we
LGN G LU IR R IR have
These other audio signals we have recorded
These other audio signals we YN N o g s
These other audio signals we have recorded and it is the
W ENCN TG L DR PR [ status
VR G R G [ AR
VR G R G [ IR )
VR G R G [ status of the leak
VR G R G [ AU ARG AT &Y
VR G R G [ RN AN R Y
status of the leak we have el
status of the leak we have e LIS
status of the leak we have detected. This part of the
detected. This part of the e
detected. This part of the IR
detected. This part of the process is called cloud
RN T R LT correlation. It has
process Is called cloud correlation. It has been
correlation. It has been developed
correlation. It has been G Y
correlation. It has been developed by this professor at
developed by this professor at )
developed by this professor at G EINEE13%
developed by this professor at the University of the West of
the University of the West of e E s
the University of the West of e E s
the University of the West of Scotland. When
the University of the West of a1 L IRTL LR
the University of the West of Scotland. When you have audio
Scotland. When you have audio I
Scotland. When you have audio TR )
Scotland. When you have audio TR T R e sl
Scotland. When you have audio files that are stored in
Scotland. When you have audio IR I R R E
files that are stored in the AU
files that are stored in the cloud, we
UL R G [E GICRT R [ cloud, we would extract
files that are stored in the cloud, we would extract this
cloud, we would extract this ey
cloud, we would extract this feature is
cloud, we would extract this TN R T4
cloud, we would extract this TN R T
cloud, we would extract this TN IR N a AL
cloud, we would extract this TN R R A as]
cloud, we would extract this feature is out of it and try to
feature is out of it and try to T s e )
feature is out of it and try to e N
feature is out of it and try to co-ordinate it. You can
feature is out of it and try to G NE C AR L TR R )
co-ordinate it. You can see correlation is a process where
correlation is a process where you
correlation is a process where TR s"s
correlation is a process where you try to look at how they
you try to look at how they Y
you try to look at how they L E G EuELe= (1
you try to look at how they L E G L= LT
you try to look at how they look mathematically and try to
look mathematically and try to el
look mathematically and try to find similarities in time. Anna
find similarities in time. Anna [yl
find similarities in time. Anna Mcleod would
find similarities in time. Anna MclLeod would return
find similarities in time. Anna Mcleod would return you
find similarities in time. Anna McLeod would return you the
MclLeod would return you the
McLeod would return you the location of
McLeod would return you the R R
McLeod would return you the N hE AT a
McLeod would return you the N hE AT a
McLeod would return you the N aE AL e L
location of the leak. This Gl
location of the leak. This SR CGURS
location of the leak. This system is underpinned
location of the leak. This SR CURLE e IR
location of the leak. This system is underpinned by a
system is underpinned by a EL )
system is underpinned by a I s Iy
system is underpinned by a massive archive of audio files,
massive archive of audio files, i
massive archive of audio files, MR
massive archive of audio files, hundreds of thousands of
hundreds of thousands of recordings
hundreds of thousands of (IR
hundreds of thousands of recordings of leaky pipes from
recordings of leaky pipes from around
recordings of leaky pipes from IR R e ldls
recordings of leaky pipes from Y s R e e s Pl o1
recordings of leaky pipes from around the world. Not only does
around the world. Not only does this inform the cloud
this infoerm the cloud o ot G i
this infoerm the cloud correlation, but it should let
correlation, but it should let )
correlation, but it should let the Al identify any given leak.
the Al identify any given leak. But
QLRGN0 RN AN RS I ey ]
QLRGN0 RN AN RS R R e e
QLRGN0 RN AN RS But how effective is it?
But how effective is it? Previously using old
I VNG e (N R Previously using old techniques
Previously using old technigues Y
Previously using old techniques we have had a 50% success rate.
we have had a 50% success rate. o7t 4
we have had a 50% success rate. INE Y
we have had a 50% success rate. Out of areas that we
we have had a 50% success rate. AN T LR R R e
we have had a 50% success rate. NI R U R R R
Out of areas that we went to, A
Out of areas that we went to, 50% we
Out of areas that we went to, O R w11
Out of areas that we went to, O R R iR 0l
Out of areas that we went to, N R e e e L 2k a]
Out of areas that we went to, R N R IR
Out of areas that we went to, 50% we come out with the leak
50% we come out with the leak Y
50% we come out with the leak 10
50% we come out with the leak IR LN
50% we come out with the leak IR R (]
50% we come out with the leak we are looking for. Gregory has
we are looking for. Gregory has allowed
we are looking for. Gregory has LR
we are looking for. Gregory has T BT
we are looking for. Gregory has I G EICR R et )
we are looking for. Gregory has allowed us to increase the by
allowed us to increase the by y {0/
allowed us to increase the by 20%, up to 70% in total. It is
20%, up to 70% in total. It is E{LGYL ]
20%, up to 70% in total. It is allowing us to be targeted and
allowing us to be targeted and where
allowing us to be targeted and T TRy
allowing us to be targeted and T R I
allowing us to be targeted and where we raise a
allowing us to be targeted and TN R R R4
allowing us to be targeted and where we raise a leak that
allowing us to be targeted and TN R I NN GG R a
where we raise a leak that we G
where we raise a leak that we e e
where we raise a leak that we e A as
where we raise a leak that we know it is a
where we raise a leak that we G A eI
where we raise a leak that we G AR G .
know it is a leak there. Al powered sensors like FIDO
powered sensors like FIDO e R
powered sensors like FIDO R )
powered sensors like FIDO tech’s have not completely
tech’s have not completely (Yo FLo]
tech’s have not completely replaced the traditional way of
replaced the traditional way of identifying leaks, which is,
identifying leaks, which is, believe
identifying leaks, which is, N
identifying leaks, which is, AN R e
identifying leaks, which is, R R
identifying leaks, which is, believe it or not, engineers
believe it or not, engineers 3L
believe it or not, engineers using glistening sticks. But
using glistening sticks. But e
using glistening sticks. But their role in global leak
their role in global leak detection could come
their role in global leak i e SRt
their role in global leak detection could come even more
detection could come even more important.
detection could come even more Tl el
detection could come even more important. | wonder whether you
important. | wonder whether you N e
important. | wonder whether you N nE
important. | wonder whether you remember this guy. | came
CEUTINL TR G TN (TR e [ P g ]
remember this guy. | came across him in lreland last
remember this guy. | came across him in Ireland last year
across him in Ireland last year Y
across him in Ireland last year when he was a
across him in Ireland last year L RN |
across him in Ireland last year L RN LR G|
across him in Ireland last year when he was a big thing stop
when he was a big thing stop well,
when he was a big thing stop (TS
when he was a big thing stop well, at least his head was.
well, at least his head was. G
well, at least his head was. This was the
well, at least his head was. IR G
well, at least his head was. IR TE R GG
well, at least his head was. This was the Raja -- rather
This was the Raja -- rather X 1oLl 0y
This was the Raja -- rather ambitious tourist attraction
ambitious tourist attraction that
ambitious tourist attraction e
ambitious tourist attraction that its creator hopes will one
that its creator hopes will one E
that its creator hopes will one day adorn
that its creator hopes will one EVED GRS
that its creator hopes will one day adorn the skylines of
day adorn the skylines of i
day adorn the skylines of cities around
day adorn the skylines of T T s e
day adorn the skylines of cities around the world. Point
cities around the world. Point VL
cities around the world. Point being that anyone could be 3D
being that anyone could be 3D el el
being that anyone could be 3D scanned and
being that anyone could be 3D e e s
being that anyone could be 3D scanned and then projected onto
scanned and then projected onto )
scanned and then projected onto the giant.
scanned and then projected onto QER A
scanned and then projected onto the giant. It sounded bonkers
the giant. It sounded bonkers to
the giant. It sounded bonkers e
the giant. It sounded bonkers e
the giant. It sounded bonkers RN [ e 1118
the giant. It sounded bonkers RN eI VA
to me. It certainly felt i E
to me. It certainly felt somewhat of a
to me. It certainly felt I E R D]
to me. It certainly felt somewhat of a big project. Big
somewhat of a big project. Big L
somewhat of a big project. Big .10
somewhat of a big project. Big L.
somewhat of a big project. Big . T laa L
somewhat of a big project. Big P O et aa - 10i
somewhat of a big project. Big indeed. But it turns out it
indeed. But it turns out it really is moving forward. And
really is moving forward. And recently
really is moving forward. And AL
really is moving forward. And LR TS
really is moving forward. And recently it moved all the
really is moving forward. And RN L R G R0
recently it moved all the way to
recently it moved all the way ]
recently it moved all the way to a big expo
recently it moved all the way RSB
recently it moved all the way to a big expo for the
to a big expo for the P e Tnule
to a big expo for the EL Rl T i
to a big expo for the attractions industry, which was
attractions industry, which was I
attractions industry, which was quite frankly, the quirky is
quite frankly, the quirky Is | Elo
quite frankly, the quirky Is place |
quite frankly, the quirky is place | have been doing a
place I have been doing a .
place | have been doing a while_ It
place | have been doing a while. It certainly looks it.
while. It certainly looks it. I
while. It certainly looks it. TR
while. It certainly looks it. LRI Y
while. It certainly looks it. And you grew up by the funfairs
And you grew up by the funfairs N
And you grew up by the funfairs R
And you grew up by the funfairs of the British seaside, |
of the British seaside, | QI
of the British seaside, | thought you were right at home
thought you were right at home HcE
thought you were right at home e R
thought you were right at home there. It felt quite odd when
there. It felt quite odd when )
there. It felt quite odd when s
there. It felt quite odd when the actual sea
there. It felt quite odd when W E R R A1
there. It felt quite odd when QR TG LR R T R
there. It felt quite odd when the actual sea was missing. But
the actual sea was missing. But 3
the actual sea was missing. But HRTE
the actual sea was missing. But R LR )
the actual sea was missing. But Rl e R
the actual sea was missing. But it was here that the
the actual sea was missing. But R LR e R R R CIE T
the actual sea was missing. But it was here that the Giant had
it was here that the Giant had EIE
it was here that the Giant had IR e 8 i)
it was here that the Giant had started to come to
it was here that the Giant had AEC R iR AL
it was here that the Giant had started to come to life. Well,
started to come to Life. Well, Y
started to come to Life. Well, als
started to come to life. Well, a 1.5 metre profile
started to come to life. Well, RN RO
a 1.5 metre profile -- prototype
RN T RO Iy R
RN T RO Iy I R R
a 1.5 metre profile -- prototype of the head at least,
prototype of the head at least, one-eighth
prototype of the head at least, RGBT
prototype of the head at least, RGN G RGPS
prototype of the head at least, IR G R G RPN
prototype of the head at least, one-eighth the size of the
one-eighth the size of the I sl
one-eighth the size of the finished Giant. The difference
finished Giant. The difference [
finished Giant. The difference between the old head on
finished Giant. The difference (NG G TR R )
finished Giant. The difference (RO G T L R e
between the old head on the new head is that we have got a
head Is that we have got a e
head is that we have got a matrix skin of LEDs which is
matrix skin of LEDs which is NI
matrix skin of LEDs which is linked to the volumetric
linked to the volumetric LU
linked to the volumetric scanning machine, which now
scanning machine, which now I
scanning machine, which now ETR]
scanning machine, which now allows you to not only protect
allows you to not only protect and image onto
allows you to not only protect EL R EL R 1)
allows you to not only protect and image onto the statue, but
and image onto the statue, but )
and image onto the statue, but R )
and image onto the statue, but ARG
and image onto the statue, but IR R T
and image onto the statue, but I RO R O R ]
and image onto the statue, but I R R O R AL s
and image onto the statue, but R R L A A
and image onto the statue, but E[ R R E AR N A AN 11
also to talk. So now it is my turn
also to talk. So now it is my g R ee)
also to talk. So now it is my turn to be scanned
also to talk. So now it is my RN U e R
also to talk. So now it is my turn to be scanned by the
turn to be scanned by the Tt el
turn to be scanned by the volumetric capture booth’s 49
volumetric capture booth’s 49 cameras. I’m going to have the
cameras. I’m going to have the Y
cameras. I’m going to have the YRS
cameras. I’m going to have the YT e ]
cameras. I’m going to have the head of a giant. The images are
head of a giant. The images are then broken down so that
head of a giant. The images are N N R R R )
then broken down so that the AELE]
then broken down so that the data from
then broken down so that the I Rage st e 1]
then broken down so that the data from them can be used to
data from them can be used to i)
data from them can be used to ]
data from them can be used to oY1)
data from them can be used to create a 3D face. That’s weird.
create a 3D face. That’s weird. My face gets flattened so it
My face gets flattened so it can then
My face gets flattened so it RIS
My face gets flattened so it can then be wrapped around
My face gets flattened so it RO R I UL R G
can then be wrapped around the L
can then be wrapped around the model. And even about size, it
model. And even about size, it s
model. And even about size, it is slightly
model. And even about size, it XA AT |
model. And even about size, it is slightly unnerving to come
is slightly unnerving to come face-to-face
is slightly unnerving to come e Sl i
is slightly unnerving to come face-to-face with. | am going
face-to-face with. I am going 0]
face-to-face with. I am going ONEN )
face-to-face with. 1 am going O Y
face-to-face with. 1 am going to have the head
face-to-face with. 1 am going R RGNl
face-to-face with. 1 am going R G N e ]
face-to-face with. 1 am going to have the head of a giant!
to have the head of a giant! [
to have the head of a giant! Impressive display, albeit a
Impressive display, albeit a Hair
Impressive display, albeit a little intimidating seeing
Little intimidating seeing W
Little intimidating seeing VRO R PSS
Little intimidating seeing VR P YT
Little intimidating seeing VRO R P SN G
little intimidating seeing myself that size. And | seem to
myself that size. And | seem to have
myself that size. And | seem to YU N
myself that size. And | seem to YR A1)
myself that size. And | seem to have lost my hair. I’m going to
have lost my hair. I’m going to have
have lost my hair. I’m going to R
have lost my hair. I’m going to YU RN -]
have lost my hair. I’m going to Y RGN X E
have lost my hair. I’m going to Y R N TR ]
have lost my hair. I’m going to have the head of a giant! It
have the head of a giant! It Ny
have the head of a giant! It N ]
have the head of a giant! It needs a giant wig, and it is a
needs a giant wig, and it is a i
needs a giant wig, and it is a N0l
needs a giant wig, and it is a bit odd from the side. It has
needs a giant wig, and it is a LR R A S F L
bit odd from the side. It has a nose but nowhere
bit odd from the side. It has a I N T e e e Y
bit odd from the side. It has a T N T e e e i N
bit odd from the side. It has a nose but nowhere close to a
nose but nowhere close to a )
nose but nowhere close to a T AN
nose but nowhere close to a nose like mine. Absolutely no
nose like mine. Absolutely no ez la e
nose like mine. Absolutely no NI R W e
nose like mine. Absolutely no comment whatsoever. When | did
comment whatsoever. When | did always wonder how they cope
always wonder how they cope with different faith shapes.
with different faith shapes. ‘(XN
with different faith shapes. ‘XM
with different faith shapes. Yeah, | know. From straight and
Yeah, | know. From straight and |
Yeah, | know. From straight and LR
Yeah, | know. From straight and IR Ta ]
Yeah, | know. From straight and IGIGRE Rl R )
Yeah, | know. From straight and | didn’t find the generic one
GG S (IR G N ] LI gT ol ) that
GG S (IR G N ] LI gT ol ) E
IGIGU RS (RGN Tl [ that odd, but you do lose
I didn’t find the generic one that odd, but you do lose the
that odd, but you do lose the magic from other angles. Now
magic from other angles. Now )
magic from other angles. Now R eI
magic from other angles. Now R eI
magic from other angles. Now R ICRS ARG
magic from other angles. Now the focus of this project it
the focus of this project it T
the focus of this project it [ EEE(NZV
the focus of this project it has always been
QLR IR R QIR e gl has always been sustainability.
has always been sustainability. I
has always been sustainability. TR
has always been sustainability. And you can
has always been sustainability. LR IR I R
has always been sustainability. LR R R ]
has always been sustainability. And you can see on both the
And you can see on both the Y|
And you can see on both the YL
And you can see on both the head and the scaled-down
head and the scaled-down el s
head and the scaled-down e R
head and the scaled-down AR R
head and the scaled-down version of the whole Giant,
version of the whole Giant, S a1 e
version of the whole Giant, whether solar panels will be
whether solar panels will be LR
whether solar panels will be embedded, aiming to fully
embedded, aiming to fully ]
embedded, aiming to fully L]
embedded, aiming to fully LRI 4]
embedded, aiming to fully powered and with renewable
powered and with renewable energy. But
powered and with renewable AT
powered and with renewable A (R4 %1
powered and with renewable energy. But all that scanning
energy. But all that scanning that happened earlier has
that happened earlier has N e
that happened earlier has G
that happened earlier has NG
that happened earlier has G R R
CL G IR R
another purpose as well. Really? It
another purpose as well. CEET [ ()
another purpose as well. Really? It also creates an
Really? It also creates an augmented reality avatar that
augmented reality avatar that I
augmented reality avatar that anyone can
augmented reality avatar that IR LT
augmented reality avatar that RN ]
augmented reality avatar that anyone can use on a smart phone
anyone can use on a smart phone NN
anyone can use on a smart phone anywhere. If you don’t happen
anywhere. If you don’t happen to
anywhere. If you don’t happen )
anywhere. If you don’t happen RN
anywhere. If you don’t happen to have your own giant handy.
to have your own giant handy. Exactly, and you
to have your own giant handy. FE (AL R IR
to have your own giant handy. Exactly, and you can make
Exactly, and you can make L=
Exactly, and you can make yourself whatever size you
yourself whatever size you wish,
yourself whatever size you I YN
yourself whatever size you wish, even bigger than the
wish, even bigger than the giant. And back to normal size
giant. And back to normal size again, | think. You are, yes.
again, | think. You are, yes. e
again, | think. You are, yes. G e
again, | think. You are, yes. That’s it for
again, I think. You are, yes. That’s it for us,
again, I think. You are, yes. I F SR R i IR R 11 L6
again, I think. You are, yes. I E SR R R PR =l LR ile
That’s it for us, thanks for I
That’s it for us, thanks for WEY (e Ty VRS
That’s it for us, thanks for WEY (o T R
That’s it for us, thanks for watching, we will see you soon.
watching, we will see you soon. By
watching, we will see you soon. SN
watching, we will see you soon. S
watching, we will see you soon. By buyer. -- Bye-bye.
Some very big changes N
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then thaw begins on Sunday in the morning.
when | say "begins”, IR )
of us it will be a slow process,
particularly in the north of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us.
And then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep
Ahead of it still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east MR R
so hence that milder air (NN O RS
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow A e e e ]
across the Highlands,
G R T S TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures W RV NG|
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town it’s going to be
So, the weather for Saturday itself
and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
Wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
Most of the rain around the coasts,
snow or sleet inland.
And already starting to feel a little less cold.
5 in London, 4 in Glasgow and SRR DR LGN
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds YR N e
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow
is possible around the Pennines and certainly in Scotland.
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday it could be
icy for some of us.
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in and by the early R )
are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
LG T [ R G TR T
of Sunday night inte Monday.
Look at that - by Menday UG R ICR EL L]
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth.
And this Is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
Back to the sort G IR E aTs
we would expect I e
SRS
Welcome to BBC News, I’m David Willis_
Our top stories:
A deadly wave of Russian IR
hits multiple targets right across Ukraine.
At least three people are dead.
Residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
A rough ride for Ramaphosa -
The South African President is heckled at the ANC’s party
conference, but he’s still hoping to be re-elected
despite last week’s impeachment LN
Elon Musk suspends several journalists’s accounts
- we’ll be talking to one RO SR A
And, there’s something fishy going on in Berlin -
a giant freestanding aquarium full of exotic fish
has exploded.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS Y- e 0la s ]
the globe.
Russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks
on Ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies
across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
LR Lo li e ) was hit, as was
President Zelensky’s home town of Kryvyi.
In his nightly address, he warned that Russia
was capable of further R e
The Mayor of Kharkiv described the destruction there
as colossal and said that thousands of people
were without heating, in freezing temperatures.
Our Eastern Europe Correspondent Sarah Rainsford
sent this report.
The rumble of a Russian attack, as Kyiv was woken
by more missile strikes.
The danger drove people underground.
The Metro Is the safest place to huddle here
when the city’s under fire.
But as Russian missiles hit the power grid,
the trains all stopped.
I’ve sat here NG e
| want to go home.
But in southern Ukraine, TR LR R R i
Hours later, rescuers were still searching for people
trapped in the ruins.
A child is missing here.
This strike was on President L SR R
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
They have enough missiles left for mass strikes,
but we have enough determination and self-belief
to return what belongs to us.
In northern Kharkiv, QR EVAOIG Rl
as the power went down IR GER TR
This country now copes with what was once unimaginable.
Handing out hot food...
..Keeping people warm.
And even in Kyiv, queuing IR R RUERE
defying Russia’s efforts to wear them down.
But these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
We found this old people’s home without heat, light or water.
ISR L TN on sheer resilience.
Nella’s children just brought her here from the south,
thinking she’'d be safer.
TRANSLATION: We’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
Putin says, let’s be friends, but who is the unfriendly one
here?
Our situation here is really miserable.
The staff are doing their best to keep things normal,
SN RN G R[N g T 1
They even have to store water T AR LR R
"It is pretty hard,” Olga tells me,
"but we will get through.”
Tonight, there’s no traffic lights in much of Kyiv,
no lights at all in large parts of Ukraine’s capital,
as Russia tries to force his country
(RN TN somehow, life goes on.
Sarah Rainsford, BBC News, Kyiv.
(F T T (o T Wallerstein, a senior
Foreign Policy Fellow at the Chicago Council
on Global Affairs gave us his analysis of the situation.
Well, | think this is part of a concerted strateqgy
to terrorise and intimidate Ukrainian people.
Since the Russian forces have not succeeded in their main
aim, which of course originally was to take Kyiv,
and now are falling back in some parts of the Donbas,
the strategy now appears to be just keep firing missiles
into the cities and hope that the people eventually
put pressure on the government RO L
LR G R G [ Will have capabilities,
air defence capabilities that could be very useful
to Ukraine, including Israel that has the Iron Dome
and the Arrow anti-missile system.
Of course, a lot of this is coming in the form
of drones, drones are very hard to shoot down because they fly
very low but there are various systems that can
The Ukrainian military is reporting a high percentage
success in shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
Whether the reports Y Toe i R i
R R ]
The South African president has been heckled
during an address to his own ANC party conference.
Cyril Ramaphosa - who’s hoping to be re-elected as party
leader - struggled to make himself heard, over chants
of "step aside™.
| want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their
dissatisfaction, to do so in an orderly manner
in the way that we do things here in the
African Nation of Congress.
We have been in existence (I (VR T{3
..and this is not the time to come and display this type
QI IO R
The chanting began when the President’s
predecessor, Jacob Zuma, NG RO R L
Mr Ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings
earlier this week, over I U RN R (U
of dollars that were found hidden in a sofa at his farm.
Our reporter in Johannesburg - Nomsa Maseko has more details.
Well, there was a lot of heckling and chanting
of anti-Ramaphosa songs as President Ramaphosa
started delivering his political report
to the ANC delegates who’ve gathered here
R CRIGEIE IR - -]
Even his speech was drowned when he tried to speak
but the speech was even further disrupted when former
president Jacob Zuma arrived at the venue,
fashionably late, RO R R
the delegates from his home province of KwaZulu-Natal.
We have seen this kind of heckling and bhooing
and things like that take place in previous ANC conferences.
As you know, the ANC is deeply divided so the more than 5,000
delegates who’ve gathered here are chanting and singing
for their own preferred presidential candidate
and also to drown out the others who are singing
because they want their preferred candidate
to take over as ANC president.
President Jacob Zuma and President Ramaphosa
have a long rivalry that spans over many years.
However there is a delegate, Dr Zweli Mkhize, who
s the country’s former health minister who is President
Ramaphosa’s competitor in this election, which is why
this is what happened because even the delegates
from KwaZulu-Natal, which is Jacob Zuma’’s
heme province, that same province, it’s also
Zwell Mkhize’s province.
That is why there was so much heckling
and things like that.
However, the ANC delegates from KwaZulu-Natal
are still angry that former President Jacob Zuma was jailed
last year after he did not testify at a commission
of inquiry investigating corruption while he was
president, and that is why N AL RO R )
and looting last July RGN R G E Rt e
than 300 people dying RO A
A row is brewing in West Africa
over the increasing involvement of a Russian mercenary group
in the region.
Ghana has accused its neighbour, Burkina Faso,
of hiring troops from the Wagner group -
a private Russian military organisation, which is also
believed to be involved in fighting alongside Russian
s RV AE IR
Ghana says the mercenaries are operating close
Burkina Faso has respoended by summoning Ghana’s
Our correspondent in the region - Lay-la Sy -
sent us this update.
The Russian security group already had presence
in the Sahel region RN
in countries like Mali where it is said to be
aiding in the fight against jihadist militants,
and also in the Central African Republic.
So far, there is no official information about an agreement
between the Wagner Group IR R
Even though the Prime Minister recently visited Russia.
Burkina Faso has had R R IR 1
the current transitional government is trying to regain
control of security of in areas caught in escalating violence
from militants who are allied to both Al-Qaeda and ISIS,
means security which began in 2015 has killed thousands
of people and left millions displaced.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
L Dyl A T iR et e
in the US has fallen R A R R e
ERGIE R e
That’s according to statistics compiled by the Death Penalty
Information Centre - O TR G G
than a third of executions were conducted in an incompetent
or flawed manner.
Let’s take a closer look CIR R L1
ST RN G WAV )] attempts reportedly failed.
The reasons are claimed to be incompetence, failures
to follow protocol, N s R ]
protocols themselves.
This was mainly because executions had to be
put on hold after officials were not able to carry out
execution protocols in four states - namely, Idaho,
Ohio, Tennessee and South Carolina.
In all, less than 30 people were executed.
And - across the US - fewer than 50 people
were sentenced to death.
The five-year average of executions, 18.6 per year,
s said to be the lowest in more than 30 years,
a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
Let’s now speak to Y e E iR R
the executive director of the Death Penalty
Information Center - a non-profit organization
providing analysis and information on issues
concerning capital punishment to the public and media.
He joins us live from Washington DC.
Many thanks for your time. It s
Many thanks for your time. It Al
Many thanks for your time. It R el
Many thanks for your time. It s R el )]
s important to establish Mo
Is important to establish R
Is important to establish upfront where your organisation
upfront where your organisation stands on
upfront where your organisation AN R
upfront where your organisation stands on the issue of
upfront where your organisation RN RN A A )
stands on the issue of the death penalty.
stands on the issue of the L QR LA
stands on the issue of the death penalty. | take it you
death penalty. | take it you o T
death penalty. | take it you R
death penalty. | take it you RN
death penalty. | take it you IR L P RG]
death penalty. | take it you oppose it and these figures
oppose it and these figures basically
oppose it and these figures R (TR
oppose it and these figures R (R E IR
oppose it and these figures basically aerate your view, is
basically aerate your view, is that right?
basically aerate your view, Is that right? First of all, thank
that right? First of all, thank you for having me on. The death
you for having me on. The death penalty infermation Centre
penalty information Centre doesn’t take
penalty information Centre doesn’t take a
penalty information Centre doesn’t take a position for or
doesn’t take a position for or against the death penalty
against the death penalty e A
against the death penalty e A
against the death penalty itself but it does, we are
itself but it does, we are agisre1l
itself but it does, we are gl 182
itself but it does, we are gl R
itself but it does, we are gl IR R N
g i1 N R G administered.
critical of the is administered. And
critical of the is IR e - s e
dgide: MO RGN0 administered. And the concept
administered. And the concept N
administered. And the concept ]
administered. And the concept R e el
administered. And the concept of a botched execution, as you
of a botched execution, as you NN
of a botched execution, as you refer to
of a botched execution, as you R C N
of a botched execution, as you NIRRT
of a botched execution, as you refer to it, what does that
refer to it, what does that actually consist of? It sounds
actually consist of? It sounds E MGG
actually consist of? It sounds absolutely horrific
actually consist of? It sounds [ A iR G
actually consist of? It sounds absolutely horrific the concept
absolutely horrific the concept e A
absolutely horrific the concept f AN
absolutely horrific the concept e AL L
absolutely horrific the concept itself. Yeah, and you wonder
itself. Yeah, and you wonder vty
itself. Yeah, and you wonder e
itself. Yeah, and you wonder what is wrong
itself. Yeah, and you wonder L ET RO LR
itself. Yeah, and you wonder what is wrong with the system
what is wrong with the system to even
what is wrong with the system RN
what is wrong with the system RO R
what is wrong with the system to even have the concept.
to even have the concept. | e tia e
to even have the concept. Executions can
to even have the concept. B e d R s -]
to even have the concept. B e RN R el
to even have the concept. B A RN R iRl
to even have the concept. B e RN R L A I
Executions can be watched in a w11 )
Executions can be watched in a couple of different ways. Most
couple of different ways. Most people
couple of different ways. Most T GG
couple of different ways. Most people are familiar with when a
people are familiar with when a el
people are familiar with when a IR
people are familiar with when a person is injected
people are familiar with when a NN GG T
people are familiar with when a person is injected drugs and
person is injected drugs and )
person is injected drugs and R
person is injected drugs and the body starts quivering and
the body starts quivering and convulsing
the body starts quivering and CINISRLELD]
the body starts quivering and convulsing and that is one way
convulsing and that is one way that an execution can be
that an execution can be -l
that an execution can be e - PR )
that an execution can be T G IR G R VAL
that an execution can be watched, the physical reaction
watched, the physical reaction to
watched, the physical reaction Ry
watched, the physical reaction to the chemicals isn’t what the
to the chemicals isn’t what the I
to the chemicals isn’t what the state expects
to the chemicals isn’t what the IR R
to the chemicals isn’t what the state expects will happen.
RGN T [T ER R UL E G ) state expects will happen. What
state expects will happen. What [T ]
state expects will happen. What happened this year is a bit
happened this year Is a bit e e 4
happened this year Is a bit At e e s |
happened this year Is a bit different and that is
happened this year is a bit different and that is problems
different and that is problems in the manner
different and that is problems B R E s
different and that is problems in the manner in which the
in the manner in which the S attale
in the manner in which the e R ey
in the manner in which the S et R e Nl el
in the manner in which the A el R e N e R0
executions were carried out. Yy
DTN RV N I L T Y N N a1 e e )
DTN RV N I L T When someone is being put
executions were carried out. When someone is being put to
When someone is being put to death
When someone is being put to e
When someone is being put to G B
When someone is being put to R ORI ARV
When someone is being put to death it is entirely within the
death it is entirely within the el
death it is entirely within the o aage e
death it is entirely within the control of the state
death it is entirely within the N R RGN
death it is entirely within the NG IR R R
COIINGR G CLCR RG [ Department
COIINGR G CLCR RG [ M Ela G
I R QTR LR R R R e I S
I R QTR LR R Department of corrections and
Department of corrections and you want to have trained
you want to have trained personnel who
you want to have trained I R RO
you want to have trained personnel who know how
you want to have trained NS RO G A G A
you want to have trained personnel who know how to carry
personnel who know how to carry e
personnel who know how to carry it out. These executions
personnel who know how to carry TR L R e i R )
't out. These executions were -
't out. These executions were TSGR
it out. These executions were by lethal injection and lethal
by lethal injection and lethal injection involves taking what
injection involves taking what in
injection involves taking what ina
injection involves taking what in a hospital setting would be
in @ hospital setting would be PN
in a hospital setting would be IR
in a hospital setting would be R N TR )
in a hospital setting would be an intravenous line and
an intravenous line and essentially inserting it into a
essentially inserting it into vein
essentially inserting it into a |
essentially inserting it into a N o]
essentially inserting it into a LR - ]
essentially inserting it into a vein and once you inserted into
vein and once you inserted into Y
vein and once you inserted into FR Y 1s]
vein and once you inserted into a vein you then inject the
a vein you then inject the chemicals.
a vein you then inject the i R T
a vein you then inject the chemicals. The problem that we
chemicals. The problem that we Saw
chemicals. The problem that we )
chemicals. The problem that we saw in seven
chemicals. The problem that we AR s e e 4
chemicals. The problem that we saw in seven different cases
AN I (T e T this
AN I (T e T GIREL
saw in seven different cases ORI
saw in seven different cases QIR R LRG]S
saw in seven different cases QIR R G E R )
this year was that the e e
this year was that the executioners had trouble
executioners had trouble finding a line. It ranged in
finding a line. It ranged in the
finding a line. It ranged in Nl e ]
finding a line. It ranged in the bhotched executions
finding a line. It ranged in the hotched executions from
finding a line. It ranged in the botched executions from 25
the botched executions from 25 I
the botched executions from 25 minutes to as long as three
minutes to as long as three e
minutes to as long as three LT
minutes to as long as three hours. That is
minutes to as long as three IR LR AN
minutes to as long as three hours. That is not the
minutes to as long as three R R AN R G R 5V
minutes to as long as three hours. That is not the way it
hours. That is not the way it s supposed
hours. That is not the way it R XL R
hours. That is not the way it s supposed to be.
hours. That is not the way it is supposed to be. Regardless
Is supposed to be. Regardless of
Is supposed to be. Regardless SR
Is supposed to be. Regardless of where you stand
Is supposed to be. Regardless R TR LR
of where you stand on the issue of the death
of where you stand on the issue RGO N UG8
QRO G R ET EL E
difficult to contemplate, isn’t 1 AT
difficult to contemplate, isn’t 1 R
difficult to contemplate, isn’t it, if you are the relative of
it, if you are the relative of e ]
it, if you are the relative of N el
it, if you are the relative of e R
it, if you are the relative of someone sentenced to death,
someone sentenced to death, having to go through this sort
having to go through this sort of
having to go through this sort AL S
having to go through this sort GRL S G - L
having to go through this sort of incompetence and this sort
of incompetence and this sort of suffering? Yeah, and the
of suffering? Yeah, and the B s
of suffering? Yeah, and the blotches have collateral
blotches have collateral victims was obviously
blotches have collateral I R R T VA
victims was obviously the NS
victims was obviously the prisoner is being put through
prisoner is being put through M1
prisoner is being put through M 1 A ELL]
prisoner is being put through unnecessary pain during the
unnecessary pain during the e N
unnecessary pain during the e R R
unnecessary pain during the course of the execution and two
course of the execution and two of
course of the execution and two RN e ttal e
course of the execution and two RO - [ O
of the executions actually didn’t happen. Alabama called
didn’t happen. Alabama called )
didn’t happen. Alabama called i
didn’t happen. Alabama called e
didn’t happen. Alabama called A
didn’t happen. Alabama called one off after 2.5 hours
didn’t happen. Alabama called A R
one off after 2.5 hours of El 0|
one off after 2.5 hours of attempting and the other was
attempting and the other was e
attempting and the other was T e N s
attempting and the other was more than an
attempting and the other was e BN
attempting and the other was e Rl e S .10 e
attempting and the other was more than an hour. But think of
more than an hour. But think of )
more than an hour. But think of GBI
more than an hour. But think of the family members of the
the family members of the homicide victims, the family
hemicide victims, the family ey
hemicide victims, the family members of
hemicide victims, the family T e R
hemicide victims, the family e RN ST Ela
members of the defendant M-
members of the defendant himself and a new study this
himself and a new study this Crld
himself and a new study this CE IR ]
himself and a new study this year showed that these kinds of
year showed that these kinds of P e tia e
year showed that these kinds of executions have an
executions have an extraordinarily
executions have an UGN EIEA T Ll
extraordinarily traumatic il
extraordinarily traumatic i)
extraordinarily traumatic il R ]
extraordinarily traumatic il e R e e aals e
effect on the corrections personnel
effect on the corrections NI S
effect on the corrections NI RGN
effect on the corrections personnel as well. Very
personnel as well. Very briefly,
personnel as well. Very I {ARGE
personnel as well. Very briefly, the future for the
briefly, the future for the death
briefly, the future for the RGN
briefly, the future for the death penalty in the United
death penalty in the United States. The death
death penalty in the United S IR L RGN I8
death penalty in the United States. The death penalty is in
States. The death penalty is in Y
States. The death penalty is in Fple]
States. The death penalty is in a 20 year
States. The death penalty is in PRI e
States. The death penalty is in a 20 year decline and this year
a 20 year decline and this year Y
a 20 year decline and this year el
a 20 year decline and this year N R e
a 20 year decline and this year we had fewer executions, we had
we had fewer executions, we had T
we had fewer executions, we had TR
we had fewer executions, we had N RN
we had fewer executions, we had M N NN YLl
we had fewer executions, we had fewer new sentences and public
fewer new sentences and public support
fewer new sentences and public I LR 1
fewer new sentences and public support for capital punishment
support for capital punishment S E e Ts |
support for capital punishment remained near the lowest in 50
remained near the lowest in 50 years.
remained near the lowest in 50 E IR
remained near the lowest in 50 IR L
remained near the lowest in 50 years. We had one state that
years. We had one state that XA
years. We had one state that issued a commutation to
years. We had one state that IR st N d R Rl 1s
Issued a commutation to clear ite
issued a commutation to clear its death
issued a commutation to clear TR iR ]
issued a commutation to clear its death row and
issued a commutation to clear I e L Ei
issued a commutation to clear IR e R AT
issued a commutation to clear its death row and it looks Like
its death row and it looks like that pattern of one state by
that pattern of one state by )
that pattern of one state by one state
that pattern of one state by A R )
that pattern of one state by one state one state each year
one state one state each year ATuILELd]
one state one state each year eliminating or sharply reducing
eliminating or sharply reducing )
eliminating or sharply reducing the death
eliminating or sharply reducing R RGN EU8
eliminating or sharply reducing the death penalty is going to
the death penalty is going to e e 418 )
the death penalty is going to e la ala - la e
the death penalty is going to e e e ]
the death penalty is going to e AR R it
the death penalty is going to e A TR R Rttt R TS
continue into the future. Thank you very much of your time here
you very much of your time here on BRC
you very much of your time here RS SR
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Nasa launches a mission to survey all of the Earth’s
surface water from space.
surface water from space.
Saddam Hussein is finished, because he killed our people,
our women, our children.
The signatures took only a few minutes but they brought
a formal end to 3.5 years of conflict -
conflict that has claimed RGP VR VR TS
Before an audience of world leaders, the presidents
of Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia put their names to the peace
agreement.
The Remanian border was sealed and silent today.
Romania has cut itself off from the ocutside world in order
TN RO LRGN of the presumed massacre
in Timisoara from leaking out.
From sex at the White House, to a trial for his political
life, the Lewinsky affair tonight guaranteeing
Bill Clinten his place G R A G R
president ever to be impeached.
This is BBC News, AR R L s
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes, has hit
multiple targets in Ukraine killing at least three people.
Residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
And a rough ride for Ramaphosa.
The South African President
was heckled at the ANC’s party conference, but he’s
still hoping to be re-elected, despite last weeks’ impeachment
proceedings.
A giant aquarium, installed in the lobby of a luxury German
hotel, has exploded, NG R]
exotic fish cascading across the floor.
The 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist
FlnissInd Rl s sl
ST RGNS LT, T has the story.
This aquarium was built to impress -
a million Litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish -
there was even a Lift RGN R
All towering over the lobby of a Berlin hotel.
My God!
But early this merning,
it seems the tank simply shattered.
Glass and metal ripped through the building.
UGN RN [TE T N R
Extraordinarily, just two people were hurt,
neither of them seriously.
The hotel actually i EhGEe
| could describe it as a... IMITATES EXPLOSION.
And | jolted out of bed and turned around...
| didn’t see any movement so | didn’t know what
the heck was going on.
| looked outside the window, | saw a lady running.
Investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
LT IR LR (T E [N taken when the aquarium
TR Sl i
"You could fire O R G Rl
says this architect, "and it would only cause
"a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"Such a Hollywood scenario is impossible.”
The authorities suspect material fatigue
may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
There is a sense, | think, of relief amongst many
here that this N R Rl
LU A E g and that lobby, the street
outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors,
many of them children.
LI [ Tl 4 at the destruction,
regret at the loss IR A TR
but an acknowledgement, too, that this could
have been s¢ much worse.
Jenny Hill, BBC News, Berlin.
Years from
N IR is il
N T IR ia il A Lo Talel-1g
Years from now wonder Years from now wonder if they il
Years from now wonder Years from now wonder if they IR
Years from now wonder Years from now wonder if they will be ruing the strange tale
will be ruing the strange tale N
will be ruing the strange tale R
will be ruing the strange tale of the exploding fish in
of the exploding fish in Y
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Nurses, who went out on strike in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland R BV AR TR E LI
G EI R QIR DR [V R S i P
The British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has suggested
that the government won’t budge on its view that nurses should
be paid what the independent NG A A IR
Meanwhile, the leader VRO LEEIEGIG R
the RMT, has said a deal I e i Nads ]
Mick Lynch made the comment as his members took part
Services in England, Scotland and Wales have been
severely hit and more industrial action is planned
between December 24th and 27th, and again in early January.
The United Nations has added its voice to the many
critics of Twitter’s suspension of journalists’ accounts.
A spokesperson said the action set ‘a dangerous precedent’
at a time when press freedom was widely under threat.
Earlier, the European Union I R e R e
Elon Musk that the social media platform could be hit
with sanctions, after he personally ordered
the suspension of several journalists.
On Twitter, Vera Jourova, said that EU laws respect
"media freedom and fundamental rights”, and Elon Musk "should
And she added: "There are red lines.
And sanctions, soon.”
Reporters from I SN LI
the New York Times, CNN and the Washington Post have
been locked out of their accounts.
Many of those suspended had T LR T SR e
takeover, or had commented onh an account that tracked
the movement of the his private jet.
Micah Lee is one of the journalists that’s been banned.
He told me about how YRR A
I had just posted a tweet and | was following the news
of a bunch of accounts getting L E L P R I T
after my tweet | just got a notice inside of Twitter
that my account is suspended and | can’t
use it to post any more tweets.
Was it a shock or did you see this coming?
| kind of saw It coming.
NI ST ATE RV g gETe that this has happened,
especially because of the reporting that I’ve been
doing on Elon Musk’s E N Rl e
| think that this is the highest profile time
where he’s kind of arbitrarily banned a lot of people
because he banned several QIR SIS
but he’s been doing this since he took over.
There’s been several arbitrary NI 3
Does Elon Musk have a point, though, when he says
that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat
to the security, not only of his own security
but the threat to the security SR E R
potentially?
(NG G ke actually buy that.
| think there’s some room for discussion.
I think that knowing, like, which airport his plane
lands at and flies out N R A R
| think it’s already public infoermation
and | think that, you know, it’s perfectly reasonable
for people to learn this about the private jets
But I think that even GRS EICEER
everyone who posted anything related to that
who got suspended, they got their account suspended -
which is kind of extreme - NI R AT
are journalists who weren’t actually, like, posting
the links to this website, we were reporting on other
things getting suspended.
This Is just part of NI (T
The American space agency, NASA, has launched a mission
to undertake the first survey of all of the Earth’s surface
waters from space.
Mission SWOT will use radar technology to monitor
the elevation of water, as Tom Brada reports.
DG ERGRI LR
For a landmark mission which aims to transform
UL IR G R L B Els B
The SWOT spacecraft will chart BRI L R )
track features in the ocean’s surface in unparalleled detail.
The results could be vitally important, helping to improve
floods and droughts forecasts and give researchers
a better understanding of climate change.
Every three weeks, it will complete a map of 90%
of our planet so en a monthly basis we can see how ocean
levels are changing,
how the seasons affect things as well, so it is a wonderful
satellite, a wonderful mission.
Once in positien, SWOT’’s E Il R AL ST o ] X 0
towards the Earth’s surface P e Tl R R e il ale
It is these echoes which let’s I LR B
determinations of height.
It will measure all rivers 100 metres wide and all Lakes
larger than six e N AL
The data can provide o F [ R
waterways we are otherwise struggling to understand.
Monitoring networks even on some of the world’s greatest
rivers like the Amazon and the Congo are nowhere
as near as thorough and comprehensive as they need
to be and in many cases are in decline so we are getting less
infermation now than we did some time ago.
It will be a few months before SWOT is fully operational
but once it is up and running, N R R
open a new chapter in our understanding of climate change
and the water cycle on earth.
Tom Brada, BBC News.
LR
And you can
LN R TTN o I
And you can get more on that and
And you can get more on that R )
And you can get more on that IR e e
And you can get more on that DR N e
And you can get more on that R N AR )
and the other stories we ELe sl
and the other stories we TN s e
and the other stories we featured on our
and the other stories we TN R R i
and the other stories we featured on our website. Thanks
featured on our website. Thanks e
featured on our website. Thanks ISLTT
featured on our website. Thanks LIRS
Some very big changes N
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then the thaw begins on Sunday in the morning -
when | say "begins”, IR )
of us it will be a slow process,
particularly in the north of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us.
And then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep
Ahead of it still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east MR R
so hence that milder air (NN O RS
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow A e e e ]
across the Highlands,
G R T S TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures W RV NG|
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town it’s going to be
So, the weather for Saturday itself
and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
Wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
Most of the rain around the coasts,
snow or sleet inland.
And already starting to feel a little less cold.
5 in London, 4 in Glasgow and SRR DR LGN
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds IR N eI
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow
is possible around the Pennines and certainly in Scotland.
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday it could be
icy for some of us.
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in and by the early R )
are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
through the course of Sunday night into Monday.
Look at that - by Menday UG R ICR EL L]
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth.
And this Is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
Back to the sort G IR E aTs
we would expect I e
SRS
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
Ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest
barrages of Russian missile strikes has badly damaged
electricity and water supplies across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
Russia’s Tass news agency claims Ukrainian shelling has
killed at least twelve NN R e -]
South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa was heckled
when he addressed his own ANC party conference.
Mr Ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings
earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand
as party leader.
The United Nations and the European Union have joined
the chorus of criticism RSSO
Elon Musk, after he closed e T AL
journalists who covered RO
A UN spokesman said they were very disturbed,
LRI b R Church of England has
told the BBC, that the government hasn’t fully grasped
the scale of the crisis, hitting millions of people
the scale of the crisis, hitting millions of people
struggling with the spiralling cost of living.
The Bishop of Durham, Paul Butler, says of particular
concern, is the number of people in work
who are struggling.
A Church of England report says nearly 40% of adults
in Britain, have sought help for basics like
food and warmth.
Our UK Affairs Correspondent, Jeremy Cooke, has been talking
to some of those in desperate need, in Newcastle.>
Come on
Are you going to be Superman, are you?
But for this family, the outside world is getting
You need to stay in here because there’s a monster out
Oh, what monster?
LT[R TE
Anita’'s a single mum of three.
SR IUEWR U g {-To iR
but it’s short hours, fitting around little
Brett’s nursery times.
Oh, lots of rice!
Squeezed benefits and soaring eI E\ R GIT
this family to crisis point - and to the foodbank.
This is the first time I’ve actually
had to go and ask for help.
I just can’t do it YR -ttty
It’s the gas, the electricity, the bills, and the then cost
of the food that’s went up.
Anything that worries you, anything you’re fearful of,
please come and talk to us.
At this community GG
calls for help are up 25% since September.
And it’s not just food, there’s all kinds of help.
Are you on ESA or...?
How much do you spend on public transport?
| don’t, because | RN R O
We haven’t got enough winter coats,
that’s the sad thing.
Carole Rowland is a driving force here.
TN R g
| want to be happy now.
Helping hundreds of people like Dean.
Every day, every other day, | am in hospital
for emergency treatment.
His heart condition is life-limiting, he can’t work.
This place is a life-saver.
Your money quickly [ GLE RIS
s0 you have to rely on coming to a foodbank just for that
extra few days’ worth of food, which is great.
LR o ¢ 4a A
I’m exhausted with it, absolutely exhausted.
Anita’s on the way to R Ll e
she used to donate to.
It’s been weeks since we’ve LR
and she’s changed - thinner, colder.
Shall we just stay here today?
Last week, | couldn’t put my heating on at all.
Are your hands warm now?
All | feel like I’ve done A AR KL K8 2
| feel like such a letdown all the time, do you know
what | mean?
It’s a shattering experience.
And without this place, well, who knows?
| think | would have give AR R
| would have give up.
I’ve got three children, | shouldn’t feel Like that.
| cannot see what this lady can do
to make her life any different, because she’s doing
everything she can.
| love you, baby.
The Government says it does recognise that people
are struggling with rising prices and that it’s
given direct help to millions this year.
Still, for so many, things are tough.
This is Newcastle - it could be anywhere.
| think it is a crisis, N RO RGN e
of people who are involved across every single community.
Every single community is impacted.
The thing that concerns me most deeply, | think,
is the level RV g2
We’ve got to get through this winter together.
The weather’s gone IR e[l
Three elves on one shelf.
Yeah, they were in the tree!
But Anita’s trying to keep things festive to make
the best of Christmas.
It would be lovely to just stop thinking about everything
and worrying constantly.
Just to sit round and have family
time with the Christmas 1o I
and the hats and the bad jokes and just...a nice time.
Not much to ask, IR O N
# You better watch cut...
But, for her kids, Anita will make it happen.
In this bleak midwinter of 2022.
I VA GT L G Y o [
Now on BBC News, Talking Movies Review of 2022
P
A Pt s
T P e e s
welcome to our Talking Movies i
welcome to our Talking Movies IS R
welcome to our Talking Movies review of 2022
welcome to our Talking Movies (LR P2 R Y[}
welcome to our Talking Movies review of 2022 special edition.
review of 2022 special edition. In today’s
NG WI0yy R TaE T L[y B In today’s programme we look
In today’s proegramme we look back
In today’s proegramme we look Ele &
In today’s programme we look back at highlights of the year
back at highlights of the year in
back at highlights of the year NN R
back at highlights of the year in cinema. We
back at highlights of the year NN R i
back at highlights of the year in cinema. We review many of
in cinema. We review many of )
in cinema. We review many of the major movie events of 2022.
the major movie events of 2022. We
the major movie events of 2022. Y4
the major movie events of 2022. We look at
the major movie events of 2022. P & )
the major movie events of 2022. NP & R R il
the major movie events of 2022. NP & RN R
the major movie events of 2022. NP & R R RCR
We look at the film Is that nobody
We look at the film is that nobody thought would become big
nebody thought would become big it
nobody thought would become big Y B
nobody thought would become big e e
nobody thought would become big NG =
nobody thought would become big local hits as well as the
local hits as well as the e s
local hits as well as the e T e )
local hits as well as the takeout arthouse offerings and
takeout arthouse offerings and '
takeout arthouse offerings and LAY
takeout arthouse offerings and my top ten films of the year.
my top ten films of the year. Without doubt, one of the
Without doubt, one of the biggest movie events of 2022
biggest movie events of 2022 Ty
biggest movie events of 2022 R sz
biggest movie events of 2022 R e R
biggest movie events of 2022 was the arrival of James
was the arrival of James il
was the arrival of James Cameron’s sci-fi
was the arrival of James Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar,
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, )
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, RN
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, RV
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, QR VAR L
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, QR AR L o1
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, the way of water. It is
Cameron’s sci-fi epic Avatar, QR AR L X
the way of water. It is of e
the way of water. It Is of e ]
the way of water. It Is of course the sequel to his
the way of water. It is of course the sequel to his 2009
course the sequel to his 2009 Avatar
course the sequel to his 2009 L ST e i)
course the sequel to his 2009 Avatar movie which became the
Avatar movie which became the biggest grossing film of all
biggest grossing film of all i
biggest grossing film of all Wi
biggest grossing film of all AR e
biggest grossing film of all time. | went with some
time. | went with some R
time. | went with some trepidation to
time. | went with some R
time. | went with some trepidation to see the new
trepidation to see the new picture the other day here in
picture the other day here in TR Ela e i
picture the other day here in Manhattan. | say trepidation
Manhattan. | say trepidation T Y
Manhattan. | say trepidation N
Manhattan. | say trepidation NS
Manhattan. | say trepidation I N AR )
Manhattan. | say trepidation because it is more than
Manhattan. | say trepidation I N BRI R G R e
because it is more than three e
because it is more than three (TG
because it is more than three hours’ long. Well,
because it is more than three hours’ long. Well, |
because it is more than three hours’ long. Well, | did
QTR s AR TR I e Nt
hours’ long. Well, | did Na i sl
hours’ long. Well, | did e hh |
hours’ long. Well, | did AN LA R E
hours’ long. Well, | did survive and | was very
survive and | was very I
survive and | was very M RO
survive and | was very impressed either cinema
impressed either cinema technology.
impressed either cinema G
impressed either cinema technology. It really is
technology. It really is beautiful
technology. It really is 01 TR
technology. It really is beautiful to watch. But
technology. It really is I RO R = e s I Tl
beautiful to watch. But in s
beautiful to watch. But in R
beautiful to watch. But in ORI G N
beautiful to watch. But in terms of storytelling, it is a
terms of storytelling, it is a i
terms of storytelling, it is a NEGi
terms of storytelling, it is a R V21
terms of storytelling, it is a R N2 o s |
terms of storytelling, it is a RV i E RS
terms of storytelling, itis a bit thin. Avatar had its world
bit thin. Avatar had its world premiere in London and it is
premiere in London and it is Tee I8t
premiere in London and it is TRy
premiere in London and it is TR e R
premiere in London and it is TR RGO
premiere in London and it is from there that we have more.
The world of Pandora is back on cinema
The world of Pandora is back on I HiEEIse
The world of Pandora is back on cinema screens. 13 years after
cinema screens. 13 years after James camera called Just
James camera called Just Cameron conguered
James camera called Just Cameron conquered the box
LTI R BVEI L RGO RO office,
LTI R BVEI L RGO RO Nl
Cameron conquered the box office, he is reuniting his
office, he is reuniting his i E
office, he is reuniting his I F RT3
office, he is reuniting his original cast with his first of
original cast with his first of O]
original cast with his first of TGN
original cast with his first of proposed Avatar sequels.
bR eE aVIGR PRl d) proposed Avatar sequels. The
proposed Avatar sequels. The e
proposed Avatar sequels. The first film followed Marine Jake
first film followed Marine Jake Sully
first film followed Marine Jake L
first film followed Marine Jake Sully as he takes
first film followed Marine Jake IR E LG
first film followed Marine Jake Sully as he takes on alien or
Sully as he takes on alien or Avatar body in order to better
Avatar body in order to better integrate with the local
integrate with the local population. Through the movie
population. Through the movie he forms a
population. Through the movie RO R T L
population. Through the movie he forms a personal attachment
he forms a personal attachment to
he forms a personal attachment Ry
he forms a personal attachment RGO
he forms a personal attachment to the group and comes to
to the group and comes to lead them against the evil human
them against the evil human corporation out
them against the evil human LN T )
them against the evil human corporation out to mine the
corporation out to mine the moon
corporation out to mine the i aR e
corporation out to mine the moon for profit. The film was
moon for profit. The film was 1o 1)
moon for profit. The film was notable for
moon for profit. The film was e R
moon for profit. The film was R RN E e
moon for profit. The film was notable for its advances in
notable for its advances in e AN
notable for its advances in LI TR LI
notable for its advances in performance capture technology,
performance capture technology, computer-generated visuals and
computer-generated visuals and )
computer-generated visuals and Rl Rl
computer-generated visuals and the fact that they
computer-generated visuals and QR R RS Rl
computer-generated visuals and the fact that they are assuring
the fact that they are assuring 3
the fact that they are assuring ina
the fact that they are assuring inanew era
the fact that they are assuring inanewerain
the fact that they are assuring inanewerain3D
QLRI R U El S G IREICREEI T in a new era in 3D filmmaking.
in @ new era in 3D filmmaking. il
in @ new era in 3D filmmaking. RG]
in a new era in 3D filmmaking. You knew this was
in a new era in 3D filmmaking. LG AGER E E P L
You knew this was happen? The L]
You knew this was happen? The LR Lo ]
You knew this was happen? The LR D]l
You knew this was happen? The 3D revelation might not have
3D revelation might not have [T ]
3D revelation might not have happened but it did make a
5D revelation might not have happened but it did make a huge
happened but it did make a huge EYatte 001 s
happened but it did make a huge X Te 00a e
happened but it did make a huge amount of money, almost $3
amount of money, almost $3 LA
amount of money, almost $3 I T
amount of money, almost $3 T R RN
amount of money, almost $3 G R R A
amount of money, almost $3 R RV AR LGl
amount of money, almost $3 billion. The way of water picks
billion. The way of water picks up
billion. The way of water picks RS
billion. The way of water picks up over a
billien. The way of water picks SR L
billien. The way of water picks SR P CAFLGE
billien. The way of water picks up over a decade later with
up over a decade later with IHG
up over a decade later with Jake and his family now
PRI IR R Y 4] Jake and his family now facing
Jake and his family now facing a
Jake and his family now facing FR S Al e
Jake and his family now facing a new threat and being driven
a new threat and being driven to
a new threat and being driven N LRI RS
a new threat and being driven N LRI a0 e
a new threat and being driven N NIRRT
a new threat and being driven N LRI L I A
to Pandora’s water areas in search of sanctuary.
search of sanctuary. Cameron T
search of sanctuary. Cameron (FIE )14
search of sanctuary. Cameron [ EES N R
search of sanctuary. Cameron has spent the last 13 years
has spent the last 13 years yEI LD
has spent the last 13 years mapping out future instalments
mapping out future instalments of
mapping out future instalments SRy
mapping out future instalments SRR ]
mapping out future instalments R RiEh
mapping out future instalments ARG RiEh R a
mapping out future instalments ARG NIRRT
of the franchise as well as perfecting performance capture
perfecting performance capture technology that can now be used
technology that can now be used by the act
technology that can now be used WA 4
technology that can now be used by the act is while they’re
by the act is while they’re filming underwater. -- actors.
filming underwater. -- actors. I3
filming underwater. -- actors. [T&i
filming underwater. -- actors. TR Ry
filming underwater. -- actors. It will the public be
It will the public be R AR
It will the public be R R GO ]
It will the public be interested in a sequel to a
interested in a sequel to a T
interested in a sequel to a movie that was released over
interested in a sequel to a I RO R TR LRI
movie that was released over a T[]
movie that was released over a LRI
movie that was released over a decade ago? That was a
decade ago? That was a DI FLE
decade ago? That was a O EI R (eI
decade ago? That was a legitimate concern. |
ST R [ R R legitimate concern. | didn’t
legitimate concern. | didn’t feel
legitimate concern. | didn’t TR
legitimate concern. | didn’t G R G RN 0
legitimate concern. | didn’t feel that instinctively but it
feel that instinctively but it TS
feel that instinctively but it was always a possibility. Then
was always a possibility. Then Y
was always a possibility. Then we dropped our first trailer in
we dropped our first trailer in May and it had it 128 million
May and it had it 128 million views in
May and it had it 128 million S ALy
May and it had it 128 million N ALY e
May and it had it 128 million views in 24 hours. I’m not
views in 24 hours. I’m not el
views in 24 hours. I’m not et I o 01
views in 24 hours. I’m not et I
views in 24 hours. I’m not worried about it anymore. What
worried about it anymore. What Al
worried about it anymore. What does worry
worried about it anymore. What IR A
worried about it anymore. What R AN R
worried about it anymore. What does worry me is it has
does worry me is it has el
does worry me is it has et
does worry me is it has e et ISR ]
does worry me is it has e et IR )
does worry me is it has contracted due to the double
contracted due to the double punch
contracted due to the double R
contracted due to the double W R RS
contracted due to the double IR RSN )
contracted due to the double R RSP L R G
punch of streaming and the pandemic. It is coming back,
pandemic. It is coming back, slowly
pandemic. It is coming back, ALY R TN
pandemic. It is coming back, slowly coming back,
pandemic. It is coming back, LY A T o E: e
pandemic. It is coming back, slowly coming back, it 80%, of
slowly coming back, it 80%, of vty
slowly coming back, it 80%, of T R )
slowly coming back, it 80%, of e R R ]
slowly coming back, it 80%, of R R
slowly coming back, it 80%, of what we were in 2019. And back
what we were in 2019. And back Y
what we were in 2019. And back when we released
what we were in 2019. And back TN R R
what we were in 2019. And back when we released the first
when we released the first Rl
when we released the first i)
when we released the first movie. So can
when we released the first T IR )
when we released the first I IR o)
when we released the first movie. So can we be profitable
movie. So can we be profitable in
movie. So can we be profitable ina
movie. So can we be profitable in a changed market or are we
in a changed market or are we just
in a changed market or are we 4400
in a changed market or are we M 4GYEH
in a changed market or are we just the last dinosaur? No,
Just the last dinosaur? No, L]
Just the last dinosaur? No, LG
just the last dinosaur? No, dying after the comet hit. |
dying after the comet hit. | Tl R d
dying after the comet hit. | I GhEacl
dying after the comet hit. | I GLE S R
dying after the comet hit. | couldn’t tell you that
dying after the comet hit. | couldn’t tell you that right
couldn’t tell you that right NOW.
couldn’t tell you that right now. We will
couldn’t tell you that right IR R WG
couldn’t tell you that right now. We will know in a
couldn’t tell you that right IR G AR TR
now. We will know in a few YN
now. We will know in a few YV
now. We will know In a few YN
now. We will know In a few weeks | guess. Why do
now. We will know in a few weeks | guess. Why do you come
weeks | guess. Why do you come to
weeks | guess. Why do you come nRICEd
weeks | guess. Why do you come to us? |
weeks | guess. Why do you come N I
weeks | guess. Why do you come to us? | just want to keep my
to us? | just want to keep my family
to us? | just want to keep my EIIVET N
to us? | just want to keep my family safe. Filming for
to us? I just want to keep my family safe. Filming for Avatar
family safe. Filming for Avatar ey
family safe. Filming for Avatar Mt
family safe. Filming for Avatar WO G C A
three has already been completed and some workers even
completed and some workers even Nl
completed and some workers even N )
completed and some workers even heen done on
completed and some workers even NI
completed and some workers even bheen done on a fourth
completed and some workers even been done on a fourth film
completed and some workers even NN R e Rl iR
been done on a fourth film the ]
been done on a fourth film the reported orchard
been done on a fourth film the e R E I R
been done on a fourth film the reported orchard of $350
reported orchard of $350 million
reported orchard of $350 IR e
reported orchard of $350 million for the way of water —-
million for the way of water -- early
million for the way of water -- FIVAGIES
million for the way of water -- U NACNE LA
million for the way of water -- A AR U RN
million for the way of water -- A AR U R E A
early reviews for the way of water have
early reviews for the way of N AV R CI
early reviews for the way of water have praised visuals but
UGG RN LT R TR TR T found
water have praised visuals but found some of
water have praised visuals but TR )
water have praised visuals but found some of the story and
found some of the story and dialogue lacking. Cameron is
dialogue lacking. Cameron is WL
dialogue lacking. Cameron is heping the
dialogue lacking. Cameron is TR LRGN TG
dialogue lacking. Cameron is hoping the movie and
dialogue lacking. Cameron is TIRLRG N YT Tl
dialogue lacking. Cameron is hoping the movie and its theme
hoping the movie and its theme of family
hoping the movie and its theme R IR
hoping the movie and its theme of family will resonate with
of family will resonate with cinema audiences. Regardless,
cinema audiences. Regardless, e
cinema audiences. Regardless, it is
cinema audiences. Regardless, itis a
cinema audiences. Regardless, it is a relief.
cinema audiences. Regardless, (AR SR
cinema audiences. Regardless, (AR AR N E
cinema audiences. Regardless, (AR SR RN
it is a relief. We have been sitting on this eqg
it is a relief. We have been sitting on this eggq for
it is a relief. We have been sitting on this egg for a long
sitting on this egg for a long S i)
sitting on this egg for a long time and getting it out in
time and getting it out in e d
time and getting it out in T e
time and getting it out in front of people, you know,
front of people, you know, )
front of people, you know, response has
front of people, you know, I N R
response has been WL N T [V
response has been overwhelmingly good so far. |
overwhelmingly good so far. | YT R d
overwhelmingly good so far. | T NR R -]
overwhelmingly good so far. | E R ST Y
overwhelmingly good so far. | RN R X I A
overwhelmingly good so far. | RN R I A G R
overwhelmingly good so far. | haven’t seen any reviews yet so
haven’t seen any reviews yet so i
haven’t seen any reviews yet so I
haven’t seen any reviews yet so | am sure
haven’t seen any reviews yet so RN e )
haven’t seen any reviews yet so | am sure alternate picking
I am sure alternate picking il
I am sure alternate picking I E3I=1ad
I am sure alternate picking I EI s 1 4
I am sure alternate picking IR R 1 4
I am sure alternate picking will start at that point, that
will start at that point, that emotionally people stick --
emotionally people stick -- Tl
emotionally people stick -- seem to
emotionally people stick -- A R
emotionally people stick -- seem to be emotionally charged
seem to be emotionally charged ™
seem to be emotionally charged by the
seem to be emotionally charged WAGTRT )
seem to be emotionally charged by the film and that is enough
by the film and that is enough of
by the film and that is enough S ]
by the film and that is enough of an answer for me. To make a
of an answer for me. To make a LGV
of an answer for me. To make a way of Water
of an answer for me. To make a VRN AUEI YT
of an answer for me. To make a way of Water is projected to do
way of Water is projected to do ol
way of Water is projected to do (L
way of Water is projected to do R
way of Water is projected to do well at the box office but it
well at the box office but it 3
well at the box office but it is going
well at the box office but it LR
well at the box office but it is going to have to do
is going to have to do tremendous business just to
tremendous business just to e
tremendous business just to I e Il
tremendous business just to break even. James Cameron is
break even. James Cameron is (I
break even. James Cameron is hoping that big money will mean
hoping that big money will mean he
hoping that big money will mean R
hoping that big money will mean he gets to release his planned
he gets to release his planned Avatar
he gets to release his planned A TG
he gets to release his planned Avatar sequels as well as
Avatar sequels as well as I )
Avatar sequels as well as T R
Avatar sequels as well as demonstrate that following a
demonstrate that following a slailatlid
demonstrate that following a shiilall @i
demonstrate that following a difficult few years, large
difficult few years, large audiences are ready to return
audiences are ready to return and
audiences are ready to return R
audiences are ready to return and prove that cinema going is
and prove that cinema going is alive
and prove that cinema going is AT sl
and prove that cinema going is AT LR R
and prove that cinema going is alive and well in a post Covid
alive and well in a post Covid i
alive and well in a post Covid eI
alive and well in a post Covid world. Let’s get it done.
A year ago, to Steven Spielberg Ty
A year ago, to Steven Spielberg was busy promoting West two
was busy proemoting West two )
was busy proemoting West two side Story,
was busy promoting West two side Story, something set in
side Story, something set in this neighbourhood in New York
this neighbourhood in New York 3
this neighbourhood in New York inthe
this neighbourhood in New York in the 1950s_
this neighbourhood in New York in the 1950s. This year he has
in the 1950s. This year he has made his
In the 1950s. This year he has RN R E]e 4
In the 1950s. This year he has made his mark with a
in the 1950s. This year he has made his mark with a different
made his mark with a different 301s%
made his mark with a different SO A L]
made his mark with a different SR CLRG
made his mark with a different story called the fable lens
story called the fable lens which |
story called the fable lens A
story called the fable lens which | love. You
story called the fable lens which I love. You get the
which | love. You get the impression
which | love. You get the LG
which I love. You get the T IR IR Il T
which I love. You get the T I N IR I T R 1
impression after watching this T
impression after watching this movie that you really know
movie that you really know SN
movie that you really know Stephen’s Bilbo. Movies are
Stephen’s Bilbo. Movies are dreams which you never forget.
dreams which you never forget. e
dreams which you never forget. The Fabelmans is different to
The Fabelmans is different to S
The Fabelmans is different to NS EHIRE L ORS
The Fabelmans is different to SR E ORI
Steven Spielberg’s other T e
Steven Spielberg’s other movies._ It is
Steven Spielberg’s other movies. It is the story of his
movies. It is the story of his family
movies. It is the story of his VAN
movies. It is the story of his ElVAN
movies. It is the story of his e AU LG
movies. It is the story of his family life as he grew up in
family life as he grew up in the
family life as he grew up in R )
family life as he grew up in the role that movies played in
the role that movies played in his formative years. He made
his formative years. He made )
his formative years. He made Rl
his formative years. He made the film with
his formative years. He made R i R
his formative years. He made the film with the encouragement
the film with the encouragement N
the film with the encouragement e e
the film with the encouragement AN
the film with the encouragement of screenwriter Tony Kushner
of screenwriter Tony Kushner with whom
of screenwriter Tony Kushner R el
of screenwriter Tony Kushner R e e
of screenwriter Tony Kushner R At Ll It
with whom he has collaborated SN
with whom he has collaborated S|
with whom he has collaborated S )
with whom he has collaborated R e
with whom he has collaborated S NG E R e
before. | have always found IR
before. | have always found ways of putting my personal
ways of putting my personal B
ways of putting my personal RISt
ways of putting my personal GRS G
ways of putting my personal life in everything I’ve done.
life in everything I’ve done. )
life in everything I’ve done. There are pieces of me in
There are pieces of me in Gl
There are pieces of me in everything |
There are pieces of me In everything | have really
everything | have really directed, but
everything | have really - R Gl
everything | have really directed, but this was a
everything I have really A A T R IR RS
directed, but this was a very eI
directed, but this was a very T eI R s e
directed, but this was a very focused intentional story of
focused intentional story of coming-of-age. I’ve never made
coming-of-age. I’ve never made Y
coming-of-age. I’ve never made R IR RET
coming-of-age. I’ve never made a coming-of-age story before
a coming-of-age story before and I’ve never told one so
and I’ve never told one so )
and I’ve never told one so AR )
and I’ve never told one so R ORI
and I’ve never told one so close to my own experiences and
close to my own experiences and )
close to my own experiences and N
close to my own experiences and R R 0]
close to my own experiences and so close to my
close to my own experiences and R R R AL
close to my own experiences and R TR LA S
close to my own experiences and so close to my own heart. You
so close to my own heart. You can’t
so close to my own heart. You NI
so close to my own heart. You can’t just love something, you
can’t just love something, you )
can’t just love something, you I N )
can’t just love something, you I N R ]
can’t just love something, you I N e RO R )
can’t just love something, you I N RO R Rl N
can’t just love something, you I RO R Rl A
also have to take care of it. e
also have to take care of it. The Fabelmans is
also have to take care of it. IR E M E LR G VY
also have to take care of it. The Fabelmans is really helped
The Fabelmans is really helped -
The Fabelmans is really helped by its strong performances.
by its strong performances. S
by its strong performances. Michelle Williams’ brilliant
Michelle Williams’ brilliant playing of Spielberg’s
Michelle Williams’ brilliant playing of Spielberg’s mother
playing of Spielberg’s mother Ty
playing of Spielberg’s mother R L)
playing of Spielberg’s mother R I a1 e d (e Ta L
playing of Spielberg’s mother N NI i e R i1 d
playing of Spielberg’s mother who had affections for a
playing of Spielberg’s mother Y LI i e d e R -t s
who had affections for a man e
who had affections for a man other than her
who had affections for a man NG SRR S Tl
who had affections for a man other than her husband. And
other than her husband. And Canadian actor is also good at
Canadian actor is also good at playing Spielberg in his
playing Spielberg in his teenage years was of a portrait
teenage years was of a portrait N
teenage years was of a portrait ]
teenage years was of a portrait of a family where there is a
of a family where there Is a e
of a family where there Is a s
of a family where there is a lot of love but whether
lot of love but whether relationships are far from
relationships are far from simple. It feels like an honest
simple. It feels like an honest Yo ladl ]
simple. It feels like an honest LY la R
simple. It feels like an honest depiction of what
simple. It feels like an honest Y T R R L LR L
simple. It feels like an honest Sl R R I R e
simple. It feels like an honest depiction of what went on in
depiction of what went on in this
LT[ RO R EIRTC L B IR TR
LT[ RO R EIRTC L B this Bilbo’s family
LT[ RO R EIRTC L B IR E AT
LT[ RO R EIRTC L B QIR e AT G
this Bilbo’s family were not I )
this Bilbo’s family were not A R
this Bilbo’s family were not everyone comes out looking
everyone comes out looking great. Do
AL T R [T ULy T LI R
AL T R [T ULy T great. Do you always have
everyone comes out looking great. Do you always have to be
great. Do you always have to be )
great. Do you always have to be e ey
great. Do you always have to be e N
great. Do you always have to be the centre of attention? Top
the centre of attention? Top ]
the centre of attention? Top shouting at her! Nothing
QN N T L ] shouting at her! Nothing but
LG IR G R I
LG IR G R disrespect from
LG IR G R I R g 1
LG IR G R disrespect from you... I’m
LG IR G [R] disrespect from you... I’m your
disrespect from you... I’m your mother!
disrespect from you... I’m your el |
disrespect from you... I’m your mother! | don’t
disrespect from you... I’m your I e R e ey ]
disrespect from you... I’m your NG RGN
mother! | don’t know any family that
mother! | don’t know any family G A
mother! | don’t know any family e SN
mother! | don’t know any family that is not collocated and our
that is not collocated and our e la e el a e
that is not collocated and our e )
that is not collocated and our convocations are probably
that is not collocated and our N\ LR L L A L]
convocations are probably not as
convocations are probably not Y I I
convocations are probably not as unusual as someone else’s
convocations are probably not YRR L LR N
as unusual as someone else’s so |
as unusual as someone else’s so K14
as unusual as someone else’s so | think this
as unusual as someone else’s so IR & IR
as unusual as someone else’s so IR &G IR
as unusual as someone else’s so | think this is a universal
| think this is a universal reflection |
| think this is a universal N P ai R R a1
| think this is a universal reflection | think of
RO S GIENCERTLITEE]E (S G N R I RS 110
reflection | think of everybody AN
reflection | think of everybody N MR
reflection | think of everybody everywhere with siblings,
everywhere with siblings, parents, with problems at
parents, with problems at N
parents, with problems at school, with
parents, with problems at S RG]
parents, with problems at school, with a passion, a
school, with a passion, a hobby,
school, with a passion, a TS AT T G|
school, with a passion, a hobby, something that becomes a
hobby, something that becomes a TN
hobby, something that becomes a career, so |
hobby, something that becomes a I ARG
hobby, something that becomes a IR R R Gl
hobby, something that becomes a career, so | think it is
hobby, something that becomes a FI M ARG S A
hobby, something that becomes a I ARG AR
career, so | think it is a lot of
career, so | think it Is a lot A e
career, so | think it Is a lot S BII e Raatid
career, so | think it Is a lot of universal truths in the
of universal truths in the 301s%
of universal truths in the story we’re dealing. The
story we’re dealing. The Fabelmans will probably feature
Fabelmans will probably feature prominently in the Oscar
prominently in the Oscar nominations but
prominently in the Oscar neminations but sadly like many
nominations but sadly like many e
nominations but sadly like many OIS
nominations but sadly like many other prestige pictures this
GG D Rl R T Crld
GG D Rl R T year it
GG D Rl R T IR
other prestige pictures this I
other prestige pictures this year it has been struggling
O L a ] R G 1 year it has been struggling to
year it has been struggling to el
year it has been struggling to G
year it has been struggling to find an audience in cinemas.
find an audience in cinemas. IR
find an audience in cinemas. Movie-goers will come out the
Movie-goers will come out the W]
Movie-goers will come out the RS0
Movie-goers will come out the big event movies not so much
big event movies not so much e
big event movies not so much TR El e
big event movies not so much TR E U TS Ta s )
big event movies not so much for smaller arthouse pictures.
for smaller arthouse pictures. (e s
for smaller arthouse pictures. (T LYY R T
for smaller arthouse pictures. What was your favourite part?
What was your favourite part? I Retial
What was your favourite part? Rl .- 0t d1: 71
What was your favourite part? And cut! Beautiful. Among the
And cut! Beautiful. Among the Fare o]
And cut! Beautiful. Among the actors who
And cut! Beautiful. Among the Y R Nt ]
And cut! Beautiful. Among the actors who made quite an impact
actors who made quite an impact 3
actors who made quite an impact inend
actors who made quite an impact in end of
actors who made quite an impact R ]
actors who made quite an impact LRI R Ul
actors who made quite an impact MR RO Rl
actors who made quite an impact in end of the year films was
in end of the year films was Britain’s MclLaurin
in end of the year films was Britain’s McLaurin who is
Britain’s McLaurin who is UG
Britain’s McLaurin who Is perhaps best known
Britain’s McLaurin who is perhaps best known for playing
perhaps best known for playing e
perhaps best known for playing Princes Diana in the Crown. And
Princes Diana in the Crown. And ]
Princes Diana in the Crown. And now Lady Chatterley’s
Princes Diana in the Crown. And now Lady Chatterley’s lover. In
now Lady Chatterley’s lover. In [\ vy
now Lady Chatterley’s lover. In y {0y T -]
now Lady Chatterley’s lover. In p LV - )
now Lady Chatterley’s lover. In 2022, more and more award shows
2022, more and more award shows came
2022, more and more award shows CI IS
2022, more and more award shows came gender neutral. This is
came gender neutral. This is o] L g L]
came gender neutral. This is e R
came gender neutral. This is supported by Emma who
supported by Emma who s PN a1 i1
supported by Emma who PN i I3
supported by Emma who I LR e
supported by Emma who identifies as non- binary. And
identifies as non- binary. And as you
identifies as non- binary. And CRTRILe
identifies as non- binary. And as you might imagine the actor
as you might imagine the actor 3
as you might imagine the actor T )
as you might imagine the actor is also a
as you might imagine the actor N
as you might imagine the actor is also a big fan of
as you might imagine the actor NI EL IR G
as you might imagine the actor NI REL R RGN
s also a big fan of the DH El i)
s also a big fan of the DH FEe e
s also a big fan of the DH e ]
s also a big fan of the DH Lawrence novel in which
s also a big fan of the DH e B e B e
Lawrence novel in which the lady Chatterley’s
Lawrence novel in which the FL A R SR
Lawrence novel in which the FL R R SRR ]
Lawrence novel in which the lady Chatterley’s Lover film is
lady Chatterley’s Lover film is FIh
lady Chatterley’s Lover film is based. Emma Jones tells us
based. Emma Jones tells us more.
|
Al
It’s nothing like that! Yes it ™
It’s nothing like that! Yes it IEnL
It’s nothing like that! Yes it is. Lady Chatterley’s Lover has
is. Lady Chatterley’s Lover has always caused discussion. Emma
always caused discussion. Emma Corrin
always caused discussion. Emma WAl N ES
always caused discussion. Emma Corrin plays Connie, an
Corrin plays Connie, an Ao [
Corrin plays Connie, an aristocratic unhappy wife who
aristocratic unhappy wife who T
aristocratic unhappy wife who hLERL
aristocratic unhappy wife who GERIR Tids]
aristocratic unhappy wife who MGCRIR N e
aristocratic unhappy wife who finds it with her husband’s
finds it with her husband’s gamekeeper. Times
finds it with her husband’’s gamekeeper. Times may
finds it with her husband’s gamekeeper. Times may have
gamekeeper. Times may have W EW L]
gamekeeper. Times may have changed since the book’s
changed since the book’s Il A1)
changed since the book’s publication but Emma Corrin
publication but Emma Corrin T
publication but Emma Corrin finds much in
publication but Emma Corrin TR R R
publication but Emma Corrin TR e B R I Ak
finds much in the narrative Tl
finds much in the narrative GRS
finds much in the narrative W AR T
finds much in the narrative W AR N o A
finds much in the narrative MR AR I e T e
finds much in the narrative that is relevant now. It speaks
that is relevant now. It speaks very much to
that is relevant now. It speaks T R R )
that is relevant now. It speaks very much to the times we live
very much to the times we live 3
very much to the times we live in today. Obviously things have
in today. Obviously things have NPT
in today. Obviously things have QDTG S
in today. Obviously things have progressed but they also think
(DL T R G ST R Tl 1 )
progressed but they also think QR4
progressed but they also think O R VA
progressed but they also think QRN R AN
progressed but they also think the society we live in is very
the society we live in is very fragile
the society we live in is very e CE
the society we live in is very fragile and the rights of
fragile and the rights of IR e
fragile and the rights of NIRRT )
fragile and the rights of L U R R LR 8
fragile and the rights of women’s bodies are very fragile
LU LGRS R DI and adding
women’s bodies are very fragile and adding to the celebration
and adding to the celebration N
and adding to the celebration of autonomy. Not
and adding to the celebration TN A AT
and adding to the celebration TN A AL
CLIREL IR GRG LRI ST A AU AU
of autonomy. Not Like any man I’ve
of autonomy. Not Like any man RN
of autonomy. Not like any man I’ve ever met hefore.
of autonomy. Not like any man I’ve ever met before. Emma
I’ve ever met before. Emma W eel
I’ve ever met before. Emma Corrin’s performance has been
Corrin’s performance has been WY
Corrin’s performance has been highly rated
Corrin’s performance has been MLLIVAET LN 0
Corrin’s performance has been highly rated by critics. In the
highly rated by critics. In the has
highly rated by critics. In the YT RT |
highly rated by critics. In the has said they
highly rated by critics. In the R RO
highly rated by critics. In the IR O RIS
has said they are non-binary CELI
has said they are non-binary meaning they have a gender
meaning they have a gender B8]
meaning they have a gender identity that doesn’t
meaning they have a gender identity that doesn’t fit inte
identity that doesn’t fit into )
identity that doesn’t fit into W anEH e
identity that doesn’t fit into the mail- female binary and
the mail- female binary and they
the mail- female binary and QD RUE =
the mail- female binary and they use they/them pronounce.
they use they/them pronounce. 57
they use they/them pronounce. ISE]
they use they/them pronounce. ILESE S ETEI
they use they/them pronounce. LG RIS
they use they/them pronounce. LG R I R G AL L L]
They also said they would support
They also said they would o[ e L (g Y]
They also said they would support categories in award
support categories in award s
support categories in award ceremonies becoming gender
ceremonies becoming gender iR
ceremonies becoming gender e | R LTS
ceremonies becoming gender e I IR
ceremonies becoming gender neutral. Theirs is a powerful
neutral. Theirs is a powerful Ty
neutral. Theirs is a powerful A
neutral. Theirs is a powerful new voice, in 2022 they have
new voice, in 2022 they have ey
new voice, in 2022 they have e ]
new voice, in 2022 they have IR RISl 1
new voice, in 2022 they have become a sought-after act,
become a sought-after act, el
become a sought-after act, starring with another much to
starring with another much to FYe L
starring with another much to LRSI
starring with another much to about young celebrity Harry
about young celebrity Harry 1Y
about young celebrity Harry Styles can British drama My
Styles can British drama My Policeman.
Styles can British drama My S E T
Styles can British drama My Policeman. He started as a
Policeman. He started as a young
Policeman. He started as a I T
Policeman. He started as a young police officer forced to
young police officer forced to hide his sexuality. The England
hide his sexuality. The England of
hide his sexuality. The England SRy
hide his sexuality. The England of the Lady Chatterley
hide his sexuality. The England RO EL R SR
hide his sexuality. The England RO USRS
of the Lady Chatterley error is equally as repressive and
QTR L R O U Y N L R 1))
equally as repressive and Lady GG
equally as repressive and Lady Chatterley finds freedom and it
Chatterley finds freedom and it Ty
Chatterley finds freedom and it R
Chatterley finds freedom and it was the attraction
Chatterley finds freedom and it T Bt Nl ase-(ud[ Rt ]d
Chatterley finds freedom and it was the attraction for Corrin
was the attraction for Corrin taking the part. The first time
taking the part. The first time Y
taking the part. The first time N
taking the part. The first time R R G15G
taking the part. The first time we met, they shared with me
we met, they shared with me that
we met, they shared with me GE R
we met, they shared with me that they felt a very
we met, they shared with me G E RO A R RS {3 |
that they felt a very strong connection with
that they felt a very strong N iR R
that they felt a very strong e R R R Gl L
connection with the material, Y
connection with the material, especially in (SINGING)
especially in (SINGING) naked under the
especially in (SINGING) naked T E R
especially in (SINGING) naked T E G R Tl
especially in (SINGING) naked B E U RN R
especially in (SINGING) naked under the rain and has said
under the rain and has said this
under the rain and has said G
under the rain and has said this is one of the most
under the rain and has said IERIR N R N e s e
this is one of the most iconic e
this is one of the most iconic T el e e
this is one of the most iconic moment of freedom
this is one of the most iconic I R R iR
this is one of the most iconic moment of freedom that they
moment of freedom that they have ever read and
moment of freedom that they Ry
moment of freedom that they have ever read and | want
moment of freedom that they R A YN E R e ]
moment of freedom that they Y R B YL R e N
have ever read and | want to do it
have ever read and | want to do 1o
have ever read and | want to do it, | want to explore that
it, I want to explore that ]
it, I want to explore that L
LRI R DT CICR G E] feeling of liberating
it, I want to explore that feeling of liberating freedom.
feeling of liberating freedom. Is that right? Yeah. And why
Is that right? Yeah. And why Ty
Is that right? Yeah. And why LR
Is that right? Yeah. And why was that blue | think
Is that right? Yeah. And why was that blue I think just
was that blue I think just jumped
was that blue | think just jumped out
was that blue | think just Ol LRI
was that blue | think just jumped out of me because it
jumped out of me because it I eaii !
jumped out of me because it e iR )
jumped out of me because it i |
jumped out of me because it iRl
jumped out of me because it terrified me and enticed me,
terrified me and enticed me, identity had ever seen
terrified me and enticed me, LN A DR R Ll
identity had ever seen anything ey
identity had ever seen anything like it on screen and was
like it on screen and was excited
like it on screen and was el R
like it on screen and was iR E )
like it on screen and was iR R
like it on screen and was excited to make that happen.
excited to make that happen. TEFT VTN
excited to make that happen. TEFT EV LI
excited to make that happen. It’s amazing, isn’t it? How
It’s amazing, isn’t it? How e ]
It’s amazing, isn’t it? How X N
It’s amazing, isn’t it? How someone can get so into your
someone can get so into your G
someone can get so into your W GL L A T
someone can get so into your blood. Physical intimacy is an
blood. Physical intimacy is an el
blood. Physical intimacy is an N Wl
blood. Physical intimacy is an XN Wl R
blood. Physical intimacy is an SN I R U
essential part of this e LAy
essential part of this narrative actors
essential part of this e A e e
essential part of this I e e e e e i
narrative actors have become )
narrative actors have become more outspoken about whether
more outspoken about whether they felt comfortable filming
they felt comfortable filming 1
they felt comfortable filming A&
they felt comfortable filming A A L LY
they felt comfortable filming A AT L N A
they felt comfortable filming sex seeds are not. Emma
sex seeds are not. Emma LT L]
sex seeds are not. Emma LR
sex seeds are not. Emma LRGN
sex seeds are not. Emma I R SR il
Thompson in her recent film L)
Thompson in her recent film LT R T 4
Thompson in her recent film good luck to you via grand
good luck to you via grand i3
good luck to you via grand priest using
good luck to you via grand IS AT LR e
gl AT LRl k] R ELC
gl AT LRl k] I ELC TR 1]
gD AT LRl kT8 co-ordinators, this production
co-ordinators, this production )
co-ordinators, this production IR e |
co-ordinators, this production IR e R lida]
co-ordinators, this production also worked with one. Joey
also worked with one. Joey 2 e Tgs e e
also worked with one. Joey Richardson who played Lady
Richardson who played Lady Chatterley and a 1993
Chatterley and a 1993 RIS
Chatterley and a 1993 IR |
Chatterley and a 1993 IR B s ils e
Chatterley and a 1993 miniseries and Dominic thanks
miniseries and Dominic thanks IRy
miniseries and Dominic thanks film sets
miniseries and Dominic thanks TR R R )
miniseries and Dominic thanks film sets have changed for the
film sets have changed for the [
film sets have changed for the better. We
film sets have changed for the [ R )
film sets have changed for the [ R I )
film sets have changed for the [ R I E Y
film sets have changed for the [ R I E N
better. We are more aware of vty
better. We are more aware of e e
better. We are more aware of what needs to
better. We are more aware of T e LR N
better. We are more aware of what needs to be put in place
what needs to be put in place with
what needs to be put in place T )
what needs to be put in place with love scenes, that everyone
with love scenes, that everyone TR 0]
with love scenes, that everyone LR o)
with love scenes, that everyone has to be protected did. They
has to be protected did. They tend
has to be protected did. They RN ]
has to be protected did. They DR ]
has to be protected did. They tend to be more choreographed.
tend to be more choreographed. N
tend to be more choreographed. Ry
tend to be more choreographed. In the old days it was like OK,
In the old days it was like OK, get
In the old days it was like OK, )]
In the old days it was like OK, get on with
In the old days it was like OK, EEukiak s
In the old days it was like OK, VEENRYIG AT
In the old days it was like OK, get on with it. This version
get on with it. This version Y
get on with it. This version N o)
get on with it. This version I (e R oI
get on with it. This version does also focus on
get on with it. This version R LR eI R )
get on with it. This version does also focus on the men
get on with it. This version R LR e R N s B
does also focus on the men in )
does also focus on the men in the 3’s
does also focus on the men in W kAN
does also focus on the men in WAL
the 3’s life. The PTSD Oliver Y YT
the 3’s life. The PTSD Oliver IR
the 3’s life. The PTSD Oliver Mellors is suffering after
the 3’s life. The PTSD Oliver Y SR IN R E CIR
Mellors is suffering after the e
Mellors is suffering after the TR a0l
Mellors is suffering after the first World War that causes him
first World War that causes him 0]
first World War that causes him O By
first World War that causes him to isolate himself.
first World War that causes him O L A Y
ICECEL R T EV A e
ICECEL R T EV e R )
to isolate himself. The bitterness between gamekeeper
bitterness between gamekeeper and
bitterness between gamekeeper IR sl e
bitterness between gamekeeper and landowner and circlet
and landowner and circlet digitally’s
and landowner and circlet digitally’s own
and landowner and circlet digitally’s own mental
and landowner and circlet digitally’s own mental health
digitally’s own mental health problems
digitally’s own mental health G T g
digitally’s own mental health problems after a wartime injury
problems after a wartime injury that
problems after a wartime injury UEIALE
problems after a wartime injury LAl at]
problems after a wartime injury that leads him to
problems after a wartime injury LA R e e 01
problems after a wartime injury LA R e o 01 s 1
that leads him te rebuff his wife
that leads him to rebuff his T s
that leads him to rebuff his wife_ But this is Emma Corrin’s
wife. But this is Emma Corrin’s IRy
wife. But this is Emma Corrin’s TR
wife. But this is Emma Corrin’s IR N
wife. But this is Emma Corrin’s NS S -G L G
film as Constance Chatterley and
film as Constance Chatterley R
film as Constance Chatterley and the comment on acting
and the comment on acting categories
categories becoming gender A I R R R R )
neutral could have a lot of S
neutral could have a lot of I A ]
neutral could have a lot of currency given award season is
currency given award season Is EIE
currency given award season is already under way. For me, one
already under way. For me, one N
already under way. For me, one R
already under way. For me, one RG]
already under way. For me, one of the more pleasant
already under way. For me, one SRR CR G e [
of the more pleasant surprises 1
of the more pleasant surprises R )
of the more pleasant surprises Y RNt
of the more pleasant surprises RGN
of the more pleasant surprises at the movies in 2022 was
of the more pleasant surprises RGO RV 2R R i)
at the movies in 2022 was the Indian film RRR. It is a story
Indian film RRR. It is a story of
Indian film RRR. It is a story S
Indian film RRR. It is a story R L]
Indian film RRR. It is a story of a relationship between two
N RN TR T T T R T
N RN TR T T T R heroes in
N RN TR T T T R T R R e
N RN TR T T T R heroes in 1920s India
N R D TR T R heroes in 1920s India stopping
heroes in 1920s India stopping e
heroes in 1920s India stopping T
heroes in 1920s India stopping it as a
heroes in 1920s India stopping TR )
heroes in 1920s India stopping IRV
heroes in 1920s India stopping IR CEA S AU
heroes in 1920s India stopping IR CEA S MEUC AL
it as @ movie escapism and it has
it as @ movie escapism and it -l
it as @ movie escapism and it R
it as a movie escapism and it has been put together
It as a movie escapism and it has been put together extremely
has been put together extremely N
has been put together extremely e ey
has been put together extremely LR
has been put together extremely well. RRR is a big movie and
LU PRI L R Y N 3
LU PRI L R Y N Sl a1
well. RRR is a big movie and epic action drama, the most
epic action drama, the most NG
epic action drama, the most expensive Indian
epic action drama, the most SNV CRU RN
epic action drama, the most expensive Indian movie ever
expensive Indian movie ever made, it is a Telugu language
made, it is a Telugu language il
made, it is a Telugu language film, gaining accolades by the
film, gaining accolades by the e
film, gaining accolades by the minute. Essentially it is a
minute. Essentially it is a 301s%
minute. Essentially it is a story of friendship, friendship
story of friendship, friendship between
story of friendship, friendship T TR
story of friendship, friendship between two giant heroes. But
between two giant heroes. But vty
between two giant heroes. But T R )
between two giant heroes. But what we did was, we kept the
what we did was, we kept the P a1 el Y
what we did was, we kept the emotions as grounded as very
emotions as grounded as very human.
emotions as grounded as very PR e
emotions as grounded as very human. Their strengths might be
human. Their strengths might be superhuman but there is a
superhuman but there is a beautiful friendship that is
beautiful friendship that is developing within them. RRR has
developing within them. RRR has hecome
developing within them. RRR has e ]
developing within them. RRR has become a global phenomenon on
become a global phenomencn on top
become a global phenomencn on ) RIS
become a global phenomenon on R
become a global phenomenon on SR K]
become a global phenomenon on top it’s become a head
become a global phenomenon on SR S U CE R P S
top it’s become a head across India, and the Japan, the US as
India, and the Japan, the US as ol
India, and the Japan, the US as s
India, and the Japan, the US as I e
India, and the Japan, the US as well as elsewhere. It’s
well as elsewhere. It’s incredibly unusual for a Telugu
incredibly unusual for a Telugu language to breakthrough in the
language to breakthrough in the LN
language to breakthrough in the I
language to breakthrough in the TP Y
language to breakthrough in the I A E s
language to breakthrough in the I S SRV
US, it has never really happened
US, it has never really NN R G
US, it has never really happened before stopping those
happened before stopping those TG
happened before stopping those people don’t really know
people don’t really know what )
people don’t really know what the language is in this country
the language is in this country T
the language is in this country RG]
the language is in this country T R G A
the language is in this country unless they have some
unless they have some SELINLT]
unless they have some relationship to the culture and
relationship to the culture and as
relationship to the culture and )
relationship to the culture and as a result
relationship to the culture and YW e e
relationship to the culture and as a result of that, as with
as a result of that, as with YT )
as a result of that, as with YT - Ta s |
as a result of that, as with I s e e i)
as a result of that, as with T N R R e e
EIEHICER RN R G T NI E e
EIEHICER RN R G T international quote
Parasite and some other international quote unquote
international quote unquote I
international quote unquote foreign language film
foreign language film I N
foreign language film crossovers, people aren’t
IR LT LT I ]
crossovers, people aren’t thinking about the
crossovers, people aren’t thinking about the language it
thinking about the language it 3
thinking about the language it LGN
thinking about the language it LG
thinking about the language it is and, they are
thinking about the language it LRGSR G|
thinking about the language it is and, they are thinking about
is and, they are thinking about )
is and, they are thinking about ORI
is and, they are thinking about R
is and, they are thinking about AR R )
is and, they are thinking about RS- R U RN
the experience of the movie et
the experience of the movie e |
the experience of the movie itself and they don’t even
tself and they don’t even N el e
tself and they don’t even NI SR R e
tself and they don’t even NI SRR R R e
remember that there were e
remember that there were N R ]
remember that there were R R U
remember that there were subtitles when they come out of
subtitles when they come out of 3
subtitles when they come out of sl
subtitles when they come out of it and that’s really what
subtitles when they come out of it and that’s really what the
it and that’s really what the ultimate goal should be. There
ultimate goal should be. There s
ultimate goal should be. There is something
ultimate goal should be. There RIS GG
ultimate goal should be. There is something about RRR that is
is something about RRR that is L L]
is something about RRR that is appealing to people that goes
appealing to people that goes S0
appealing to people that goes SO RGO
appealing to people that goes SN RO ElE G
appealing to people that goes SN RO EE RGO
appealing to people that goes SN RGN I SR R Ly
beyond the parameters of South Asian
beyond the parameters of Seuth Asian cinema
beyond the parameters of Seuth ARl i C ]
beyond the parameters of Seuth Asian cinema and allows
beyond the parameters of Seuth AR N EE e
beyond the parameters of Seuth Asian cinema and allows it to
Asian cinema and allows it to just
Asian cinema and allows it to T4
Asian cinema and allows it to R4S
Asian cinema and allows it to just feel like universal
just feel like universal escapism
just feel like universal = H |
just feel like universal escapism and also |
just feel like universal F= L L A RG]
just feel like universal escapism and also | think a lot
escapism and also | think a lot of audience
escapism and also | think a lot I o
escapism and also | think a lot SIS )
escapism and also | think a lot of audience is are starved
escapism and also | think a lot LI e IR a
of audience is are starved of L]
of audience Is are starved of good escapism because
of audience is are starved of good escapism because we have
good escapism because we have )
good escapism because we have s0 many
good escapism because we have SR EIN ARG
good escapism because we have SRR E VR
good escapism because we have so many Marvel movies, Star
so many Marvel movies, Star Wars
so many Marvel movies, Star Y R Y
so many Marvel movies, Star Y R N I )
so many Marvel movies, Star Wars movies, and that sort of
Wars movies, and that sort of storytelling
Wars movies, and that sort of SO TG
Wars movies, and that sort of storytelling has started to
storytelling has started to feel
storytelling has started to TR
storytelling has started to TR
storytelling has started to feel kind of redundant.
feel kind of redundant. Financially, the movie has been
Financially, the movie has been Y
Financially, the movie has been a hig
Financially, the movie has been SRR LA
Financially, the movie has been a big winner. It’s brought in
a big winner. It’s brought in e
a big winner. It’s brought in T e N s
a big winner. It’s brought in more than $175 million
more than $175 million OV
more than $175 million worldwide, setting several box
worldwide, setting several box i)
worldwide, setting several box iiTe e et e
worldwide, setting several box i iTe e et LR e
worldwide, setting several box il R e LR e s]
worldwide, setting several box e e e R s s eI Ta]
office records for an Indian element.
office records for an Indian A AT
office records for an Indian S DT RGT)
office records for an Indian element. During the Covid lot
element. During the Covid lot Sl
element. During the Covid lot (L TR 1)
element. During the Covid lot down, the pandemic when
down, the pandemic when O]
down, the pandemic when everything was
down, the pandemic when G LRI (T
down, the pandemic when everything was shut down, |
everything was shut down, | think
everything was shut down, | OIS G
everything was shut down, | think people started looking at
think people started looking at e
think people started looking at stories from
think people started looking at RO R R g
think people started looking at stories from other cultures,
stories from other cultures, they
stories from other cultures, S A G
stories from other cultures, they were exposed to more
QAN GO R (N T I
they were exposed to more cultures, more different ways
cultures, more different ways of storytelling. Now for a
of storytelling. Now for a a0
of storytelling. Now for a A R
of storytelling. Now for a LR RN
of storytelling. Now for a LR RN
of storytelling. Now for a ORI RN G
of storytelling. Now for a ORI RN N R G R L
period of one and a half years Y
period of one and a half years TR
period of one and a half years when the cinemas were
period of one and a half years TR N E LR e 0
when the cinemas were shut S R
when the cinemas were shut down, people got exposed to the
down, people got exposed to the e
down, people got exposed to the NUEIRO O I
down, people got exposed to the other cultures, story,
other cultures, story, I AL
other cultures, story, I L Y s |
other cultures, story, narratives and everything. |
narratives and everything. | think
narratives and everything. | i QAL
narratives and everything. | think that also
narratives and everything. | QNSO N G
narratives and everything. | QNSO L S GG
narratives and everything. | QNS GE I Y G R Gl
think that also helped a lot G
think that also helped a lot stopping by the
think that also helped a lot SRR G R
think that also helped a lot OISR G R AR ELS
stopping by the time that cinemas opened again and people
cinemas opened again and people EIE
cinemas opened again and people started coming to the theatres,
started coming to the theatres, )
started coming to the theatres, there horizons
started coming to the theatres, e R Y
started coming to the theatres, there horizons were much
started coming to the theatres, NP e R e e s B ils[1s
there horizens were much wider than
there horizons were much wider than before. | think that also
than before. | think that also 3
than before. | think that also )
than before. | think that also is a reason why
than before. | think that also RN R Al A G
than before. | think that also is a reason why people are
LW R R LT T R I appreciating RRR.
LW R R LT T R I E AL GG G
is a reason why people are E A EL GGG T
appreciating RRR. RRR even stands a
appreciating RRR. RRR even RN R E e
appreciating RRR. RRR even AN R E e N
appreciating RRR. RRR even stands a chance of getting
stands a chance of getting Oscar nominations,
stands a chance of getting VY I LA P e E
Oscar nominations, especially after winning a Best Director
after winning a Best Director AT
after winning a Best Director award from a top American film
award from a top American film agtilay
award from a top American film critics group. It is
award from a top American film dgidfa N[ 0] PR L X
critics group. It is all LV
critics group. It is all AT s
critics group. It is all potentially very good news for
potentially very good news for RG]
potentially very good news for Indian cinema which is often
Indian cinema which is often I
Indian cinema which is often overlooked by the Academy
overlooked by the Academy award.
overlooked by the Academy award. Every December, | get
award. Every December, | get T
award. Every December, | get A )
award. Every December, | get A R ]
award. Every December, | get AN RN
award. Every December, | get deliveries here in my New York
deliveries here in my New York apartment many, many boxes like
apartment many, many boxes like ey
=[o =TTy E 1 T A LV = these which come from the big
these which come from the big (ALY
these which come from the big Hollywood studios and
these which come from the big Hollywood studies and some
Hollywood studios and some small production companies,
small production companies, full
small production companies, s
small production companies, NIRRT
small production companies, RS AT Ed
small production companies, RS AT AR 0]
small production companies, full of what | would call
full of what | would call promotional junk designed to
promotional junk designed to R e
promotional junk designed to influence me
promotional junk designed to R
promotional junk designed to influence me as a member
promotional junk designed to RN N LR Tt e
promotional junk designed to influence me as a member of a
influence me as a member of a o gialo]
influence me as a member of a critics group
influence me as a member of a W[ (TR O]
influence me as a member of a critics group to vote for a
critics group to vote for a particular movie or
g (e [ TITo R (R (VI particular movie or favour a
particular movie or favour a Elad«F1g
particular movie or favour a particular movie but the theory
particular movie but the theory got
particular movie but the theory [N R
particular movie but the theory got more boxes than ever and
got more boxes than ever and they
got more boxes than ever and AL
got more boxes than ever and they want to show you what is
they want to show you what is 3
they want to show you what is TR 1)
they want to show you what is in some of them.
they want to show you what is TR R AR iR
they want to show you what is in some of them. Oh, this is
in some of them. Oh, this is e
in some of them. Oh, this is for Argentina
in some of them. Oh, this is @O R LR
in some of them. Oh, this is for Argentina 1985. It’s got a
for Argentina 1985. It’s got a ey
for Argentina 1985. It’s got a nice bottle
for Argentina 1985. It’s got a Aol na -
for Argentina 1985. It’s got a nice bottle of wine
for Argentina 1985. It’s got a e R R AN LR
for Argentina 1985. It’s got a nice bottle of wine and, oh,
nice bottle of wine and, oh, )
nice bottle of wine and, oh, e
nice bottle of wine and, oh, QR ]
nice bottle of wine and, oh, QRN
nice bottle of wine and, oh, there is good in this topic it
there is good in this topic it 3
there is good in this topic it T
there is good in this topic it R =TI
there is good in this topic it R R R
there is good in this topic it is guite good because you get
there is good in this topic it is quite good because you get a
s guite good because you get a DVD,
s guite good because you get a N
s quite good because you get a O %1
s quite good because you get a ORI &)
s quite good because you get a DVD, but what a lot
s quite good because you get a ORI FI A R
s quite good because you get a DVD, but what a lot of people
DVD, but what a lot of people get
DVD, but what a lot of people AN
DVD, but what a lot of people get DVDs anymore stopping you
get DVDs anymore stopping you get a screenplay stopping the
get a screenplay stopping the e
get a screenplay stopping the other thing about all this is
other thing about all this is e
other thing about all this is it is
other thing about all this is 148G
other thing about all this is IR AL
other thing about all this is it is very wasteful packaging.
it is very wasteful packaging. e a i A
it is very wasteful packaging. AR )
it is very wasteful packaging. RO
it is very wasteful packaging. Sometimes there is a nice
Sometimes there is a nice chocolate .
Sometimes there is a nice chocolate. OK, this is put in
chocolate. OK, this is put in e
chocolate. OK, this is put in boots, why would they have
boots, why would they have anything to do with Puss in
anything to do with Puss in Boots?
anything to do with Puss in e YA Y
anything to do with Puss in O YA LTI R o
anything to do with Puss in e YA N )
STV R N R L R LN L8
STV R N R L R beautifully produced, it
Boots? These books are beautifully produced, it must
beautifully produced, it must cost
beautifully produced, it must ]
beautifully produced, it must cost a fortune to put them
cost a fortune to put them together
cost a fortune to put them DS G IS
cost a fortune to put them together but basically
cost a fortune to put them S GEE E A
cost a fortune to put them G EE IR T
together but basically it is 1R
ICDE TR L IR
ICDE TR L all soft premotional
ICDS G A all soft promotional material
all soft promotional material and | find
all soft promotional material IRl R
all soft promotional material and | find that kind of a
all soft promotional material N GERI RGO AR R
and | find that kind of a wee i
and | find that kind of a wee bit offputting. Well, | am of
bit offputting. Well, I am of e ]
bit offputting. Well, I am of course a totally incorruptible
course a totally incorruptible I3t ETa]
course a totally incorruptible human being stopping anyone who
human being stopping anyone who e
human being stopping anyone who ey
human being stopping anyone who knows me will tell
human being stopping anyone who AU AR BT
human being stopping anyone who knows me will tell you that. Se
knows me will tell you that. So getting all these things like
getting all these things like this is
getting all these things like R
getting all these things like this is not, or did not have
this is not, or did not have any impact at all on
this is not, or did not have AL E e L )
this is not, or did not have any impact at all on me making
any impact at all on me making up
any impact at all on me making N
any impact at all on me making up my list of
any impact at all on me making A G SR G
any impact at all on me making A ARG )Y
any impact at all on me making A SRR G R G
any impact at all on me making A G SR GERC R Rl
up my list of the top ten films of
up my list of the top ten films SRy
up my list of the top ten films of the year. At Number Ten,
of the year. At Number Ten, G
of the year. At Number Ten, RRR, the Indian action epic for
RRR, the Indian action epic for )
RRR, the Indian action epic for Q0
RRR, the Indian action epic for the joy it
RRR, the Indian action epic for QSRR LG
RRR, the Indian action epic for the joy it brings to all who
the joy it brings to all who watch
the joy it brings to all who s B e
the joy it brings to all who watch it stopping the musical
watch it stopping the musical Rty
watch it stopping the musical moments with
watch it stopping the musical I R i R
watch it stopping the musical moments with the best, so
moments with the best, so 14
moments with the best, so vibrant and
moments with the best, so e )
moments with the best, so vibrant and alive compared to
vibrant and alive compared to standard escapist moviemaking.
standard escapist moviemaking. At number
standard escapist moviemaking. XA R
standard escapist moviemaking. AT LA G !
standard escapist moviemaking. At number nine, good luck to
At number nine, good luck to you
At number nine, good luck to REEL)
At number nine, good luck to you Leah Grande in which Emma
you Leah Grande in which Emma LT L]
you Leah Grande in which Emma Thompson plays an older woman
Thompson plays an older woman seeking sexual adventure with a
seeking sexual adventure with a younger
seeking sexual adventure with a L EEUED
seeking sexual adventure with a younger man stopping it proves
younger man stopping it proves that Emma Thompson really is a
that Emma Thompson really is a ellIET: 4
that Emma Thompson really is a brilliant actor. In eighth
brilliant actor. In eighth I
brilliant actor. In eighth o Fl VI
brilliant actor. In eighth EI - VE R )
brilliant actor. In eighth o FI N1 PR R
brilliant actor. In eighth place avatar, the way of water.
place avatar, the way of water. )
place avatar, the way of water. PYEI N4
place avatar, the way of water. YN A
place avatar, the way of water. Because it is such an
Because it is such an MNEEIE
Because it is such an NGRS
Because it is such an N CIANCR T
Because it is such an impressive feat by James
impressive feat by James 11801
impressive feat by James T e R ls]
impressive feat by James Cameron in harnessing
Cameron in harnessing technology to create a magical
technology to create a magical i
technology to create a magical world. At number seven, the
world. At number seven, the Fablemans. As most grown up to
Fablemans. As most grown up to date
Fablemans. As most grown up to R |
Fablemans. As most grown up to date and possibly one of
date and possibly one of his best. Just
date and possibly one of his S TS L D
date and possibly one of his best. Just ahead of that,
date and possibly one of his T LD R R G E R T
best. Just ahead of that, She TR
best. Just ahead of that, She Said, about the sexual abuse
Said, about the sexual abuse allegations against Harvey
allegations against Harvey Al
allegations against Harvey R Y
allegations against Harvey Weinstein. A great film paying
Weinstein. A great film paying aalo o)
Weinstein. A great film paying tribute to
Weinstein. A great film paying R e R
Weinstein. A great film paying tribute to the journalistic
tribute to the journalistic process. At number
tribute to the journalistic I T R
tribute to the journalistic process. At number five, Empire
process. At number five, Empire of
process. At number five, Empire S
process. At number five, Empire of light, a film
process. At number five, Empire RG] Rl R T
process. At number five, Empire of light, a film that dealt
of light, a film that dealt with racism
of light, a film that dealt RISt I a ]
of light, a film that dealt with racism and love
of light, a film that dealt T RIS RN
of light, a film that dealt N B NI I e B R A
with racism and love of movies 4
with racism and love of movies but to
with racism and love of movies RN
with racism and love of movies RGN
with racism and love of movies RN E
with racism and love of movies RN R AN
N R R R TR LR compassionate
but to me it was a compassionate portrait of an
compassionate portrait of an I 5
compassionate portrait of an unpredictable woman played
unpredictable woman played valiantly by Olivia Colman
valiantly by Olivia Colman struggling with mental illness.
struggling with mental illness. n
struggling with mental illness. In fourth
struggling with mental illness. IR (g W ETCH
struggling with mental illness. In fourth place, the Belgian
In fourth place, the Belgian IRy
In fourth place, the Belgian film Close, a disconcerting
film Close, a disconcerting story
film Close, a disconcerting Sl
film Close, a disconcerting story of the close friendship
story of the close friendship between
story of the close friendship T TR
story of the close friendship between two teenage boys
between two teenage boys tragically torn
between two teenage boys HEDIEVAIGET E &
tragically torn apart. Photography is like a flash of
Photography is Like a flash of A IER
Photography is like a flash of I E IS
Photography is like a flash of euphoria. At number three all
euphoria. At number three all )
euphoria. At number three all R
euphoria. At number three all G
euphoria. At number three all the beauty and the bloodshed,
the beauty and the bloodshed, (T}
the beauty and the bloodshed, TR
the beauty and the bloodshed, focusing on activist
focusing on activist photographer Nan Goldin and her
photographer Nan Goldin and her il cd
photographer Nan Goldin and her effort to
photographer Nan Goldin and her e N sl
photographer Nan Goldin and her RG]
photographer Nan Goldin and her effort to hold a wealthy family
effort to hold a wealthy family responsible for
effort to hold a wealthy family AR R G
effort to hold a wealthy family responsible for the opioid
responsible for the opioid i
responsible for the opioid RN
responsible for the opioid crisis. Very creatively
responsible for the opioid g LIRS TN (T AT
crisis. Very creatively brought together. In
crisis. Very creatively brought OGN R T
crisis. Very creatively brought together. In the number two
together. In the number two LN
together. In the number two position, after
together. In the number two [ ST IR
together. In the number two L A I AL
position, after son, and SO LS
position, after son, and SN S
position, after son, and SN R R I
experimental at times it ] O3S
experimental at times it captures the beautiful
captures the beautiful SELINLT]
captures the beautiful relationship between a father
relationship between a father and daughter on holiday in
and daughter on holiday in LG
and daughter on holiday in Turkey with
and daughter on holiday in IR
and daughter on holiday in Turkey with a great from actor
Turkey with a great from actor A
Turkey with a great from actor Paul mescal from Scottish based
Paul mescal from Scottish based filmmaker
Paul mescal from Scottish based TR I A g e a )
Paul mescal from Scottish based filmmaker Charlotte Webb. And
filmmaker Charlotte Webb. And the
filmmaker Charlotte Webb. And R
filmmaker Charlotte Webb. And the talking movies 11 film of
the talking movies 11 film of 2022
the talking movies 11 film of 0y 7 B3
the talking movies 11 film of (V2RI R I
the talking movies 11 film of r (V7 AR
the talking movies 11 film of p {0\ R R o1 G- (n 18
the talking movies 11 film of 2022 is Tar, a character study
2022 is Tar, a character study N
2022 is Tar, a character study ]
2022 is Tar, a character study of a fascinating but troubled
of a fascinating but troubled female conduct played very
female conduct played very W iy el Tl VTS
female conduct played very convincingly by Cate
convincingly by Cate Blanchette. Time is the
Blanchette. Time is the el
Blanchette. Time is the A W
Blanchette. Time is the N W R
ST Ty | E | T LT o [N =L
LT {E |1 NS EN I
LT {E |1 interpretation. An intelligent
interpretation. An intelligent il ]
interpretation. An intelligent film, a story
interpretation. An intelligent GRS 1A
interpretation. An intelligent film, a story for our time, one
film, a story for our time, one Tl
film, a story for our time, one that deals
film, a story for our time, one IR s
film, a story for our time, one that deals with corporate power
that deals with corporate power relations and cancel
that deals with corporate power A R Betlielle D
relations and cancel culture. R
relations and cancel culture. YRGS
relations and cancel culture. Well, that brings our special
Well, that brings our special EIU]
Well, that brings our special talking movies review of 2022
talking movies review of 2022 to
talking movies review of 2022 ]
talking movies review of 2022 R
talking movies review of 2022 to a close. We hope you enjoy
to a close. We hope you enjoy )
to a close. We hope you enjoy the programme. Please remember
the programme. Please remember you can always
the programme. Please remember RO R R Gl
the programme. Please remember you can always reach us
the programme. Please remember RO R R R
you can always reach us online and
you can always reach us online R
you can always reach us online and you can find us on
you can always reach us online R R LR I R
and you can find us on Twitter. 1)
and you can find us on Twitter. So from me,
and you can find us on Twitter. Rt TR ]
and you can find us on Twitter. So from me, Tom Brooke and the
So from me, Tom Brooke and the rest
So from me, Tom Brooke and the o RS
So from me, Tom Brooke and the N RS Ry
So from me, Tom Brooke and the rest of the talking
So from me, Tom Brooke and the IR R QR E L R
So from me, Tom Brooke and the rest of the talking movies team
rest of the talking movies team here in
rest of the talking movies team YRS
rest of the talking movies team here in New York
rest of the talking movies team YN BRSS!
rest of the talking movies team here in New York and London,
here in New York and London, T
here in New York and London, it’s goodbye
here in New York and London, TSRS
here in New York and London, T[T
here in New York and London, it’s goodbye as we leave you
it’s goodbye as we leave you with
it’s goodbye as we leave you AT
it’s goodbye as we leave you with a song from one of my
with a song from one of my favourite films of
with a song from one of my BN e Rl R R
with a song from one of my favourite films of the year,
favourite films of the year, e
favourite films of the year, one. --
favourite films of the year, )
favourite films of the year, N
favourite films of the year, one. -- one of my favourite
one. -- one of my favourite R
one. -- one of my favourite TR R
one. -- one of my favourite films of the
one. -- one of my favourite NG R GRS
one. -- one of my favourite films of the year, RRR.
Another freezing cold night but )
Another freezing cold night but GERGUIL L
Another freezing cold night but QRO LR[S
Another freezing cold night but the thought is just around
the thought is just around the e 1g R ida]
the thought is just around the corner. With a look at the
corner. With a look at the weather
corner. With a look at the XTI GG
corner. With a look at the NG IR GG R TS
corner. With a look at the XN GG R G LT
weather through the early hours, we
weather through the early T N PR Rl
weather through the early T e R L M BN
weather through the early hours, we will have had some
hours, we will have had some SNOW
hours, we will have had some TR
hours, we will have had some snow showers across
hours, we will have had some N RN e e R )
snow showers across the Highlands, Pennines, the wintry
Highlands, Pennines, the wintry AT
Highlands, Pennines, the wintry A el
Highlands, Pennines, the wintry showers and mild
Highlands, Pennines, the wintry A Bl s Ee I
Highlands, Pennines, the wintry showers and mild but many of us
showers and mild but many of us s
showers and mild but many of us itisa
showers and mild but many of us ORI N
showers and mild but many of us AR N A -Y]d
showers and mild but many of us it is a case of clear skies
it is a case of clear skies into
It Is a case of clear skies into Saturday morning,
It is a case of clear skies into Saturday morning, sunshine
intoe Saturday morning, sunshine ]
intoe Saturday morning, sunshine LT
into Saturday morning, sunshine too, really very cold. These
too, really very cold. These Py
too, really very cold. These N
too, really very cold. These are of the inner-city
are of the inner-city temperatures
are of the inner-city NP O
are of the inner-city temperatures in response,
are of the inner-city USRI LI
are of the inner-city temperatures in response, a few
temperatures in response, a few NI
temperatures in response, a few N A
temperatures in response, a few degrees lower than that. So the
degrees lower than that. So the weather on Saturday
degrees lower than that. So the QR MR L A G
weather on Saturday shows Y
weather on Saturday shows I (A e
weather on Saturday shows wintry showers particularly
wintry showers particularly around western parts of the UK,
around western parts of the UK, Snowdonia, the north-west of
Snowdenia, the north-west of England, the
Snowdonia, the north-west of England, the peak district,
England, the peak district, a1\
England, the peak district, A EI VAU
England, the peak district, certainly some around the
certainly some around the Highlands but for many of us
Highlands but for many of us is actually going to be a bright
actually going to be a bright L IGECR
actually going to be a bright enough date. And already not
enough date. And already not T
enough date. And already not I
enough date. And already not quite as cold comedy
quite as cold comedy temperatures
quite as cold comedy N S
quite as cold comedy temperatures between around
temperatures between around )
temperatures between around e e ls|
temperatures between around three and four degrees but
DI E VIR S T R LTV three and four degrees but even
three and four degrees but even as
three and four degrees but even LG
three and four degrees but even as high as
three and four degrees but even ENL IR
three and four degrees but even as high as eight Celsius there
as high as eight Celsius there 3
as high as eight Celsius there i)
as high as eight Celsius there in Plymouth be a word of
in Plymouth be a word of warning, early on Sunday with
warning, early on Sunday with )
warning, early on Sunday with RO
warning, early on Sunday with the thaw advancing and still
the thaw advancing and still )
the thaw advancing and still some very
the thaw advancing and still IR A U
the thaw advancing and still some very cold weather around
some very cold weather around 3
some very cold weather around inthe
some very cold weather around in the morning there could be
in the morning there could be A
in the morning there could be S PR
in the morning there could be sleet, snow ice and freezing
sleet, snow ice and freezing rain for
sleet, snow ice and freezing IR e e i)
sleet, snow ice and freezing rain for some of us.
Welcome to BBC News, I’m David Willis_
Our top stories:
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the US
falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
A new report also shows over FR GG R Nl
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes hits multiple
targets right across Ukraine.
At least three people are dead.
Residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
A rough ride for Ramaphosa -
The South African President is heckled at the ANC’s party
conference, but he’s still hoping to be re-elected
despite last week’s impeachment LN
Elon Musk suspends several journalists’s accounts -
we’'ll be talking to one RN L LA G
And, there’s something fishy going on in Berlin -
a giant freestanding aquarium full of exotic fish
has exploded.
LRCISR AT
A very warm welcome to BBC IS
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the US has fallen
to its lowest level for more than three decades.
That’s according to statistics compiled by the Death Penalty
Information Centre - O TR G G
than a third of executions were conducted in an incompetent
or flawed manner.
Let’s take a closer look at the report.
ST RN G WAV )] attempts reportedly failed.
The reasons are claimed to be incompetence, failures
to follow protocol, or defects in the protocols
This was mainly because executions had to be
put on hold after officials were not able to carry out
execution protocols in four states - namely, Idaho,
Ohio, Tennessee and South &I e
In all, less than 30 people were executed.
And - across the US - fewer than 50 people
were sentenced to death.
The five-year average of executions, 18.6 per year,
s said to be the lowest in more than 30 years.
That’s a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowes explains how
problematic some of RS e R ]
The statistics are quite damning stop of all of the
damning stop of all of the S attale
damning stop of all of the executions that
damning stop of all of the S ot R ] 4
damning stop of all of the executions that took place in
DTN R G IS Gl SR )
executions that took place in the United States this
executions that took place in QI RO R e
the United States this year. T
the United States this year. One in
the United States this year. ARG e
the United States this year. One in three went wrong in some
One in three went wrong in some "
One in three went wrong in some way. They were
LR R QIR UG [ Rl By way. They were visibly
way. They were visibly g I ELd
way. They were visibly ]y i ws (o 1 e
way. They were visibly problematic, according to this
problematic, according to this report.
problematic, according to this (3 MR LI
problematic, according to this (L A YR
problematic, according to this report. There were executions
report. There were executions e )
report. There were executions e TR la]
report. There were executions scheduled in only six states
scheduled in only six states TR
scheduled in only six states TR
scheduled in only six states involving 18 people
scheduled in only six states T LR R LYo LTI
scheduled in only six states involving 18 people but a
involving 18 people but a significant number of those
significant number of those cases
significant number of those EHIR U]
significant number of those cases they had to be abandoned
cases they had to be abandoned partway through the process.
partway through the process. Something went wrong,
partway through the process. NG R N A I ARG
Something went wrong, the e
Something went wrong, the protocols won’t adhered to.
protocols won’t adhered to. )
protocols won’t adhered to. There was one example in the
There was one example in the I
There was one example in the e
There was one example in the R T ]
There was one example in the R AR ER )
There was one example in the R TR -
There was one example in the R T ER T R e
state of Alabama where it took )
state of Alabama where it took e N
state of Alabama where it took I N R
state of Alabama where it took I iR R e e
three hours to connect the intravenous
three hours to connect the T N U VR R
three hours to connect the intravenous line, the IV that
intravenous line, the IV that o
intravenous line, the IV that would deliver the lethal
would deliver the lethal sl
would deliver the lethal e e (B
would deliver the lethal ARSI
would deliver the lethal cocktail of drugs to that
cocktail of drugs to that individual which would
individual which would eventually kill them. Other
eventually kill them. Other examples as well around the
examples as well around the Cis’A
examples as well around the I ig" A1
examples as well around the country. It seems one of the
country. It seems one of the reasons
country. It seems one of the RN
country. It seems one of the reasons given is that some of
reasons given is that some of )
reasons given is that some of the personnel that carry out
the personnel that carry out ey
the personnel that carry out N RS el e
the personnel that carry out these executions are simply not
these executions are simply not medically qualified or
medically qualified or )
medically qualified or ORI
medically qualified or LRI R
medically qualified or experienced enough to deal with
experienced enough to deal with )
DGLI L LT R GG LRIy N R
DGLI L LT R GG LRIy some of the potential problems
some of the potential problems that can occur during the
that can occur during the IO
that can occur during the IR}
that can occur during the S RL RN
that can occur during the N AR
that can occur during the process and in some cases
process and in some cases MG
process and in some cases inmates have a history of
inmates have a history of medical problems, of
iInmates have a history of medical problems, of drug
medical problems, of drug abuse, alcohol abuse, and that
abuse, alcohol abuse, and that ]
abuse, alcohol abuse, and that R e
abuse, alcohol abuse, and that can them more susceptible to
can them more susceptible to )
can them more susceptible to XN
can them more susceptible to N R
can them more susceptible to NSRS
can them more susceptible to N R AR
can them more susceptible to some of the issues that occur
Sy LN RGN EIIR G El e during the
some of the issues that occur during the process, and
during the process, and e
during the process, and A VARG
during the process, and especially the attachment
during the process, and A ARG R
especially the attachment of )
especially the attachment of the IV line. Executions across
the IV line. Executions across this
the IV line. Executions across QIR 148’]
the IV line. Executions across this country happened far less
this country happened far less frequently now than they
this country happened far less HCO SN A AU RS AV
frequently now than they used 0]
frequently now than they used |
frequently now than they used to and they
HCLP G AUA ORI R G RV T RO S LG
HCLP G AUA ORI R G RV T to and they are concentrated
frequently now than they used to and they are concentrated in
to and they are concentrated in Y
to and they are concentrated in a small
NGV ICR L I e CLRTY a small number
NGV ICR L I e CLRTY ER G B et e i
NGV ICR L I e CLRTY a small number of states and
N RGN T LT a small number of states and it
a small number of states and it seems quite likely that reports
seems quite likely that reports like this one and others will
like this one and others will Nl F L)
like this one and others will Nl LR
like this one and others will increase the pressure
like this one and others will AR O R
R QRN Ny politicians in the United
politicians in the United NI TR A
politicians in the United States was again, looking at
States was again, looking at )
States was again, looking at ORI
States was again, looking at the process, again looking at
the process, again looking at e R s
executions and the Yol e
executions and the s e
executions and the YA A R R e
executions and the technicalities of the lethal
technicalities of the lethal injection
technicalities of the lethal RG]
technicalities of the lethal RS G R G
technicalities of the lethal injection stop there was
technicalities of the lethal RS R G R
technicalities of the lethal injection stop there was a poll
injection stop there was a poll i d
injection stop there was a poll I E G
injection stop there was a poll R OIRELS
injection stop there was a poll ARG IRE
earlier this year that suggested some 46% of Americans
suggested some 46% of Americans still support lethal injections
still support lethal injections 4
still support lethal injections R 14
still support lethal injections L A
still support lethal injections NG AN e
still support lethal injections NG AR ]
still support lethal injections G AR RGN E )
but that is lower than some previous
but that is lower than some JENETER S
but that is lower than some TR L]
but that is lower than some TR L R GG
but that is lower than some previous polls and there may be
previous polls and there may be )
previous polls and there may be some growing
previous polls and there may be L R GG
previous polls and there may be L I GG
some growing pressure on politicians in
SN L IR, politicians in Washington
SN Gl politicians in Washington to
politicians in Washington to s
politicians in Washington to (G
politicians in Washington to RN G
politicians in Washington to N VAGTIEL
politicians in Washington to not only look at the process
not only look at the process e
not only look at the process ]
not only look at the process but to question whether
but to question whether S attale
but to question whether executions should
but to question whether A et R T e
but to question whether executions should be happening
executions should be happening in America
executions should be happening NV Nt 14
executions should be happening NN R
Two ministers have resigned from Peru’s new government
as deadly protests e e e e ala 0
following the ousting A AN I R Y
About 20 protestors demanding Mr Castillo’s reinstatement,
and the resignation of new president Dina Boluarte,
have been killed in clashes with the security forces.
Russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks
on Ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies
across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
The capital, Kyiv, was hit, as was President
Zelensky’'s home town of Kryvyi.
In his nightly address, he warned that Russia
was capable of furter R e
The Mayor of Kharkiv described the destruction there
as "colossal" and said that thousands of people
were without heating, in freezing temperatures.
Our Eastern Europe correspondent Sarah Rainsford
sent this report.
Earlier Mitchel Wallerstein - a senior Foreign Policy Fellow
at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs gave
TR SR AL A a0
This is part of the attempt to e ey
This is part of the attempt to terrorise the
This is part of the attempt to e R R IETa]
This is part of the attempt to RO LA E LN
terrorise the Ukrainian people o)
terrorise the Ukrainian people A ]
terrorise the Ukrainian people since the Russian forces have
since the Russian forces have e
since the Russian forces have T AN )
since the Russian forces have T AN s la]
since the Russian forces have T RN R R d
since the Russian forces have not succeeded in their main aim
not succeeded in their main aim el
not succeeded in their main aim e R d
not succeeded in their main aim which of course originally was
which of course originally was to
which of course originally was R )
which of course originally was to take Kyiv. The strategy
to take Kyiv. The strategy 1
to take Kyiv. The strategy AR ]
to take Kyiv. The strategy R LGS
to take Kyiv. The strategy IR R G RN
to take Kyiv. The strategy seems to keep firing missiles
seems to keep firing missiles Ty
seems to keep firing missiles R
seems to keep firing missiles into the cities and to
seems to keep firing missiles RO R L R R
into the cities and to put T
inte the cities and to put pressure on the
inte the cities and to put NN N RO R G
inte the cities and to put pressure on the government to
pressure on the government to T O E R
pressure on the government to capitulate. There
pressure on the government to O E R LG
pressure on the government to capitulate. There are competent
capitulate. There are competent -- countries that
capitulate. There are competent Tl A R A E )
capitulate. There are competent T e TR E I E N d
-- countries that have air S o)
-- countries that have air defence capabilities that could
defence capabilities that could 1y
defence capabilities that could I
defence capabilities that could RISt ]
defence capabilities that could be useful to Ukraine.
to Ukraine, including Israel that has the Iron Dome
and the Arrow anti-missile system.
Of course, a lot of this is coming in the form
of drones, drones are very hard to shoot down because they fly
very low but there are various systems that can
The Ukrainian military is reporting a high percentage
success in shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
Whether the reports Y Toe i R i
R R ]
Let’s now here the report from e
Let’s now here the report from our correspondence
Let’s now here the report from IR T LN R EIE
our correspondence Sarah Rainsford.
The rumble of a Russian attack, as Kyiv was woken
by more missile strikes.
The danger drove people underground.
The Metro Is the safest place to huddle here
when the city’s under fire.
But as Russian missiles hit the power grid,
the trains all stopped.
I’ve sat here NG e
| want to go home.
But in southern Ukraine, TR LR R R i
Hours later, rescuers were still searching for people
trapped in the ruins.
A child is missing here.
This strike was on President L SR R
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
They have enough missiles left for mass strikes,
but we have enough determination and self-belief
to return what belongs to us.
In northern Kharkiv, QR EVAOIG Rl
as the power went down IR GER TR
This country now copes with what was once unimaginable.
Handing out hot food...
..Keeping people warm.
And even in Kyiv, queuing IR R RUERE
defying Russia’s efforts to wear them down.
But these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
We found this old people’s home without heat, light or water.
ISR L TN on sheer resilience.
Nella’s children just brought her here from the south,
thinking she’'d be safer.
TRANSLATION: We’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
Putin says, let’s be friends, but who is the unfriendly one
here?
Our situation here is really miserable.
The staff are doing their best to keep things normal,
SN RN G R[N g T 1
They even have to store water T AR LR R
"It is pretty hard,” Olga tells me,
"but we will get through.”
Tonight, there’s no traffic lights in much of Kyiv,
no lights at all in large parts of Ukraine’s capital,
as Russia tries to force his country
(RN TN somehow, life goes on.
Sarah Rainsford, BBC News, Kyiv.
And a reminder that you can (G
And a reminder that you can [ R G
And a reminder that you can keep up-to-date with all
And a reminder that you can (R R CLCR UL S G
keep up-to-date with all the e
keep up-to-date with all the details and
keep up-to-date with all the [N R e e ey
keep up-to-date with all the details and letters information
details and letters information regarding Ukraine on our
regarding Ukraine on our e
regarding Ukraine on our .
regarding Ukraine on our i (e e T4
regarding Ukraine on our website. BBC .com/ news.
The South African president has been heckled during an address
to his own ANC party ey
Cyril Ramaphosa - who’s hoping to be re-elected as party
leader - struggled to make himself heard, over chants
of "step aside™.
| want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their
dissatisfaction, to do so in an orderly manner
in the way that we do things here in the
African Nation of Congress.
We have been in existence (I (VR T{3
..and this is not the time to come and display this type
QI IO R
The chanting began when the President’s predecessor,
Jacob Zuma, entered R R R Re e
Mr Ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings
earlier this week, over I U RN R (U
of dollars that were found hidden in a sofa at his farm.
Our reporter in Johannesburg, Nomsa Maseko,
Well, there was a lot of heckling and chanting
of anti-Ramaphosa songs as President Ramaphosa
started delivering his political report
to the ANC delegates who’ve gathered here
R CRIGEIE IR - -]
Even his speech was drowned when he tried to speak
but the speech was even further disrupted when former
president Jacob Zuma arrived at the venue,
fashionably late, RO R R
the delegates from his home province of KwaZulu-Natal.
We have seen this kind of heckling and bhooing
and things like that take place in previous ANC conferences.
As you know, the ANC is deeply divided so the more than 5,000
delegates who’ve gathered here are chanting and singing
for their own preferred presidential candidate
and also to drown out the others who are singing
because they want their preferred candidate
to take over as ANC president.
President Jacob Zuma and President Ramaphosa
have a long rivalry that spans over many years.
However there is a delegate, Dr Zweli Mkhize, who
s the country’s former health minister who is President
Ramaphosa’s competitor in this election, which is why
this is what happened because even the delegates
from KwaZulu-Natal, which is Jacob Zuma’’s
heme province, that same province, it’s also
Zwell Mkhize’s province.
That is why there was so much heckling
and things like that.
However, the ANC delegates from KwaZulu-Natal
are still angry that former President Jacob Zuma was jailed
last year after he did not testify at a commission
of inquiry investigating corruption while he was
president, and that is why N AL RO R )
and looting last July RGN R G E Rt e
than 300 people dying RO A
A row Is brewing in West Africa over the increasing
involvement of a Russian mercenary group in the region.
Ghana has accused its neighbour, Burkina Faso,
of hiring troops from the Wagner group -
a private Russian military organisation, which is also
believed to be involved in fighting alongside Russian
s RV AE IR
Ghana says the mercenaries are operating close
Burkina Faso has respoended by summoning Ghana’s
Our correspondent in GRCL IR F R
sent us this update.
The Russian security group already had presence
in the Sahel region RN
in countries like Mali where it is said to be
aiding in the fight against jihadist militants,
and also in the Central African Republic.
So far, there is no official information about an agreement
between the Wagner Group IR R
Even though the Prime Minister recently visited Russia.
Burkina Faso has had R R IR 1
the current transitional government is trying to regain
control of security of in areas caught in escalating violence
from militants who are allied to both Al-Qaeda and ISIS,
means security which began in 2015 has killed thousands
of people and left millions displaced.
You’re watching BBC News, the headlines:
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the US,
falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
A new report also shows over FR GG R Nl
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes, has hit
multiple targets, right across Ukraine.
At least three people are dead - and residential areas
and power stations were badly hit.
A giant aquarium - installed in the lobby
of a luxury German hotel - has exploded, sending one
and a half thousand exotic fish cascading across the floor.
The 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist
FlnissInd Rl s sl
ST RGNS LT, T has the story.
This aquarium was built to impress -
a million Litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish -
there was even a Lift RGN R
All towering over the lobby of a Berlin hotel.
My God!
But early this merning,
it seems the tank simply shattered.
Glass and metal ripped through the building.
UGN RN [TE T N R
Extraordinarily, just two people were hurt,
neither of them seriously.
The hotel actually i EhGEe
| could describe it as a... IMITATES EXPLOSION.
And | jolted out of bed and turned around...
| didn’t see any movement so | didn’t know what
the heck was going on.
| looked outside the window, | saw a lady running.
Investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
LT IR LR (T E [N taken when the aquarium
TR Sl i
"You could fire O R G Rl
says this architect, "and it would only cause
"a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"Such a Hollywood scenario is impossible.”
The authorities suspect material fatigue
may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
There is a sense, | think, of relief amongst many
here that this N R Rl
LU A E g and that lobby, the street
outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors,
many of them children.
LI [ Tl 4 at the destruction,
regret at the loss IR A TR
but an acknowledgement, too, that this could
have been s¢ much worse.
Jenny Hill, BBC News, Berlin.
Jenny Hill, BBC News, Berlin.
Just when you thought you had [SEIas!
Just when you thought you had heard it
Just when you thought you had (TR R
The United Nations has added its voice to the many
critics of Twitter’s suspension of journalists’ accounts.
A spokesperson said the action set ‘a dangerous precedent’
at a time when press freedom was widely under threat.
Earlier, the European Union I R e R e
Elon Musk that the social media o E {0 R T G N R
with sanctions, after he personally ordered
the suspension of several journalists.
On Twitter, Vera ST RO E Y
laws respect "media freedom and fundamental rights”,
and Elon Musk "should L N R F
And she added: "There are red lines.
And sanctions, soon.”
Reporters from I SN LI
the New York times, CNN and the Washington Post have
been locked out of their accounts.
Many of those suspended had T LR T SR e
takeover, or had commented onh an account that tracked
the movement of the his private jet.
Micah Lee is one of the journalists that’s been banned.
He told me about how YRR A
I had just posted a tweet and | was following the news
of a bunch of accounts getting N L E R PR L Y
after my tweet | just got a notice inside of Twitter
that my account is suspended and | can’t
use it to post any more tweets.
Was it a shock or did you see this coming?
| kind of saw It coming.
NI ST ATE RV g gETe that this has happened,
especially because of the reporting that I’ve been
doing on Elon Musk’s E N Rl e
| think that this is the highest profile time
where he’s kind of arbitrarily banned a lot of people
because he banned several QIR SIS
but he’s been doing this since he took over.
There’s been several arbitrary NI 3
Does Elon Musk have a point, though, when he says
that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat
to the security, not only of his own security
but the threat to the security SR E R
potentially?
(NG G ke actually buy that.
| think there’s some room for discussion.
I think that knowing, like, which airport his plane
lands at and flies out N R A R
| think it’s already public infoermation
and | think that, you know, it’s perfectly reasonable
for people to learn this about the private jets
But I think that even GRS EICEER
everyone who posted anything related to that
who got suspended, they got their account suspended -
which is kind of extreme - NI R AT
are journalists who weren’t actually, like, posting
the links to this website, we were reporting on other
things getting suspended.
This Is just part of NI (T
The savage murder of Emmett Till in 1955,
and his mother’s subsequent fight for justice, has been
made into @ movie, which is due Rt A NIl
The film is produced by Barbara Broccoli,
who’s behind the Bond films and stars Danielle Dead-Wyler,
as May-mie, who’ve been LR RO IR L[
14-year-old Emmett Till.
They have a different set AR R e
His brutal murder in Mississippi in 1955
galvanised the civil rights movement.
The body of Emmett Louis Till has been found dead. ..
Driven by his mother, Mamie.
You have to be extra careful with white people,
you can’t risk looking at them the wrong way.
| know!
| wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility,
the weight of the civil O I AL R TP
as you made this movie?
Oh, | felt every inch of it.
And | knew that | had to honour it,
| had to give it that LR e
LRV R ST TR history, we’re doomed
IECTHEEI A
Emmett was lynched for whistling
at a white female shopkeeper
in this segregated part of America.
But the film deliberately S R R R e e
he suffered at the LR R R R
I think we’re over just the grotesque nature
of witnessing violence NN EI e
It shouldn’t take that kind of visual to ignite folks
GG A GER AT e o
that are happening - that had happened in 1955,
that continue to happen to black people or any
oppressed group of people.
Back in 1955, Mamie Till-Mobley had her son’s violated body
photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
Many thousands filed past it.
That smell is my son’s body reeking of racial hatred.
Come with me, please.
She was one of the first people to recognise how vitally
important the image e R R R e alsh
And | think when you see what happened with George Floyd,
that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder,
we wouldn’t have believed it R MR - L hi
The two men accused of killing SRR R
And | do think that the trial will be carried on fairly,
and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
A white male jury found the men not guilty.
They later admitted the murder
but couldn’t be SR s Rels -]
Though they’re dead, IR MEICE e d ke
Do you think that justice will ever be served?
Good question. N
I think that films have the opportunity to reawaken
people’s understanding of critical moments in history.
That troubled history now being told
on screen nearly 70 years on.
Katie Razzall, BBC News.
The website offering digital trading cards of Donald Trump
says the supply has sold out - in just one day.
Ll tokens, said to be a limited
edition of 45,000 -
were priced at $99 each - which suggests the images,
featuring Mr Trump as N I R IR 1
and a racing car driver, have netted
$4,455,000 since Thursday.
The website says the cards are not political, have nothing
te do with any political campaign, and are not owned,
managed or controlled by Mr Trump.
Now Christmas preparations are in full swing around the world.
Let’s take a look at Santa beginning his annual rounds.
o=
T X[ (oI
Ice sincerely hope he’s got me
Ice sincerely hope he’s got me ]
Ice sincerely hope he’s got me R
Ice sincerely hope he’s got me on this List! You
Ice sincerely hope he’s got me on this Llist! You can find ocut
on this list! You can find out T
on this list! You can find out more on
on this list! You can find out e R ild
on this list! You can find out I R R e Y
on this list! You can find out I R e
on this list! You can find out more on our website or download
more on our website or download )
more on our website or download N
more on our website or download R0 o B
more on our website or download the BBC app. Why don’t you?
the BBC app. Why don’t you? T
the BBC app. Why don’t you? TR
the BBC app. Why don’t you? (RN
the BBC app. Why don’t you? R TN R T
the BBC app. Why don’t you? It’s free of charge. From all
It’s free of charge. From all of us
It’s free of charge. From all SR )
It’s free of charge. From all of us here behind
It’s free of charge. From all A N s R e
It’s free of charge. From all of us here behind the camera
of us here behind the camera and in front
of us here behind the camera N Rias e )
of us here behind the camera and in front of it, thanks
of us here behind the camera LRI I R PR OB LR |
and in front of it, thanks very much for joining us, you’ve
much for joining us, you’ve T
much for joining us, you’ve been watching BBC News.
Some very big changes N
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then the thaw begins on Sunday in the morning -
when | say "begins”, IR )
of us it will be a slow process,
particularly in the north of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us.
And then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep
Ahead of it still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east MR R
so hence that milder air (NN O RS
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow A e e e ]
across the Highlands,
G R T S TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures W RV NG|
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town it’s going to be
So, the weather for Saturday itself
and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
Wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
Most of the rain around the coasts,
snow or sleet inland.
And already starting to feel a little less cold.
5 in London, 4 in Glasgow and SRR DR LGN
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds IR N eI
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow
is possible around the Pennines and certainly in Scotland.
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday it could be
icy for some of us.
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in and by the early R )
are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
through the course of Sunday night into Monday.
Look at that - by Menday UG R ICR EL L]
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth.
And this Is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
Back to the sort G IR E aTs
we would expect I e
SRS
A report on capital punishment RGO EREEE R G E R R O P4
scheduled executions due R ELCR Fl R U
mare than a third were botched.
The Death Penalty Infermation AN R R
the number of state-sanctioned killings fell to its lowest
level for more than three decades.
Ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages
of Russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity
and water supplies across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
Russia’s Tass news agency claims Ukrainian shelling has
killed at least 12 civilians in eastern Ukraine.
South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa, was heckled
when he addressed his own ANC party conference.
A senior member of the Church of England has told the BBC
that the Government hasn’t fully grasped the scale
R GRS cost-of-living crisis.
The Bishop of Durham, Paul Butler, says he is very
concerned about the number of people in work
who are struggling.
Our UK affairs correspondent Jeremy Cooke has been talking
to some of those in desperate TR e
Are you going to be Superman, are you?
But for this family, the outside world is getting
You need to stay in here, because there’s a monster out
What monster?
LT[R 1)
Anita is a single mum of three.
She Is always worked, she still does.
But it’s short hours, fitting around little
Brett’s nursery times.
Oh, lots of rice.
Squeezed benefits and soaring prices have brought this family
to crisis point, and to the foodbank.
This is the first time I’ve actually had to go
and ask for help.
| just can’t do it at the minute, and | don’t know
what - it’s the gas, the electricity,
the bills, and the cost of the food that’s went up.
Anything that worries you, anything you’re fearful of,
please come and talk to us.
At this community hub in Benwell, calls for help
are up 25% since September.
And it’s not just food, there is all kinds of help.
Are you on ESA, or...?
How much do you spend on public transport?
| don’t, because | RN R O
We haven’t got enough winter coats, that’s the sad thing.
Carole Rowland is a WAL I
You’re looking better.
| want to be happy now.
..helping hundreds of people like Dean.
Every day, every other day, I’m in hospital
for emergency treatment.
His heart condition XU TnlTE
[ (R IV
Oh, well, getting there.
This place is a life-saver.
ATV TR LV (A I ) of goes, so you have to rely
on coming to a foodbank just for that extra few days’ worth
of food, which is great.
LR o ¢ 4a A
I’m exhausted with it, absolutely exhausted.
Anita is on the way to the foodbank she used
It’s been weeks since we’ve seen her and Brett, and she’s
changed - thinner, colder.
Oh, shall we just VAR EV A
Last week, | couldn’t put my heating on at all.
Are your hands warm now?
All | feel like I’ve done A AR KL K8 2
Just feel like such a letdown (R R A R UG
what | mean?
It’s a shattering experience, and without this place,
well, who knows?
| think | would have give AR R
And | would have - | would have given up.
I’ve got three children, | shouldn’t feel Like that.
| cannot see what this lady can do to make her life any
different, because she’s doing everything she can.
| love you, baby.
The Government says it does recognise that people
are struggling with rising prices and that it’s given
direct help to millions this year.
Still, for so many, things are tough.
It could be anywhere.
| think it is a crisis, N RO RGN e
of people who are involved across every single community.
Every single community is impacted.
The thing that concerns me most deeply, | think,
is the level RV g2
We’ve got to get through this winter together.
The weather has gone IR e[l
Three elves on one shelf.
Yeah, they were in the tree.
But Anita Is trying to keep things festive to make
the best of Christmas.
It would be lovely to just stop thinking about everything
and worrying constantly.
Just to sit round and have family time with the Christmas
crackers and the hats and the bad jokes and just...just
d nice time.
Not much to ask, IR O N
# You better watch cut...
But, for her kids, Anita will make it happen.
In this bleak midwinter of 2022.
Jeremy Cooke, BBC News, Newcastle.
Now on BBC News, TR dl
Do you like a bit of art?
Any idea what IS art, and what isn’t?
That’s a big question.
I guess for me, it’s anything that aims to look good
IR make you feel a certain way.
And that could be paintings, photography, music,
perfermance, even ribbons.
Yeah, Ribbons is a work at the NOW Gallery in London
which invites guests to re-examine their views
Did it work for you?
| just wanted to touch It.
K0TS
But for me, the most exciting piece of modern art that’s been
created this year is this.
Oh, what’s it called?
A cute corgi in a house made of sushi.
Right, and who’s it by?
Now, that is the million-dollar question.
In the last few months, all sorts of weird pictures
and videos have been IR N
Some look like clever mash-ups of existing photos.
Others look like the work of pretty groovy digital artists.
But they’re not.
Each of these images has been created from scratch
by a computer, based on nothing more than someone typing
in a few words to describe what they want.
Now, | have to say, some of them are stunning.
The pace of this has been quite staggering because,
you know, Al is fast moving anyway, but even by those
standards, this has been as fast as I’ve ever seen.
Dr Michael Pound is an expert in deep learning, and he spent
the last few months exploring how these systems work.
What you could do is you could TS A LR R LR ]
you like and we can just generate an image and see
But, as we try and generate completely new images of...
"cute rabbit wearing a parachute jumping out
e FTa -
It becomes obvious that these systems don’t really understand
what they’re drawing.
01, [T
Ooch, that is peculiar.
All right, well, that R RS
What’s happened there?
It’s kind of like a cloud, IR R as’d
Yeah, for every great picture you see online,
QIR EWAT Tl N M R A U R I ER
that don’t get posted.
I GGl (g1 are really good,
and the fact that this has all happened so fast has
blown my mind.
So what on earth is going on?
To put it simply, (R D
But if you give me 90 seconds, | will give
you my best explanation.
For years, machine learning systems have been vacuuming up
all the images they can find online and their accompanying
text descriptions.
Over time, the systems have learned to associate certain
words and phrases with certain types of pictures.
And now they seem to know UL RO R R
work in reverse - start with a description
NG Ee] a0
So if I type in, "An abandoned O (R E R 18
overgrown with plants, bathed in sunlight™,
it will first come GRS
Now, it doesn’t look much, but | think there are some
A RN
For example, does it know that the word "plants” means
it needs to put in a lot of green,
and that green needs to be low down in the picture?
Do all pictures of sunlight it RN T R A
AN DR A gyl 33 somewhere in the sky?
| think this is some kind WL R (W ET
pictures and all sunlight pictures.
Next, it uses these broad O CR GRS
CLhiLEL slowly adds more and more
detail over and over again until, in 100 steps,
as if emerging from a foqg,
you get this - which I think is pretty darn beautiful.
And you don’t have to start with a blank slate.
Give it a starting face and you too can grow your own
mad scientist in a steampunk laboratory.
And then there E IR U R ) A LD
In the same way you can specify a subject, you can also
specify a style.
These systems have seen enough Monet to know
what makes a Monet, TN o R el e 0k
picture of teddies that Monet never painted.
Oh, and here’s Van Gogh’s TR A R 1
=L VST one from HP Lovecraft.
But here’s the problem.
What if you wanted a painting in the style of a living
One who earns money from their commissions ?
As an artist, my work, what | do, it is a part of me.
It’s a part of my identity.
And these companies have allowed users to generate
things that look Like I’ve done it, that look like my peers
And we’re going to generate all kinds
of things that you never agreed to, that could either be
against your wishes,
G ELeIIG R against your beliefs.
Karla Ortiz is a concept artist, illustrator and fine
artist who has designed for the Marvel cinematic
universe, amongst others, and she has discovered
Al-generated work in her style LGRS EE R LS
| would even say that to me it feels almost Llike some kind
of parasitical copying, you know?
It’s like, oh, we’re copying from another artist
specifically to look like that artist.
N VNG L 8
but it sure looks like that artist did it, huh?
Lo (oI o]
This is a live Issue, NS GG A L
for artists whose specific styles have been replicated.
An artist wouldn’t be able to claim an infringement
for a style being copied, because copyright doesn’t
protect a style.
But when artificial intelligence has
been used to make something in the style of someocne else
then their original works would’'ve been copied
by that A
So If an artist did have a problem, they could make
a claim for their original L E LR R
in the first place as part of data scraping and data mining.
But there is that other issue G OLGIRL T A LN
Given that you make your living from your art, are you worried
that you might lose income because suddenly it’s possible
to generate stuff that looks like yours?
I’d be lying If | said ne.
| am worried.
I have peers that are also very R s L LA
and this is a concern | share, for those that
are entering the industry.
And I’ve heard reports of illustrators whose projects
were cancelled or - L SR G A NS
QISR R QT L D] of hiring, maybe not really’.
And, like, there’s whispers of that happening more and more
within our industry.
And If you’ve ever taken a photo and sold it to a stock
photography website, you’d better watch out, too.
Most websites, when they write articles, they put photos
on to go with the story.
And the photos are usually not the actual story, they’re sort
(o Qe T o R I T or something like this.
Now, we’re not quite there.
People, hands, faces, they’re difficult to do for Al.
But if that gets better, you could imagine that
LRIl SV to an algorithm and say,
AL people looking really angry
'cause their printer doesn’t work”, and there we go.
LU LRIV VRS VT that problem.
That’s the kind of thing | think it could find
some use for.
Over the years, we have asked repeatedly what happens as Al
takes over more and more of O SO UL FU R EH X
And the answer is always been, "Well, at least we’ll
still have our creativity!
VLRI and be artists!™
And Al’s like, "no, I’m coming for that too™.
And as Al starts to play a part G AU RS =l e
of our lives, it may be about to shape the conversations
we’re having, as US company OpenAl has released a new type
of chatbot, and it’s impressing w g R R R o]
Zoe Kleinman has been giving it a try.
You don’t always know whether you are talking
I Fl R Rl Dl (T
Pretty obvious if you’re LI R A R Y ERO
Optimus here.
But sometimes less so I BTN ]
on typing and texting.
A number of tech firms are working on the future
of chatbots - an Al platform trained to engage
In conversation.
And one in particular has gone viral.
It is called ChatGPT, from the firm OpenaAl,
and more than a millien people have had a play with it
It gets its wealth of information and styles
of writing from the internet.
I’m going to let it show you what it can do
=L MR
First question: "Explain ChatGPT in two sentences”.
"ChatGPT is a chatbot trained using the GPT-3 language model.
"It uses natural language IR G LN L
"responses to user input in a conversational manner”.
Not so conversational so far.
Let’s try another question: "Are you alive?”
"No, I’m a virtual assistant created by a computer
vt
"I do not have consciousness or the ability to feel
"emoticns Like a human.
"I exist only to provide information and assist
"with tasks within the limitations of my programming”.
Right, here we go.
I’ve come to Glasgow University to meet Dr Jeff
Dalton, a senior lecturer in computing science,
to see N A B OE AL
| think that f | were to ask this on an exam,
that is probably a low B.
Dr Dalton spent a lot of time running guestions through
ChatGPT is very good at generating natural language.
DI AL I LN a paragraph, and it can
generate a poem.
Its limits are it can’t generate an article.
TR gl a specialised report.
It can’t do those things because it’s fundamentally
R RO R Tad that it doesn’t understand
what it’s talking about.
As platforms like ChatGPT develop, what more could
they be capable of?
Maybe they’'ll replace internet search engines.
Maybe they’ll generate R e
Maybe they could even write reports like this -
although I’m not quite sure where that leaves me.._ Hmm.
And that’s it for the short version
And that’s it for the short e R
And that’s it for the short AR R
And that’s it for the short version of the programme. The
version of the programme. The full-length
version of the programme. The [T GRS T
version of the programme. The full-length show can be found
BTGB D R R T on
BTGB D R R T R
full-length show can be found R E I
full-length show can be found A TR
full-length show can be found on iPlayer. From us, at this
on iPlayer. From us, at this gallery in London, we will see
gallery in London, we will see you soon. Goodbye.
Hello and welcome to Newswatch with me, Samira Ahmed.
This week, was it right T ISR R
on the England-France World Cup match
when people have died in a massive explosion in Jersey?
And, BBC News Is accused of being unfair to the couple
at the heart of the Harry and Meghan documentary series.
In the early hours of Saturday morning, an explosion destroyed
a block of flats on Jersey in the Channel Islands.
It was immediately clear there had been fatalities.
Last Saturday was, of course, also the day of the England
men’s football team World Cup RGNS R G aE e
And that dominated most bulletins both before
and after the match.
This was how the News Channel began its 4pm summary.
NI T TRV g2y 1-0 up against Portugal
in their quarterfinal match.
The winner will face England or France in the semifinals.
I’ll have the very latest on both those quarterfinals
at a World Cup that continues to surprise us.
In other news, one person YIS R va s
are still missing after a massive explosion in a block
of flats in St Helier in Jersey.
we’ll be hearing from the Chief Minister and the emergency
services later in this hour.
services later in this hour.
Several of you got in touch to protest.
Stephen Cox said:
R G AU EI b
And Roger Turner said:
Well, we asked BBC News RS EI R E T
and they sent us this statement.
TR N O the Netflix programme
Harry and Meghan were released during the week.
We received another flurry of emails asking why the BBC
had included mention of it in news programmes.
We reported the reasons for that coverage last week.
Many of the emails were, A L i1}
of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, but this week some
were supportive, with viewers unhappy with the way BBC News
had reported the story.
g [a T ETV A Thursday’s News at Six.
Now, his main complaint, and it is a familiar one,
s of press intrusion.
And this suggestion that there is, what amounts,
really, to a conspiracy between the palace and the press.
And that, | think, is where credibility is really stretched
beyond what is reasonable.
Consider one of the things that Meghan said.
"No matter what | did, they were still going to find
"a way to destroy me.”
Well, the first point, who is the "they" that
she’s referring to?
| think it is the palace, but most particularly
It is to the press.
But the idea that anyone was out to destroy her,
frankly, I think is absurd and simply does not stand up
to proper and CENE R 42
But they quite obviously are convinced
that they were victims.
Nick Witchell, thank you.
Several viewers thought this IR R EHE Y R
Adrian David recorded a video for Newswatch.
Along with Nicholas Witchell’s IR M E LRGN
and Duchess, it seems to be like a concerted
bullying and smear campaign against the pair.
Impartiality was nonexistent.
Other viewers sent us emails expressing similar concerns.
AR E I R e
IR R IR B s
Well, we asked BBC News to provide someone to answer
your concerns, but they sent us UGN I AR h
Do let us know your G R R %1
or on any aspect of BBC News.
Details of how to contact us at the end of the programme.
Now for some of your other e RnR e
We received some complaints N A
It’s Britain’s most watched breakfast show,
so It’s pretty popular.
But some viewers were concerned it’s heading downmarket
and neglecting news.
This outside broadcast from a pub in Chichester
on the day of England’s ill-fated World Cup match
against France was mentioned.
So this Is Walter, but he’s also a rather mystic dog -
I’m told by Dom - and he’s now going to predict the score.
So if Walter goes for the cheese, that means
a French win.
If he goes for the Yorkshire puddings,
Iit’s an England win.
England are into Wi EI G
So, Walter, it’s down to you.
You’re an England fan, of course, even though you’re
a Dog du Bordeaux.
Let’s see what Walter has to say.
Come on, Yorkshire puddings, please, Walter.
If he doesn’t eat any, | quess it’s a 0-0 draw.
WL AL R R i) AN Y
IR R G R o with Mbappe.
Oh, no, it’s Mbappe!
Oh, no, the cheese. I
What does Walter know, eh?
To give Walter the dog his due, his match prediction
was correct -
but Linda Ottley-Brown still wasn’'t impressed.
Jon Rivers wrote to Newswatch.
Simon Evans said:
And Mike Smith emailed:
and received this statement.
And for a more detailed response, | am pleased to say
that the editor of BBC Breakfast, Richard Frediani,
will be my guest on Newswatch in the New Year.
So keep your feedback wIGRELE
Now, migration was in the news again this week with four
people dying trying to cross the English Channel on a small
boat on Thursday.
The day before, the Prime Minister made a migration
anncuncement in Parliament.
It was broadcast on the News Channel, whe pulled out of it,
just before the News at One, in this way.
Our world leading modern regime actually helps the people
who are most in need, It R h e Y
They’re the people that need our support, and that’s
what our reforms today will deliver...
..Rishi Sunak outlining a five point plan in the Commons
there to, he says, end the backlog of asylum seeker
T IR AU LRI D AR CT ]
Gregor Clarke messaged the Newswatch Twitter account
to protest that the News Channel had shown Rishi Sunak’s
announcement and Sir (I RGNV
but had cut away just as the new Westminster leader
of the Scottish National Party, Stephen Flynn MP, began his
response to the Prime Minister.
Well, we put that to BBC News
who replied:
Now last Monday brought the sad news that a group of boys had
fallen through ice on a lake
in Solihull in the West Midlands.
Efforts were made by rescuers who waded into the freezing
water to pull the boys out.
They were taken to hospital where doctors attempted
The news that some of the boys had died broke
while Joanna Gosling LT
It was clearly as much of a shock to her as everyone
else, and she was overcome with emotion.
| have some really sad news to bring you.
We’re hearing that three boys
aged 11, ten and eight have died.
...After being pulled from the icy lake in Solihull.
So we knew that four children had been rescued. ..
I’m so sorry, this is terrible news, obviously.
So those three boys aged eight, ten and 11 have died
after being pulled T RGEd R
Ray Moore clearly sympathised
and emailed in with a supportive message
I ET 1R
Finally, something light-hearted to cheer us up
GG EEN I EG RNt programme of the year.
A Newswatch viewer, Fran Catherine, has clearly
been feeling philesophical.
She posted on the Newswatch TR
Very true, Fran, but we try.
Thank you for all your i h RO a
If you want to share your opinions about what you see
or hear on BBC News, on TV, radio, online and social media,
find us on Twitter.
You can call us on 0370106676 IR R ] 4
CL I @V 1 e M S A e ]
That’s all from us.
We’ll be back te hear your thoughts about BBC News
coverage on 6 January.
Until then, have a merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
This is BBC World News, I’m David Willis_
Our top stories:
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the United States
falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
A new report also shows over FR GG R Nl
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes hits multiple
targets right across Ukraine.
At least three people are dead.
Residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
A rough ride for Ramaphosa.
The South African President is heckled at the ANC’s party
conference, but he is still hoping to be re-elected
despite last week’s impeachment proceedings.
Elon Musk suspends several journalists’ accounts.
we’ll be talking to one RN L LA G
A very warm welcome ol T
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the US has fallen
to its lowest level for more than three decades.
That’s according to statistics compiled by the Death Penalty
Infermation Centre, O TR G G
than a third of executions were conducted in an incompetent
or flawed manner.
Let’s take a closer look at the report.
ST RN G WAV )] attempts reportedly failed.
The reasons are claimed to be incompetence, failures
to follow protocol or defects in the protocols
This was mainly because executions had to be
put on hold after officials were not able to carry out
TNl E I e in four states - Idaho,
Ohio, Tennessee and South &I e
In all, less than 30 people were executed,
and across the US, fewer than 50 people
were sentenced to death.
The five-year average of executions, 18.6 per year,
s said to be the lowest in more than 30 years.
That’s a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowes explains how
problematic some of RS e R ]
The statistics are quite damning.
Of all of the executions that took place in the United States
this year, one in three went R IR VA
They were visibly problematic, according to this report.
L R SR scheduled in only six states,
VUL TRt R R but a significant number
of those cases they had to be abandoned partway
through the process.
Something went wrong, the protocols weren’t adhered
I+
There was one example in the state of Alabama
where it took three hours R R R I
line, the IV that would deliver the lethal cocktail of drugs
to that individual which would S OE (ARG
And other examples, as well, around the country.
And it seems one of the reasons given is that some of
the personnel that carry out these executions are simply not
medically qualified or experienced enough
to deal with some of the potential problems
that can occur during the process.
In some cases the inmates have a history
LG T (] Ty L of drug abuse, alcohol abuse,
and that can make them more susceptible to some
of the issues that occur during the process,
and especially the attachment of the IV line.
Now, executions across this country happen far less
HCLP G AUA ORI R G RV T to, and they are concentrated
in just a small number of states, and it seems
quite likely that reports like this one and others
will increase the pressure on politicians around
the United States to look again at the process,
to look again at executions and especially the technicalities
of the lethal injection.
There was a poll earlier this year that suggested some 46%
of Americans still support lethal injections,
but that’s lower than some JENETER S
and there may well be growing pressure
on politicians in Washington not only to look again
GG LRI T to question whether
executions should be happening in America at all.
Russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks
on Ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies
across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
The capital, Kyiv, was hit, as was President
Zelensky’'s home town of Kryvyi.
In his nightly address, he warned that Russia
was capable of further R e
The Mayor of Kharkiv described the destruction there
as colossal and said that thousands of people
were without heating in freezing temperatures.
Our Eastern Europe correspondent Sarah Rainsford
sent this report.
The rumble of a Russian attack as
The rumble of a Russian attack IS
The rumble of a Russian attack SR
The rumble of a Russian attack as Kyiv was woken by
The rumble of a Russian attack I A7 R Y W T T
as Kyiv was woken by more I
as Kylv was woken by more ISR
as Kylv was woken by more IRl L
as Kyiv was woken by more missile strikes. The danger
missile strikes. The danger e ]
missile strikes. The danger R G
missile strikes. The danger drove people underground. The
drove people underground. The metro
drove people underground. The i Ry
drove people underground. The R
drove people underground. The metro is the safest place to
metro Is the safest place to huddle
metro Is the safest place to G e
metro Is the safest place to huddle here when the city
metro is the safest place to huddle here when the city is
huddle here when the city is sl d
huddle here when the city is under fire,
huddle here when the city is DRl
huddle here when the city is MR- 1
huddle here when the city is under fire, but as Russian
under fire, but as Russian A
under fire, but as Russian A )
under fire, but as Russian missiles hit the power grid,
missiles hit the power grid, )
missiles hit the power grid, R
missiles hit the power grid, R
missiles hit the power grid, the trains all stopped.
I’ve sat here NG e
| want to go home.
But in southern Ukraine, TR LR R R i
Hours later, rescuers were still searching for people
trapped in the ruins.
A child is missing here.
This strike was on President L SR R
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
They have enough missiles left for mass strikes,
but we have enough determination and self-belief
to return what belongs to us.
In northern Kharkiv, the day turned dark,
as the power went down IR GER TR
This country now copes with what was once unimaginable,
handing out hot food, NI R
And even in Kyiv, queuing IR R RUERE
defying Russia’s efforts to wear them down.
But these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
We found this old people’s home without heat, light or water.
ISR L TN on sheer resilience.
Nella’s children just brought her here from the south,
thinking she’'d be safer.
TRANSLATION: We’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
Putin says, let’s be friends,
but who is the unfriendly one here?
Our situation here is really miserable.
The staff are doing their best to keep things normal,
SN RN G R[N g T 1
They even have to store water T AR LR R
"It is pretty hard,” Olga tells me,
"but we will get through.”
Tonight, there are no traffic lights in much of Kyiv,
no lights at all in large parts of Ukraine’s capital,
as Russia tries to force his country
inte surrender.
But somehow, life goes on.
Sarah Rainsford, BBC News, Kyiv.
Earlier Mitchel Wallerstein, a senior foreign policy fellow
at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, gave
TR SR AL A a0
Well, | think this is part of a concerted strateqgy
GRS D) intimidate the Ukrainian
people, since the Russian forces have
not succeeded in their main aim, which of course originally
was to take Kyiv, and now are falling back
The strategy seems now to be to keep firing missiles
inte the cities and to put NN N RO R G
to capitulate.
There are competent T R 11
defence capabilities that G RN LT R GRS -]
Including Israel
Nla DL E IR ey
Including Israel which has the Iron
Including Israel which has the 1 s m o ail-)
Including Israel which has the Iron Dome and the
Including Israel which has the REN RGN e
Iron Dome and the Arrow eIy
Iron Dome and the Arrow anti-missile system. A lot of
anti-missile system. A lot of this
anti-missile system. A lot of G
anti-missile system. A lot of QIR IRGRT
anti-missile system. A lot of QRN RG]
anti-missile system. A lot of this is coming in the form of
this is coming in the form of e
this is coming in the form of IR e
this is coming in the form of drones. Drones are
this is coming in the form of N N R 8
this is coming in the form of drones. Drones are very hard to
drones. Drones are very hard to i
drones. Drones are very hard to shoot down because
drones. Drones are very hard to S O TR U
drones. Drones are very hard to shoot down because they flow
shoot down because they flow very low, but they there
shoot down because they flow AT G AL
very low, but they there are a3
very low, but they there are various systems that can take
various systems that can take our
various systems that can take e
various systems that can take our drones. The
various systems that can take sl R L T IRIE ]
our drones. The Ukrainian military is reporting a high
military is reporting a high percentage
military is reporting a high (N DR
military is reporting a high R PR R T
military is reporting a high percentage of success in
percentage of success in L]
percentage of success in GG T R I
percentage of success in shooting down these incoming
shooting down these incoming I 0
shooting down these incoming missiles and
shooting down these incoming AL e
shooting down these incoming I N R e
missiles and drones. Whether )
missiles and drones. Whether GRS
missiles and drones. Whether O I
missiles and drones. Whether the reports are accurate
the reports are accurate remains to
the reports are accurate S EI R o)
the reports are accurate remains to be seen.
The South African president has been heckled during an address
to his own ANC party ey
Cyril Ramaphosa - who’s hoping to be re-elected as party
leader - struggled to make himself heard, over chants
of "step aside™.
| want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their
dissatisfaction to do so in an orderly manner,
in the way that we do things here in the
African National Congress.
We’ve been in existence for 110 years,
and this is not the time to come and display this type
QI IO R
The chanting began when the President’s predecessor,
Jacob Zuma, entered R R IR GG R e
NI
Despite the opposition, he Is
Despite the opposition, he is expected to retain power.
Despite the opposition, he is expected to retain power. It is
expected to retain power. It is Y
expected to retain power. It is a hig
expected to retain power. It is L RGICEL
expected to retain power. It is a big threat because they are
a big threat because they are accused
a big threat because they are sl
a big threat because they are Yl s 4
a big threat because they are accused of not providing the
accused of not providing the a3
accused of not providing the services demanded by the
services demanded by the people, but the ANC has been
people, but the ANC has been accused
people, but the ANC has been sl
people, but the ANC has been accused of corruption, which is
accused of corruption, which is vty
accused of corruption, which is what President
accused of corruption, which is L ET A Y 6Tl
accused of corruption, which is what President Cyril Ramaphosa
what President Cyril Ramaphosa T
what President Cyril Ramaphosa has been
what President Cyril Ramaphosa EI YN R (T o}
what President Cyril Ramaphosa has been trying to fight since
has been trying to fight since he began his tenure. And the
he began his tenure. And the T ]
he began his tenure. And the RN
he began his tenure. And the reason why you heard that
reason why you heard that ]
reason why you heard that shouting in the conference of
shouting in the conference of )
shouting in the conference of ey
shouting in the conference of N [
shouting in the conference of the ANC is precisely because
the ANC is precisely because )
the ANC is precisely because there is
the ANC is precisely because )
the ANC is precisely because there is a group of ANC members
there is a group of ANC members Ty
there is a group of ANC members who do not
there is a group of ANC members s [ e R a4
there is a group of ANC members who do not want to see Cyril
who do not want to see Cyril Ramaphosa continue with his
Ramaphosa continue with his fighting
Ramaphosa continue with his bR
Ramaphosa continue with his fighting of corruption and
LG RO R (TR T reforming of the ANC.
LG RO R TR Tl reforming of the ANC. Many of
reforming of the ANC. Many of those that
reforming of the ANC. Many of RG]
reforming of the ANC. Many of I R E N (e
reforming of the ANC. Many of I RGN el
those that are accused of Il
those that are accused of L KIS
those that are accused of IR R
those that are accused of LR R R )
corruption or that were A Ta |
corruption or that were mentioned in a report that was
mentioned in a report that was A ]
mentioned in a report that was commissioned in South Africa
commissioned in South Africa Tty
commissioned in South Africa TN et e e
commissioned in South Africa L R i e
commissioned in South Africa LI R N e R
commissioned in South Africa involve members of the ANC and
involve members of the ANC and e
involve members of the ANC and former members of the ANC, and
former members of the ANC, and )
former members of the ANC, and e
former members of the ANC, and those other people that are
those other people that are aYihl]
those other people that are R
those other people that are LRI
those other people that are R YT W e
those other people that are trying to push back Cyril
trying to push back Cyril Ramaphosa’s efforts in trying
Ramaphosa’s efforts in trying to clean up the regime. They
to clean up the regime. They somehow
to clean up the regime. They e e a1 ]
to clean up the regime. They GRS IR
to clean up the regime. They A U R
to clean up the regime. They GRS RG]
somehow came up with an accusation which is still, by
accusation which is still, by )
accusation which is still, by R
accusation which is still, by the way, to be
accusation which is still, by R IR N R ]
accusation which is still, by ORI N RO e AL
accusation which is still, by the way, to be proved ina
the way, to be proved in a court
the way, to be proved in a e
the way, to be proved in a court of law,
the way, to be proved in a R AE AR
the way, to be proved in a court of law, of Cyril
court of law, of Cyril Ramaphosa having foreign
Ramaphosa having foreign S
Ramaphosa having foreign currency in his farm which was
currency in his farm which was )
currency in his farm which was stolen by some people and later
stolen by some people and later on
stolen by some people and later R e
stolen by some people and later on reported to the police by
on reported to the police by )
on reported to the police by N
on reported to the police by R
on reported to the police by one of the political
one of the political W e
one of the political GRS
one of the political competitors of Cyril Ramaphosa.
A row is brewing in West Africa over
the increasing involvement of a Russian mercenary group
Ghana has accused LN ELL I
Burkina Faso, of hiring troops from the Wagner group,
a private Russian military organisation which is also
believed to be involved in fighting alongside Russian
s RV AE IR
Ghana says the mercenaries are operating close
Burkina Faso has respoended by summoning Ghana’s
N R s 1@
Our correspondent in the region
sent us this update.
The Russian security group already has a presence
in the Sahel region RN
in countries like Malli, where it is said to be
aiding in the fight against jihadist militants,
and also in the Central African Republic.
So far, there is no official information about an agreement
between the Wagner Group and Burkina Faso,
even though the Prime Minister recently visited Russia.
Burkina Faso has had R I IR CEle
The current transitional government is trying to regain
control of security of in areas caught in escalating violence
from militants who are allied to both Al-Qaeda and ISIS.
The insecurity that began in 2015 has killed thousands
of people and left millions displaced.
Still to come: Nasa launches a A s
Still to come: Nasa launches a mission to
Still to come: Nasa launches a NGRS
Still to come: Nasa launches a mission to survey all
Still to come: Nasa launches a NN G XL K
Still to come: Nasa launches a mission to survey all of the
IV R RV N R - iy
mission to survey all of the world’s water
mission to survey all of the world’'s water from
mission to survey all of the world’s water from space.
Saddam Hussein is finished, because he killed our people,
our women, our children.
The signatures took only a few minutes but they brought
a formal end to 3.5 years of conflict -
conflict that has claimed RGP VR VR TS
Before an audience of world leaders, the presidents
of Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia put their names to the peace
agreement.
The Remanian border was sealed and silent today.
Romania has cut itself off from the ocutside world in order
TN RO LRGN of the presumed massacre
in Timisoara from leaking out.
From sex at the White House, to a trial for his political
life, the Lewinsky affair tonight guaranteeing
Bill Clinten his place G R A G R
president ever to be impeached.
This is BBC World News.
executions in the US has fallen to its lowest level for more
ERGIE R e
A new report has also shown IR GUHGR N el
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes, has hit
multiple targets in Ukraine killing at least three people.
Residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
A giant aquarium installed in the lobby of a luxury German
hotel has exploded, sending 1,500 exotic fish cascading
The 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist
FlnissInd Rl s sl
ST RGNS LT, T has the story.
This aquarium was built to impress -
a million Litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish -
there was even a Lift RGN R
All towering over the lobby of a Berlin hotel.
My God!
But early this merning,
it seems the tank simply shattered.
Glass and metal ripped through the building.
UGN RN [TE T N R
Extraordinarily, just two people were hurt,
neither of them seriously.
The hotel actually i EhGEe
| could describe it as a... IMITATES EXPLOSION.
And | jolted out of bed and turned around...
| didn’t see any movement so | didn’t know what
the heck was going on.
| looked outside the window, | saw a lady running.
Investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
LT IR LR (T E [N taken when the aquarium
TR Sl i
"You could fire O R G Rl
says this architect, "and it would only cause
"a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"Such a Hollywood scenario is impossible.”
The authorities suspect material fatigue
may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
There is a sense, | think, of relief amongst many
here that this N R Rl
LU A E g and that lobby, the street
outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors,
many of them children.
LI [ Tl 4 at the destruction,
regret at the loss IR A TR
but an acknowledgement, too, that this could
have been s¢ much worse.
Jenny Hill, BBC News, Berlin.
The grim tale of Belen’’s
The grim tale of Belen’s exploding aquarium. -- in
exploding aquarium. -~ in YN
The United Nations has added its voice to the many
critics of Twitter’s suspension of journalists’ accounts.
A spokesperson said the action set ‘a dangerous precedent’
at a time when press freedom was widely under threat.
Earlier, the European Union I R e R e
Elon Musk that the social media platform could be hit
with sanctions, after he personally ordered
the suspension of several journalists.
Tom Brada reports.
On Twitter, Vera Jourova said that EU laws respect
"media freedom and fundamental rights”,
and Elon Musk "should L N R F
"There are red lines. And sanctions, soon.”
Reporters from outlets including the New York Times,
CNN and the Washington Post have been locked out
Many of those suspended had criticised Elon Musk’s Twitter
takeover, or had commented onh an account that tracked
the movement of the his private jet.
Micah Lee is one of the journalists that’s been banned.
He told me about how YRR A
I had just posted a tweet and | was following the news
of a bunch of accounts getting L E L P R I T
after my tweet | just got a notice inside of Twitter
that my account is suspended and | can’t
use it to post any more tweets.
Was it a shock or did you see this coming?
| kind of saw It coming.
NI ST ATE RV g gETe that this has happened,
especially because of the reporting that I’ve been
doing on Elon Musk’s E N Rl e
| think that this is the highest profile time
where he’s kind of arbitrarily banned a lot of people
because he banned several QIR SIS
but he’s been doing this since he took over.
There’s been several arbitrary NI 3
Does Elon Musk have a point, though, when he says
that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat
to the security, not only of his own security
but the threat to the security of his family
as well, potentially?
(NG G ke actually buy that.
| think there’s some room for discussion.
I think that knowing, like, which airport his plane
lands at and flies out N R A R
| think it’s already public infoermation
and | think that, you know, it’s perfectly reasonable
for people to learn this about the private jets
But I think that even GRS EICEER
everyone who posted anything related to that
who got suspended, they got their account suspended -
which is kind of extreme - NI R AT
are journalists who weren’t actually, like, posting
the links to this website, we were reporting on other
things getting suspended.
This Is just part of NI (T
The racist murder of AR
and his mother’s subsequent fight for justice -
has been made into a movie,
which is due to be released TSl il
The film is produced by Barbara Broccoli,
who’s behind the Bond films and stars Danielle Dead-Wyler,
as Mamie Till - who’ve been LR RO IR L[
14-year-old Emmett Till.
They have a different set AR R e
His brutal murder in Mississippi in 1955
galvanised the civil rights movement.
The body of Emmett Louis Till has been found dead. ..
Driven by his mother, Mamie.
You have to be extra careful with white people,
you can’t risk looking at them the wrong way.
| know!
| wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility,
the weight of the civil O I AL R TP
as you made this movie?
Oh, | felt every inch of it.
And | knew that | had to honour it,
| had to give it that LR e
LRV R ST TR history, we’re doomed
IECTHEEI A
Emmett was lynched for whistling
at a white female shopkeeper
in this segregated part of America.
But the film deliberately S R R R e e
he suffered at the LR R R R
I think we’re over just the grotesque nature
of witnessing violence NN EI e
It shouldn’t take that kind of visual to ignite folks
GG A GER AT e o
that are happening - that had happened in 1955,
that continue to happen to black people or any
oppressed group of people.
Back in 1955, Mamie Till-Mobley had her son’s violated body
photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
Many thousands filed past it.
That smell is my son’s body reeking of racial hatred.
Come with me, please.
She was one of the first people to recognise how vitally
important the image e R R R e alsh
And | think when you see what happened with George Floyd,
that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder,
we wouldn’t have believed it R MR - L hi
The two men accused of killing SRR R
And | do think that the trial will be carried on fairly,
and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
A white male jury found the men not guilty.
They later admitted the murder
but couldn’t be SR s Rels -]
Though they’re dead, IR MEICE e d ke
Do you think that justice will ever be served?
Good question. N
I think that films have the opportunity to reawaken
people’s understanding of critical moments in history.
That troubled history now being told
on screen nearly 70 years on.
DG ERGRI LR
For a landmark mission which aims to transform
UL IR G R L B Els B
The SWOT spacecraft will chart BRI L R )
track features of the ocean’s surface in unparalleled detail.
The results could be vitally important, helping to improve
flood and drought forecasts RO LR e
a better understanding of climate change.
Every three weeks, it will complete a map of 90%
of our planet, so we can see how ocean levels are changing,
how the seasons affect things as well, so it is a wonderful
satellite, a wonderful mission.
Once in positien, SWOT’’s E Il R AL ST o ] X 0
towards the Earth’s surface P e Tl R R e il ale
It is these echoes which let SWOT make very precise
determinations of height.
It will measure all rivers 100 metres wide and all Lakes
larger than six hectares, or 15 acres.
The data can provide o F [ R
waterways we are otherwise struggling to understand.
Monitoring networks even on some of the world’s greatest
rivers like the Amazon and the Congo are nowhere
as near as thorough and comprehensive as they need
to be, and in many cases are In decline so we are getting less
indication now than we did some time ago.
It will be a few months till it is fully operational
but once it is up and running, N R R
open a new chapter in our understanding of climate change
and the water cycle on earth.
Tom Brada, BBC News.
F . Yq]
An incredible project indeed. e
An incredible project indeed. S EVAT)
An incredible project indeed. Stay with us on BBC News.
Some very big changes N
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then the thaw begins on Sunday in the morning -
when | say "begins”, IR )
of us it will be a slow process,
particularly in the north of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us.
And then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep
Ahead of it still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east MR R
so hence that milder air (NN O RS
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow A e e e ]
across the Highlands,
G R T S TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures W RV NG|
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town it’s going to be
So, the weather for Saturday itself
and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
Wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
Most of the rain around the coasts,
snow or sleet inland.
And already starting to feel a little less cold.
5 in London, 4 in Glasgow and SRR DR LGN
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds IR N eI
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow
is possible around the Pennines and certainly in Scotland.
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday it could be
icy for some of us.
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in and by the early R )
are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
through the course of Sunday night into Monday.
Look at that - by Menday UG R ICR EL L]
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth.
And this Is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
Back to the sort G IR E aTs
we would expect I e
SRS
A report on capital punishment R R S R iR R e
than a third of the 20 scheduled executions due
to take place this year were botched.
The Death Penalty Infermation AN R R
the number of state-sanctioned killings fell to its lowest
level for more than three decades.
Ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages
of Russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity
and water supplies across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa, was heckled
when he addressed his own ANC party conference.
Mr Ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings
earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand
as party leader.
Now on BBC News, Honduras’s Abortion Pill Black Market.
So he just went over, knocked ]
So he just went over, knocked on a door,
So he just went over, knocked NN ]
So he just went over, knocked MR IR
So he just went over, knocked on a door, a man popped out,
on a door, a man popped out, they did
on a door, a man popped out, QSN
on a door, a man popped out, they did a quick exchange of
they did a quick exchange of )
they did a quick exchange of the drugs for some money, and
the drugs for some money, and ey
the drugs for some money, and Yl
the drugs for some money, and W IR hdslls]
the drugs for some money, and were all within about 200m of a
were all within about 200m of a police station. This
were all within about 200m of a IS EH R LR
were all within about 200m of a police station. This is the
police station. This is the sale
police station. This is the N
police station. This is the sale of black-market abortion
sale of black-market abortion pills
sale of black-market abortion R
sale of black-market abortion pills in Honduras. Abortion is
pills in Honduras. Abortion is illegal here
pills in Honduras. Abortion is llegal here under
pills in Honduras. Abortion is illegal here under all
illegal here under all g 1 o
illegal here under all circumstances, and even the
circumstances, and even the N EUE]
circumstances, and even the emergency contraceptive pill
emergency contraceptive pill Ty
SO LI [ A L To T I ML a |
SO LI [ A L To T I was banned in 2009
SO [ A L To T I was banned in 2009 following a
was banned in 2009 following a G E1sY
was banned in 2009 following a military coup. And calling for
military coup. And calling for )
military coup. And calling for R
military coup. And calling for the full restoration
military coup. And calling for R B A R
the full restoration of el s e [
the full restoration of el e o Aol as [ Nd
the full restoration of democratic order in Honduras.
democratic order in Honduras. YiTae]
democratic order in Honduras. R aa)
democratic order in Honduras. R itla]
democratic order in Honduras. R R e
democratic order in Honduras. With the return of democracy
With the return of democracy this
With the return of democracy GIREL
With the return of democracy ORI
With the return of democracy this year and the election of
this year and the election of )
this year and the election of Rl
this year and the election of the first woman president, who
the first woman president, who partly campaigned on
partly campaigned on WG]
partly campaigned on WG LR
partly campaigned on overturning the ban and
overturning the ban and legalising abortion in limited
legalising abortion in limited T
legalising abortion in limited EI
legalising abortion in limited cases, is the country on the
cases, is the country on the Y
cases, is the country on the IR
NN G LR T g A R [ ORI R E LY
We travelled to the capital to e
We travelled to the capital to R
We travelled to the capital to meet the women buying the
meet the women buying the illegal pills. The men
llegal pills. The men profiteering from them... And
profiteering from them... And )
profiteering from them... And G bl EL
profiteering from them... And the politicians who could make
the politicians who could make )
the politicians who could make the difference.
Hospital Escuela is the largest public hospital in Henduras.
public hospital in Henduras. M lmer o
public hospital in Henduras. e e )
public hospital in Henduras. e el e G
public hospital in Henduras. Doctors here like Doctor
Doctors here like Doctor Caroline at look
Doctors here like Doctor CI N A & i-e
Caroline at look after thousands of
Caroline at look after AL R A e
I R A G =L T thousands of women each
I R A G =L T QT R R U IR L
thousands of women each year, 4
thousands of women each year, but hundreds of women each year
but hundreds of women each year coming
but hundreds of women each year IR i)
but hundreds of women each year coming with complications from
coming with complications from [(ELEN
coming with complications from illegal abortions.
This book Is only for
This book is only for Y aale s
This book is only for abortions. This book
This book is only for Y e IR L IR S
This book is only for abortions. This book is just
abortions. This book is just e
abortions. This book is just for abortions ?
abortions. This book is just for abortions? Yes, for today,
for abortions? Yes, for today, e
for abortions? Yes, for today, e
for abortions? Yes, for today, six. Six today? Seven. Now it
six. Six today? Seven. Now it 3
six. Six today? Seven. Now it XN
six. Six today? Seven. Now it is only after 2pm, so
six. Six today? Seven. Now it XN P T PR Rl
six. Six today? Seven. Now it is only after 2pm, so it is not
is only after 2pm, so it is not e
is only after 2pm, so it is not long. We have
s only after 2pm, so it is not long. We have half a day.
is only after 2pm, so it is not long. We have half a day. This
long. We have half a day. This s
long. We have half a day. This is from January. This is from
is from January. This is from January? And it is one, two,
January? And it is one, two, [
January? And it is one, two, IR A
January? And it is one, two, three, four, five,
January? And it is one, two, G IR IR I -
January? And it is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
three, four, five, six, seven, A
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
eight, nine, ten, 11, 12... *FYed
eight, nine, ten, 11, 12... Y S
eight, nine, ten, 11, 12... Part of this
eight, nine, ten, 11, 12... IR R
eight, nine, ten, 11, 12... Part of this is counting
eight, nine, ten, 1, 12... ET RGN RCII B
UG RGIERER T [ potential
I IR QIR [l potential miscarriages, as
potential miscarriages, as N
potential miscarriages, as well. You are counting them as
well. You are counting them as 1IN
well. You are counting them as miscarriages, or are these
miscarriages, or are these Yo asle sy
miscarriages, or are these Y el s e
miscarriages, or are these Yo aa e A R )
miscarriages, or are these abortions that have been
abortions that have been induced? We don’t know, we
induced? We don’t know, we 1R
induced? We don’t know, we s R Tl
induced? We don’t know, we R T i
induced? We don’t know, we S R s LR -]
induced? We don’t know, we W[ R AR
induced? We don’t know, we R S SRS E]C
don’t count it. We just take 1)
don’t count it. We just take care of
don’t count it. We just take IR
don’t count it. We just take care of the woman and
don’t count it. We just take care of the woman and that’s
care of the woman and that’s T
care of the woman and that’s it. Even
care of the woman and that’s (2T R
care of the woman and that’s (T R Regiale:
care of the woman and that’s it. Even in critical cases,
it. Even In critical cases, they tell
it. Even in critical cases, they tell me that their hands
they tell me that their hands Py
they tell me that their hands IRl
So
o oS
ST R T
So are you hopeful that a change will come? | don’t know
change will come? | don’t know vty
change will come? | don’t know what to
change will come? | don’t know E S R\
change will come? | don’t know what to say about that, sorry.
Outside the maternal ward, | e
Outside the maternal ward, | a0 EeEn
Outside the maternal ward, | AL T
Outside the maternal ward, | meet Maria. She is waiting for
meet Maria. She is waiting for e
meet Maria. She is waiting for her teenage sister as she
her teenage sister as she ey
her teenage sister as she e R L
her teenage sister as she carries out a
her teenage sister as she IR NG L%
her teenage sister as she carries out a pregnancy test.
How many instances of women do you
How many instances of women do RG]
How many instances of women do LK
How many instances of women do R )
How many instances of women do RN E A8
How many instances of women do LR E A
How many instances of women do you see a day or a week who
you see a day or a week who have unwanted pregnancies and
have unwanted pregnancies and Py
have unwanted pregnancies and are not sure what
have unwanted pregnancies and N R R iR ]
have unwanted pregnancies and are not sure what to do?
In a personal
LRI FIM S
In a personal level, does it get frustrating with what you
get frustrating with what you can
get frustrating with what you L]
get frustrating with what you LWL Rk
get frustrating with what you can and can’t do to
get frustrating with what you UL LR R
get frustrating with what you can and can’t do to help women?
LYo oelgo ]Iy le
LYool s (e
According to the UN, Honduras T
According to the UN, Honduras TR
According to the UN, Honduras has the highest teenage
has the highest teenage pregnancy rate in Central
pregnancy rate in Central America and
pregnancy rate in Central e R e
pregnancy rate in Central s R e )
pregnancy rate in Central America and twice the global
America and twice the global VR
America and twice the global VLRI
America and twice the global N EH AR UL
America and twice the global N EH AL ALK
America and twice the global average. Sandy is a feminist
average. Sandy is a feminist I EI LS
average. Sandy is a feminist campaigner and activist and one
campaigner and activist and one of
campaigner and activist and one A
campaigner and activist and one NG
campaigner and activist and one of her key objectives is to
of her key objectives is to Y
VI CIE G Tl IR R make the morning after
of her key objectives is to make the morning after pill
make the morning after pill legal again.
Sandy wanted to take me to a concert celebrating the
concert celebrating the country’s
concert celebrating the T (R
concert celebrating the W AR AU G
concert celebrating the country’s new female leader,
country’s new female leader, President Xiomara Castro. Tell
President Xiomara Castro. Tell me about
President Xiomara Castro. Tell T )
President Xiomara Castro. Tell LRGN
President Xiomara Castro. Tell me about the new president.
me about the new president. ey
me about the new president. What does she represent two
What does she represent two people
What does she represent two G
This president made a lot of OIS
This president made a lot of O
This president made a lot of promises of what
This president made a lot of IR R U IR
This president made a lot of promises of what she would
This president made a lot of IR R R R L ] R
promises of what she would do e
promises of what she would do TR
promises of what she would do for women’s reproductive
for women’s reproductive N
for women’s reproductive O
for women’’s reproductive rights. It’s been
for women’’s reproductive I R K]
for women’’s reproductive rights. It’s been a few months
rights. It’s been a few months and nothing
rights. It’s been a few months OIS
rights. It’s been a few months and nothing has changed. What
and nothing has changed. What Py
and nothing has changed. What IR s
and nothing has changed. What are your thoughts on that?
lthough
Although the emergency AT
Although the emergency contraceptive pill is totally
contraceptive pill is totally illegal,
contraceptive pill is totally [(ELEI
contraceptive pill is totally illegal, 1 was
contraceptive pill is totally illegal, | was told about one
illegal, I was told about one pharmacy
llegal, I was told about one pharmacy in the capital that is
pharmacy In the capital that is rumoured
pharmacy In the capital that is T R ]
pharmacy In the capital that is rumoured to sell it, so we
pharmacy in the capital that is rumoured to sell it, so we went
rumoured to sell it, so we went to
rumoured to sell it, so we went R )
rumoured to sell it, so we went R Y]
rumoured to sell it, so we went to take a look.
So
N oo
STVRULCNI
So we just walked In and
So we just walked in and | said |
So we just walked in and | said ke
So we just walked in and | said BN
So we just walked in and | said | don’t really speak Spanish,
| don’t really speak Spanish, e
| don’t really speak Spanish, but could
| don’t really speak Spanish, e h
| don’t really speak Spanish, but could | buy the morning
but could I buy the morning after
but could I buy the morning ECd
but could I buy the morning after pill, and she charge me
after pill, and she charge me 220
after pill, and she charge me P& VN CY [T
after pill, and she charge me 230 lempiras, which is about...
230 lempiras, which is about... Just
230 lempiras, which is about... ML
230 lempiras, which is about... PGSR
230 lempiras, which Is about... Just under $10. Here it is, a
Just under $10. Here it is, pink
Just under $10. Here it is, MG
Just under $10. Here it is, [l
Just under $10. Here it is, a P G T
Just under $10. Here it is, a P T
Just under $10. Here it is, a P G T T G
pink packet. It says PP Annis. 3
pink packet. It says PP Annis. iR
pink packet. It says PP Annis. She didn’t look at
pink packet. It says PP Annis. iR
pink packet. It says PP Annis. She didn’t lock at me funny,
She didn’t look at me funny, i)
She didn’t look at me funny, she didn’t feel odd, the only
she didn’t feel odd, the only awkwardness
she didn’t feel odd, the only R 21
she didn’t feel odd, the only N R R
she didn’t feel odd, the only awkwardness was that |
awkwardness was that | couldn’t JIE1S
awkwardness was that | couldn’t speak Spanish. It does feel
speak Spanish. It does feel like I’ve done something wrong,
like I’ve done something wrong, el |
like I’ve done something wrong, which | suppose | technically
which | suppose | technically (EV
which | suppose | technically [ EN Pl
which | suppose | technically have, except almost anywhere
have, except almost anywhere else
have, except almost anywhere A0
have, except almost anywhere else in the world this is
else in the world this Is legal.
else in the world this Is ELFI|
else in the world this is legal. | would be able to buy
legal. 1 would be able to buy )
legal. 1 would be able to buy QCERUaIL ]
legal. | would be able to buy GGGl
legal. | would be able to buy the morning after pill almost
the morning after pill almost NG
the morning after pill almost anywhere else in the world. Not
anywhere else in the world. Not I )
anywhere else in the world. Not everyone disagrees with the
everyone disagrees with the ET
everyone disagrees with the Bam, though. We were told about
Bam, though. We were told about PN
Bam, though. We were told about R )
Bam, though. We were told about an online collective of young
an online collective of young people called Generation
people called Generation Ay
people called Generation Celeste who regularly share
Celeste who regularly share YT o s aule]s]
Celeste who regularly share anti-abortion posts, so we
anti-abortion posts, so we I
anti-abortien posts, so we asked them
anti-abortien posts, so we Y R i)
anti-abortien posts, so we Y OB iR R tt]
anti-abortien posts, so we asked them to come and
anti-abortion posts, so we Y R iR R i s M)
anti-abortion posts, so we Y OE G NiB RN R RIS
asked them to come and meet us. e
asked them to come and meet us. The pill has
asked them to come and meet us. R G R G
asked them to come and meet us. IR G E R R L
asked them to come and meet us. I R G EI R G
asked them to come and meet us. The pill has three main ways of
The pill has three main ways of acting.
The pill has three main ways of Eln il PR
The pill has three main ways of Elnd AL R
The pill has three main ways of acting. Two of them are
acting. Two of them are A IR
acting. Two of them are contraceptive, meaning they act
contraceptive, meaning they act Sy
contraceptive, meaning they act S )
contraceptive, meaning they act S RO AR
contraceptive, meaning they act S O AT e
contraceptive, meaning they act St RO AN T R
before there is life on the web, for the eqgg
before there is life on the web, for the eqq is fertilised,
web, for the egg is fertilised, and
web, for the egg is fertilised, R )
web, for the eqg Is fertilised, and the third way, as you can
and the third way, as you can T
and the third way, as you can TN
and the third way, as you can see on the packaging, is they
see on the packaging, Is they )
see on the packaging, Is they [ la 14
see on the packaging, is they R e R )
see on the packaging, is they do not allow the egg to
see on the packaging, is they S (R NG R O
see on the packaging, is they do not allow the egg to - the
do not allow the egg to - the T e )
do not allow the egg to - the fertilised eqgg
do not allow the egg to - the fertilised egg to
do not allow the egg to - the fertilised egqg to implant
fertilised egg to implant et
fertilised egg to implant R VALY
fertilised egg to implant R VAR R )
fertilised egg to implant RN R e
fertilised egg to implant R ARG RGN e L
itself inside the uterine wall. That
itself inside the uterine wall. LG A
itself inside the uterine wall. That is. .. And
itself inside the uterine wall. That is... And early abortion.
That is... And early abortion. An
That is... And early abortion. R
That is... And early abortion. An early abortion.
That is... And early abortion. R T T
That is... And early abortion. An early abortion. So basically
An early abortion. So basically |
An early abortion. So basically 0
An early abortion. So basically | do agree that
An early abortion. So basically DGR G A
An early abortion. So basically | do agree that we should
| do agree that we should preserve it as a way that it
preserve it as a way that it s,
preserve it as a way that it is, because most
preserve it as a way that it R
preserve it as a way that it TR R LR
preserve It as a way that it is, because most of all, we
s, because most of all, we believe
s, because most of all, we A R E e
s, because most of all, we A R E o s auale]a]
s, because most of all, we A R R s B
s, because most of all, we A R R aa B e s
s, because most of all, we A R E e aa e e
believe that aboertion is not a il
believe that abortion is not a right because
believe that abortion is not a SOl N
believe that abortion is not a right because it goes against,
right because it goes against, ElaE (A
right because it goes against, actually, the first
right because it goes against, Ela G (AR GRS L LR G
actually, the first and the R
actually, the first and the most important fundamental
most important fundamental il
most important fundamental LG
most important fundamental right that there is, which is
right that there is, which is )
right that there is, which is QCR i
right that there is, which is QCRE R )
right that there is, which is the right to life. And
right that there is, which is QRO U N GRS
LS GEIE GTCR R (e N the right to life. And we know
the right to life. And we know that
the right to life. And we know UEIRN)
the right to life. And we know that there is Life
the right to life. And we know WEROEC AN T i
(O = RGN R (g fertilisation, when
ORISR R 11 fertilisation, when there is
fertilisation, when there Is W A
fertilisation, when there Is conception, because that
fertilisation, when there is conception, because that is a
conception, because that is a unique
conception, because that is a unigue human
conception, because that is a unique human being that has a
unique human being that has a unique DNA
unique human being that has a GO G EL
unique human being that has a unigue DNA that nobody
unique human being that has a G R G E G e A
unique DNA that nobody else aver
unique DNA that nobody else ever had
unique DNA that nobody else A LI ]
unique DNA that nobody else A IR 1
unique DNA that nobody else AL R G 10
unique DNA that nobody else ever had and that nobody else
ever had and that nobody else il
ever had and that nobody else R
ever had and that nobody else IR By
ever had and that nobody else IR L e
ever had and that nobody else IR A G
ever had and that nobody else IR L R E
will ever have after that. How il el
will ever have after that. How il it )
will ever have after that. How reflective are you both
will ever have after that. How A IR LR e
will ever have after that. How reflective are you both of the
reflective are you both of the views in
reflective are you both of the S AR s LY
reflective are you both of the N R LA )
reflective are you both of the S AR LA )
views in Honduras? We are E MGG
views in Honduras? We are absolutely the majority of
absolutely the majority of Honduran
absolutely the majority of RO
absolutely the majority of Honduran’s, the great
absolutely the majority of Honduran ‘s, the great majority
Honduran’s, the great majority of Honduran support pro-life,
of Honduran support pro-life, e
of Honduran support pro-life, our pro
R TG EV o] ol Tg el R U B IR e
R TG EV o] ol Tg el R U B our pro family and | don’t
our pro family and I don’t think
our pro family and | don’t i QAL
our pro family and | don’t i EuEia i
our pro family and | don’t think that will change in the
think that will change in the T
think that will change in the YY1t
think that will change in the T IR
think that will change in the near future. How did you both
near future. How did you both feel
near future. How did you both TR ]
near future. How did you both feel when you heard that Roe v
feel when you heard that Roe v Wade
feel when you heard that Roe v (VIR
feel when you heard that Roe v VIR R e aa )
feel when you heard that Roe v Wade was overturned at
feel when you heard that Roe v R LR e R )
feel when you heard that Roe v Wade was overturned at the US?
Wade was overturned at the US? | was happy.
Wade was overturned at the US? RN T A
Wade was overturned at the US? | was happy. | was happy,
| was happy. | was happy, T )
| was happy. | was happy, N4
| was happy. | was happy, N A
| was happy. | was happy, TN 2
| was happy. | was happy, because it is very common that
because it is very common that e e g
because it is very common that RO IS
because it is very common that RS E S U RN
because it is very common that R A SN UL RO
because it is very common that whatever happens in the United
whatever happens in the United N
whatever happens in the United eIy
whatever happens in the United eI
whatever happens in the United States reflects what happens in
States reflects what happens in I
States reflects what happens in LIl E
States reflects what happens in LR E e
States reflects what happens in Honduras. That is a step
Honduras. That is a step T e 1o
Honduras. That is a step T e LR e
Honduras. That is a step forward for all the pro-life
forward for all the pro-life organisations that are out
organisations that are out there, and |
organisations that are out SCAEL P RG]
organisations that are out there, and | think that this
there, and | think that this il
there, and | think that this will definitely make
there, and | think that this (G A ELCR G
will definitely make them stronger
will definitely make them NI
will definitely make them stronger and will make them
stronger and will make them step
stronger and will make them S ENCEN
stronger and will make them RN MU e
stronger and will make them step ahead. Generation Celeste
step ahead. Generation Celeste Y-\
step ahead. Generation Celeste say that they
step ahead. Generation Celeste RGOSR G
step ahead. Generation Celeste A GE R S A C CERG
say that they represent the majority
ENVRGE IR QRN G majority of Honduran ‘s,
VA GEIR QIR DI G majority of Honduran s, but
majority of Honduran’s, but )
majority of Honduran s, but I
majority of Honduran s, but there are many people
majority of Honduran’s, but there are many people who want
there are many people who want to
there are many people who want R}
there are many people who want R RO
there are many people who want R QRGN
there are many people who want R R QRGP Gl
there are many people who want to see the morning after pill
to see the morning after pill legalised. We heard about a
legalised. We heard about a gl ]
legalised. We heard about a gorilla protest, about 50 young
gorilla protest, about 50 young ]
gorilla protest, about 50 young women and men, including
women and men, including (LRI ]
women and men, including 19-year-old Ana, who are
19-year-old Ana, who are heading out in the middle of
heading out in the middle of )
heading out in the middle of QT
heading out in the middle of the night to
heading out in the middle of Q[ R R
heading out in the middle of the night to cover downtown in
the night to cover downtown in posters directed to the
posters directed to the country’s Health Minister, the
country’s Health Minister, the P 1e]
country’s Health Minister, the man they say can legalise the
man they say can legalise the uInihh
man they say can legalise the morning after pill. Why have
morning after pill. Why have you
morning after pill. Why have IR ]
morning after pill. Why have you chosen this street to put
you chosen this street to put posters up?
T
We are out here In
We are out here in the middle N
We are out here in the middle R
We are out here in the middle of the night,
We are out here in the middle RG] A
We are out here in the middle of the night, it is past
of the night, it is past midnight.
of the night, it is past G hTT [ Y
of the night, it is past GG YR
of the night, it is past GG AR ITR
of the night, it is past midnight. Are you worried that
midnight. Are you worried that N
midnight. Are you worried that you’ll get
midnight. Are you worried that ORI T
midnight. Are you worried that you’ll get in trouble for this?
EI IR [y
Clara, which is not her real IR
Clara, which is not her real ]
Clara, which is not her real name, had no choice with her
name, had no choice with her unwanted pregnancy. She grew up
unwanted pregnancy. She grew up XFOE ]
unwanted pregnancy. She grew up sexually abused by a family
sexually abused by a family member
sexually abused by a family T 1o R iee 1]
sexually abused by a family R R
sexually abused by a family member from the age of seven.
member from the age of seven. 3
member from the age of seven. -
member from the age of seven. NIRRT
member from the age of seven. She ended up pregnant with her
She ended up pregnant with her e
She ended up pregnant with her abuser’s child
She ended up pregnant with her IR T s
She ended up pregnant with her abuser’s child and she told us
abuser’s child and she told us i)
abuser’s child and she told us R e
abuser’s child and she told us she felt she
abuser’s child and she told us AR s
abuser’s child and she told us she felt she had no option
she felt she had no option O EY
she felt she had no option available to her.
What were your emotions, when you first found out that you
you first found out that you ey
you first found out that you were pregnant?
Jose called us to invite us along to a drug pick-up with
along to a drug pick-up with R
along to a drug pick-up with Y T )
along to a drug pick-up with him. He illegally buys and
him. He illegally buys and 3
him. He illegally buys and AR
him. He illegally buys and sells an over-the-counter
sells an over-the-counter T e l[o=1dle e}
sells an over-the-counter s [e= al e R a L
sells an over-the-counter medication that is misused for
medication that is misused for Y aale s
medication that is misused for Yo el s oL o
medication that is misused for e R A
medication that is misused for abortions. It is not a safe
abortions. It is not a safe process. Jose, what are we
process. Jose, what are we FYe L
process. Jose, what are we T )
process. Jose, what are we Y e s
process. Jose, what are we about to do now?
So you had a text off a
STV ET IR Al - W lgh
So you had a text off a girl Ty
So you had a text off a girl NI |
So you had a text off a girl W LR
So you had a text off a girl who asked you on Tuesday.
who asked you on Tuesday. Could you
who asked you on Tuesday. Could R
who asked you on Tuesday. Could you be that
who asked you on Tuesday. Could R RGO
who asked you on Tuesday. Could you be that to me, the
you be that to me, the (33
No tell over there? No. And how St 1ile1]
No tell over there? No. And how much do
No tell over there? No. And how UL R
No tell over there? No. And how NN R
No tell over there? No. And how UG TR (R G
No tell over there? No. And how UG IR R G ER
No tell over there? No. And how much do you sell the pill for?
What made you start this work? ey
What made you start this work? What got you into buying and
What got you into buying and selling it
What got you into buying and XA NLEIE
What got you into buying and selling it to women?
A lot of women will be putting e
A lot of women will be putting their health at
A lot of women will be putting T e e
A lot of women will be putting G S a i
A lot of women will be putting G ORI SR G
their health at risk if they Py
their health at risk if they SICEL
their health at risk if they are using this drug to have an
are using this drug to have an s s W
You were showing me some of the e
You were showing me some of the AR
You were showing me some of the text messages that you were
text messages that you were b
text messages that you were Rl LEIGI
text messages that you were LRI
text messages that you were UL LRI R IR T
text messages that you were getting from women earlier, and
getting from women earlier, and they
getting from women earlier, and GG
getting from women earlier, and QIR D]
getting from women earlier, and they are asking you for medical
they are asking you for medical LN
they are asking you for medical advice, as well, how best to
advice, as well, how best to (N
advice, as well, how best to o1
advice, as well, how best to proceed, but you are
advice, as well, how best to O P D R TR LR 1
proceed, but you are not medically trained.
proceed, but you are not L AT DY
proceed, but you are not medically trained. Do you worry
medically trained. Do you worry FYe L
medically trained. Do you worry E A BN ]
medically trained. Do you worry about having that
about having that (1%
about having that (L UYE
about having that TGRS LT
about having that responsibility of giving women
responsibility of giving women LN
responsibility of giving women advice, when you’re not
advice, when you’re not qualified to give them advice
qualified to give them advice Y
qualified to give them advice when it
qualified to give them advice Y Tl e 1
qualified to give them advice when it comes to abortions?
With no plans to currently change
With ne plans to currently change abortion laws in
change abortion laws in LN
change abortion laws in Honduras, the underground sale
Honduras, the underground sale of abortion
Honduras, the underground sale ] ][
Honduras, the underground sale ] el (R
of abortion pills will continue,
of abortion pills will S 1T LS
of abortion pills will continue, but legalisation of
continue, but legalisation of )
continue, but legalisation of the morning
continue, but legalisation of GGGl
continue, but legalisation of the morning after pill is being
the morning after pill is being S Ll
the morning after pill is being U AL )
the morning after pill is being T UL )
the morning after pill is being (RN LG
the morning after pill is being reviewed, and a key figure who
reviewed, and a key figure who o
reviewed, and a key figure who would decide the ocutcome as the
would decide the outcome as the country’'s
would decide the outcome as the ORI
would decide the outcome as the country’s health minister, Jose
country’s health minister, Jose Manuel
country’s health minister, Jose RGN ElG R
country’s health minister, Jose IR BT |
country’s health minister, Jose Manuel Matheu. | asked him if
Manuel Matheu. | asked him if Y
Manuel Matheu. | asked him if he was
Manuel Matheu. | asked him if N R IRIT Yo}
Manuel Matheu. | asked him if he was willing to sign it into
he was willing to sign it into A
But the legalising of that was specifically for women who have
specifically for women who have S}
specifically for women who have experienced violence. What
experienced violence. What FYe L
experienced violence. What about women who have
experienced violence. What YR N N E e
about women who have not S}
about women who have not U RS
about women who have not experienced sexual violence?
STl vl (s
25-year-old Laura recently ey e |
25-year-old Laura recently e I )
25-year-old Laura recently RN IR T E
25-year-old Laura recently discovered she was two months
discovered she was two months pregnant. With no means to
pregnant. With no means to OV
pregnant. With no means to provide for a
pregnant. With no means to IR IR B
pregnant. With no means to N R LI R 1 A 1Y
pregnant. With no means to provide for a child, she was
provide for a child, she was Ela =\
provide for a child, she was actively looking to terminate
actively looking to terminate g
actively looking to terminate (IO E L
actively looking to terminate her pregnancy, even
actively looking to terminate TN =L AR
actively looking to terminate her pregnancy, even if that
her pregnancy, even If that RVl
her pregnancy, even If that involved making risky and
involved making risky and illegal
involved making risky and llegal decisions. There is no
illegal decisions. There is no LGV
illegal decisions. There is no way of
illegal decisions. There is no RN (Y
illegal decisions. There is no way of safely ending a
way of safely ending a L8
way of safely ending a pregnancy with the options that
pregnancy with the options that you
pregnancy with the options that R
pregnancy with the options that ORI
pregnancy with the options that TN T YY)
pregnancy with the options that you have, if you go down and
you have, Iif you go down and illegal route.
you have, if you go down and illegal route. |
you have, if you go down and illegal route. I just want to
llegal route. I just want to know
llegal route. | just want to R i
llegal route. | just want to know what you think about that.
How
Y AL
How Is your mind
How is your mind right now? ey
How is your mind right now? Y 0]
How is your mind right now? Y e R
How is your mind right now? Y Y e B el a e e
How is your mind right now? What are the emotions that you
What are the emotions that you Py
What are the emotions that you IR
Health minister Jose Manuel Matheu has
Health minister Jose Manuel R E R e ]
Health minister Jose Manuel Matheu has now authorised
Health minister Jose Manuel A TR LR N e R
Matheu has now authorised the Ty
Matheu has now authorised the NN d
Matheu has now authorised the NSRS
Matheu has now authorised the use of the morning after pill
use of the morning after pill e
use of the morning after pill for rape victims, but it will
for rape victims, but it will remain illegal in all other
remain illegal in all other T
remain illegal in all other cases, despite hopes placed by
cases, despite hopes placed by )
cases, despite hopes placed by i )
cases, despite hopes placed by some in President
cases, despite hopes placed by IR AL @Al
cases, despite hopes placed by some in President Xi O’'Mara
some in President Xi O’Mara IO
some In President Xi O’Mara Castro, there
some In President Xi O’Mara TR 1)
some In President Xi O’Mara Castro, there are no plans
some In President Xi O’Mara Castro, there are no plans to
Castro, there are no plans to change the law on abortion, and
change the law on abortion, and e Tt e
change the law on abortion, and without change, people such as
without change, people such as Laura will keep looking for
Laura will keep looking for ways to end their pregnancy
ways to end their pregnancy that
ways to end their pregnancy GEAANEY
ways to end their pregnancy that may be unsafe. Drug
that may be unsafe. Drug I
that may be unsafe. Drug AL CY S
that may be unsafe. Drug dealers like Jose will stay in
dealers like Jose will stay in business, and medical
business, and medical e
business, and medical practitioners like Dr Caroline
practitioners like Dr Caroline il
practitioners like Dr Caroline IR R
practitioners like Dr Caroline will have few options for
will have few options for patients.
will have few options for RN 101
will have few options for patients. But significant
patients. But significant change to abortion rules in
change to abortion rules in Honduras remains unlikely.
Some very big changes in our weather over the next 48 hours.
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then the thaw begins on Sunday in the morning -
and | say "begins”, YN R R R AR
will be a slow process, particularly in the north
of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us.
And then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep
Ahead of it, still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east R R PR R R L
milder air will eventually arrive.
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow showers around across the Highlands,
G R T S TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures N GRTEVIL LR
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town, it’s going to be even colder than that.
So, the weather for Saturday itself, and some western parts
will be cloudy at times,
wintry showers are R EVE LRGS0
most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet
and already starting to feel a little less cold.
5in London, 4 in Glasgow and 8 degrees in Plymouth.
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving, Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds IR N eI
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday, there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow is possible around
the Pennines, and VAL Eh
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday, it could be icy
LRI
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in, and by the early afternoon, these are the sort
of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
I RGN N Sunday night into Monday.
Look at that - by Menday morning, we are talking
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth.
And this is the outlook, as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times,
back to the sort of normal weather we would expect
I T e ls 1 0
SRS
This is BBC World News, I’m David Willis_
Our top stories:
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the United States
falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
A new report also shows over FR GG R Nl
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes hits multiple
targets right across Ukraine.
At least three people are dead.
Residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
A rough ride for Ramaphosa.
The South African President is heckled at the ANC’s party
conference, but he is still hoping to be re-elected
despite last week’s impeachment proceedings.
Elon Musk suspends several journalists’ accounts.
we’ll be talking to one RN L LA G
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the United States
has fallen to its lowest level for more than three decades.
That’s according to figures compiled by the Death Penalty
Let’s take a closer W R G g
It suggests that seven out of 20 execution attempts
were botched due to incompetence, failure to follow
protocols or defects RGN e RGNV
Executions had to be put on hold in the states of Idaho,
Ohio, Tennessee and South CI NIRRT
In all, fewer than 30 people were executed,
and across the US, fewer than 50 people
were sentenced to death.
The five-year average for executions, 18.6 per year,
s said to be the lowest in more than 30 years.
That’s a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
Attempts were visibly problematic in 2022.
A high number of states failed I GG RPN
Less than 30 people were executed.
Fewer than 50 people RIS R N [ Fid 7
18.6 executions per year RO AR R B LE
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowes explains how
problematic some of RS e R ]
The statistics are quite damning.
Of all of the executions that took place in the United States
O IER’E T L R R =1 went wrong in some way.
They were visibly problematic, according to this report.
L R SR scheduled in only six states,
VUL TRt R R but a significant number
of those cases they had to be abandoned partway
through the process.
Something went wrong, the protocols weren’t adhered
I+
There was one example in the state of Alabama
where it took three hours R R R I
line, the IV that would deliver the lethal cocktail of drugs
to that individual which would S OE (ARG
And other examples, as well, around the country.
And it seems one of the reasons given is that some of
the personnel that carry out these executions are simply not
medically qualified or experienced enough to deal
with some of the potential problems that can occur
during the process.
In some cases the inmates have a history of medical
problems, of drug abuse, alcohol abuse, and that can
make them more susceptible to some of the issues that
occur during the process, and especially the attachment
Now, executions across this country happen far less
HCLP G AUA ORI R G RV T to, and they are concentrated
in just a small number of states.
And it seems quite likely that (I AU CR G
and others will increase the pressure on politicians
around the United States to look again at the process,
to look again at executions and especially the technicalities
of the lethal injection.
There was a poll earlier this year that suggested some 46%
of Americans still support lethal injections, but that’s
lower than some previous polls and there may well be growing
pressure on politicians in Washington not only to look
again at the process but to question whether executions
should be happening in America at all
Russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks
on Ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies
across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
The capital, Kyiv, was hit, as was President Zelensky’s
home town of Kryvyi Rih.
In his nightly address, he warned that Russia
was capable of further R e
The Mayor of Kharkiv described the destruction
there as colossal and said that thousands of people
were without heating in freezing temperatures.
Our Eastern Europe correspondent Sarah Rainsford
sent this report.
The rumble of a Russian attack, as Kyiv was woken
by more missile strikes.
The danger drove people underground.
The metro is the safest place to huddle here
when the city is under fire.
But as Russian missiles hit the power grid,
the trains all stopped.
I’ve sat here NG e
| want to go home.
But in southern Ukraine, TR LR R R i
Hours later, rescuers were still searching for people
trapped in the ruins.
A child is missing here.
This strike was on President L SR R
TRANSLATION: Whatever the missile worshippers
from Moscow are hoping for, it won’t change the balance
of power in this war.
They have enough missiles there for mass strikes,
but we have enough determination and self-belief
to return what belongs to us.
In northern Kharkiv, the day turned dark,
as the power went down right across town.
This country now copes with what was once unimaginable,
handing out hot food, keeping people warm,
and even in Kyiv, queuing IR R RUERE
defying Russia’s efforts to wear them down.
But these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
We found this old people’s home without heat, light or water.
ISR L TN on sheer resilience.
Nella’s children just brought her here from the south,
thinking she’'d be safer.
TRANSLATION: We’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
Putin says, "Let’s be friends,” but who is the unfriendly one
here?
Our situation here is really miserable.
The staff are doing their best to keep things normal,
SN RN G R[N g T 1
They even have to store water T AR LR R
"It is pretty hard,” Olga tells me, "but we will get through.”
Tonight, there are no traffic lights in much of Kyiv,
no lights at all in large parts of Ukraine’s capital,
as Russia tries to force this country into surrender.
But somehow, life goes on.
Sarah Rainsford, BBC News, Kyiv.
Earlier Mitchel Wallerstein, a senior foreign policy fellow
at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, gave
TR SR AL A a0
Well, | think this is part of a concerted strateqgy
to terrorise and intimidate the Ukrainian people.
Since the Russian forces have not succeeded in their main
aim, which of course originally was to take Kyiv,
and now are falling back in some parts of the Donbas,
the strategy appears now to be just keep firing missiles
into the cities and hope that the people eventually put
pressure on the government RO E R
L LRGSR G L do have capabilities,
air defence capabilities that could be very useful
to Ukraine, including Israel that has the Iron Dome
and the Arrow anti-missile system.
Of course, a lot of this is coming in the form
sl
Drones are very hard to shoot N N R G AN
very low, but there are various systems that can
The Ukrainian military is reporting a high percentage
success in shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
Whether those reports Y Toa i e i
R R ]
South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa, could find out
on Saturday if his ANC party wants to re-elect him as leader
or replace him.
His position has been called N RN R CE C I
impeachment proceedings YUl OGiR e
That followed an investigation R G RO RG]
of money from his farm.
Mr Ramaphosa maintains he has done nothing wrong,
IRV T IR L S R L EL R D in Johannesburg on Friday,
his speech was heckled.
| want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their
dissatisfaction to do so in an orderly manner,
in the way that we do things N BRI N iR E el
Congress.
We’ve been in existence for 110 years, and this is not the time
to come and display this type O R U N L
The chanting began when the President’s predecessor,
Jacob Zuma, entered R R IR GG R e
But despite the opposition, Mr Ramaphosa is still expected
(RGO
Mr Fakude is a senior researcher
at Africa-Asia Dialogue, based in South Africa,
and he gave us this assessment.
It is a big threat, particularly because the ANC
s accused of not providing the services
demanded by the people.
But apparently the ANC has been accused of corruption,
which is what President Cyril Ramaphosa has been trying
(R (o) STy o he began his tenure.
And the reason why you heard that heckling in the meeting
RO ERC TN R R LY is precisely because there
Cyril Ramaphosa continue with his fighting of corruption
and refoerming of the ANC.
Many of those that are accused RO R T
are mentioned in a report B LR e e e - el
in South Africa involve members of the ANC,
many of whom are still active members of the ANC, and those
are the people that are trying to push
back Cyril Ramaphosa’s efforts in trying to clean
up the regime.
They somehow came up with an accusation which is still,
by the way, to be proved in a court of law of
Cyril Ramaphosa having foreign currency in his farm
which was stolen by some people and later on reported
to the police by one of the political competitors
of Cyril Ramaphosa.
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
Two ministers have resigned TR G R (7 T [
of Peru as supporters of the ousted President,
IR (LN continue to protest
against his removal.
Several people have died in demonstrations, and strikes
and protests have closed down much of the country’s transport
system.
The foermer prime minister of Ireland Leo Varadkar
will take up the position again on Saturday
as part of a power-sharing EL I
He will swap roles with Micheal Martin,
the first time that has happened in Ireland’s political
1[5 1g2
A row Is brewing in West Africa over the increasing
invelvement of a Russian R O R R G )
region.
Ghana has accused its neighbour
Burkina Faso of hiring troops from the Wagner Group,
a private Russian military organisation which is also
believed to be involved in fighting alongside Russian
s RV AE IR
Ghana says the mercenaries are operating close
Burkina Faso has respoended by summoning Ghana’s
N R s 1@
Our correspondent in the region sent us this update.
The Russian security group already has a presence
in the Sahel region of West Africa, in countries
like Mali, where it Is said to be aiding in the fight
against the jihadist militants, and also in the Central African
Republic.
So far, there is no official information about an agreement
between the Wagner Group and Burkina Faso, even though
the Prime Minister recently visited Russia.
Burkina Faso has had R I IR CEle
The current transitional government is trying to regain
control of security in areas caught in escalating violence
from militants who are allied to both Al-Qaeda and ISIS.
The insecurity that began in 2015 has killed thousands
of people and left millions displaced.
The number of state-sanctioned executions in the US
has fallen to its lowest level for more than three decades.
A new report has also shown IR GUHGR N el
A deadly wave of Russian missile strikes has hit
multiple targets in Ukraine, killing at least three people.
Residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
The United Nations has added its voice to the many
critics of Twitter’s suspension of journalists’ accounts.
A spokesperson said the action set "a dangerous precedent”
A spokesperson said the action set "a dangerous precedent”.
Earlier, the European Union I R e R e
Elon Musk that the platform RN 4
with sanctions, after he personally ordered
the suspension of several journalists.
In the last few minutes, a poll set up by Mr Musk
on reinstating the accounts has closed, voting in favour
of ending the suspension.
It remains to be seen if that will be acted upen.
Tom Brada reports.
Twitter finds itself at the centre
Twitter finds itself at the e ae N
Twitter finds itself at the R IO
IR LRI RIS N SR LA
Twitter finds itself at the R N OO GA
RO BT RN G TR (A Thursday,
centre of yet another row. On Thursday, reporters from the
Thursday, reporters from the Y3
Thursday, reporters from the New York Times, CNN and the
New York Times, CNN and the Washington Post were among a
Washington Post were among a number
Washington Post were among a Lol e}
Washington Post were among a number of journalists locked
number of journalists locked e
number of journalists locked T
number of journalists locked out of their
number of journalists locked R R e [wns Tl
number of journalists locked R B e oas 0l )
out of their accounts. A I e g
out of their accounts. A Twitter spokesperson said
Twitter spokesperson said QISR
Twitter spokesperson said they’d violated the rules, but
they’d violated the rules, but many are concerned about what
many are concerned about what seems
many are concerned about what AR ]
many are concerned about what seems to be an increasingly
seems to be an increasingly TR e el
seems to be an increasingly TS e RS
seems to be an increasingly e R N )
seems to be an increasingly blurred line between content
blurred line between content moderation and
blurred line between content NN RS
blurred line between content moderation and censorship. We
moderation and censorship. We Py
moderation and censorship. We R
moderation and censorship. We are very disturbed by the
are very disturbed by the arbitrary suspension of
arbitrary suspension of Elwue sl
arbitrary suspension of P un 0l R
arbitrary suspension of L Tl R MG TS
arbitrary suspension of accounts of journalists that we
accounts of journalists that we Saw
accounts of journalists that we saw on Twitter. Media
accounts of journalists that we saw oh Twitter. Media voices
saw on Twitter. Media voices il
saw on Twitter. Media voices should not
saw on Twitter. Media voices T Bt o)
saw on Twitter. Media voices should not be silenced
saw on Twitter. Media voices AR e R e s s
saw on Twitter. Media voices should not be silenced on a
should not be silenced on a platform that professes to be a
platform that professes to be a Yo E1o )
platform that professes to be a space for
platform that professes to be a S ElCR R e
platform that professes to be a R R e U
platform that professes to be a space for freedom of speech.
space for freedom of speech. That statement came hours after
That statement came hours after this warning from
That statement came hours after GIRZEIGIRLRGI RO
That statement came hours after this warning from the EU
this warning from the EU A
this warning from the EU Commissioner, that... At the
Commissioner, that... At the heart of
Commissioner, that... At the Ele R Ry
Commissioner, that... At the heart of the story is Elon
heart of the story is Elon T
heart of the story is Elon Musk’s dispute with
heart of the story is Elon Musk’s dispute with a
heart of the story is Elon T S N R R
Musk’s dispute with a now I L]
Musk’s dispute with a now N T
Musk’s dispute with a now suspended account, @Elonjet.
suspended account, @Elon]et. Using
suspended account, @Elonjet. N1 Ifa A
suspended account, @Elonjet. Using publicly available
Using publicly available information
Using publicly available R e Elale B
Using publicly available information it had been sharing
information it had been sharing location
information it had been sharing YA R o]
information it had been sharing YA R
information it had been sharing location data of Elon Musk’s
location data of Elon Musk’s O
location data of Elon Musk’s private jet,
location data of Elon Musk’s private jet, something
location data of Elon Musk’s private jet, something he
location data of Elon Musk’s private jet, something he says
private jet, something he says put his and his family at risk.
put his and his family at risk. Many of the suspended
Many of the suspended journalist had been covering
journalist had been covering T e1d
journalist had been covering G EI S I
journalist had been covering that story. The one thing that
that story. The one thing that 1R
that story. The one thing that I3
that story. The one thing that IS AT
that story. The one thing that all of us had in common was
all of us had in common was that
all of us had in common was R
all of us had in common was that we had
all of us had in common was eI R R s
all of us had in common was that we had linked to the
that we had linked to the Facebook page tracking his
Facebook page tracking his 1)
Facebook page tracking his private jet. | quess the real
private jet. | guess the real ]
private jet. | guess the real L ECE
private jet. | guess the real LR RG]
private jet. | guess the real lesson is if they want to find
lesson is if they want to find Y
lesson is if they want to find a reason to ban people, you
lesson is If they want to find a reason to ban people, you can
a reason to ban people, you can el
a reason to ban people, you can find that
a reason to ban people, you can MG RE ]
a reason to ban people, you can MMGEG s ]
a reason to ban people, you can find that and then kind
a reason to ban people, you can NGRS R R sl
a reason to ban people, you can MMGEG R R AR Re e
find that and then kind of come up with an explanation later
up with an explanation later Nh
up with an explanation later LI
up with an explanation later on. Mr musk has not commented
on. Mr musk has not commented Mg a0
on. Mr musk has not commented Mg e A
on. Mr musk has not commented directly on the suspensions,
directly on the suspensions, although
directly on the suspensions, EIG TG G
directly on the suspensions, although he wrote in a tweet
although he wrote in a tweet A
Doxxing
ML
Doxxing is when you share e ]
Doxxing is when you share XN
Doxxing is when you share IR
Doxxing is when you share someone because my private
someone because my private R e aa it Te]
someone because my private information online, hoping to
information online, hoping to o[
information online, hoping to do them harm, and few would
do them harm, and few would O
do them harm, and few would argue with Twitter privatising
argue with Twitter privatising ey
argue with Twitter privatising users of safety. At
argue with Twitter privatising TR T LG A N )
argue with Twitter privatising users of safety. At some is
users of safety. At some Is guestioning when it
users of safety. At some is guestioning when it matches up
questioning when it matches up with
questioning when it matches up g
questioning when it matches up with Mr Musk is my commitment
with Mr Musk is my commitment to
with Mr Musk is my commitment iy
with Mr Musk is my commitment R R e
with Mr Musk is my commitment to free speech. Tom Rhoda, BBC
to free speech. Tom Rhoda, BBC IS )
to free speech. Tom Rhoda, BBC News. To Europe now.
A giant aquarium - installed in the lobby
of a luxury German hotel - has exploded, sending one
and a half thousand exotic fish cascading across the floor.
ST RGNS LT, T has the story.
This aquarium was built to impress -
a million Litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish -
there was even a Lift RGN R
All towering over the lobby of a Berlin hotel.
My God!
But early this merning,
it seems the tank simply shattered.
Glass and metal ripped through the building.
UGN RN [TE T N R
Extraordinarily, just two people were hurt,
neither of them seriously.
The hotel actually i EhGEe
| could describe it as a... IMITATES EXPLOSION.
And | jolted out of bed BRI Tl
| didn’t see any movement so | didn’t know what
the heck was going on.
| looked outside the window, | saw a lady running.
Investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
LT IR LR (T E [N taken when the aquarium
TR Sl i
"You could fire O R G Rl
says this architect, "and it would only cause
"a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"Such a Hollywood scenario is impossible.”
The authorities suspect material fatigue
may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
There is a sense, | think, of relief amongst many
here that this N R Rl
LRSS R EL T and that lobby, the street
outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors,
many of them children.
LI [ Tl 4 at the destruction,
regret at the loss IR A TR
but an acknowledgement, too, that this could
have been s¢ much worse.
Jenny Hill, BBC News, Berlin.
Fittingly, perhaps, we are L
Fittingly, perhaps, we are going to take you to outer
going to take you to outer Yo E1o )
going to take you to outer LA
you to outer space now.
The American space agency, Nasa, has launched a mission
to undertake the first survey of all of the Earth’s surface
waters from space.
Emer McCarthy reports.
Engine ignition, and left off! For a
Engine ignition, and left off! TR e1e e
Engine ignition, and left off! For a landmark mission, which
For a landmark mission, which aims to transform
For a landmark mission, which LR i e R i EL e
For a landmark mission, which LR R R R R )
For a landmark mission, which RO R R TR G
aims to transform what we know FYe L
aims to transform what we know R g
aims to transform what we know about water on
aims to transform what we know LR eIl
aims to transform what we know about water on earth. Spot
aims to transform what we know [ A L R - e A e R gL
about water on earth. Spot will i 1ad
about water on earth. Spot will chart the
about water on earth. Spot will S R R
about water on earth. Spot will chart the precise height of
chart the precise height of e
chart the precise height of e
chart the precise height of leaver’s - McCrow
chart the precise height of VS o A
leaver’s - McCrow rivers, e e
leaver’s - McCrow rivers, T e sl
leaver’s - McCrow rivers, reservoirs and lakes, and will
reservoirs and lakes, and will )
reservoirs and lakes, and will I R 4
reservoirs and lakes, and will I R o S e
reservoirs and lakes, and will also track features of
reservoirs and lakes, and will I R G e R R
also track features of the ocean
CI VR (1o @ LI [ e TR ta o)
CI VR (1o @ LI [ ocean surface in
also track features of the ocean surface in unparalleled
ocean surface in unparalleled IR
ocean surface in unparalleled detail. The
ocean surface in unparalleled RN e
ocean surface in unparalleled [ RN a0l sl
ocean surface in unparalleled RN R T R
detail. The results could be i El (Y
detail. The results could be vitally important, helping to
vitally important, helping to T IO
vitally important, helping to I[N RG]
vitally important, helping to improve flood and drought
improve flood and drought I o
improve flood and drought forecasts, and giving
forecasts, and giving T e ey
forecasts, and giving researchers a
forecasts, and giving Ot e N e
researchers a better understanding of climate
understanding of climate change. Every three weeks, it
change. Every three weeks, it s
change. Every three weeks, it L]
change. Every three weeks, it LR R
change. Every three weeks, it is going to complete a map of
is going to complete a map of e
is going to complete a map of our planet,
s going to complete a map of our planet, 90% of our planet
our planet, 90% of our planet A
our planet, 90% of our planet s E) A
our planet, 90% of our planet N AR
our planet, 90% of our planet anyway, so on a monthly basis
anyway, so on a monthly basis Y
anyway, so on a monthly basis we can
anyway, so on a monthly basis NN i ]
anyway, so on a monthly basis NI i e ]
anyway, so on a monthly basis we can see how ocean levels of
we can see how ocean levels of changing, how the seasons
changing, how the seasons P
changing, how the seasons affect things as well. So,
affect things as well. So, IR
affect things as well. So, L )
affect things as well. So, yeah, it’s a
G A RGN RUTT IR R L a1
yeah, it’s a wonderful G
yeah, it’s a wonderful satellite, a wonderful mission.
satellite, a wonderful mission. T}
satellite, a wonderful mission. e N1s]
satellite, a wonderful mission. TR
satellite, a wonderful mission. Once in position, Spot’s and
Once in position, Spot’s and and |
Once in positien, Spot’s and FRLER il
Once in positien, Spot’s and EL RN
Once in positien, Spot’s and and | will begin sending
Once in positien, Spot’s and and | will begin sending pulses
and | will begin sending pulses e
and | will begin sending pulses R Rl
and | will begin sending pulses R LI LR
and | will begin sending pulses AR LR T i
and | will begin sending pulses out towards the earth’s surface
out towards the earth’s surface and
out towards the earth’s surface R b]
out towards the earth’s surface and counting the time that
and counting the time that reflections take to
and counting the time that S il e d R RN Tt 1]
and counting the time that S il i R R i Nl
reflections take to come back. 3
reflections take to come back. RGO
reflections take to come back. RGN i R
reflections take to come back. It’s these echoes that allow
It’s these echoes that allow Spot to make very precise
Spot to make very precise determinations of height. It
determinations of height. It should be
determinations of height. It LGRS
determinations of height. It should be able to assess
determinations of height. It G E L R
should be able to assess all e
S TG R R A rivers, which
S TG R R A PR T R
S TG R R A R I IR 1o
S TG R R A rivers, which are at least
S TG R - A rivers, which are at least 100
rivers, which are at least 100 Ny
rivers, which are at least 100 metres wide,
rivers, which are at least 100 TR I o]
rivers, which are at least 100 NSRRI R R ]
metres wide, and all Lakes larger than six hectares. The
larger than six hectares. The data
larger than six hectares. The ELeR e Tl
larger than six hectares. The data could provide crucial
data could provide crucial L
data could provide crucial G EGT
data could provide crucial insight into waterways we
data could provide crucial Gl R R B R LG
insight into waterways we are e
insight into waterways we are otherwise struggling to
otherwise struggling to understand. Monitoring networks
understand. Monitoring networks )
understand. Monitoring networks aven on
understand. Monitoring networks AN R i)
understand. Monitoring networks AN R N
understand. Monitoring networks AN R ]
understand. Monitoring networks even on some of the whelp is my
even on some of the whelp is my GRS
even on some of the whelp is my greatest rivers like the
greatest rivers like the Amazon,
greatest rivers like the Y Er RO
greatest rivers like the Amazon, the Congo, are nowhere
Amazon, the Congo, are nowhere T
Amazon, the Congo, are nowhere YT
Amazon, the Congo, are nowhere near as thorough and, hence it
near as thorough and, hence it s
near as thorough and, hence it X453
near as thorough and, hence it RG]
near as thorough and, hence it RGOSR
near as thorough and, hence it is they need to be, and in many
is they need to be, and in many e
is they need to be, and in many e
s they need to be, and in many cases are actually in decline,
cases are actually in decline, )
cases are actually in decline, R
cases are actually in decline, R
cases are actually in decline, so we are getting less
so we are getting less R e aa it Te]
so we are getting less IR e aa i Ao e e ey ]
so we are getting less R el a e e R El]
so we are getting less R e i A e R R
so we are getting less R e i A e R e R N s
infermation now than we did T
infermation now than we did guite some
information now than we did quite some time
information now than we did IR R TR
information now than we did quite some time ago. It
information now than we did guite some time ago. It will
infermation now than we did guite some time ago. It will be
quite some time ago. It will be Y
quite some time ago. It will be PR
quite some time ago. It will be R R e 481
quite some time ago. It will be a few months before
quite some time ago. It will be R AU G R L1
quite some time ago. It will be a few months before Spot is
a few months before Spot is (172
a few months before Spot Is (R L LS
a few months before Spot Is fully operational. Once up
a few months before Spot is fully operational. Once up and
fully operational. Once up and running, scientists hope we can
running, scientists hope we can W
running, scientists hope we can open a new
running, scientists hope we can IR R 1
running, scientists hope we can open a new chapter in our
open a new chapter in our understanding of climate change
understanding of climate change and
understanding of climate change R )
understanding of climate change LR i
understanding of climate change and the water cycle on earth.
and the water cycle on earth. I35 1]0)
and the water cycle on earth. Emo McCarthy,
and the water cycle on earth. SR e ] T
The savage murder of N a BN
and his mother’s subsequent fight for justice -
has been made into a movie, which is due to be released
It’s produced by Barbara Broccoli - who’s behind
the Bond films - and it stars Danielle Dead-Wyler,
as Emmett’s mother, May-mie.
They’ve been speaking to our Culture Editor,
14-year-old Emmett Till.
They have a different set AR R e
His brutal murder in Mississippi in 1955
galvanised the civil rights movement.
The body of Emmett Louis Till has been found dead. ..
Driven by his mother, Mamie.
You have to be extra careful with white people,
you can’t risk looking at them the wrong way.
| know!
| wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility,
the weight of the civil O I AL R TP
as you made this movie?
Oh, | felt every inch of It,
and | knew that | had to honour it,
| had to give it that LR e
LRV R ST TR history, we’re doomed
IECTHEEI A
Emmett was lynched for whistling
at a white female shopkeeper
in this segregated part of America.
But the film deliberately S R R R e e
he suffered at the LR R R R
I think we’re over just the grotesque nature
of witnessing violence NN EI e
It shouldn’t take that kind of visual to ignite folks
GG A GER AT e o
that are happening - that had happened in 1955,
that continue to happen to black people, or any
oppressed group of people.
Back in 1955, Mamie Till-Mobley had her son’s violated body
photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
Many thousands filed past it.
That smell is my son’s body reeking of racial hatred.
Come with me, please.
She was one of the first people to recognise how vitally
important the image e R R R e alsh
And | think, when you see what happened with George Floyd,
that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder,
we wouldn’t have believed it R MR - L hi
The two men accused of killing SRR R
And | do think that the trial will be carried on fairly,
and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
A white male jury found the men not guilty.
They later admitted the murder,
but couldn’t be SR s Rels -]
Though they’re dead, IR MEICE e d ke
Do you think that justice will ever be served?
Good question. N
I think that films have the opportunity to reawaken
people’s understanding of critical moments in history.
That troubled history now being told
on screen, nearly 70 years on.
Katie Razzall, BBC News.
If you fancy taking A GG e e
and you prefer freezing conditions to warm sunshine,
I R NIV R T ideal holiday location.
this picture perfect location, 200
this picture perfect location, p I O AT e
this picture perfect location, L O AN T I e ol Y
this picture perfect location, L O A e e o e )
this picture perfect location, IO O I A ooy s - Yeedle
200 kilometres above the Arctic Wt
200 kilometres above the Arctic Circle, is home to a very
Circle, is home to a very ol ar
Circle, is home to a very special hotel, where there is
special hotel, where there is always
special hotel, where there is F U]
special hotel, where there is EZ R o]
special hotel, where there is always a warm welcome, but the
always a warm welcome, but the rooms
always a warm welcome, but the )
always a warm welcome, but the rooms are very
always a warm welcome, but the roeoms are very cold.
always a warm welcome, but the IR A U A
always a warm welcome, but the roeoms are very cold. -5 to
rooms are very cold. -5 to T L
rooms are very cold. -5 to VG
rooms are very cold. -5 to minus eight Celsius. The ice
minus eight Celsius. The ice hotel
minus eight Celsius. The ice S R
minus eight Celsius. The ice R
minus eight Celsius. The ice B R a s
minus eight Celsius. The ice hotel is the world’s first
minus eight Celsius. The ice BRI R T s
hotel is the world’s first and largest
hotel is the world’s first and IO G
hotel is the world’s first and largest hotel built out of snow
largest hotel built out of snow and
largest hotel built out of snow RGN
largest hotel built out of snow LR
largest hotel built out of snow and ice. New parts are hand
and ice. New parts are hand a0 lo] 0]
and ice. New parts are hand iR
and ice. New parts are hand sculpted out of massive
and ice. New parts are hand Ju R R N LN Rl
sculpted out of massive ice (e
sculpted out of massive ice blocks, and the team don’t have
blocks, and the team don’t have to
blocks, and the team don’t have [
blocks, and the team don’t have to go far to
blocks, and the team don’t have LR EIR Rl
blocks, and the team don’t have to go far to find the source
to go far to find the source e
to go far to find the source TR
to go far to find the source for the building materials.
for the building materials. (e s
for the building materials. What we’re
for the building materials. LR RN R |
for the building materials. What we’re looking at
for the building materials. R AN
for the building materials. What we’re looking at is the
What we’re looking at is the 100
What we’re looking at is the VY
What we’re looking at is the tawny River, one of the biggest
tawny River, one of the biggest ey
tawny River, one of the biggest RO IR
tawny River, one of the biggest rivers in Sweden, that is where
rivers in Sweden, that is where Y
rivers in Sweden, that is where T ety
rivers in Sweden, that is where we harvest and get the ice to
we harvest and get the ice to G
we harvest and get the ice to build the ice hotel
we harvest and get the ice to IR G A Gl
we harvest and get the ice to G R GRS A L
build the ice hotel every year, and
build the ice hotel every year, R )
build the ice hotel every year, and we also
build the ice hotel every year, LR CE R )
build the ice hotel every year, LRGN T R
build the ice hotel every year, LR GRS R N RO R CL G
build the ice hotel every year, and we alse pump the water that
and we also pump the water that goes through
and we also pump the water that RGO R G
and we also pump the water that goes through the snow cannons
goes through the snow cannons that makes the snow for the
that makes the snow for the N
that makes the snow for the T Y
that makes the snow for the [T RNV G|
that makes the snow for the hotel. So everything comes from
hotel. So everything comes from )
hotel. So everything comes from e
hotel. So everything comes from N
hotel. So everything comes from the river. Like a
hotel. So everything comes from R R )
the river. Like a scene I
the river. Like a scene (I AT
the river. Like a scene straight out of Narnia, the
straight out of Narnia, the e
straight out of Narnia, the N RV
straight out of Narnia, the N R F e
straight out of Narnia, the hotel has 12 art suites,
hotel has 12 art suites, ML
hotel has 12 art suites, uniquely designed by artists
uniguely designed by artists Tee I8t
uniquely designed by artists e
uniquely designed by artists from all over
uniquely designed by artists TR R R el
uniquely designed by artists from all over the world. The
Intricate carvings adorn the
intricate carvings adorn the (LR )
intricate carvings adorn the walls, and the ice also has a
walls, and the ice also has a [JJTudle]
walls, and the ice also has a practical use. No need to ask
practical use. No need to ask e
practical use. No need to ask for a
practical use. No need to ask TR a4
practical use. No need to ask TR a1 e s
practical use. No need to ask TR G R
practical use. No need to ask for a drink on the rocks here.
for a drink on the rocks here. T/
for a drink on the rocks here. (TP T
for a drink on the rocks here. When the spring comes, parts of
When the spring comes, parts of )
When the spring comes, parts of s
When the spring comes, parts of i )
When the spring comes, parts of Wi
When the spring comes, parts of the hotel are left to melt back
the hotel are left to melt back Ty
the hotel are left to melt back TR R )
the hotel are left to melt back into the beautiful landscape
into the beautiful landscape until
into the beautiful landscape T isiN S ed
into the beautiful landscape iR eai N
into the beautiful landscape until next time. Claudia
until next time. Claudia Redmond, BBC News.
Wl o Bl
Compared to the climate here in i
Compared to the climate here in central London, it looks
central London, it looks A
central London, it looks positively tropical. You are
positively tropical. You are watching BBC News.
Some very big changes in our weather over the next 48 hours.
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then the thaw begins on Sunday in the morning -
and | say "begins”, YN R R R AR
will be a slow process, particularly in the north
of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us.
And then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep
Ahead of it, still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east R R PR R R L
milder air will eventually arrive.
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow showers around, across the Highlands,
the Pennines, TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures N GRTEVIL LR
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town, it’s going to be even colder than that.
So, the weather for Saturday itself, and some western parts
will be cloudy at times, wintry showers are certainly
on the cards, most of the rain around the coasts, snow
or sleet inland, and already starting to feel a little less
Five in London, four in Glasgow and eight degrees in Plymouth.
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving, Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds IR N eI
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday, there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow is possible around
the Pennines, and VAL Eh
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday, it could be icy
LRI
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in, and by the early afternoon, these are the sort
of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
I RGN N Sunday night into Monday.
Look at that - by Menday morning, we are talking
about the mid-teens in Cardiff and Plymouth,
and this is the outlook, as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times,
back to the sort of normal weather we would expect
I T e ls 1 0
SRS
A report on capital punishment R R S R iR R e
than a third of the 20 scheduled executions due
to take place this year were botched.
The Death Penalty Infermation NN E
the number of state-sanctioned killings fell to its lowest
level for more than three decades.
Ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages
of Russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity
and water supplies across the country.
At least three people are I R P R CEU AR
South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa, was heckled
when he addressed his own ANC party conference.
Mr Ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings
earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand
as party leader.
Now on BBC News, The Travel Show.
This week cn the show: A
This week on the show: A Centenary fit for a pharach.
Centenary fit for a pharaoh. G
Centenary fit for a pharaoh. IR
Centenary fit for a pharaoh. IR
Centenary fit for a pharach. This is very exciting,
Centenary fit for a pharaoh. This is very exciting, because
This is very exciting, because K7 -]
This is very exciting, because RN LI
This is very exciting, because I’ve been given permission to
I’ve been given permission to actually go down these steps to
actually go down these steps to IO
actually go down these steps to ground level. And
actually go down these steps to LRSI
actually go down these steps to LRSS L G E]
actually go down these steps to ground level. And get a closer
ground level. And get a closer look.
ground level. And get a closer LTy
ground level. And get a closer R R e
ground level. And get a closer look. The Christmas tradition
look. The Christmas tradition Ela i
look. The Christmas tradition that will scare
look. The Christmas tradition BRI R )
look. The Christmas tradition that will scare the stockings
that will scare the stockings i
that will scare the stockings off you.
And why Glaswegian panto crowds Py
And why Glaswegian panto crowds are not to
And why Glaswegian panto crowds e R )
And why Glaswegian panto crowds I R N I |
And why Glaswegian panto crowds RN AR 1 R
And why Glaswegian panto crowds RN A LR s i
are not to be messed with. If )
are not to be messed with. If the act
are not to be messed with. If sl
are not to be messed with. If e R
are not to be messed with. If the act on that stage was not
GCRTa L RO EI S ELLRUER L)
the act on that stage was not good enough, believe me, they
good enough, believe me, they P
good enough, believe me, they MG Tt
good enough, believe me, they LA
Egypt’s
Lo\ 1R TN,
Egypt’'s valley of the
T\ L ERE AT R G TR [
ST S R LR R G TR S UG
Egypt’s valley of the kings, perhaps the most famous
perhaps the most famous archaeological site in the
archaeological site in the e
archaeological site in the world. And this has been a
world. And this has been a landmark year at the burial
landmark year at the burial =l e
landmark year at the burial I AT
landmark year at the burial I IR 0
landmark year at the burial chamber many people make a
chamber many people make a Y
chamber many people make a beeline for. Exactly 100 years
beeline for. Exactly 100 years ago, the tomb
beeline for. Exactly 100 years EL R G R TLoE
beeline for. Exactly 100 years EL AR G R R R 1)
beeline for. Exactly 100 years ago, the tomb of the boy
ago, the tomb of the boy king Tutankhamun was discovered
Tutankhamun was discovered Tl g ]
Tutankhamun was discovered Tl g R ]
Tutankhamun was discovered underneath the desert close to
underneath the desert close to )
underneath the desert close to R )
underneath the desert close to the town of Luxor.
underneath the desert close to MR R AN G e LT
underneath the desert close to the town of Luxor. The team
underneath the desert close to R AN R LR IR e
the town of Luxor. The team had ]
the town of Luxor. The team had GGG
the town of Luxor. The team had XML LR
the town of Luxor. The team had NIRRT
the town of Luxor. The team had N R I L
the town of Luxor. The team had been digging for years and were
been digging for years and were il
been digging for years and were L)
been digging for years and were LG
been digging for years and were right on the verge
been digging for years and were (ORI LY
been digging for years and were right on the verge of giving up
right on the verge of giving up Y
right on the verge of giving up TR
right on the verge of giving up when the top
right on the verge of giving up MR R GRS
right on the verge of giving up MR R TR K]
right on the verge of giving up N R R R
right on the verge of giving up when the top of a set of
when the top of a set of P Te e 4
when the top of a set of E e RS Yo
when the top of a set of ancient steps appeared in the
ancient steps appeared in the sand. And lo
ancient steps appeared in the ¥R LA ]
ancient steps appeared in the UL G CEER R L OB
ancient steps appeared in the sand. And lo and behold, this
sand. And lo and behold, this 3
sand. And lo and behold, this TR L4
sand. And lo and behold, this R IR G5
sand. And lo and behold, this R R G AT A
sand. And lo and behold, this RIS AT A
sand. And lo and behold, this is what they saw. | mean, look
is what they saw. | mean, look 1
is what they saw. | mean, look A
is what they saw. | mean, look at it. Incredible, absolutely
at it. Incredible, absolutely astonishing. And when the
astonishing. And when the archaeologists did come here,
archaeologists did come here, they
archaeologists did come here, QSR
archaeologists did come here, GG S
archaeologists did come here, they didn’t just find his
GQRGLR ST S Rl I
GQRGLR ST S Rl (IR Y
GQRGLR ST S Rl remains. They found
QRGO SIS [R5 remains. They found oernaments,
remains. They found ornaments, jewellery,
remains. They found ornaments, IR A I L
remains. They found ornaments, jewellery, paintings, bits of
jewellery, paintings, bits of chariots, trumpets, perfume and
chariots, trumpets, perfume and )
chariots, trumpets, perfume and even wind. Tutankhamun wasn’t
even wind. Tutankhamun wasn’t )
even wind. Tutankhamun wasn’t the most
even wind. Tutankhamun wasn’’t R e 4 e d
even wind. Tutankhamun wasn’’t LA A E IR
the most influential or best known of the pharachs, and
known of the pharaohs, and his tomb
known of the pharachs, and his Bk e
known of the pharachs, and his tomb isn’t the biggest
known of the pharachs, and his R S GERILL S A
known of the pharachs, and his tomb isn’t the biggest of the
NDEEL RS QLR IL LIy R G R
tomb isn’t the biggest of the S o[ Ja 0] G
tomb isn’t the biggest of the S o[ a (a0 C o 0] 8
tomb isn’t the biggest of the most spectacular, but the
LR S GERILL L g R4 most spectacular, but the find
most spectacular, but the find Ty
most spectacular, but the find ]
most spectacular, but the find was a sensation in 1922
most spectacular, but the find R N IR LY 2T
LR PN R R PP [ RiET Y
was a sensation in 1922 and made headlines arocund the
made headlines around the i
made headlines around the G A
made headlines around the world. Now, then. This is very
world. Now, then. This is very exciting,
world. Now, then. This Is very oo [0 S
world. Now, then. This Is very exciting, because I’ve been
exciting, because I’ve been G
exciting, because I’ve been given permission
exciting, because I’ve been N IR
exciting, because I’ve been given permission to actually go
given permission to actually go down
given permission to actually go R
given permission to actually go down these steps to ground
down these steps to ground T
down these steps to ground BELD
down these steps to ground LGN
down these steps to ground E LG
down these steps to ground level and get a closer look.
level and get a closer look. G
level and get a closer look. IR e
level and get a closer look. This mural is incredible. It
This mural is incredible. It actually depicts the afterlife
actually depicts the afterlife N
actually depicts the afterlife of Tutankhamun. It’s incredible
of Tutankhamun. It’s incredible that
of Tutankhamun. It’s incredible Gy
of Tutankhamun. It’s incredible L B L)
of Tutankhamun. It’s incredible that it’s also well preserved.
that it’s also well preserved. i
that it’s also well preserved. [T
that it’s also well preserved. It looks astonishing.
that it’s also well preserved. (AW L NG
that it’s also well preserved. It looks astonishing. I’m not
It looks astonishing. I’m not L
It looks astonishing. I’m not going to touch it, but well.
going to touch it, but well. T
going to touch it, but well. For this corner of
going to touch it, but well. RGN GIG IR )1
going to touch it, but well. For this corner of Egypt, the
For this corner of Egypt, the M8
RGN IR R T T SR T discovery meant more
For this corner of Egypt, the S AU R R R
discovery meant more treasure in the
discovery meant more treasure R Rieigat]
discovery meant more treasure MR- R s R
discovery meant more treasure MR R s R R a3t
discovery meant more treasure MR R et R R e NIaLa 1B Ta o]
discovery meant more treasure R R R RN R )
in the form of tourism and the sales opportunities that came
sales opportunities that came with
sales opportunities that came e
sales opportunities that came T A L[]
sales opportunities that came G REICL R
sales opportunities that came with it. Mo Salah, the
with it. Mo Salah, the Liverpool football player.
Liverpool football player. Thank you.
Liverpool football player. =L ST
Liverpool football player. ST - Y 018
Liverpool football player. Thank you. A century on and
Thank you. A century on and X e
Thank you. A century on and NN E ]
Thank you. A century on and R alc L N I
Thank you. A century on and souvenirs in his image still
souvenirs in his image still bring
souvenirs in his image still VRl
souvenirs in his image still VLR G
souvenirs in his image still bring in the money. Thank you
bring in the money. Thank you very
bring in the money. Thank you AR
bring in the money. Thank you very much. Greece, no. From
very much. Greece, no. From London. You have Tutankhamun
London. You have Tutankhamun here, so much Tutankhamun.
It has been a landmark year for Egypt’s
It has been a landmark year for L SN L T -I
It has been a landmark year for Egypt’s antiquities, with
It has been a landmark year for Egypt’s antiquities, with new
Egypt’s antiquities, with new and
Egypt’s antiquities, with new R e e |
Egypt’s antiquities, with new R R e e I e a1
and restored discoveries L]
and restored discoveries opening and a huge littering
opening and a huge littering parade as the mummies of 22
parade as the mummies of 22 pharachs
parade as the mummies of 22 EIE LR GG
parade as the mummies of 22 pharachs were moved to their
pharachs were moved to their Ty
pharachs were moved to their AU
pharachs were moved to their new home, the National Museum
new home, the National Museum of
new home, the National Museum WALV L]
new home, the National Museum of Eqyptian civilisation. Also
of Egyptian civilisation. Also NN
of Egyptian civilisation. Also newly opened
of Egyptian civilisation. Also NSV U L LGS
of Egyptian civilisation. Also N R N L R A I LAy
newly opened after restoration a4
newly opened after restoration e S
newly opened after restoration Nl E R
newly opened after restoration S GLRNa
newly opened after restoration S SR NN
newly opened after restoration N SR N N R
newly opened after restoration work is the home of the man
work is the home of the man widely credited with finding
widely credited with finding Tutankhamun’s burial chamber,
Tutankhamun’s burial chamber, Howard
Tutankhamun’s burial chamber, SR IR s
Tutankhamun’s burial chamber, Howard Carter. However, many
Howard Carter. However, many Y-\
Howard Carter. However, many F VAT
Howard Carter. However, many say the Egyptian
Howard Carter. However, many say the Eqgyptian contribution
say the Egyptian contribution to all this
say the Egyptian contribution RO
say the Egyptian contribution to all this has been
to all this has been overlooked, and I’m on my
G G 1E L T ] overlooked, and I’m on my way
overlooked, and I’m on my way to
overlooked, and I’m on my way e
overlooked, and I’m on my way IR )
overlooked, and I’m on my way RN
overlooked, and I’m on my way IR AN R
overlooked, and I’m on my way to hear some of that story
overlooked, and I’m on my way to hear some of that stery and
to hear some of that story and e
to hear some of that story and ]
to hear some of that stery and meet a family very well known
meet a family very well known in
meet a family very well known RO
meet a family very well known RGN LT\
meet a family very well known RGN LT e
in these parts sadly not A
in these parts sadly not NN 1
in these parts sadly not outside this country. It’s
outside this country. It’s interesting with the two
outside this country. It’s IR R G R TR 3
interesting with the two sides of
interesting with the two sides SRy
interesting with the two sides NGRS
interesting with the two sides of the Nile, I’ve just come
of the Nile, I’ve just come Tee I8t
of the Nile, I’ve just come TR e
of the Nile, I’ve just come from the east side, which is
from the east side, which is NN
from the east side, which Is e[
from the east side, which Is N | Y
from the east side, which Is where all the shops and
from the east side, which Is R RGEE EL U
where all the shops and life IR
where all the shops and life bustles on
where all the shops and life IR T I ]
where all the shops and life bustles on and people live
bustles on and people live )
bustles on and people live e ls|
bustles on and people live there and stuff.
bustles on and people live NGRS .
bustles on and people live there and stuff. But I’m
there and stuff. But I’m heading
TR GRS G AT A heading now
there and stuff. But I’m heading now back to the
heading now back to the Ul
heading now back to the emptier, less developed west
emptier, less developed west LN
emptier, less developed west R
emptier, less developed west side, where you’ll
emptier, less developed west O IR R N (BT
emptier, less developed west RO R C UM R G
side, where you’ll find the tombs
side, where you’ll find the e s |
side, where you’ll find the tombs and burial chambers of
tombs and burial chambers of )
tombs and burial chambers of GRS
tombs and burial chambers of GRS
tombs and burial chambers of the valley of the
tombs and burial chambers of QR SR R N
tombs and burial chambers of the valley of the Kings. And
the valley of the Kings. And they call that the Side
the valley of the Kings. And QAR GEI R GRS
QRN EG RGN S A T QA R GEIR G ER ER R G
they call that the Side of the YR
they call that the Side of the Dead. This
they call that the Side of the DEEY MR L TR Z 10010
they call that the Side of the Dead. This family run
they call that the Side of the DEEL IR LR E AL K]
they call that the Side of the Dead. This family run a cafe
Dead. This family run a cafe ey
Dead. This family run a cafe R A
Dead. This family run a cafe QRG]
Dead. This family run a cafe these days, but generations of
these days, but generations of them
these days, but generations of iR 81
these days, but generations of them farms along the banks of
them farms along the banks of )
them farms along the banks of RN
them farms along the banks of the Nile, and
them farms along the banks of G AL
them farms along the banks of the Nile, and as such have an
the Nile, and as such have an e aTa e )
the Nile, and as such have an intimate knowledge of what lies
intimate knowledge of what lies ]
intimate knowledge of what lies on and
intimate knowledge of what Lies on and underneath, the dust
intimate knowledge of what lies on and underneath, the dust and
on and underneath, the dust and sand. So
on and underneath, the dust and LR
on and underneath, the dust and AL R G R
on and underneath, the dust and AR R G R RG]
I ARTR G R ERG 12-year-old boy
sand. So this is the 12-year-old boy that they said
12-year-old boy that they said %1\
12-year-old boy that they said really discovered the term. He
really discovered the term. He o Ee i
really discovered the term. He aEN e
really discovered the term. He A EI IR R
really discovered the term. He claims it was actually his
claims it was actually his Bl
claims it was actually his father who
claims it was actually his IR e R il
claims it was actually his father who first found
claims it was actually his IR RIS R
claims it was actually his B R R AR R s at1e
father who first found the tomb of Tutankhamun, Ahmed Abdel
of Tutankhamun, Ahmed Abdel e
of Tutankhamun, Ahmed Abdel Rasul was just a child at the
Rasul was just a child at the iy
Now,
VAR sk
Now, Egyptian perspectives like ey
Now, Egyptian perspectives like )
Now, Egyptian perspectives like these are being knowledged more
these are being knowledged more LTS
these are being knowledged more AT ]
these are being knowledged more L AL G
these are being knowledged more widely, and one of
these are being knowledged more L AL LR R RO
these are being knowledged more widely, and one of the ways
widely, and one of the ways R
widely, and one of the ways that’s happening is by
widely, and one of the ways G E R EN DR A [
that’s happening is by huge landmark public projects like
landmark public projects like )
landmark public projects like NN A
landmark public projects like the brand-new Grant Egyptian
the brand-new Grant Egyptian U
the brand-new Grant Egyptian Museum, due to open in 2023.
Museum, due to open in 2023. 1L
Museum, due to open in 2023. It’ll be
Museum, due to open in 2023. TR
Museum, due to open in 2023. It’ll be the largest
It’ll be the largest archaeological Museum complex
archaeological Museum complex 3
archaeological Museum complex inthe
archaeological Museum complex in the world.
archaeological Museum complex RGN s - Ya )
archaeological Museum complex in the world. And this, too -
in the world. And this, too - )
in the world. And this, too - N
in the world. And this, too - NV A
in the world. And this, too - the Avenue of the Sphinx,
the Avenue of the Sphinx, el s Bia s Nd
the Avenue of the Sphinx, buried under sand for
the Avenue of the Sphinx, AR R d sl
buried under sand for hundreds of years
buried under sand for hundreds R
buried under sand for hundreds IR A
buried under sand for hundreds of years and last year opened
of years and last year opened to
of years and last year opened Ry
of years and last year opened to the public for the first
to the public for the first iy
to the public for the first s
to the public for the first aiat - I S et
to the public for the first time. It runs from Luxor Temple
time. It runs from Luxor Temple to
time. It runs from Luxor Temple e
time. It runs from Luxor Temple R IR 1)
time. It runs from Luxor Temple to hear, this magnificent
to hear, this magnificent e
to hear, this magnificent complex. What do you think
complex. What do you think FYe L
complex. What do you think Y]
complex. What do you think N R e
complex. What do you think N R la G L
complex. What do you think about the fact that it is so
about the fact that it is so crowded? It
about the fact that it is so e kA S
about the fact that it is so crowded? It is so crowded. It
crowded? It is so crowded. It s
crowded? It is so crowded. It is extremely crowded. | have to
is extremely crowded. | have to Al
is extremely crowded. | have to tell you, this is the busiest
tell you, this is the busiest 3
tell you, this is the busiest 10
tell you, this is the busiest it could have got in ancient
it could have got in ancient Eqypt,
it could have got in ancient Egypt, because there were
Egypt, because there were TG
Egypt, because there were people who were not ordinary —-
people who were not ordinary -- ordinary were
people who were not ordinary -- OIS AR
people who were not ordinary -- OIS A R
people who were not ordinary -- ordinary were not allowed here.
ordinary were not allowed here. G
ordinary were not allowed here. IR
ordinary were not allowed here. IR
ordinary were not allowed here. This is an exclusive area. It’s
This is an exclusive area. It’s i\
This is an exclusive area. It’s only for the priests, only for
only for the priests, only for )
only for the priests, only for R e
only for the priests, only for N e R
only for the priests, only for the members of the royal court,
the members of the royal court, i\
the members of the royal court, only for the select few. People
only for the select few. People ey
only for the select few. People like ourselves would have never
like ourselves would have never YT
like ourselves would have never had any glimpse of the inside
had any glimpse of the inside of
had any glimpse of the inside SRy
had any glimpse of the inside of the temple.
had any glimpse of the inside RO CERE
had any glimpse of the inside of the temple. She is an
of the temple. She is an Eu kYA
of the temple. She is an amazing storyteller,
of the temple. She Is an amazing storyteller, and | ask
amazing storyteller, and | ask g
amazing storyteller, and | ask Y- e 0L
amazing storyteller, and | ask YR ]
amazing storyteller, and | ask her about the story of the
her about the story of the L
her about the story of the Abdel Rassouls and who really
Abdel Rassouls and who really ey e |
Abdel Rassouls and who really e R )
Abdel Rassouls and who really e I R R 1o B
Abdel Rassouls and who really RN I R R et T Y
discovered the tomb. She bhelieves
discovered the tomb. She T R )
discovered the tomb. She T G
discovered the tomb. She RG]
discovered the tomb. She N R R I
believes there Is a wider T
believes there Is a wider |
believes there is a wider issue. | think to focus on this
issue. | think to focus on this s
issue. | think to focus on this TR )
issue. | think to focus on this is to miss
issue. | think to focus on this TR ORI )
issue. | think to focus on this is to miss the point. The whole
s to miss the point. The whole i
s to miss the point. The whole point is
s to miss the point. The whole ARG
s to miss the point. The whole IR QR dn gl
s to miss the point. The whole point is the contribution that
point is the contribution that )
point is the contribution that the whole Abdel Rassoul family
the whole Abdel Rassoul family and
the whole Abdel Rassoul family R )
the whole Abdel Rassoul family and the many Egyptian families
and the many Egyptian families Ty
and the many Egyptian families R e R
and the many Egyptian families R e s B s]
and the many Egyptian families R e R LR Y
who were involved in the archaeological excavations,
archaeological excavations, without whom Howard
archaeological excavations, R st R Ll ]
archaeological excavations, without whom Howard and many of
without whom Howard and many of )
without whom Howard and many of the foreign excavators could
the foreign excavators could e
the foreign excavators could TR )
the foreign excavators could not have made any of these
not have made any of these e e
not have made any of these discoveries altogether. And
discoveries altogether. And this
discoveries altogether. And G
discoveries altogether. And this is kind of connected to
this is kind of connected to Y
GICNER AL EG RGO T R how Egyptians are
this is kind of connected to how Egyptians are portrayed in
how Egyptians are portrayed in this world of archaeology. We
this world of archaeology. We Py
this world of archaeology. We are not even portrayed. We are
are not even portrayed. We are (17
=LA e g i T MR R I totally written
=LA e g i T MR R I & (RS T
=LA e g i T MR R I totally written out. We are
totally written out. We are i)
totally written out. We are e e R 0L
totally written out. We are written out from
totally written out. We are e R Rie R
totally written out. We are e R R R R e
written out from the whole IO
written out from the whole IR
written out from the whole process of knowledge
process of knowledge D
process of knowledge JOD N RN
process of knowledge O R L S RIS
process of knowledge D R NN E STy
production. Whenever it’s an Egyptian, he would have
Egyptian, he would have stumbled on a
Egyptian, he would have SO R NE R o
Egyptian, he would have SO RN R G A
Egyptian, he would have stumbled on a step, as you
stumbled on a step, as you TN
stumbled on a step, as you g
stumbled on a step, as you I -
stumbled on a step, as you said, or been stumbling riding
said, or been stumbling riding Y
said, or been stumbling riding a donkey,
said, or been stumbling riding ER N S
said, or been stumbling riding a donkey, etc. It could never
a donkey, etc. It could never )
a donkey, etc. It could never N L4
a donkey, etc. It could never be out of
a donkey, etc. It could never N Al
a donkey, etc. It could never be out of real knowledge, it
be out of real knowledge, it has
be out of real knowledge, it TR )
be out of real knowledge, it IR N
be out of real knowledge, it has to be a mistake. While
be out of real knowledge, it IR LR IRE R IR
has to be a mistake. While the Egyptians clearly played a huge
Egypti o ans clearls y played a h uge
Egyptians clearly played a huge part in the
Egyptians clearly played a huge ARG A
Egyptians clearly played a huge part in the discovery, the
part in the discovery, the R
part in the discovery, the ARG
part in the discovery, the persistence of Howard Carter
persistence of Howard Carter and
persistence of Howard Carter R )
persistence of Howard Carter and the money
persistence of Howard Carter RGOS A
persistence of Howard Carter RO RIS RS
persistence of Howard Carter and the money of his wealthy,
and the money of his wealthy, Ao [
and the money of his wealthy, YAl o Aol e e
and the money of his wealthy, AR e Aol e R )
and the money of his wealthy, R e Aol e R - L)
aristocratic Becker were also i El (Y
aristocratic Becker were also vitally important to the
vitally important to the e
vitally important to the success. Now, the desire is for
success. Now, the desire Is for both parts of that story to be
both parts of that story to be (A ]
both parts of that story to be recognised and cold. All these
recognised and cold. All these tourists
recognised and cold. All these R R
recognised and cold. All these tourists here, all the people
tourists here, all the people Ty
tourists here, all the people - 1a
tourists here, all the people VI
tourists here, all the people NI TR L1
tourists here, all the people who are here, what do you think
who are here, what do you think they
who are here, what do you think USRS
who are here, what do you think QAL
who are here, what do you think QA DS R
who are here, what do you think they believe? Do you think
who are here, what do you think OSSR RO S (Y
they believe? Do you think they still
they believe? Do you think they S
they believe? Do you think they SR
they believe? Do you think they still believe the old version,
still believe the old version, N
still believe the old version, or do you think they are
or do you think they are gradually being told something
gradually being told something which is
gradually being told something Y o B R 1t e
gradually being told something which is more in
gradually being told something Y e B R 10 e N e R et ]
gradually being told something which is more in tune with what
which is more in tune with what you think? No, | think they
you think? No, | think they 1
you think? No, | think they carry the
you think? No, | think they AU
you think? No, | think they carry the same old beliefs,
carry the same old beliefs, T Y
carry the same old beliefs, IR
carry the same old beliefs, because all of
carry the same old beliefs, R A Gd
carry the same old beliefs, because all of their programmes
because all of their programmes o
because all of their programmes would only focus on ancient
would only focus on ancient o701
would only focus on ancient Egypt, nothing
would only focus on ancient o)/ | TG L]
would only focus on ancient Lo G E L RG T
would only focus on ancient Egypt, nothing on the many
Egypt, nothing on the many e
Egypt, nothing on the many WO EEE
Egypt, nothing on the many other layers of Egyptian
other layers of Egyptian heritage. That’s one thing, and
heritage. That’s one thing, and )
heritage. That’s one thing, and e e
heritage. That’s one thing, and the other thing is
heritage. That’s one thing, and GG EIR QIR G EY
heritage. That’s one thing, and the other thing is that the
the other thing is that the e
the other thing is that the whole- what brought them in
whole- what brought them in T e
whole- what brought them in here is
whole- what brought them in Y R
whole- what brought them in here is this colonial
here is this colonial Yl T
here is this colonial R I R
I CCRCR GG TEL narrative_ It’s the narrative
narrative. It’s the narrative that
narrative. It’s the narrative R
narrative. It’s the narrative that we need
narrative. It’s the narrative MBI R
narrative. It’s the narrative that we need to reshape. Are
that we need to reshape. Are you at least hopeful in the
you at least hopeful in the future
you at least hopeful in the el R
you at least hopeful in the future that might change, that
future that might change, that A
future that might change, that ORI e
future that might change, that small children across
future that might change, that ARG e R )
future that might change, that LRI st R R e s
small children across the world il
small children across the world W
small children across the world will get a
small children across the world IR
small children across the world will get a better understanding
will get a better understanding N
will get a better understanding NEl
will get a better understanding N R
will get a better understanding of all of this? Yes,
will get a better understanding N R RGO A
will get a better understanding of all of this? Yes, | hope so.
of all of this? Yes, I hope so. G
of all of this? Yes, I hope so. IR ]
of all of this? Yes, I hope so. L
of all of this? Yes, | hope so. XL A
of all of this? Yes, | hope so. ISR A R G
This can only come when acknowledging the colonial
acknowledging the colonial history that made ancient Eqypt
history that made ancient Egypt )
history that made ancient Egypt RN
history that made ancient Egypt the way it
history that made ancient Egypt G VA
history that made ancient Eqypt QR VAR
history that made ancient Eqypt the way it is an agent today.
the way it is an agent today. We need to acknowledge this
We need to acknowledge this e
We need to acknowledge this T sl
We need to acknowledge this first and then
We need to acknowledge this AR Rty
We need to acknowledge this first and then move on from
first and then move on from e e
first and then move on from there. For the
first and then move on from M RGN
first and then move on from e RGN A
first and then move on from W NGl EN A
there. For the rest of his life,
there. For the rest of his G- GG L
there. For the rest of his life, Ahmed Abdel Rassoul told
life, Ahmed Abdel Rassoul told e
life, Ahmed Abdel Rassoul told IR ]
life, Ahmed Abdel Rassoul told TG R RN Gle
life, Ahmed Abdel Rassoul told visitors to Luxor about his
visitors to Luxor about his Pl el
visitors to Luxor about his adventures with
visitors to Luxor about his LTl e el R sl ol sl
TR R ET G [T T adventures with Howard Carter,
adventures with Howard Carter, PN
adventures with Howard Carter, an account, Like so
adventures with Howard Carter, an account, like so many
an account, like so many others,
an account, like so many ORI VA U]
an account, like so many others, rarely told in the
others, rarely told in the Y
others, rarely told in the West. But
others, rarely told in the T N i E
others, rarely told in the West. But what’s good is that
West. But what’s good Is that )
West. But what’s good is that the Egyptians now reclaiming
the Egyptians now reclaiming e
the Egyptians now reclaiming QIR
the Egyptians now reclaiming S I AN
the Egyptians now reclaiming their story, and the rest of us
their story, and the rest of us Py
their story, and the rest of us are beginning to take notice.
are beginning to take notice. Wwell
are beginning to take notice. T
are beginning to take notice. Well away from the big
Well away from the big archaeological sites, there are
archaeological sites, there are Y
archaeological sites, there are a whole bundle of things to do
a whole bundle of things to do 3
a whole bundle of things to do in Eqypt,
a whole bundle of things to do LR IR
a whole bundle of things to do TR AT L]
a whole bundle of things to do in Egypt, and here are some of
in Egypt, and here are some of )
in Egypt, and here are some of the highlights. For beach
the highlights. For beach LN
the highlights. For beach breaks, the Red Sea coast has
breaks, the Red Sea coast has got a
breaks, the Red Sea coast has MRl
breaks, the Red Sea coast has got a string of well-developed
got a string of well-developed a8
got a string of well-developed I e ey
got a string of well-developed resort towns that
got a string of well-developed T R R Ry
got a string of well-developed TR R A e N ]
resort towns that have been popular for years. Sharm
popular for years. Sharm el-Sheikh is probably the
el-Sheikh Iis probably the e
el-Sheikh Iis probably the I L LS
el-Sheikh Iis probably the R N R0
especially after recently hesting
especially after recently hosting the COP climate talks.
hosting the COP climate talks. For something quieter, though,
For something quieter, though, you
For something quieter, though, RG]
For something quieter, though, you could try the Kobe Bay,
you could try the Kobe Bay, LR
you could try the Kobe Bay, long, white,
you could try the Kobe Bay, AR T
you could try the Kobe Bay, long, white, sandy beaches
long, white, sandy beaches without
long, white, sandy beaches T Al 1Tl e )
long, white, sandy beaches without the crowds and clubs.
without the crowds and clubs. e
without the crowds and clubs. The whole stretch of coastline
The whole stretch of coastline T
The whole stretch of coastline has crystal-clear seas and
has crystal-clear seas and thriving coral
has crystal-clear seas and QIR E R
has crystal-clear seas and thriving coral reefs so divers
thriving coral reefs so divers love
thriving coral reefs so divers N
thriving coral reefs so divers love it. Turtles, spinner
love it. Turtles, spinner LT
love it. Turtles, spinner G T El L7
love it. Turtles, spinner L FhI R S
love it. Turtles, spinner dolphins, manta rays and
dolphins, manta rays and L
dolphins, manta rays and dugongs are
dolphins, manta rays and W R 1)
dolphins, manta rays and dugongs are the big stars here.
dugongs are the big stars here. Y
dugongs are the big stars here. N ]
dugongs are the big stars here. R R e e
dugongs are the big stars here. One of the other highlights is
One of the other highlights is )
One of the other highlights is the sunken British cargo
GRSV LG g W T [ steamship SS Thistle
the sunken British cargo steamship SS Thistle down. It
steamship SS Thistle down. It by
steamship SS Thistle down. It WATIEL]
steamship SS Thistle down. It by German bombers in 1941, 200
by German bombers in 1941, 200 e
by German bombers in 1941, 200 divers a day now explore the
divers a day now explore the e
divers a day now explore the wreck near the town of Roest
wreck near the town of Roest Y il
wreck near the town of Roest R T
wreck near the town of Roest Mohammed. The holy
wreck near the town of Roest Mohammed. The hoely menth
wreck near the town of Roest Mohammed. The hely month of
Mohammed. The holy month of Ramadan begins in March next
Ramadan begins in March next T
Ramadan begins in March next Y el ]
Ramadan begins in March next year. During the day it might
year. During the day it might YT
year. During the day it might TN e
year. During the day it might mean shorter opening hours and
mean shorter opening hours and M
mean shorter opening hours and O R
mean shorter opening hours and disrupted transport. However,
disrupted transport. However, T
disrupted transport. However, O
disrupted transport. However, RO
disrupted transport. However, IR G IR G CELN)
disrupted transport. However, 1RGP G ENCELGR
disrupted transport. However, 1RGP GRS R
if the, the breaking of the TN
if the, the breaking of the A
if the, the breaking of the ER I
if the, the breaking of the fast at sunset, means loads
fast at sunset, means loads WL
fast at sunset, means loads happening in the evenings --
happening in the evenings -- Iftar.
happening in the evenings -- &I
happening in the evenings -- Iftar. Hotels will lay on
Iftar. Hotels will lay on entertainment,
Iftar. Hotels will lay on NI I = e 018
Iftar. Hotels will lay on entertainment, but the real
entertainment, but the real celebrations are
entertainment, but the real A A e 1 0la s
entertainment, but the real A e TR )
TR R G [ neighbourhood Iftar tables,
neighbourhood Iftar tables, T[]
neighbourhood Iftar tables, made out on the
neighbourhood Iftar tables, LN R R
neighbourhood Iftar tables, EL RN R R T R L THl|
made out on the street. You’ll need
made out on the street. You’ll ]
made out on the street. You’ll need a local to invite you, but
need a local to invite you, but this
need a local to invite you, but G
need a local to invite you, but this is where
need a local to invite you, but IR ERTL CRE 8
need a local to invite you, but this is where party is. Still
this is where party is. Still to
this is where party is. Still e ]
this is where party is. Still el e
this is where party is. Still NI )
this is where party is. Still RNt R ORIy
this is where party is. Still RN RGN R R
this is where party is. Still to come on the Travel Show: The
to come on the Travel Show: The e
to come on the Travel Show: The A e
to come on the Travel Show: The other Christmas visitor that
other Christmas visitor that could come knocking this
could come knocking this R
could come knocking this e L )
could come knocking this December, and this one’s not
December, and this one’s not T
December, and this one’s not IR
December, and this one’s not guite so jolly.
December, and this one’s not guite so jolly. And
December, and this one’s not quite so jolly. And the
December, and this one’s not guite so jolly. And the Glasgow
quite so jolly. And the Glasgow R
quite so jolly. And the Glasgow theatre tradition you need
theatre tradition you need Y ety
theatre tradition you need e R
theatre tradition you need T RO RO
theatre tradition you need T R RN Y
theatre tradition you need nerves of steel to take part
nerves of steel to take part in. You have men in the back of
in. You have men in the back of )
in. You have men in the back of the auditorium
in. You have men in the back of G TG T R G TSI
the auditorium throwing EL)
the auditorium throwing ZEICRI G R
the auditorium throwing shipyard rivets, nails,
shipyard rivets, nails, Tl
shipyard rivets, nails, punches, screws. So don’t go
punches, screws. So don’t go LA
punches, screws. So don’t go away. This week, I’m exploring
away. This week, I’m exploring )
away. This week, I’m exploring XN
away. This week, I’m exploring some of Eqypt’s most
away. This week, I’m exploring some of Eqypt’s most famous
some of Egypt’s most famous AT
some of Egypt’s most famous EI G DL ]
some of Egypt’s most famous IO R
some of Egypt’s most famous antiquities, and | thought it
antiquities, and | thought it it
antiquities, and | thought it b
antiquities, and | thought it might be worth lingering a
might be worth lingering a Hair
might be worth lingering a little at Karnak Temple. At
might be worth lingering a I CEI E IR A i S
little at Karnak Temple. At its 8
little at Karnak Temple. At its peak, around 3000 to 4000 years
peak, around 3000 to 4000 years ago,
peak, around 3000 to 4000 years LR GI
peak, around 3000 to 4000 years ago, this was the largest and
ago, this was the largest and R
ago, this was the largest and most important religious
most important religious ]
most important religious ]
most important religious complex in ancient Eqypt --
complex in ancient Egypt -- CIa%T e
complex in ancient Eqypt -- Karnak temple. And the
Karnak temple. And the W Jdgl e
Karnak temple. And the g
Karnak temple. And the R R IR
Karnak temple. And the description of some of the
description of some of the el
description of some of the ()
description of some of the IR e
description of some of the RN e i)
description of some of the I R
description of some of the detail he has me hooked. You
detail he has me hooked. You ey
detail he has me hooked. You were talking about
detall he has me hooked. You were talking about obelisks.
were talking about obelisks. vy
were talking about obelisks. Yes. And that is a very, very
Yes. And that is a very, very 2l
Yes. And that is a very, very I H
Yes. And that is a very, very tall one. And
Yes. And that is a very, very N RO
Yes. And that is a very, very N LR OIR S
Yes. And that is a very, very tall one. And this takes us
NN R G E R R T R Te Y tall one. And this takes us to
tall one. And this takes us to )
tall one. And this takes us to R
tall one. And this takes us to the God Ra, the
tall one. And this takes us to R R PR G R !
tall one. And this takes us to R R PR G R R
tall one. And this takes us to the God Ra, the God of the Sun,
the God Ra, the God of the Sun, )
the God Ra, the God of the Sun, N d
the God Ra, the God of the Sun, A
the God Ra, the God of the Sun, RO R N
the God Ra, the God of the Sun, R RO CRUC R R =l
the God Ra, the God of the Sun, one of the most important gods,
one of the most important gods, and
one of the most important gods, N Rdar]
one of the most important gods, R e
one of the most important gods, and that is how you see that
and that is how you see that pyramid shape
and that is how you see that LR = LS
and that is how you see that pyramid shape at the end of the
pyramid shape at the end of the obelisks .
pyramid shape at the end of the obelisks. That’s
pyramid shape at the end of the NI TR L EI SR
pyramid shape at the end of the obelisks. That’s your way to
obelisks. That’s your way to )
obelisks. That’s your way to G AA
obelisks. That’s your way to O ARG
obelisks. That’s your way to QSR LS L
obelisks. That’s your way to the sky, where you get to join
the sky, where you get to join God Ra up in the sky and come
God Ra up in the sky and come 1o
God Ra up in the sky and come back again. Just this year feet
back again. Just this year feet of
back again. Just this year feet R L]
back again. Just this year feet of creating that high
of creating that high structure. Yes, of course. And
structure. Yes, of course. And then doing all the engravings
then doing all the engravings on
then doing all the engravings R )
then doing all the engravings MBI
then doing all the engravings R AL
then doing all the engravings B G AG CR A
on the side. Is that E oL
on the side. Is that appreciated enough? |
on the side. Is that appreciated enough? I don’t
appreciated enough? | don’t think
appreciated enough? | don’t s
appreciated enough? I don’t i aiacs
appreciated enough? I don’t i G AR )
appreciated enough? I don’t SRR Rl
appreciated enough? I don’t think it is. We tend to
think it is. We tend to EI b1
think it is. We tend to E G LR
think it is. We tend to appreciate the beauty but not
appreciate the beauty but not )
appreciate the beauty but not the Labour,
appreciate the beauty but not R o T g )
appreciate the beauty but not the Labour, not the hard
appreciate the beauty but not R R G E O R 18
the Labour, not the hard work that went into
the Labour, not the hard work G E R S R BT
that went into bringing G G|
that went into bringing SIE QIS
that went into bringing something like this not only
something like this not only N
something like this not only T M1
something like this not only TR
something like this not only up, but the carving, the
up, but the carving, the making, the carving of the
making, the carving of the actual
making, the carving of the Y IE R e )
making, the carving of the actual stone to
making, the carving of the YR R R )
making, the carving of the actual stone to take the shape
actual stone to take the shape N
actual stone to take the shape NFL]
actual stone to take the shape NN e
actual stone to take the shape NN &L
actual stone to take the shape of an obelisk and then moving
of an obelisk and then moving e
of an obelisk and then moving T
of an obelisk and then moving TR
of an obelisk and then moving 1] RGN0
of an obelisk and then moving 1] (B G RTZ A
of an obelisk and then moving I RGN AR
of an obelisk and then moving I R GERE A G IR ]
of an obelisk and then moving IS GRS A IR I
it all the way to hear from us one.
it all the way to hear from us )
it all the way to hear from us NN
it all the way to hear from us I et
it all the way to hear from us one. So it came from down
it all the way to hear from us I Rt Rt i R
one. So it came from down the R
one. So it came from down the NI
one. So it came from down the OIS Y]
one. So it came from down the river, right. And what about
river, right. And what about this
river, right. And what about TR )
river, right. And what about this little step
river, right. And what about OGRS N EC
river, right. And what about this little step here? Yes, it
this little step here? Yes, it 3
this little step here? Yes, it is like the strong
this little step here? Yes, it R R GRS (LN
is like the strong bull, discussing how the King as
is like the strong bull, O R R A GGG
ST TN MR G N L DR T [ great
ST N I R G R o= R V[ great physical features, that
great physical features, that Y
great physical features, that Ty
great physical features, that he is equated to the ball, as
he is equated to the ball, as strong
he is equated to the ball, as i
he is equated to the ball, as strong as a
he Is equated to the ball, as strong as a bull.
he Is equated to the ball, as SN LIEEER [T (W 11
he Is equated to the ball, as strong as a bull. This was also
strong as a bull. This was also )
strong as a bull. This was also N d
strong as a bull. This was also RO R Y
strong as a bull. This was also RO R N
strong as a bull. This was also R RO CRUC R R =l
one of the most important i
one of the most important fighters that any ancient
fighters that any ancient Egyptian camp Donna King would
Egyptian camp Doenna King would have
Egyptian camp Donna King would have acquired. The comics opens
have acquired. The comics opens Tee I8t
have acquired. The comics opens TR e
have acquired. The comics opens T &N I
have acquired. The comics opens from six a.m.. And
have acquired. The comics opens TR R T -l ]
have acquired. The comics opens from six a.m.. And now mass
from six a.m.. And now mass e el
from six a.m.. And now mass e e
from six a.m.. And now mass Bl e
from six a.m.. And now mass tourism is back with us once
tourism is back with us once again, it is
tourism Is back with us once again, it is worth attempting
again, it is worth attempting to
again, it is worth attempting eI sl
again, it is worth attempting R
again, it is worth attempting to avoid the crowds and the
to avoid the crowds and the %14
to avoid the crowds and the (F 140
to avoid the crowds and the heat by arriving early.
To
IR L.V R A
To Tirol in Austria next, which 3
To Tirol in Austria next, which R
To Tirol in Austria next, which is right in
To Tirol in Austria next, which AL ALE G
To Tirol in Austria next, which ER AR GRS
To Tirol in Austria next, which is right in the middle of a
s right in the middle of a busy Christmas run-up,
LG ARG LRI IR ) busy Christmas run-up, and in
busy Christmas run-up, and in that part of the world, Santa
that part of the world, Santa Claus isn’t
that part of the world, Santa AR R R )
that part of the world, Santa Claus isn’t the only
that part of the world, Santa Claus isn’'t the only one
that part of the world, Santa Claus isn’t the only one who
Claus isn’t the only one who comes
Claus isn’t the only one who comes knocking. Krampus is part
comes knocking. Krampus is part goat and part devil, and his
goat and part devil, and his job
goat and part devil, and his LIRS
goat and part devil, and his LI
goat and part devil, and his job is to punish
goat and part devil, and his LR N T W E e L1e’
job is to punish naughty children.
job is to punish naughty LI G
job is to punish naughty PG L E L R
job is to punish naughty children. Masks of his
children. Masks of his face are made by craftspeople, like
made by craftspeople, like s
Krampus Is an ancient, pagan
Krampus is an ancient, pagan character,
Krampus is an ancient, pagan I n I P L
Krampus is an ancient, pagan Il R 1)
character, but when TN
character, but when R ET D
character, but when Christianity spread throughout
Christianity spread throughout AN
Christianity spread throughout Europe, he
Christianity spread throughout AN A N
Christianity spread throughout AN I R e U CR ELa
Christianity spread throughout Europe, he became part of the
Europe, he became part of the Christmas tradition, despite
Christmas tradition, despite opposition from
Christmas tradition, despite AR R O
Christmas tradition, despite opposition from the Catholic
opposition from the Catholic Church.
Now, with the festive season ol
Now, with the festive season TG
Now, with the festive season L ERTZA
Now, with the festive season (L AR )
Now, with the festive season L R AR GG
Now, with the festive season well under way, there is one
well under way, there is one e A a]
well under way, there is one British pastime that
well under way, there is one N R R G G
well under way, there is one British pastime that keeps the
British pastime that keeps the I
British pastime that keeps the GGG
British pastime that keeps the lights burning by during those
lights burning by during those 0]
lights burning by during those long winter nights and that is
long winter nights and that is )
long winter nights and that is R e
long winter nights and that is the Christmas panto. Cat has
the Christmas panto. Cat has e Y
the Christmas panto. Cat has e -]
the Christmas panto. Cat has more. Where in Glasgow, where
more. Where in Glasgow, where e Lk
more. Where in Glasgow, where Scotland’s premium pantomime
Scotland’s premium pantomime dame is treading the boards in
dame is treading the boards in her
dame is treading the boards in T AN da]
dame is treading the boards in her 25th panto season. They’re
her 25th panto season. They’re Il
her 25th panto season. They’re VI
her 25th panto season. They’re PG &
her 25th panto season. They’re oh, just quit that moaning,
oh, just quit that moaning, il
oh, just quit that moaning, R IEE
oh, just quit that moaning, RO 41
oh, just quit that moaning, will you? It is basically a
will you? It is basically a L)
will you? It is basically a LI
will you? It is basically a LG AT
will you? It is basically a good night out, which is the
good night out, which is the AT
good night out, which is the NS Al
good night out, which is the most important thing, or
good night out, which is the NS E T El R G ]
good night out, which is the most important thing, or a good
most important thing, or a good afternoon out, full of laughs
afternoon out, full of laughs and joy.
afternoon out, full of laughs EL LAY e
afternoon out, full of laughs and joy. Sort of hitched on to
and joy. Sort of hitched on to Y
and joy. Sort of hitched on to a traditional fairy tale love
a traditional fairy tale love S0
a traditional fairy tale love story. It
a traditional fairy tale love SO A A
a traditional fairy tale love story. It is usually kids’s
story. It is usually kids’s e
story. It is usually kids’s N P
story. It is usually kids’s NG R
story. It is usually kids’s NG MR R UG
story. It is usually kids’s NI MR R UL e
first experience of theatre, so we
first experience of theatre, so o)
first experience of theatre, so we are the sort of gateway, if
we are the sort of gateway, if you
we are the sort of gateway, if ORTCS
we are the sort of gateway, if TR IS
we are the sort of gateway, if LR LRGeS
we are the sort of gateway, if you like. There’s hundreds of
you like. There’s hundreds of years
you like. There’s hundreds of IR
you like. There’s hundreds of R R Al
you like. There’s hundreds of LR R LA LR
you like. There’s hundreds of years of tradition in panto,
years of tradition in panto, Tee I8t
years of tradition in panto, from audience participation.
from audience participation. Oh, yes they will. Oh, no they
Oh, yes they will. Oh, no they won’t! To a host
Oh, yes they will. Oh, no they AR )
Oh, yes they will. Oh, no they won’t! To a host of stock
won’t! To a host of stock R o
won’t! To a host of stock RIS
won’t! To a host of stock QI R L R )
won’t! To a host of stock characters. The panto dame is
characters. The panto dame is generally a man dressed as a
generally a man dressed as a NN
generally a man dressed as a woman, and that allowed
ENEINE NG ED R [ L) woman, and that allowed men to
woman, and that allowed men to )
woman, and that allowed men to i e
woman, and that allowed men to come out and do really
come out and do really outrageous impersonations of
outrageous impersonations of i s
outrageous impersonations of el
outrageous impersonations of women. It is quite unusual to
women. It is quite unusual to )
women. It is quite unusual to bhe a
women. It is quite unusual to be a woman playing it, | am
women. It is quite unusual to be a woman playing it, 1 am one
be a woman playing it, 1 am one of very few
be a woman playing it, I am one of very few allowed to. May be
of very few allowed to. May be in the
of very few allowed to. May be RGN
of very few allowed to. May be in the past, women have been
in the past, women have been el
in the past, women have been T e s BiaLee]
in the past, women have been forced into being the more
forced into being the more glamorous type. And my thing is
glamorous type. And my thing is e
glamorous type. And my thing is it is not
glamorous type. And my thing Is it is not about
glamorous type. And my thing Is AR R e
glamorous type. And my thing Is IR R G o]
glamorous type. And my thing Is it is not about whether you are
it is not about whether you are Y
it is not about whether you are aman
it is not about whether you are a man or
it is not about whether you are P ER ]
it is not about whether you are aman or a woman
it is not about whether you are aman or awoman it
it is not about whether you are amanorawomanitis
it is not about whether you are amanorawoman it is the
it is not about whether you are a man or a woman it is the type
a man or a woman it is the type N
a man or a woman it is the type R s
a man or a woman it is the type of performer you are. If you
of performer you are. If you can
of performer you are. If you N
of performer you are. If you can break through to the
can break through to the audience and
can break through to the G N LT ) A
can break through to the audience and say, I’m about
audience and say, I’m about to R )
audience and say, I’m about to make a fool of myself here,
make a fool of myself here, come with
make a fool of myself here, R e
make a fool of myself here, come with me. Couldn’t find a
R G R TGRS (R A
come with me. Couldn’t find a SN
come with me. Couldn’t find a petrol station, we ended
R G R TGRS (R petrol station, we ended up
petrol station, we ended up wandering through this barren,
wandering through this barren, I By
wandering through this barren, N E R R Ea
| think it was Paisley.
ROTI ] QIR T ¥ 013
IBRG
ILEGACE
They’re a great quote by a wonderful panto performer Gerry
wonderful panto performer Gerry Kelly
wonderful panto performer Gerry (A1)
wonderful panto performer Gerry [T
wonderful panto performer Gerry (AL R Gl
wonderful panto performer Gerry Kelly who | worked here with
Kelly who | worked here with urll
Kelly who | worked here with many times, pantomime
- ladg
centre -- celebraticn
centre -- celebration of local LI TR )
centre -- celebration of local culture, we have set this on
culture, we have set this on e
culture, we have set this on clade side, which is officially
clade side, which is officially Glasgow, making
clade side, which is officially S EIX [ FL RS
clade side, which is officially Glasgow, making it local,
Glasgow, making it local, having all the references in it
having all the references in it e
having all the references in it but making it of the place that
but making it of the place that generally
but making it of the place that AL
but making it of the place that EIEC RGN
but making it of the place that EIEC RGBT
generally the audience are el
generally the audience are from. It
generally the audience are e
generally the audience are from. It is big
generally the audience are T A GRS
generally the audience are T I R R T T T (1
from. It is big business across the
from. It is big business across e
from. It is big business across the UK. Pre-pandemic theatre is
the UK. Pre-pandemic theatre is X0l
the UK. Pre-pandemic theatre is G e 0la s ]
the UK. Pre-pandemic theatre is sold around 3 million pante
sold around 3 million panto o]
sold around 3 million panto tickets a
sold around 3 million panto (4 DT
sold around 3 million panto tickets a year, and
sold around 3 million pante tickets a year, and Glasgow has
tickets a year, and Glasgow has Y
tickets a year, and Glasgow has R
tickets a year, and Glasgow has a special affection for it.
a special affection for it. Among the dozens of venues
Among the dozens of venues staging
Among the dozens of venues SR
Among the dozens of venues staging a production is this we
staging a production is this we eI 0-)
staging a production is this we treasure hidden above an
treasure hidden above an Ttz
treasure hidden above an amusement arcade.
You
N T e
VG-
You are in the Petagna open optical
You are in the Petagna open ol ST 1.
You are in the Petagna open optical musical, the original
optical musical, the original L)
optical musical, the original ST
optical musical, the original surviving music all in
optical musical, the original AL R T - M R 1
surviving music all in the i
surviving music all in the world. Musicals are basically
world. Musicals are basically places where
world. Musicals are basically TR IR 1)
world. Musicals are basically places where the working class
places where the working class s used
places where the working class is used to
places where the working class [XT-LRCK
places where the working class s used to go when they
places where the working class is used to go when they finish
is used to go when they finish e
is used to go when they finish their working day to be
their working day to be N e
their working day to be entertained by dancers,
entertained by dancers, LN
entertained by dancers, singers, novelty acts,
singers, novelty acts, contortionists, high wire acts,
contortionists, high wire acts, you name
contortionists, high wire acts, ORI
contortionists, high wire acts, you name it. Music calls were
you name it. Music calls were )
you name it. Music calls were N d
you name it. Music calls were RO R Y
you name it. Music calls were IR RO El
you name it. Music calls were one of the places where you
one of the places where you o
one of the places where you would see a pantomime.
would see a pantomime. PN e et e i)
would see a pantomime. P e IR
would see a pantomime. PN e I R )
would see a pantomime. Pantomime was the only sort of
Pantomime was the only sort of theatre
Pantomime was the only sort of T lee R
Pantomime was the only sort of T R R
Pantomime was the only sort of M Ele R R Al
Pantomime was the only sort of theatre that was like variety
theatre that was like variety 1R
theatre that was like variety all in
theatre that was like variety IR e
theatre that was like variety all in the one production.
all in the one production. I
all in the one production. (RIS
all in the one production. Glasgow has a
IR R TR NI To V[ B Glasgow has a long-standing
Glasgow has a long-standing R
Glasgow has a long-standing Tl R lide el
Glasgow has a long-standing AT e Rl iale 1 T}
Glasgow has a long-standing T e Rl Y . B e
theatre tradition. A recent o
theatre tradition. A recent L (RTTT0]
theatre tradition. A recent LIRS
theatre tradition. A recent IR ORI
theatre tradition. A recent poll found it was one of the
poll found it was one of the British cities with the most
British cities with the most LI
British cities with the most theatres, outside London. And
theatres, outside Londen. And back
theatres, outside London. And back when
theatres, outside London. And IR R hE
theatres, outside London. And back when the panoptic and
back when the panoptic and WD
back when the panoptic and WUCC R
back when the panoptic and opened in the 1850s,
opened in the 1850s, LRI I
opened in the 1850s, working-class Glaswegian
working-class Glaswegian T
working-class Glaswegian e R )
working-class Glaswegian theatres were already
theatres were already developing a bit of a
developing a bit of a reputation. Stanley
ST R T 0 reputation. Stanley Baxter
reputation. Stanley Baxter actually
TN IR T S EPA actually wrote about the
actually wrote about the A
actually wrote about the musical in
actually wrote about the R R
actually wrote about the musical in his own
actually wrote about the R R R R
musical in his own bedside hook, and he
musical in his own bedside book, and he actually said that
book, and he actually said that they left no turn and stene.
they left no turn and stone. 57
they left no turn and stone. They had
they left no turn and stene. ISR
they left no turn and stene. LGS At
they left no turn and stene. They had spent money to get in
They had spent money to get in here.
They had spent money to get in e
They had spent money to get in Y A
They had spent money to get in Y BT a s
They had spent money to get in here. If the act on
They had spent money to get in here_ If the act on that
They had spent money to get in here. If the act on that stage
here. If the act on that stage Ty
here. If the act on that stage L]
here. If the act on that stage T A
here. If the act on that stage was not good enough, believe
was not good enough, believe me,
was not good enough, believe ARG
was not good enough, believe LRGSR
was not good enough, believe RGOS AU R
was not good enough, believe me, they knew about it. Boys
me, they knew about it. Boys Ll
me, they knew about it. Boys used to
me, they knew about it. Boys N LE RN hEY
me, they knew about it. Boys used to urinate from
me, they knew about it. Boys N BR RN Rt R
me, they knew about it. Boys used to urinate from the front
used to urinate from the front of
used to urinate from the front SRy
used to urinate from the front of the balcony onto the stage
of the balcony onto the stage to
of the balcony onto the stage g
of the balcony onto the stage IR =
of the balcony onto the stage to hit the act on
of the balcony onto the stage IR e R )
of the balcony onto the stage to hit the act on the stage
to hit the act on the stage below, you had men in the back
below, you had men in the back of
below, you had men in the back SRy
below, you had men in the back of the auditorium throwing
of the auditorium throwing shipyard
of the auditorium throwing ZEICRI G R
of the auditorium throwing shipyard rivets, nails,
shipyard rivets, nails, Tl
shipyard rivets, nails, punches, screws most of it
punches, screws most of it T 18]
punches, screws most of it became popular
punches, screws most of it AR I DIEIR L)
punches, screws most of it became popular with famous
became popular with famous i
became popular with famous acts, because if they could get
acts, because if they could get LN
acts, because if they could get away with it on the stages in
away with it on the stages in FIL LA
away with it on the stages in Glasgow, they could get away
Glasgow, they could get away with their routine anywhere in
with their routine anywhere in )
with their routine anywhere in R e dlsh
with their routine anywhere in the world. Luckily, things have
the world. Luckily, things have IS Gl
the world. Luckily, things have quieten down a
the world. Luckily, things have IS CUE LRI
the world. Luckily, things have quieten down a bit since then,
quieten down a bit since then, but Glasgow audiences are still
but Glasgow audiences are still Y
but Glasgow audiences are still a famously lively bunch. For
a famously lively bunch. For me,
a famously lively bunch. For i
a famously lively bunch. For Al
a famously lively bunch. For me, if | was going to see
me, if | was going to see panto, | would come here
panto, | would come here T )
panto, | would come here NN R G G
panto, | would come here N A G e s
because of the audience. In Glasgow, there is a great
Glasgow, there is a great tradition
Glasgow, there is a great Seliale e
Glasgow, there is a great M R A T
Glasgow, there is a great tradition of audiences joining
tradition of audiences joining in, sometimes whether you want
in, sometimes whether you want e
in, sometimes whether you want it or not! LAUGHTER
it or not! LAUGHTER i
it or not! LAUGHTER | do question myself
it or not! LAUGHTER RIS R R
it or not! LAUGHTER | do question myself why am |
| do question myself why am | Y
| do question myself why am | keep doing
| do question myself why am | LR AN
| do question myself why am | keep doing it, I’m a granny,
keep doing it, I’m a granny, I’m
keep doing it, I’m a granny, MR8
keep doing it, I’m a granny, IR
keep doing it, I’m a granny, I’m 64! Why would you go out?
I’m 64! Why would you go out? So
I’m 64! Why would you go out? R
I’m 64! Why would you go out? So for me,
I’m 64! Why would you go out? R RS
I’m 64! Why would you go out? So for me, it allows me to walk
So for me, it allows me to walk in the late
So for me, it allows me to walk RGN
So for me, it allows me to walk in the late and push
So for me, it allows me to walk RO IR T R G
So for me, it allows me to walk in the late and push the late
in the late and push the late out.
in the late and push the late oL
in the late and push the late out. It gives people
in the late and push the late I IR Y
in the late and push the late out. It gives people a good
out. It gives people a good night
out. It gives people a good Lhiaa
out. It gives people a good LI
out. It gives people a good MLl
out. It gives people a good night out. It is a great
night out. It is a great e
night out. It is a great B INES
night out. It is a great A ERE R
night out. It is a great leveller as well, because
leveller as well, because you’ve got people who work for
you’ve got people who work for )
you’ve got people who work for the government, and you’ve got
the government, and you’ve got people who
the government, and you’ve got (L R I
the government, and you’ve got people who are cleaners. They
people who are cleaners. They Py
people who are cleaners. They Ik
people who are cleaners. They are all experiencing the same
are all experiencing the same iR
are all experiencing the same ILAEL G
are all experiencing the same thing, and there are so few
thing, and there are so few people -- places we can go no
people -~ places we can go no where
people -- places we can go no where 2000
people -- places we can go no TR T L[ I TY Yo (Y
people -- places we can go no where 2000 people can gather,
where 2000 people can gather, )
where 2000 people can gather, )
where 2000 people can gather, RN )
where 2000 people can gather, RN N E R R
where 2000 people can gather, RN N E R R
so to be part of that still after
so to be part of that still el
so to be part of that still R
so to be part of that still I R G R L
so to be part of that still after all these years makes it
after all these years makes it 1R
after all these years makes it all worth
after all these years makes it IR e B
after all these years makes it IR e B4
Rate, sadly, that’s us down T
Rate, sadly, that’s us down here in
Rate, sadly, that’s us down LRI
Rate, sadly, that’s us down here in Luxor, but join me next
here in Luxor, but join me next week when
here in Luxor, but join me next NG R ]
here in Luxor, but join me next week when we look
here in Luxor, but join me next AN R R A e e
here in Luxor, but join me next AN R MR A e &
here in Luxor, but join me next NN MR A e & s
week when we look back at the T
week when we look back at the best bits
week when we look back at the TR
week when we look back at the best bits of 2022 on the travel
best bits of 2022 on the travel A
best bits of 2022 on the travel i)
best bits of 2022 on the travel ARl
best bits of 2022 on the travel AR IR ]
best bits of 2022 on the travel AR IR IR
best bits of 2022 on the travel AR IR A UG R
show, a year when we can finally say we hit
show, a year when we can AL R A R O
show, a year when we can finally say we hit the road
finally say we hit the road again. And what a year it’s
again. And what a year it’s N
again. And what a year it’s been. If
again. And what a year it’s [T AT
again. And what a year it’s been. If you want another
been. If you want another o)
been. If you want another chance to
been. If you want another e e
been. If you want another R RN )
been. If you want another chance to see Addy on a roll
chance to see Addy on a roll with
chance to see Addy on a roll T R a1 ]
chance to see Addy on a roll with some Italian cheese,
with some Italian cheese, colourless’s human powered
colourless’s human powered S
colourless’s human powered odyssey along
colourless’s human powered ISR
colourless’s human powered odyssey along the human powered
odyssey along the human powered S
odyssey along the human powered network, or
odyssey along the human powered R )
odyssey along the human powered NGRS U
odyssey along the human powered network, or even my very
network, or even my very ol ar
network, or even my very special night
network, or even my very e IG [l
network, or even my very eGSR G
network, or even my very e E ISR G 0
network, or even my very special night in the home of
network, or even my very IR RG UK
special night in the home of boyhood
special night in the home of a UL R
special night in the home of a boyhood hero, do give us a
boyhood hero, do give us a watch in a weak’s
boyhood hero, do give us a watch in a weak’s time.
Some very big changes in our weather over the next 48 hours.
Saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
But then the thaw begins on Sunday in the morning -
and | say "begins”, YN R R R AR
will be a slow process, particularly in the north
of the country.
So, here’s the weekend.
This is the air mass showing where the warm air is,
just to the south-west of us, and then ahead of it,
this weather front will AN C SRR
Ahead of it, still cold air, RGO GRS
deflected towards the east R R PR R R L
milder air will eventually arrive.
we’ll talk about the rest G T R
Here’s a look R B A
So, still some snow showers around, across the Highlands,
the Pennines, TR e IR L
The inner-city temperatures, N GRTEVIL LR
LR GILT] on Saturday morning.
Outside of town, it’s going to be even colder than that.
So, the weather for Saturday itself, and some western parts
will be cloudy at times, wintry showers are certainly
on the cards, most of the rain around the coasts, snow
or sleet inland, and already starting to feel a little less
Five in London, four in Glasgow, and eight
degrees in Plymouth.
Se, quite a change.
Now, that big change arriving, Saturday night into Sunday.
So, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars,
gale force winds IR N eI
But for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about,
early on Sunday, there could be freezing rain,
icy conditions and hill snow.
For example, in Wales, hill snow is possible around
the Pennines, and VAL Eh
So, for a time in the morning on Sunday, it could be icy
LRI
But those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep
in, and by the early afternoon, these are the sort
of temperatures we will be getting.
So, 10 in Plymouth, still cold in the north.
But those temperatures (e ials TR Ry
I RGN N Sunday night into Monday.
Look at that - by Menday morning, we are talking
about the mid-teens in Cardiff R G AL R G
Is the outlook, as far as the week ahead is concerned.
It’s going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times,
back to the sort of normal weather we would expect
I T e ls 1 0
SRS
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast
with Roger Johnson and Naga Munchetty.
Our headlines today:
The abusive birth mother of schoolboy Tony Hudgell is a step
closer to freedom after the Justice Secretary’s bid
to delay her release was declared unlawful.
Retailers and hospitality venues say rail and postal strikes
are threatening to hit their Christmas profits hard.
On World Cup final weekend, as Morroco and Croatia battle it out
for third place today, with tens of thousands of Moroccans
hoping to make the stadium theirs again as they bid for bronze.
And as the final four couples prepare for tonight’s final,
we’ll ask - who will Lift the Strictly glitterball trophy?
| see again for some this morning with wintry showers in the west, but
with wintry showers in the west, but 3
with wintry showers in the west, but s
with wintry showers in the west, but itisa
with wintry showers in the west, but AR I
with wintry showers in the west, but it is a weekend of weather change,
it is a weekend of weather change, as
it is a weekend of weather change, PR
it is a weekend of weather change, as we go from
it is a weekend of weather change, IR R R 1)
it is a weekend of weather change, as we go from the big freeze to the
as we go from the big freeze to the big thaw. I’ll have all the details
big thaw. I’ll have all the details il
big thaw. I’ll have all the details A
big thaw. I’ll have all the details right here on
big thaw. I’ll have all the details NS
It’s Saturday, 17th December.
VIR GGy court judge has ruled
that the Justice Secretary’s bid to keep an abusive mother
in prison was unlawful.
Dominic Raab delayed the release of 8-year-old Tony Hudgell’s birth
mother in August.
Tony had both legs amputated because of the injuries he sustained
from his birth parents, and his family recently won
a campaign for tougher sentencing laws for child abusers.
Simon Jones reports.
A little boy described as an IR
A little boy described as an inspiration. This
A little boy described as an R LTS
A little boy described as an M R LR
A little boy described as an inspiration. This is Tony Hudgell
inspiration. This is Tony Hudgell ]
inspiration. This is Tony Hudgell meeting with Justice Secretary last
meeting with Justice Secretary last T
meeting with Justice Secretary last year. Dominic Raab has been trying
year. Dominic Raab has been trying to
year. Dominic Raab has been trying GG
year. Dominic Raab has been trying to keep the woman who abused
year. Dominic Raab has been trying N G R UL R PV R L
year. Dominic Raab has been trying to keep the woman who abused Tony so
to keep the woman who abused Tony so badly
to keep the woman who abused Tony so ([T
to keep the woman who abused Tony so badly as a
to keep the woman who abused Tony so (L R E1)
to keep the woman who abused Tony so WL TN AL I ]
to keep the woman who abused Tony so L T A LI R ET
to keep the woman who abused Tony so badly as a baby behind bars. Jodi
badly as a baby behind bars. Jodi S ]
badly as a baby behind bars. Jodi S UL
badly as a baby behind bars. Jodi Simpson and her partner Anthony
Simpson and her partner Anthony a1 ids]
Simpson and her partner Anthony ]
Simpson and her partner Anthony Smith are in jail, but Simpson had
Smith are in jail, but Simpson had Nl
Smith are in jail, but Simpson had N )
Smith are in jail, but Simpson had heen due for release in
Smith are in jail, but Simpson had been due for release in August, at
been due for release in August, at )
been due for release in August, at the halfway
LN G VTR (T G CE R WU [V 1 the halfway point
LN G VTR (T G CE R WU [V 1 GG E A L
LN G VTR (T G CE R WU [V 1 G AR
LN G VTR (T G CE R WU [V 1 QG A R R R U]
LN G VTR (T G CE R WU [V 1 the halfway point of her ten year
the halfway point of her ten year sentence.
the halfway point of her ten year e
the halfway point of her ten year A T L AN et sl
the halfway point of her ten year sentence. Now Dominic Raab’s attempt
sentence. Now Dominic Raab’s attempt to
sentence. Now Dominic Raab’s attempt o [ e’d
sentence. Now Dominic Raab’s attempt to block that has been ruled
to block that has been ruled unlawful. Not what Tony’s adopted
unlawful. Not what Tony’s adopted e
unlawful. Not what Tony’s adopted R L)
unlawful. Not what Tony’s adopted R LR
unlawful. Not what Tony’s adopted mother wanted to hear.
unlawful. Not what Tony’s adopted mother wanted to hear. Disappointed.
mother wanted to hear. Disappointed. i
mother wanted to hear. Disappointed. | thought Dominic Raab had an
| thought Dominic Raab had an extremely strong case. Obviously we
extremely strong case. Obviously we P
extremely strong case. Obviously we T R
extremely strong case. Obviously we knew that they would be released at
knew that they would be released at )
knew that they would be released at IR I
knew that they would be released at some point, so, you know, but every
some point, so, you know, but every extra
some point, so, you know, but every SUCREVE
some point, so, you know, but every extra day is
some point, so, you know, but every SUC VALK
some point, so, you know, but every extra day is a bonus, as far as we
extra day Is a bonus, as far as we Py
extra day Is a bonus, as far as we R le gl
extra day Is a bonus, as far as we YR le g L
extra day Is a bonus, as far as we IR e LI
extra day Is a bonus, as far as we IR e LR
extra day Is a bonus, as far as we R et R IR st et Ta s
are concerned. This is the moment Tony, inspired
are concerned. This is the moment AR LR
are concerned. This is the moment Tony, inspired by Captain Sir Tom
Tony, inspired by Captain Sir Tom LI
Tony, inspired by Captain Sir Tom Moore, finished the sponsored walk
Moore, finished the sponsored walk that raised
Moore, finished the sponsored walk RIS E )
Moore, finished the sponsored walk that raised more than £1.5 million
that raised more than £1.5 million e
that raised more than £1.5 million TR
that raised more than £1.5 million for the hospital that treated him.
for the hospital that treated him. Dominic
for the hospital that treated him. st ol E L]
for the hospital that treated him. et el FEo Na L)
for the hospital that treated him. Dominic Raab had argued the public
Dominic Raab had argued the public sl
Dominic Raab had argued the public s R i)
Dominic Raab had argued the public PRGN
Dominic Raab had argued the public needed to be protected from Tony’s
needed to be protected from Tony’s icas]
needed to be protected from Tony’s hirth mother,
needed to be protected from Tony’s GBI GEPET)
needed to be protected from Tony’s MG N
needed to be protected from Tony’s hirth mother, so he used new
birth mother, so he used new W18
birth mother, so he used new S NI A L
birth mother, so he used new discretionary powers to refer her
discretionary powers to refer her )
discretionary powers to refer her case to
discretionary powers to refer her SRR
discretionary powers to refer her I R RN E
discretionary powers to refer her I R R N L RN
discretionary powers to refer her case to the Parole Board. But the
case to the Parole Board. But the LIl
case to the Parole Board. But the LI
case to the Parole Board. But the High Court heard the probation
High Court heard the probation ey
High Court heard the probation service had argued
High Court heard the probation service had arqued that
High Court heard the probation service had argued that she
High Court heard the probation service had arqued that she was not
service had argued that she was not Y
service had argued that she was not PR &)
service had argued that she was not NSRRIl Te]
service had argued that she was not TR R R I )
service had argued that she was not R G R I RN T
service had argued that she was not R R R R e
a risk to children she was not looking after, and the judge,
looking after, and the judge, Justice Mrs Williams, concluded
Justice Mrs Williams, concluded [y
Justice Mrs Williams, concluded TR
Justice Mrs Williams, concluded there was a formidable body of
there was a formidable body of el IeE
there was a formidable body of material before the
there was a formidable body of W S R U R e %18
there was a formidable body of material before the Secretary of
material before the Secretary of State,
material before the Secretary of L1 4
material before the Secretary of LT - o)
material before the Secretary of State, at each stage of his
State, at each stage of his decision-making, which indicated
decision-making, which indicated that Simpson’s risk could be safely
that Simpson’s risk could be safely managed if she was released. Tony’s
managed if she was released. Tony’s adoptive
managed if she was released. Tony’s adoptive family have successfully
adoptive family have successfully campaigned for tougher sentences for
campaigned for tougher sentences for child abusers, known as Tony’s Law,
child abusers, known as Tony’s Law, el
child abusers, known as Tony’s Law, N e Re 311
child abusers, known as Tony’s Law, which came into
child abusers, known as Tony’s Law, T o B e Ll tte it e
child abusers, known as Tony’s Law, which came into force in June. The
which came into force in June. The family’s MP
which came into force in June. The family’s MP have backed their wishes
family’s MP have backed their wishes 0]
family’s MP have backed their wishes )
family’s MP have backed their wishes RN
family’s MP have backed their wishes T a k]
family’s MP have backed their wishes TN a B
family’s MP have backed their wishes to see her remain in prison. It
family’s MP have backed their wishes O ARG T A
to see her remain in prison. It is WG
to see her remain in prison. It is clearly very disappointing because
clearly very disappointing because ey
clearly very disappointing because R
clearly very disappointing because these two people have committed an
these two people have committed an horrific act against a young child,
horrific act against a young child, Antonia and his real parents, the
Antonia and his real parents, the parents
Antonia and his real parents, the EICNENEI (Y
Antonia and his real parents, the parents are actually
Antonia and his real parents, the NI OGN
Antonia and his real parents, the parents are actually love him, Paul
parents are actually love him, Paul and
parents are actually love him, Paul LR EIL
parents are actually love him, Paul LR FI R
parents are actually love him, Paul LR E A R -
parents are actually love him, Paul and Mark, have been campaigning to
and Mark, have been campaigning to 4
and Mark, have been campaigning to O]
and Mark, have been campaigning to get the law changed. They always
get the law changed. They always P
get the law changed. They always T R
get the law changed. They always G R AR L
get the law changed. They always knew that it was not changed for
knew that it was not changed for Tony, that is in
knew that it was not changed for IR ARG G
knew that it was not changed for Tony, that is in the past, but that
Tony, that is in the past, but that 3
Tony, that is in the past, but that R\
Tony, that is in the past, but that is why they
Tony, that is in the past, but that LR A (AT
Tony, that is in the past, but that is why they were campaigning to get
Is why they were campaigning to get W EW L]
Is why they were campaigning to get changed for
is why they were campaigning to get changed for the future. Dominic
Is why they were campaigning to get changed for the future. Dominic Raab
changed for the future. Dominic Raab s NOW
changed for the future. Dominic Raab TR S S|
changed for the future. Dominic Raab RGN L L
changed for the future. Dominic Raab is now considering an appeal, saying
s now considering an appeal, saying he
s now considering an appeal, saying P RTTE a1
s now considering an appeal, saying he wants to
s now considering an appeal, saying RN R T
s now considering an appeal, saying he wants to see the
s now considering an appeal, saying RN R R R e s
s now considering an appeal, saying he wants to see the most dangerous
he wants to see the most dangerous e
he wants to see the most dangerous R ]
he wants to see the most dangerous offenders spend longer
he wants to see the most dangerous R R GL EIET
he wants to see the most dangerous offenders spend longer in jail.
An investigation is underway after two boys, aged five and two,
were found dead at an address in East London.
Police and ambulance crews were called to a property
Police and ambulance crews were called to a property
In Dagenham yesterday afternoon.
A man and a woman, who officers say RO R R R w11
have been arrested.
Officers said family had been infermed about the boys’ deaths
and were being supported.
Three women remain in critical condition after a crush outside
a concert in scuth London.
The women were all attending a gig WSS YL
at the 02 Academy Iin Brixton on Thursday night.
Footage from social media shows large crowds, with other images
showing people struggling and screaming.
The concert was abandoned part-way through.
It’s the second day of a 48-hour rail strike by RMT union members,
and passengers are being advised not to travel by train.
The industrial actien is over a long-running dispute about pay
and job conditions, but comes during the last weekend before
Christmas, which is usually a busy AR RO RSB e

Citation: BBC News, 01:10 17/12/2022, BBC1 London, 290 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C02CF79?bcast=138019341 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)