the south. Foremost, a day of sunshine and showers once again.
sunshine and showers once again. Temperatures 3—9 and feeling cold.
This is BBC News — these are the latest headlines
in the UK and around the world.
The UK Government’s performance in delivering Brexit
has been criticised — with a group of cross—party MPs
saying the only detectable impact so far has been an extra burden
on businesses in the form of increased costs,
paperwork and border delays.
Until it’s our government gets to grip with competence and attention
to detail, and not grandstanding and winding the French up, we are
absolutely, well, I can’t see an end to this — the problems.
A flurry of international efforts as European leaders try
to avert war in Ukraine —
and say there is some cause for optimism.
The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, says the Commissioner
of the Metropolitan Police, Dame Cressida Dick, has "days
and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust
in her running of the force.
Health Minister Gillian Keegan apologises for continuing
with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested
positive for Covid.
Booing on the pitch for footballer
Kurt Zouma, as police confirm
they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
Hello and welcome, if you’re watching in the UK
or around the world.
A cross—party group of British MPs says the UK’s exit
from the European Union has so far only led to increased costs,
paperwork and border problems for businesses.
A report from Parliament’s spending watchdog,
the Public Accounts Committee, found costs for businesses had risen
and trade had fallen as a result of leaving the EU.
The report also warned there could be further disruption
to cross—border trade this year, when new import controls come in.
The MP5 say more must be done to improve border
arrangements for businesses.
They say that Brexit has led to increased
costs for exporters, more
paperwork for businesses, and more border delays.
The British Government says it is continuing to offer help to UK
businesses to trade effectively.
Here’s our global trade correspondent, Chris Morris.
The focus on Britain’s borders continues.
This report says trade volumes have fallen partly
because of the impact of Covid.
The exit from the EU has clearly had an impact and new border
arrangements have added costs to business.
Smaller firms with fewer resources have been hit the hardest.
Between the delays at the border, the extra costs and paperwork,
a lot of businesses are saying it has been a struggle for them.
We have said to the government repeatedly, before Brexit
and again in this report, you need to step up
and support smaller businesses.
They have concentrated on volume businesses, the bigger ones,
that are doing the most trade with Europe.
That is no consolation for those many people whose livelihoods,
and sometimes jobs of other people, depend on their being able to do
this trade with Europe.
The committee notes that a Brexit support fund worth £20 million
was initially created for small businesses.
But only 6.7 million was paid out because it was so hard
to access the money.
More, the report says, needs to be done.
Outside Dover, long queues of lorries have become the norm.
The committee says it could get worse.
It says there is potential for further disruption as more
people start travelling again and passenger volumes at key ports
like Dover increase.
There is also concern about extra delays later this year when the EU
introduces new passport controls and the UK starts checking
the import of food products.
The MP5 want more transparency from government about the problems
businesses are facing.
The government says it plans to create the most effective border
in the world by 2025.
The committee says that is a noteworthy ambition,
but optimistic given where things stand today.
Chris Morris, BBC News.
m:
We are seeing some tweets coming in the last minute today’s Commons
David Frost who said today’s Commons committee report on the
David Frost who said today’s Commons committee report on the UK—
David Frost who said today’s Commons committee report on the UK— EU
committee report on the UK- EU border is quite
committee report on the UK— EU border is quite thin stuff and
border is quite thin stuff and doesn’t always give the full
doesn’t always give the full picture. The committee rightly
picture. The committee rightly identifies extra costs of, for
identifies extra costs of, for example, EU agri— Food processes but
example, EU agri- Food processes but doesn’t
example, EU agri— Food processes but doesn’t mention the EU’s refusal in
doesn’t mention the EU’s refusal in 2020 to negotiate, and he goes on to
2020 to negotiate, and he goes on to talk about an equivalence process,
talk about an equivalence process, so quite quickly the language gets
so quite quickly the language gets quite technical. He goes on.
quite technical. He goes on. However, the committee is right to
However, the committee is right to note this year is affected by the
note this year is affected by the new inward customs processes we
new inward customs processes we brought in on the 1st of
new inward customs processes we brought in on the 1st ofJanuary. I
brought in on the 1st of january. I wouldn’t
brought in on the 1st ofJanuary. I wouldn’t have done this, he says,
wouldn’t have done this, he says, but I lost the internal argument.
but I lost the internal argument. But there is still time to think
But there is still time to think carefully before introducing full
carefully before introducing full controls from July. He goes on, we
controls from july. He goes on, we have to put up
controls from July. He goes on, we have to put up with EU controls but
have to put up with EU controls but we don’t have to replicate them
we don’t have to replicate them ourselves. We should have a light
ourselves. We should have a light touch border to the whole world,
touch border to the whola world, that is a
touch border to the whole world, that is a Brexit opportunity. Lord
that is a Brexit opportunity. Lord Frost continuing to talk about the
Frost continuing to talk about the opportunities of Brexit and saying
opportunities of Brexit and saying that the report today by the Commons
that the report today by the Commons Pub“:
that the report today by the Commons Public Accounts Committee is quite
Public Accounts Committee is quite thin stuff, in his words.
Mary Quicke runs a cheesemaking company in Devon she told me
about the impact of post—Brexit trading rules on her business.
The costs, we are a little business, and with delays we have no idea when
and with delays we have no idea when we send a cheese off whether it will
we send a cheese off whether it will actually arrive there on time. There
actually arrive there on time. There are different rules. Great that we
are different mles. Great that we have the
are different rules. Great that we have the most fantastic port system,
have the most fantastic port system, but actually for as long as we keep
but actually for as long as we keep winding the French up and having
winding the French up and having winding the French up as a political
winding the French up as a political class, the port authorities in
class, the port authorities in France, random different rules apply
France, random different mles apply at
France, random different rules apply at different times. So
France, random different rules apply at different times. 50 until our
at different times. So until our government
at different times. 50 until our government gets to grip with
government gets to grip with competence and attention to detail,
competence and attention to detail, and not grandstanding and winding
and not grandstanding and winding the French up, we are absolutely, I
the French up, we are absolutely, I can’t see an end to this, the
can’t see an end to this, the problams.
can’t see an end to this, the problems. We are on the verge
problems. We are on the verge of saying actually it is not worth us
saying actually it is not worth us exporting direct to Europe. We will
exporting direct to Europe. We will have to do it through someone else.
Let’s speak to professor Anand Menon, director of the UK
in a Changing Europe initiative.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. You may
Thank you for joining us. You may have just heard
Thank you forjoining us. You may havejust heard me
Thank you forjoining us. You may have just heard me quote that tweet
have just heard me quote that tweet from David Frost, Lord Frost, saying
from David Frost, Lord Frost, saying todars report is
from David Frost, Lord Frost, saying today’s report is quite thin stuff
todars report is quite thin stuff and
today’s report is quite thin stuff and doesn’t always give the full
and doesn’t always give the full picture. I guess it’s difficult for
picture. I guess it’s difficult for any report to give the full picture.
any report to give the full picture. But what is your interpretation of
But what is your interpretation of what the Public Accounts Committee
what the Public Accounts Committee has said? Significant things, the
has said? Significant things, the committee is stating the obvious,
committee is stating the obvious, the obvious is Brexit will lessen
the obvious is Brexit will lassen our
the obvious is Brexit will lessen our trade with the European Union
our trade with the European Union because it will make it slower and
because it will make it slower and more cumbersome and more expensive.
more cumbersome and more expensive. That’s exactly what the lady you
That’s exactly what the lady you were just talking to has
were just talking to has experienced. The fact is that being
experienced. The fact is that being outside the Single Market and
outside the Single Market and customs union is going to make trade
customs union is going to make trade harder. I think the committee is
harder. I think the committee is simply saying we need to find ways
simply saying we need to find ways of mitigating that. But mitigating,
of mitigating that. But mitigating, not removing the additional costs.
not removing the additional costs. The fact of being outside the
The fact of being outside the European Union is going to have an
European Union is going to have an impact on trade whatever we do. The
impact on trade whatever we do. The debate now is about whether given
debate now is about whether given that we can do things to lessen that
that we ran do things to lassen that impact, but we
that we can do things to lessen that impact, but we can’t remove it
impact, but we can’t remove it altogether. The committee also talks
altogether. The committee also talks about the government being more
about the government being more transparent and upfront about the
transparent and upfront about the challanges
transparent and upfront about the challenges of now
transparent and upfront about the challenges of new trading with the
challanges of now trading with the EU. We
challenges of new trading with the EU. We have heard from businesses
EU. We have heard from businesses saying that the government hasn’t
saying that the government hasn’t been clear enough with information
been clear enough with information to them about what they need to do,
to them about what they need to do, about what the challenges are. Are
about what the challanges are. Are you
about what the challenges are. Are you seeing any changes on that front
you seeing any changes on that front from the government? No, not really.
from the government? No, not really. In defence of the government, what
In defence of the government, what I’d say is this. The Czechs and
I’d say is this. The Czechs and things at Borders have come in
things at Borders have come in immediately. The potential benefits
immediately. The potential benefits of Brexit that the government may
of Brexit that the government may want to reap will take far longer to
want to reap will take far longer to realise and the government, since
realise and the government, since leaving the European Union, has been
leaving the European Union, has been fully -- wholly
leaving the European Union, has been fully —— wholly focused on the
fully -- wholly focused on the pandemic.
fully —— wholly focused on the pandemic. But there is scope for
pandemic. But there is scope for more transparency from the
more transparency from the government, in making it clear
more transparency from the government, in making it clearfor
government, in making it clear for instance
government, in making it clearfor instance if
government, in making it clear for instance if you
government, in making it clearfor instance if you are a business that
instance if you are a business that charades with Europe you will have
charades with Europe you will have to get used to increased costs, to
to get used to increased costs, to increased paperwork because that’s
increased paperwork because that’s the price we are paying for Brexit.
the price we are paying for Brexit. You ran
the price we are paying for Brexit. You can understand why ministers are
You ran understand why ministers are reluctant
You can understand why ministers are reluctant to use that sort of
reluctant to use that sort of language but that’s the sort of
language but that’s the sort of clarity that would make things
clarity that would make things easier for business and help
easier for business and help businesses to adapt to a very new
businesses to adapt to a very new trading situation. We now have a
trading situation. We now have a Minister
trading situation. We now have a Ministerfor Brexit
trading situation. We now have a Minister for Brexit Opportunities,
Minister for Brexit Opportunities, jacob
Minister for Brexit Opportunities, Jacob Rees—Mogg. How effective do
jacob Rees-M099. How effective do you think he
Jacob Rees—Mogg. How effective do you think he will be? How effective
you think he will be? How effective do you think he can be given the
do you think he ran be given the challenges
do you think he can be given the challenges you have outlined? That
challanges you have outlined? That depends on a
challenges you have outlined? That depends on a few things. David
depends on a few things. David Frost, before he resigned, was also
Frost, before he resigned, was also in charge of Brexit opportunities,
in charge of Brexit opportunities, so that part of his portfolio has
so that part of his portfolio has been taken up by
so that part of his portfolio has been taken up byJacob Rees—Mogg.
been taken up byjacob Rees-M099. How
been taken up byJacob Rees—Mogg. How effective he can be depends on
How effective he ran be depends on many things.
How effective he can be depends on many things. Firstly whether he can
many things. Firstly whether he ran convince
many things. Firstly whether he can convince Cabinet and particularly
convince Cabinet and particularty the
convince Cabinet and particularly the Prime Minister that the
the Prime Minister that the direction he wants to go in is the
direction he wants to go in is the right direction, so if he wants to
right direction, so if he wants to reduce regulations, can he get
reduce regulations, ran he get political
reduce regulations, can he get political backing? Secondly, it is
political backing? Secondly, it is worth bearing in mind there are
worth bearing in mind there are always trade—offs. If you want to
always trade-offs. If you want to get rid of
always trade—offs. If you want to get rid of regulations are EU
get rid of regulations are EU imposed on us, it might end up
imposed on us, it might end up increasing the difficulty that
increasing the difficulty that traders like the one you have just
traders like the one you have just heard from experience in trading
heard from experience in trading with the EU because the more we
with the EU because the more we diverge from the rules the harder it
diverge from the mles the harder it will be for
diverge from the rules the harder it will be for exporters to deal with
will be for exporters to deal with the EU market while conforming to
the EU market while conforming to those new rules. As with everything
those new mles. As with everything to do
those new rules. As with everything to do with Brexit it is swings and
to do with Brexit it is swings and roundabouts, it is opportunities
roundabouts, it is opportunities versus costs. So it is a bit of a
versus costs. So it is a bit of a minefield
versus costs. 50 it is a bit of a minefield Jacob Rees—Mogg will have
minefield jacob Rees-M099 will have to navigate.
minefield Jacob Rees—Mogg will have to navigate. The plan to have UK
to navigate. The plan to have UK borders as the best borders in the
borders as the best borders in the world by 2025? What do you mean by
world by 2025? what do you mean by the best
world by 2025? What do you mean by the best boarders? It’s an ambitious
the best boarders? It’s an ambitious statement, but yes, what does it
statement, but yes, what does it mean? Absolutely it is ambitious but
mean? Absolutely it is ambitious but that’s the sort of boosterist
that’s the sort of boosterist language were used to from this
language were used to from this government but David Frost thinks
government but David Frost thinks the best body is a light touch
the best body is a light touch border and for others who thought
border and for others who thought taking back control have stricter
taking back control have stricter measures at the boarders might think
measures at the boarders might think it is about having stricter
it is about having stricter boarders. The full range of checks
boarders. The full range of checks with the EU will not be in place
with the EU will not be in place until November under current plans.
until November under current plans. So putting
until November under current plans. 50 putting those in place and then
So putting those in place and then making our border better than anyone
making our border better than anyone else’s by 2025 is, to put it mildly,
else’s by 2025 is, to put it mildly, quite a challenging task. Anand
quite a challanging task. Anand Manon,
quite a challenging task. Anand Menon, thank you very much.
Menon, thank you very much. Professor Anand Menon from
A
AUk
AUkIn
AUkInA
A Uk In A Changing Europe. If you want to get in touch about that
want to get in touch about that story or any of the other stories we
story or any of the other stories we are talking about today you can do
are talking about today you ran do it on
are talking about today you can do it on Twitter @ Anita BBC and use
it on Twitter 0 Anita BBC and use the hashtag
it on Twitter @ Anita BBC and use the hashtag BBC your questions.
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan says Scotland Yard’s commissioner,
Dame Cressida Dick, has only weeks to address his concerns
about her running of the Metropolitan Police force.
A report by the Independent Office for Police Conduct revealed highly
offensive language used on WhatsApp and Facebook chats by officers
from a now—disbanded team based in Westminster,
primarily at Charing Cross.
1A officers were investigated by the watchdog —
nine remain serving — and two officers have been promoted.
Scotland Yard’s commissioner has come under mounting pressure
of her handling over key events during recent years.
This includes, a man who was a serving
Metropolitan Police officer,
who abducted, raped and strangled Sarah Everard.
The force faced severe criticism over their policing of a vigil
held in Clapham Common, London.
A pair of Met Police constables, who took photos of two murdered
sisters, Nicole Smallman and Bibaa Henry.
They shared the images on WhatsApp groups.
Both officers were jailed for 33 months each.
And Anthony Walgate, Jack Taylor, Gabriel Kovari
and Daniel Whitworth — four gay men were killed
by Stephen Port.
A coroner’s report identified ‘basic investigative failings’
by the Scotland Yard into their deaths.
Our Correspondent Greg McKenzie has more on this story
Our Correspondent Greg McKenzie has more on this story.
Greg, this challenge from the Mayor of London to Cressida Dick, how much
of London to Cressida Dick, how much of a problem is that for the
of a problem is that for the Commissioner? It will be a big
Commissioner? It will be a big problem because ultimately it is the
problem because ultimately it is the Home Secretary Priti Patel that will
Home Secretary Priti Patel that will decide. She fires and hires, and in
decide. She fires and hires, and in fact she would have approved, in
fact she would have approved, in fact, she did approve that
fact, she did approve that appointment. Cressida Dick, was
appointment. Cressida Dick, was appointed in 2017, the first woman
appointed in 2017, the first woman to [ad
appointed in 2017, the first woman to lead Britain’s biggest police
to lead Britain’s biggest police force and in recent times she has
force and in recent times she has come under immense pressure, some
come under immense pressure, some falling for her to
come under immense pressure, some calling for her to quit. As for the
falling for her to quit. As for the Mayor and his
calling for her to quit. As for the Mayor and his ultimatum, if you
Mayor and his ultimatum, if you like, he has said today that she
like, he has said today that she has, as you said, literally days or
has, as you said, literally days or weeks to sort out the Met’s racism
weeks to sort out the Met’s racism and misogyny.
weeks to sort out the Met’s racism and misogyny. This all comes off the
and misogyny. This all comes off the back of this independent office for
back of this independent office for police complaints report. They did a
police complaints report. They did a report looking at a number of
report looking at a number of individuals at the Met police
individuals at the Met police between a certain period of time and
between a certain period of time and they have concluded that ultimately
they have concluded that ultimately the stuff came out
they have concluded that ultimately the stuff came outlast
they have concluded that ultimately the stuff came out last week, and I
the stuff came out last week, and I can’t even read half of it, that’s
can’t even read half of it, that’s how disturbing it is, some of the
how disturbing it is, some of the things that they were talking about,
things that they were talking about, talking about rape and different
talking about rape and different drugs and all sorts of different
drugs and all sorts of different sexual offences. The answer, really,
sexual offences. The answer, really, it’s all about banter. Then there is
it’s all about banter. Then there is a shock to come as most people were
a shock to come as most people were shocked, and he is saying that she
shocked, and he is saying that she has a matter of days to change it.
has a matter of days to change it. He wants her to shake up the
He wants her to shake up the Metropolitan Police. Now,
Metropolitan Police. Now, ultimately, as I said, it is the
ultimately, as I said, it is the Home Secretary that will decide in
Home Secretary that will decide in terms of the Met Commissioner and
terms of the Met Commissioner and the job in hand,
terms of the Met Commissioner and thejob in hand, but she does take
the job in hand, but she does take his views
thejob in hand, but she does take his views to hand in terms of he
his views to hand in terms of he will have a heavy influence on the
will have a heavy inﬂuence on the appointment
will have a heavy influence on the appointment and whether she is fired
appointment and whether she is fired or asked to leave. As you say, this
or asked to leave. As you say, this is an ultimatum from the Mayor of
is an ultimatum from the Mayor of London. The timing, of course, is
London. The timing, of course, is also incredibly important, given the
also incredibly important, given the fact that the Metropolitan Police is
fact that the Metropolitan Police is now investigating events, parties at
now investigating events, parties at Downing Street. They are looking
Downing Street. They are looking into what has happened at the very
into what has happened at the very heart of government during
heart of government during lockdowns. So
heart of government during lockdowns. 50 another reason why
lockdowns. So another reason why this is so
lockdowns. 50 another reason why this is so significant. It is
this is so significant. It is indeed, and also significant is the
indeed, and also significant is the fact that the Commissioner’s
fact that the Commissioner’s contract was due to end in two
contract was due to end in two months’ time in April, but she was
months’ time in April, but she was given a two-year
months’ time in April, but she was given a two—year extension only last
given a two-year extension only last year. So lots of
given a two—year extension only last year. So lots of questions to
year. So lots of questions to answer.
year. 50 lots of questions to answer. She is yet to speak in terms
answer. She is yet to speak in terms of todars
answer. She is yet to speak in terms of today’s comments by the mayor.
of todars comments by the mayor. But
of today’s comments by the mayor. But Dame Cressida Dick is yet to
But Dame Cressida Dick is yet to release a statement in relation to
release a statement in relation to the challenge, if you like, by the
the challenge, if you like, by the London Mayor Sadiq Khan. I think we
London Mayor Sadiq Khan. I think we ran bring you
London Mayor Sadiq Khan. I think we can bring you that clip now.
I have been quite clear to the Commissioner,
my expectation is, the next time I see her, I want to see what her
response is to the examples, not of one officer, 01:14 officers
being involved in racist, sexist misogynistic,
homophobic, anti—Semitic, Islamophobic and the like behaviour,
nine of whom are still serving.
And secondly, what her plans are to win back the trust
and confidence that has been both knocked and shattered
as a consequence of these cases.
And I make this point, in the words of the IOPC,
the Independent Office for Police Conduct, these
cases are not historic, they are not isolated,
and that is why it is important for the Commissioner,
when I next see her, to answer me those
two big questions.
if:
He was pushed on that in terms of when will you see her? He didn’t
when will you see her? He didn’t quite answer but he said it will be
quite answer but he said it will be soon. Time will only tell and the
soon. Time will only tell and the story is definitely not going away
story is definitely not going away any time soon. Greg, thank you very
any time soon. Greg, thank you very much for that.
The threat of war still hangs over Ukraine.
But a top Russian diplomat has told the BBC the European initiative
to resolve the crisis has been positive , and there is still time
for a political settlement.
Vladimir Chizhov said meetings in Moscow this week could be key.
European leaders said they’ll continue talking to Russia
to try to avert a conflict, that follows two days
of shuttle diplomacy by the French president,
Emmanuel Macron.
Moscow has denied any plans to invade Ukraine,
but it has assembled more than 100,000 troops near its borders.
And military exercises are continuing — these pictures show
Russian air defence systems in the Brest Region of Belarus,
which boarders Ukraine.
Mr Chizhov told the BBC’s Europe Editor, Katya Adler,
that the military build—up could be reduced later this month.
Those exercises, joint Russian—Belarusian exercises that
are taking place there, they had been preannounced since last year.
And of course, after they are finished the troops will return to
their own permanent stations.
Separately, there’s talk of more than 100,000 Russian soldiers.
Can we expect to see fewer than our present at the moment?
Why isn’t anyone speaking of Ukrainian soldiers?
They have an army of more than 250,000, and more than half of
it is placed directly facing Russia.
Is Russia interested, though, in diplomacy?
We certainly believe there is still room for diplomacy.
Russia is preparing a formal reply to answers that we received
from the United States and Nate on Russia’s
concerns over European security.
The focus appears to be in preventing
Nato’s expansion further eastward, preventing Ukraine
becoming a member state of Nate, the West has already said forget it.
So where can diplomacy go now?
We are not going to forget it, first.
And we cannot afford to forget it.
Five waves of Nato expansion, that was
not the evolution that we expected.
Is the Kremlin worried about this threat of massive
sanctions, painful sanctions?
President Putin himself will be targeted, says the West, with the
sanctions.
How? How?
Who will suffer most?
The consumers in Western Europe because any sanctions are
tantamount to produce counter sanctions from Russia.
I am not saying that Russia is going to turn
the tap of gas to Europe.
off the tap of gas to Europe.
No. But there may be counter sanctions.
So are you threatening European families?
We are not threatening anybody because we are not going to
invade any country.
That’s your word on that? Take my word.
We don’t have any intention.
Of course, the important thing is not to provoke
Russia into changing its mind.
Isn’t there a danger of miscalculation on
both sides right now?
Hopefully not on the Russian side.
And hopefully not on the other side.
Katya Adler talking to the Russian ambassador to the European Union.
A Conservative Party donor has told BBC News that BorisJohnson’s
leadership is "past the point of no return".
John Armitage — a billionaire financier —
said the current situation in Government was "tremendously
upsetting" and that the Tory party needed to "remake itself".
Mr Armitage has also donated money to three Labour MPs.
In response, a Conservative spokesperson said, "The Government
remains fully focussed on delivering for the British people."
This is what Mr Armitage told us.
If you do something or say something which on the front page
of the Sunday Times looks terrible and you do that consistently,
and you betray a sense of not really caring,
I think you should leave.
And I find the lack of honour inherent in modern politics
incredibly distressing.
Earlier our political correspondent Iain Watson,
told me what impactJohn Armitage’s comments could have among
Conservatives.
It will have a financial impact, no doubt, he donated £3 million
to the Conservative Party, £500,000 under BorisJohnson’s
leadership and now he says he will not be donating again
at this time, so he is withdrawing the financial support
for the time being.
But it is likely to have a political consequence as well.
We know that various Conservative MPs have been wondering
about whether to submit a letter of no confidence in Borisjohnson,
some have told me they are waiting for various events to happen,
the police investigation to conclude, for example,
or to see if there is an electoral consequence to the so—called
partygate allegations and investigations at
the local elections.
Now it looks like there may be a financial consequence as well
so it may well be something that concentrates minds.
You asked me to tell you something more about
You asked me to tell you something more aboutJohn Armitage.
John Armitage is not somebody who would be a classic
Boris Johnson supporter.
I think in any case he helped to fund the Remain campaign,
on Brexit he wasn’t a Brexiteer unlike Borisjohnson.
As you mentioned, he has given small amounts to the Labour Party,
some ex Labour politicians, about £12,500, nothing
of the same order he gave to the Conservative Party.
He does have deep pockets, he’s pretty wealthy,
he is hedge fund manager.
he is a hedge fund manager.
He did say he will continue as a Conservative Party member.
He is not resigning from the party.
So it looks at this stage that he is simply withdrawing
his financial rather than political support.
That said, he did sound pretty critical about how
things have been handled.
Iain Watson.
The UK Health Minister, Gillian Keegan, has apologised
for continuing a meeting yesterday after testing positive for Covid.
Ms Keegan said she found out as she was listening
to three fathers who had lost their daughters to suicide.
She says that after getting their consent, she stayed
on for a short period,
but admitted it had been an error ofjudgment.
but admitted it had been an error ofjudgement.
In a tweet she said:
"I should have immediately ended the meeting and on reflection this
was an error of judgement on my part.
I fully recognise the importance of following the letter
and spirit of the policies, so want to be upfront
about what happened and to apologise for the mistake I made."
UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid says he’s accepted Gillian Keegan’s
apology and "continues to support her in her role".
The manager of the English Premier League side,
West Ham, David Moyes, has defended his decision
to select Kurt Zouma against Watford last night —
while police are investigating footage of the player
kicking his pet cat.
The French international was booed by fans at the London stadium,
following the release of a video showing the 27—year—old, hitting,
dropping and kicking the animal across the ﬂoor.
We aren’t broadcasting the footage.
The club says it "unreservedly condemns" him for his actions,
but said it was a separate matter from the match.
I’m a human being and I’m also a great animal lover.
So I understand how people feel.
But again, as I said, I am the football manager
here and I have to find a way of getting the results here.
And Kurt Zouma is one of the key players to us.
Kurt Zouma has issued an apology about the incident.
He said "There are no excuses for my behaviour
which I sincerely regret.
I also want to say how deeply sorry I am to anyone
who was upset by the video.
"I would like to assure
everyone that our two cats are perfectly fine and healthy.
It was an isolated incident which will never happen again."
Jamesjones is the co—host of the We are West Ham podcast —
I asked for his reaction to the decision to start
Zouma in Tuesday’s game.
It baffles me, the decision to play him.
Everyone expected him not to be in the team, in the squad,
in the stadium for last night’s game and when the starting 11
was announced before the game and he was there there was a lot
of shock, I was just outside the stadium at the time
and it was such a baffling decision, he should be nowhere
near the stadium, and it brings the club into more disrepute,
further than what his actions had already done in terms of putting
David Moyes and his decision under more spotlight or scrutiny.
The club the’s decision to play him under more scrutiny.
He should have been nowhere near the football pitch last night.
What you make of David Moyes’s rationale that he was thinking
purely about the football, about the game, what was best
in terms of the club’s chances of winning?
He has got a job to do but I think in a situation like this,
football is almost irrelevant, at the end of the day
Kurt Zouma’s actions are appalling and disgraceful.
And regardless of whether you need to win a football match
or not his actions are wrong and he needs to be punished for it.
The club are investigating, we’re told, but that’s not
enough, he should have not played last night.
If it meant a weaker starting 11 for West Ham last night, so be it,
the fact is he shouldn’t have been on the pitch and David Moyes arguing
that it was a footballing decision, I think football comes second
in this situation, 100%.
He shouldn’t have been there.
Kurt Zouma, as we know, apologised for his actions,
he said there were no excuses for my behaviour,
which I sincerely regret.
He said he wanted to say how deeply sorry he was to anyone
who was upset by the video.
That said, do you think West Ham have lost their best opportunity
to take a stance on this?
You said the fact he was on the pitch last night
is bringing the club itself into disrepute.
So given that he did play, is there an opportunity now
for West Ham to row back from this?
Or have they lost that opportunity?
I think given the backlash to the fact that he was playing it
might push them into taking a stronger stance
on it retrospectively.
But at the end of the day it is difficult to say
whether the whole club is in disrepute.
I know I have said that but it hasn’t put the club in a great
light when all they needed to do was take him out of the spotlight
completely in light of what happened and the video on social media,
and remove all of the backlash that we are now having.
We should be talking about West Ham fighting for the Champions League
and instead we are talking about West Ham might play a player
filmed kicking a cat.
We should not be in that position, they should have taken a stance,
they should have shown that actually it is wrong for anyone
to abuse animals, let alone a Premier League footballer.
James
Jamesjones,
James Jones, co—host of
Jamesjones, co—host of the We
West Ham podrast. Breaking news, UK Foreign
West Ham podcast. Breaking news, UK Foreign Minister Liz truss will
Foreign Minister Liz this will travel
Foreign Minister Liz truss will travel to Moscow to meet the Russian
travel to Moscow to meet the Russian Foreign Minister. Her Russian
Foreign Minister. Her Russian equivalent at Sergey Lavrov. We are
equivalent at Sergey Lavrov. We are told that she will be flying to
told that she will be flying to Moscow today to urge the Kremlin to
Moscow today to urge the Kremlin to de—escalate and to desist in its
tie-escalate and to desist in its aggression
de—escalate and to desist in its aggression against Ukraine. This
aggression against Ukraine. This comes as a top Russian diplomat has
comes as a top Russian diplomat has told the BBC that the European
told the BBC that the European initiative to resolve the crisis has
initiative to resolve the crisis has been positive and that there is
been positive and that there is still time for a political
still time for a political settlement. UK Foreign Minister Liz
settlement. UK Foreign Minister Liz Tmss
settlement. UK Foreign Minister Liz Truss travelling to Moscow today to
Tmss travelling to Moscow today to speak to her
Truss travelling to Moscow today to speak to her Russian counterpart
speak to her Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov.
A stand—off between truckers and the Canadian government over
Covid restrictions shows no sign of ending.
The city of Ottawa has called for reinforcements asking for 1,800
additional police officers to assist those already on the ground.
Local people are angry at the demonstration,
as Tanya Dendrinos reports.
They are used to hauling across the country.
Now these truckers are parked up for the long haul, demanding an end
to vaccine mandates.
I think it is just the fact that they are saying
you have to have a mandate, that you have to have a shot.
That is the problem because again, ever since Covid started,
truckers have been going back and forth across the border
and across Canada, across the United States.
They were hauling things to first responders,
the emergency supplies, the masks, all this stuff, even
when the truckers couldn’t get it, even the shots and the vaccine,
when the truckers couldn’t get it but they were getting it
out to other people.
The protest, which is going into its second week,
has seen around 500 trucks lining the streets of downtown Ottawa.
Some have been blockaded altogether, including the busiest [and crossing
between Canada and the United States, which was shut
for hours on Tuesday.
It has turned into an occupation.
They have removed the tyres off of their big wheel trucks.
They are bringing fuel in.
They have set up temporary shelters.
This is no longerjust a peaceful conversation
or attempt at negotiation.
This is a hostagetaking of our city.
Mr Speaker...
Canadian Prime MinisterJustin Trudeau was heckled in Parliament
as he defended the use of restrictions to
fight the pandemic.
It is clear patience is running thin on many fronts.
An injunction has been granted to stop the truckers
honking their horns.
It may have quietened the scene but they are determined
not to be silenced.
Tanya Dendrinos, BBC News.
Our correspondent Samira Hussein sent this update from Ottawa.
The protests here in Ottawa, Canada, have clearly entered
into their second week and it doesn’t seem like anyone
is going to be leaving soon.
This entire road has been blocked off and it is the main
thoroughfare to which you can get to Parliament Hill,
it is the centre of Canada’s government and the protests
aren’tjust here in Ottawa, it has spread
to other Canadian cities.
That said, the kind of tensions you were seeing in the earlier
days of the protests have eased somewhat between the residents
and the protesters, as the truckers are no longer
honking their horns.
Without that noise, there is much less anxiety.
In fact, there was somewhat more of a carnival—like atmosphere
happening here with a stage set up and music and dancing.
Of course the big question is how long will these
truckers remain here?
And many of those I had spoken with have said they have spent
many weeks on the road away from theirfamilies.
They are in it for the long haul.
The headlines on BBC News.
The UK Government’s performance in delivering Brexit
has been criticised — with a group of cross—party MPs
saying the only detectable impact so far has been an extra burden
on businesses in the form of increased costs,
paperwork and border delays.
A flurry of international efforts — as European leaders try
to avert war in Ukraine — and say there is some
cause for optimism.
The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, says the Commissioner
of the Metropolitan Police, Dame Cressida Dick, has "days
and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust
in her running of the force.
UK Health Minister Gillian Keegan apologises for continuing
with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested
positive for Covid.
Booing on the pitch for footballer Kurt Zouma, as police confirm
they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
The charity Carers Trust is calling for greater support
and recognition from the Government for the millions of unpaid carers
in the UK who provide vital help for loved ones in need.
The Carers Trust says there are around seven million
unpaid carers in the UK,
and anyone can become a carer at any time.
It’s believed three in five people will be in this
position at some point in their lifetime and
a large number of people are spending an average of 50 hours
or more per week caring for a relative.
A recent survey of almost 1,500 carers
by the charity found that more
than half of them had to either reduce their hours or stop working
altogether so they could care for someone.
Zoe Conway has been to meet two families dealing
with caring responsibilities.
Mark has Kennedy’s disease.
A type of motor neurone disease that is making his
muscles weaker and weaker.
He was diagnosed eight years ago and is totally
reliant on his wife Katie.
It is really intrinsic support, coming to terms with it is a step
in the right direction.
If I’m left alone, which I am sometimes, I can’t do anything
because if I fall over, or I get stuck on the toilet
or something like that, I’m stuck and I have to phone
someone to come and get me.
Katie had to give up herjob as a geography
teacher to care for Mark.
She now gets a carer’s allowance of £67 per week.
It starts from the moment that Mark wakes up to the moment that he goes
to bed and then even then, I am still worrying he might wake up
in the night or need me or something like that.
So you are never off duty.
I haven’t had any respite, so any breaks from Mark
at all for eight, nine years since he has been diagnosed.
I haven’t gone off and had a weekend with friends or anything like that.
It doesn’t happen.
You know, not even half an afternoon or something like that.
There are an estimated 7 million unpaid carers like Katie in the UK.
It is thought around three in five people will be in this position
at some point in their lifetime.
Some are spending an average of 50 hours or more per week
caring for a relative.
Many are struggling financially.
Almost half of unpaid carers told us they had to give up work
or cut down their hours because of their caring
responsibilities.
Many struggle to pay their bills, they struggle to make ends meet.
Three in ten unpaid carers told us they had to skip meals,
they had to go without food.
There are now renewed calls for carer’s allowance to increase
and for more respite and support.
The government says it recognises the vital role carers play
and that it is investing up to £25 million to improve
the existing measures designed to help them.
Tim Muffett, BBC News.
Susanne Crosby from Brighton is a full—time carer
for her 16—year—old daughter Mia, who has Rett syndrome.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. You are
Thank you for joining us. You are living this story,
Thank you forjoining us. You are living this story, aren’t you? Tell
living this story, aren’t you? Tell us about a typical day for you with
us about a typical day for you with Mia. The moment because she gets to
Mia. The moment because she gets to go to go to school which was not the
go to go to school which was not the use during
go to go to school which was not the rase during the
go to go to school which was not the case during the lockdown spot on a
case during the lockdown spot on a weekend
use during the lockdown spot on a weekend day
case during the lockdown spot on a weekend day or a holiday day, then
weekend day or a holiday day, then she will get up, wake up at about
she will get up, wake up at about seven and from then on, she can’t
seven and from then on, she can’t entertain herself, so she needs
entertain herself, so she needs constant, somebody with her
constant, somebody with her constantly, which means that even if
constantly, which means that even if I have to leave the room because I
I have to leave the room because I have to go to the bathroom, or
have to go to the bathroom, or something, then your attention is
something, then your attention is always a sort of like on her, trying
always a sort of like on her, trying to make sure she is safe and
to make sure she is safe and everything else. There is playing
everything else. There is playing with her, entertaining her, personal
with her, entertaining her, personal rare, there’s
with her, entertaining her, personal care, there’s having to plan meals
rare, there’s having to plan meals because
care, there’s having to plan meals because she is quite tiny, so she
because she is quite tiny, so she needs regular meals at certain
needs regular meals at certain times. She also has a tube now which
times. She also has a tube now which she gets ﬂuids
times. She also has a tube now which she gets fluids through, so it is
she gets ﬂuids through, so it is making sure...
she gets fluids through, so it is making sure... Because she cannot
making sure... Because she cannot feed herself or help herself to
feed herself or help herself to anything really. Having said that,
anything really. Having said that, she is a joy to be around but it is
she is a joy to be around but it is exhausting. I completely echo what
exhausting. I completely echo what the lady in the video said about, it
the lady in the video said about, it is exhausting. The £67 per week is
is exhausting. The £67 per week is nice that we get something but it is
nice that we get something but it is kind of a joke when you work out, if
kind of a joke when you work out, if that was full—time pay, 37 hours per
that was full-time pay, 37 hours per week, it
that was full—time pay, 37 hours per week, it would be £1.82 per hour.
week, it would be £1.82 per hour. And of course, you have to prove you
And of course, you have to prove you do far more than that. Mia will go
do far more than that. Mia will go to bed, we put her to bed about 9pm,
to bed, we put her to bed about 9pm, maybe 8:30pm but she won’t go to
maybe 8:30pm but she won’t go to straightaway so I have to keep going
straightaway so I have to keep going “P
straightaway so I have to keep going up and down. I am lucky... So you
up and down. I am lucky... So you have to do absolutely everything for
have to do absolutely everything for her. Absolutely everything, yes. Do
her. Absolutely everything, yes. Do you get any other help? Is there
you get any other help? Is there anyone around to help with Mia?
anyone around to help with Mia? There is one person. Of course, you
There is one person. Of course, you can’t get anyone, you can’t get a
can’t get anyone, you can’t get a general baby—sitter or anything, you
general baby-sitter or anything, you can’t get just
general baby—sitter or anything, you can’t getjust anyone so we have a
can’t get just anyone so we have a trained
can’t getjust anyone so we have a trained personal assistant who is
trained personal assistant who is wonderful but she is only available
wonderful but she is only available at certain times. So we have to
at certain times. So we have to really plan, like me and my husband,
really plan, like me and my husband, thank goodness, he is incredibly
thank goodness, he is incredibly supportive but he is also a key
supportive but he is also a key worker so sometimes he works 60
worker so sometimes he works 60 hours a week so it is mainly me. All
hours a week so it is mainly me. All through the night as well, Mia will
through the night as well, Mia will need... Even when she is asleep, she
need... Even when she is asleep, she still needs personal care during the
still needs personal rare during the night so I have
still needs personal care during the night so I have to stay awake until
night so I have to stay awake until 2:30am,
night so I have to stay awake until 2:303m, Sam, and then when she goes
2:30am, 3am, and then when she goes to school, at
2:303m, Sam, and then when she goes to school, at least I can sometimes
to school, at least I ran sometimes go back to bed
to school, at least I can sometimes go back to bed and have asleep
go back to bed and have asleep because I’m exhausted! 0h, bless
berause I’m exhausted! 0h, bless 7°“-
because I’m exhausted! 0h, bless you, it is really a full—time job
you, it is really a full-time job and of
you, it is really a full—time job and of course, you want to care for
and of course, you want to rare for her but the
and of course, you want to care for her but the fact is, it is a fact of
her but the fact is, it is a fact of life you are exhausted as a result.
life you are exhausted as a result. You said you agree with the
You said you agree with the charity’s call for greater support
charity’s all for greater support and
charity’s call for greater support and recognition from the government
and recognition from the government but a final thought from you if I
but a final thought from you if I could, what would that support and
could, what would that support and recognition look like? What would be
recognition look like? what would be most helpful
recognition look like? What would be most helpful to you? I think
most helpful to you? I think vulnerable people in general, carers
vulnerable people in general, carers who support them, but also disabled
who support them, but also disablad peopla,
who support them, but also disabled people, anyone who is... You know,
peopla, anyone who is... You know, peopla with brain
people, anyone who is... You know, people with brain injuries, stroke
peopla with brain injuries, stroke victims,
people with brain injuries, stroke victims, we need to be more visible
victims, we need to be more visible in society. That is a long—term
in society. That is a long-term change. But
in society. That is a long—term change. But there is a lot that the
change. But there is a lot that the government can do to help lead that
government ran do to help lead that from the top
government can do to help lead that from the top down to actually say,
from the top down to actually say, yes, we are important, we are
yes, we are important, we are equally important as other people
equally important as other people because it definitely does not feel
because it definitely does not feel like it. More money absolutely, we
like it. More money absolutely, we desperately need that because I had
desperately need that because I had to give up a full—time job to care
to give up a full-time job to rare for my
to give up a full—time job to care for my daughter. And things have
for my daughter. And things have never been the same since. 50 yes,
never been the same since. So yes, money is
never been the same since. 50 yes, money is important but also, some
money is important but also, some more visibility and understanding
more visibility and understanding would be absolutely brilliant. Thank
would be absolutely brilliant. Thank you for joining
would be absolutely brilliant. Thank you forjoining us. Suzanne Crosby,
you for joining us. Suzanne Crosby, who is a
you forjoining us. Suzanne Crosby, who is a full—time carer for her 16
who is a full-time rarer for her 16 year daughter,
who is a full—time carer for her 16 year daughter, Mia.
The Government told us it recognises the vital role carers play,
and that it’s investing up to £25 million
to improve existing measures designed to help them.
More new on our top story, A cross—party group of British
MPs says the UK’s exit from the European Union has so far
only led to increased costs, paperwork and border
problems for businesses.
Joining us from Brussels is the head of European
policy at Logistics UK, which has members from the road,
rail, sea and air industries.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Along with
Thank you for joining us. Along with peopla who mn
Thank you forjoining us. Along with people who run businesses, it is the
people who mn businesses, it is the members
people who run businesses, it is the members of your organisation, I
members of your organisation, I guess, who are at the blunt end of
guess, who are at the blunt and of all of
guess, who are at the blunt end of all of these changes. What do you
all of these changes. what do you make of
all of these changes. What do you make of the report? Logistics UK
make of the report? Logistic UK provided
make of the report? Logistics UK provided evidence to the committee,
provided evidence to the committee, and we are glad to see that the
and we are glad to see that the report acknowledges some of our key
report acknowledges some of our key concerns. It acknowledges that
concerns. It acknowladges that trading
concerns. It acknowledges that trading under this new regime is
trading under this new regime is more expensive to businesses and
more expensive to businesses and this is an important point. The
this is an important point. The other thing the report does very
other thing the report does very well is to highlight the key points
well is to highlight the key points that have to be addressed as a
that have to be addressed as a matter of urgency now, to make sure
matter of urgency now, to make sure that the next stage of the UK import
that the next stage of the UK import control timetable is successful, for
control timetablc is successful, for instance, all
control timetable is successful, for instance, all the preparations in
instance, all the preparations in relation to the border control
relation to the border control posts, where the physical checks on
posts, where the physical checks on agri- food
posts, where the physical checks on agri— food products will take place
agri- food products will take place from july.
agri— food products will take place from July. That government is
from july. That government is talking
from July. That government is talking about potential for
talking about potential for diverging from the rules that
diverging from the rules that existed when the UK was in the EU,
existed when the UK was in the EU, but if that happens, the more the UK
but if that happens, the more the UK diverges from those rules, does it
diverges from those mles, does it mn
diverges from those mles, does it nm the
diverges from those rules, does it run the risk of making life more
nm the risk of making life more complicated
run the risk of making life more complicated for organisations like
complicated for organisations like yourselves? There will be a case to
yourselves? There will be a rase to be made
yourselves? There will be a case to be made for each of those decisions
be made for each of those decisions to diverge, for instance, in the
to diverge, for instance, in the transport sector, which is very
transport sector, which is very important to our members, the terms
important to our members, the terms of the trade and cooperation
of the trade and cooperation agreement with the EU are very
agreement with the EU are very dear,
agreement with the EU are very clear, access to the road transport
dear, access to the road transport market of
clear, access to the road transport market of the EU for UK haulage
market of the EU for UK haulage companies is dependent on compliance
companies is dependent on compliance with a number of standards, road
with a number of standards, road safety standards, those sorts of
safety standards, those sorts of requirements, and changing these
requirements, and changing these mles
requirements, and changing these rules and standards would have to
mles and standards would have to trigger
rules and standards would have to trigger discussions in the joint
trigger discussions in the joint governance bodies of the TCA, the
governance bodies of the TCA, the agreement, and it has the potential
agreement, and it has the potential to create additional administrative
to create additional administrative complexities but also changes to the
complexities but also changes to the regime that this government has
regime that this government has negotiated as part of the TCA
negotiated as part of the TCA meeting with the EU. Something to
meeting with the EU. Something to consider carefully and we will
consider carefully and we will actually call on the government to
actually all on the government to think
actually call on the government to think about preserving flow, the
think about preserving ﬂow, the capacity of
think about preserving flow, the capacity of this country to trade
capacity of this country to trade with the EU, to make sure that the
with the EU, to make sure that the opportunities don’t translate into
opportunities don’t translate into additional disruptions for the
additional disruptions for the logistics industry and its customers
logistic industry and its customers across
logistics industry and its customers across all sectors of the UK
across all sectors of the UK economy. Thank you for
across all sectors of the UK economy. Thank you forjoining us.
Adele was the big winner at last night’s Brit Awards,
taking home the three top prizes — artist, song and album of the year.
There were also awards for Billie Eilish and Ed Sheeran.
Our music correspondent Mark Savage was watching.
Adele!
Adele, Easy On Me!
It was almost inevitable.
Adele swept the board at the Brits, winning three of the four categories
she was nominated for, including artist of the year
and best album for her so—called divorce record 30.
I’d like to dedicate this award to my son.
CHEERING.
And to Simon, to his dad.
This album was all of our journey, notjust mine.
I am very proud of myself for sticking to my guns
and putting out an album that was about something
so personal to me.
The star also gave a laid—back performance of I Drink Wine
on a set that echoed the Las Vegas shows she so recently postponed.
# How can we both become a version of a person we don’t even like?
But there was no reference to that setback as she took
to the stage in London, sometimes with a little difficulty.
What do I do?
How do I get down there with two things in me hand?
Thank you.
But not as much difficulty as Anne—Marie.
Luckily, she recovered enough to keep performing and,
after she came off stage, she tweeted, "Didn’t
need my left ankle, anyway."
Meanwhile, Ed Sheeran opened the show, playing his number one hit
Bad Habits with the Sheffield rock band Bring Me The Horizon.
Ed was also named songwriter of the year, while Billie Eilish won
best international artist.
Billie Eilish!
Thank you, guys, so much.
I am so honoured and feel so lucky to be awarded this — again.
Thank you so much.
Best new artist went to rapper a Little Simz and her mum.
Mum, look at what you’ve done, Mum.
Best rap act went to Dave.
I want to say thank you to all of the artists that
are in the same field as me, the rappers that have suffered
for years and years and years and years and broken down so many
barriers in this industry that I’m in right now.
And Rolling Stone Ronnie Wood gave Sam Fender the award
for best rock act.
My favourite, Sam Fender!
CHEERING.
But the person who appreciated winning the most was Becky Hill.
She picked up best dance artist.
I was always somebody that nobody really knew
who I was and there will still be to this day people
who sit on their sofa and go, Becky who?
And this, for me, is proper recognition that I’m doing the right
thing and I’m not necessarily wasting my life.
In the first year without male and female categories,
women prizewinners outnumbered men by three to one and Adele had
something to say about it.
I understand why the name of this award has changed,
but I really love being a woman and being a female artist.
I do.
Mark Savage, BBC News.
Let’s have a chat about how the night went with Lisa Verrico,
musicjournalist for the Sunday Times.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Let’s
Thank you for joining us. Let’s begin with
Thank you forjoining us. Let’s begin with Adele, the three top
begin with Adele, the three top awards, was it any surprise for you?
awards, was it any surprise for you? No, it was always going to be her
No, it was always going to be her night and not least when she
night and not least when she cancelled the Las Vegas shows and
rancellad the [as Vegas shows and said
cancelled the [as Vegas shows and said she
cancelled the Las Vegas shows and said she was performing at the
said she was performing at the Brits, lots of excitement, Adele is
Brits, lots of excitement, Adele is super important to the British music
super important to the British music industry so that was great. I wonder
industry so that was great. I wonder if she would have won the top three
if she would have won the top three awards if she had not been in the
awards if she had not been in the audience? That would have been quite
audience? That would have been quite a dull ceremony. Do you think that
a dull ceremony. Do you think that really makes a difference? 0h,
a dull ceremony. Do you think that really makes a difference? Oh, yes!
really makes a difference? Oh, yes! Absolutely. A definite yes from you.
Absolutely. A definite yes from you. Let’s talk about the best new
Let’s talk about the best new artist, Little Simz, lovely to see
artist, Little Simz, lovely to see her on the stage with her mum, tell
her on the stage with her mum, tell us a bit more about her, her style
us a bit more about her, her style and sound, for anyone who does not
and sound, for anyone who does not know. I think she was the big winner
know. I think she was the big winner of the night, she would have got
of the night, she would have got best new artist even though this is
best new artist even though this is her fourth album, to
best new artist even though this is herfourth album, to me, it was
best new artist even though this is her fourth album, to me, it was the
her fourth album, to me, it was the best album of last year, it is a
best album of last year, it is a technicolour wonder, all kinds of
technicolour wonder, all kinds of styles, she is essentially a wrapper
styles, she is essentially a wrapper but the album was narrated by Emma
but the album was narrated by Emma Corrin from the Gran who appeared on
Corrin from the Gran who appeared on stage in a hat that was like a tent
stage in a hat that was like a tent with her cut glass accent. Little
with her cut glass accent. Little Simz has been around for a few years
Simz has been around for a few years and I think she’s a big winner
and I think she’s a big winner because people who know her name or
because people who know her name or maybe don’t we’ll see her and want
maybe don’t we’ll see her and want to check her out so I think that
to check her out so I think that album will be the big winner in
album will be the big winner in terms of sales and streaming. I love
terms of sales and streaming. I love the comment from Becky Hill in the
the comment from Becky Hill in the report, saying she feels like she’s
report, saying she feels like she’s doing the right thing, not
doing the right thing, not necessarily wasting her life. She
necessarily wasting her life. She was talking about the recognition
was talking about the recognition that the Brit awards can bring and
that the Brit awards ran bring and that
that the Brit awards can bring and that obviously means a huge amount
that obviously means a huge amount to her. How big are the Brit awards
to her. How big are the Brit awards in terms of that recognition factor,
in terms of that recognition factor, what they ran
in terms of that recognition factor, what they can do for an artist’s
what they ran do for an artist’s Korea?
what they can do for an artist’s Korea? Becky Hill was the most
Korea? Becky Hill was the most passionate speech of the night and I
passionate speech of the night and I think when we are talking about the
think when we are talking about the gender neutral awards, I thought
gender neutral awards, I thought across the board, we had rock for
across the board, we had rock for the first time, dance for the first
the first time, dance for the first time in 16 years, lots of different
time in 16 years, lots of different genres replaced it, and sometimes it
genres replaced it, and sometimes it felt you were in a random Spotify
felt you were in a random Spotify playlist generator, going from
playlist generator, going from Adele, to grime, to rock, which is
Adele, to grime, to rock, which is exactly what music is these days.
exactly what music is these days. And so for some artists, lots of
And so for some artists, lots of peopla know
And so for some artists, lots of people know Adele and Sam Fender,
peopla know Adele and Sam Fender, but for
people know Adele and Sam Fender, but for somebody like Little Simz or
but for somebody like Little Simz or the new Brit award winner, Holly,
the new Brit award winner, Holly, peopla will
the new Brit award winner, Holly, people will see those artist for the
peopla will see those artist for the first
people will see those artist for the first time and they will decide in
first time and they will decide in that three or
first time and they will decide in that three orfour
first time and they will decide in that three or four minute
that three or four minute performance whether they are going
performance whether they are going to check them out or not so the
to check them out or not so the recognition factor is huge for
recognition factor is huge for artists. Talk to us about your
artists. Talk to us about your standout moments from last night,
standout moments from last night, Lisa, I
standout moments from last night, Lisa, Ithought
standout moments from last night, Lisa, I thought Anne—Marie styling
Lisa, I thought Anne-Marie styling it out
Lisa, I thought Anne—Marie styling it out when she stumbled was one of
it out when she stumbled was one of them for me. Good on her. She coped
them for me. Good on her. She coped it very well. Anne—Marie, the former
it very well. Anne-Marie, the former world
it very well. Anne—Marie, the former world karate champion so she had the
world karate champion so she had the move to get back up. The astonishing
move to get back up. The astonishing thing about her, if anyone is going
thing about her, if anyone is going to trip, it is her, she always says
to trip, it is her, she always says she is not that kind of person, I
she is not that kind of person, I thought her vocal was the best of
thought her vocal was the best of the night so to be able to do that,
the night so to be able to do that, having fallan,
the night so to be able to do that, having fallen, your heart must be
having fallan, your heart must be something, if
having fallen, your heart must be something, if you did not have
something, if you did not have respect for Anne—Marie before, you
respect for Anne-Marie before, you certainly do
respect for Anne—Marie before, you certainly do now. I thought Little
certainly do now. I thought Little Simz and Dave’s performance, when
Simz and Dave’s performance, when the state was essentially on fire
the state was essentially on fire and he got lots of his mates on, and
and he got lots of his mates on, and Ed Sheeran and Bring Me The Horizon
Ed Sheeran and Bring Me The Horizon to start, I don’t know if other
to start, I don’t know if other peopla knew
to start, I don’t know if other people knew what that was happening
peopla knew what that was happening but I
people knew what that was happening but I didn’t and I thought it was a
but I didn’t and I thought it was a great surprise. Thank you for
great surprise. Thank you for joining us.
A new exhibition by a British Asian photographer documenting
a journey with her mother has opened in Birmingham.
Maryam Wahid visited Pakistan to see where her mother grew up
and to discover what her own life could have looked like.
Pria Rai reports.
It’s titled Zaibunnisa, her mum’s maiden name
before she came to the UK.
It connected me with all those stories that I was told as a young
girl about Lahore and about her birthplace.
Somewhere Maryam wanted to know more about.
Since I was six, seven years old, and I
started to see another
world outside Birmingham, you know, the family have
been able to see Lahore in these pictures.
I couldn’t help but really think about what my alternative life
could have looked like when I visited Lahore.
And so in 2019 Maryam made her first ever trip to
Pakistan and took her mum who hadn’t been to her family home for more
than 20 years.
To be able to get that close to where they lived and
the bed they slept on, the room that they ate in,
was an amazing feeling, to go as far as going to Pakistan
and going to the border of India and Pakistan,
taking my mum with me, she
swore she would never go back to Pakistan,
was as close as I was ever going to get to really recording my
own story.
It’s not always easy to have a conversation about your past.
Maryam’s parents came to this country.
That can mean escaping conflict and leaving family behind,
and that’s not always easy to hear or share.
But for Maryam it was important to find out.
We come from a very complex land.
For my nan, when I learned that she had migrated
from Srinagar to Amritsar years before partition, that really
fascinated me that as a woman she migrated with her mother at a really
young age, and she then had to flee the country when the 1910 partition
happened.
Having had a glimpse of life in Lahore, back home in the
Midlands, Maryam wanted to share her story, one lots of migrant
communities would relate to and one of the gallery felt was to share.
communities would relate to and one of the gallery felt
was important to share.
The MAC is absolutely driven to make sure
that, particularty the
fantastic diversity of the communities of Birmingham,
are seen on the screen, on the stage and on
the walls of MAC, and Maryam was a huge example of that.
We make a Polaroid picture and look at also
how vague those memories are.
It definitely resonated with so many of
my friends to have hardly been back to Pakistan.
I’ll never be like people in Pakistan. my
cousins that are my age.
But I’m so proud of my Pakistani origins.
I have always celebrated my British and Pakistani identity but I
feel like it’s so much more defined now.
Pria Rai, BBC News, Birmingham.
You’re watching BBC News.
Vinyl record sales in the UK are at the highest point for 30 years —
but with only a handful of vinyl manufacturing plants,
demand is outstripping supply.
A team of entrepreneurs noticed this gap in the market and launched
a new site in Middlesbrough, which aims to produce
50,00 records a month.
LeeJohnson reports.
For many music lovers, vinyl can become an obsession.
But for the team at Press On, it’s also the chance to fill
a big gap in the market.
Recorded quite a few artists, we wanted to put
a compilation out on vinyl.
And we’ve looked around everywhere and the lead times
were really long back then.
And even in 2019, we couldn’t have got it done within five months
which meant it would not have been done in time for Christmas.
So that got our brains going, and we thought,
how come it’s so hard
to get records manufactured and delivered to you?
Making records is a complex process.
First, a master cut, grooves and all, is produced.
That is then copied, and moulded, before it’s pressed,
and set aside to be packaged.
There are only a handful of plants like this in the UK.
Most records are manufactured in Europe.
But demand is outstripping supply.
Vinyl is enjoying an incredible revival.
Last year, more than 5 million LPs were sold, that’s an increase of 8%
on the previous year.
And one in four albums sold last year was on the format.
That’s its highest sales for more than 30 years.
Fitting, then, that this new Teesside plant is also a nod
to the North East’s heritage of making records.
A0 years ago, RCA records in Washington produced LPs
by artists including Elvis Presley and David Bowie.
For Press On’s managing director, there was only one place
they wanted to be based.
Middlesbrough is everything we’re about.
We all care passionately about the area.
It is important that it’s here.
We’ve got a rich heritage and a rich history of manufacturing
and creativity whether it be in industry or chemicals or pottery,
and now we have got computer game manufacturers, as we’ve seen.
So we are proud of that and we are proud to be a part of it.
And that’s good news for local bands like Teesside group Comparison,
whose debut EP was the first off the production line.
It’s crazy, to be honest.
To see it physically happening, it kind of set in stone
how lucky we all, like, as the band we all are to
have this opportunity.
The vinyl revival shows no signs of slowing.
LeeJohnson, BBC News, Middlesbrough.
Joanna will be here to take you
joanna will be here to take you through to
Joanna will be here to take you through to 1pm including Prime
through to 1pm including Prime Minister’s questions.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol Kirkwood.
Hello again.
Some of us saw some beautiful sunrises this morning.
Quite a breezy day that we have ahead.
A colder day for more of us than yesterday as the cold air
follows on behind this cold front.
Still mild conditions in the south.
This is where we have got the cloud and some patchy light rain.
As that sinks south, it will brighten up behind it.
For most of us, it is a day of sunshine and showers.
Showers wintry on the hills of Northern Ireland and northern
England and at lower levels at times in Scotland.
As I mentioned, it is a breezy day but we are looking at gusts of gale
force across the Western and Northern Isles and temperatures
today ranging from four in the north to a mild 13 in the south.
Through this evening and overnight, if anything, the weather front sinks
a little bit further south, bringing cloud and patchy rain.
A potent area of low pressure is going to cross
the North of Scotland, bringing in gales, even
severe gales, some rain, sleet and snow as far south
as the southern uplands.
There is the risk of ice where we have got lying snow
and also blizzards in the hills of Scotland in the north.
Temperatures hanging on in the south, we are looking
at about 5—7 but certainly much lower as we push further north.
Tomorrow, early on, we will lose the weather front from the south
and it will brighten up.
Low pressure pushes off into the North Sea.
The winds will moderate.
For all of us, a day of sunshine and showers.
Most of the wintry showers will be in the hills in the north
and temperatures ranging from one in Lerwick to about nine as we push
down towards London.
But it will feel in the wind more like —3 in Lerwick.
As we head from Thursday into Friday, this ridge
of high pressure builds in.
You can see the blues in the charts representing the cold air.
Friday morning, it is going to start off on a cold note.
Widespread frost and a sharp frost at that.
But there will be a lot of sunshine, just a few showers
at times in the West.
Through the day, the cloud will build in the West,
heralding the arrival of this rain which will arrive in western areas
later in the evening on a strengthening breeze.
Once again, it is going to feel a bit chilly.
As we head into the weekend, the weather turns more unsettled
and another deep area of low pressure crosses us.
You can see from the isobars it is going to be windy.
Fronts crossing us, bringing in some rain but it looks at the moment
like on Saturday the south—east should stay dry but generally
speaking, this weekend is looking rather unsettled
but a little bit milder.
This is BBC News, I’mJoanna Gosling.
The headlines at 11...
The UK government’s performance in delivering Brexit
has been criticised, with a group of cross—party MPs
saying the only detectable impact so far has been an extra burden
on businesses, in the form of increased costs,
paperwork and border delays.
Until it’s, our government gets to grip with competence
and attention to detail, and not grandstanding
and winding the French up, we are absolutely...
Well, I can’t see an end to this, the problems.
The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, says the Commissioner
of the Metropolitan Police, Dame Cressida Dick, has "days
and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust
in her running of the force.
Health Minister Gillian Keegan apologises for continuing
with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested
positive for Covid.
A flurry of international efforts, as European leaders try to avert war
in Ukraine and say there is some cause for optimism.
Booing on the pitch for footballer Kurt Zouma, as police confirm
they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
A cross—party group of MPs says the UK’s exit
from the European Union has, so far, only led to increased costs,
paperwork and border problems for businesses.
A report from Parliament’s spending watchdog,
the Public Accounts Committee, found costs for businesses had risen
and trade had fallen as a result of leaving the EU.
The report by the Commons Public Accounts Committee also warned
there could be further disruption to cross—border trade this year,
when new import controls come in.
The MP5 say more must be done to improve border
arrangements for businesses.
They say that Brexit has led to...
Increased costs for exporters, more paperwork for businesses,
and more border delays.
The Government says it is continuing to offer help to UK businesses
to trade effectively.
Here’s our global trade correspondent, Chris Morris.
The focus on Britain’s borders continues.
This report says trade volumes have fallen partly
because of the impact of Covid.
The exit from the EU has clearly had an impact and new border
arrangements have added costs to business.
Smaller firms with fewer resources have been hit the hardest.
Between the delays at the border, the extra costs and paperwork,
a lot of businesses are saying it has been a struggle for them.
So we have said to the government repeatedly, before Brexit
and again in this report, you need to step up and support
smaller businesses.
They have concentrated on the volume businesses, the bigger ones,
that are doing the most trade with Europe.
But that is no consolation for those many people whose livelihoods,
and sometimes jobs of other people, depend on their being able to do
this trade with Europe.
The committee notes that a Brexit support fund, worth £20 million,
was initially created for small businesses.
But only 6.7 million was paid out, because it was so hard
to access the money.
More, the report says, needs to be done.
Outside Dover, long queues of lorries have become the norm.
The committee says it could get worse.
It says there is potential forfurther disruption, as more
people start travelling again and passenger volumes at key ports
like Dover increase.
There is also concern about extra delays later this year, when the EU
introduces new passport controls and the UK starts checking
the import of food products.
The MP5 want more transparency from government about the problems
businesses are facing.
The government says it plans to create the most effective border
in the world by 2025.
The committee says that is a noteworthy ambition,
but optimistic given where things stand today.
Chris Morris, BBC News.
And our global trade correspondent, Chris Morrisjoins me now.
So Chris Morris joins me now. many factors involved il
So Chris Morris joins me now. many factors involved il
situation,
So many factors involved in the situation, what is your assessment
situation, what is your assessment of how things are? Its interesting
of how things are? Its interesting first of all this came from a
first of all this came from a cross-party
first of all this came from a cross—party committee of MPs,
cross-party committee of MPs, including
cross—party committee of MPs, including some who supported Brexit.
including some who supported Brexit. I’m not sure they would I agree with
I’m not sure they would I agree with the interpretation we hear from
I’m not sure they would I agree with the interpretation we hearfrom Meg
the interpretation we hear from Meg Hillier
the interpretation we hearfrom Meg Hillier but nevertheless there is
Hillier but nevertheless there is concern and that’s partly because
concern and that’s partly because it’s not just
concern and that’s partly because it’s notjust about
concern and that’s partly because it’s not just about the
concern and that’s partly because it’s notjust about the problems
it’s not just about the problams peopla are
it’s notjust about the problems people are experiencing at the
people are experiencing at the border but the overall volume of
border but the overall volume of trade has gone down. The UK is doing
trade has gone down. The UK is doing lass
trade has gone down. The UK is doing less trade with Europe and that has
lass trade with Europe and that has not
less trade with Europe and that has not bounced back from the worst of
not bounced back from the worst of the Covid pandemic related problems
the Covid pandemic related problems in the way that trade between other
in the way that trade between other countries has. The Government
countries has. The Government response last night, statement late
response last night, statement late last night saying we are doing all
last night saying we are doing all we ran
last night saying we are doing all we can to help businesses trade with
we ran to help businesses trade with Europe and I’m
we can to help businesses trade with Europe and I’m sure they are, but it
Europe and I’m sure they are, but it also said don’t forget all these new
also said don’t forget all these new trade deals we have done around the
trade deals we have done around the world, 70 new trade deals. Many of
world, 70 new trade deals. Many of those are rolled over from what we
those are rolled over from what we had before four B are to be saying
had before four B are to be saying to businesses who used to trade with
to businesses who used to trade with their need is neighbours without
their need is neighbours without bureaucracy or controls, trade with
bureaucracy or controls, trade with Australia and New Zealand instead
Australia and New Zealand instead and it’s not the same thing. There
and it’s not the same thing. There is less trade to be had there and
is less trade to be had there and it’s much more difficult. I think
it’s much more difficult. I think particularty
it’s much more difficult. I think particularly for the smaller
particularly for the smaller companies that have grown used to
companies that have grown used to frictionless trade, with all our
frictionless trade, with all our nearest neighbours, moving from that
nearest neighbours, moving from that to a very different situation
to a very different situation especially in the middle of the
especially in the middle of the global pandemic, has been immensely
global pandemic, has been immensely challenging. Thank you very much.
Let’s speak now to Rod McKenzie executive director of
the Road Haulage Association.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us,
Thank you very much for joining us, I know that you
Thank you very much forjoining us, I know that you have been seeing
I know that you have been seeing lorry drivers may have to get used
lorry drivers may have to get used to queueing for hours at Dover on
to queueing for hours at Dover on busy days. What is the situation
busy days. what is the situation currently so
busy days. What is the situation currently so far this year? It has
currently so far this year? It has been a tough start to the year for
been a tough start to the year for everyone hauling freight across the
everyone hauling freight across the Dover Calais short straights. And I
Dover Calais short straights. And I think we are now seeing a kind of
think we are now seeing a kind of new normal. We had teething troubles
new normal. We had teething troubles to start, caused by all of the new
to start, caused by all of the new red
to start, raused by all of the new red tape and
to start, caused by all of the new red tape and bureaucracy. Also a
red tape and bureaucracy. Also a couple of ferries were out of action
couple of ferries were out of action and we had some roadworks at Dover
and we had some roadworks at Dover which caused delays. Now we are
which caused delays. Now we are seeing things settle down, people
seeing things settle down, peopla making
seeing things settle down, people making fewer mistakes on the
making fewer mistakes on the paperwork what its complex and that
paperwork what its complex and that will still happen. Those delays will
will still happen. Those delays will continue. It’s a bit like being in a
continue. It’s a bit like being in a supermarket queue and the person
supermarket queue and the person front of you suddenly pulls out all
front of you suddenly pulls out all of their coupons, 3 checkout person
of their coupons, a checkout person has to go
of their coupons, 3 checkout person has to go through them all and that
has to go through them all and that creates a delay and then the queue
creates a delay and then the queue builds up behind you on the
builds up behind you on the checkout. The problem is with Dover,
checkout. The problem is with Dover, in a supermarket you just open more
in a supermarket you just open more tales but in Dover, it’s a very
talas but in Dover, it’s a very small
tales but in Dover, it’s a very small place, to navigate around and
small place, to navigate around and there is no way to open up more
there is no way to open up more tales as it were. We heard that
tales as it were. We heard that overall trade is down. This is
overall trade is down. This is happening at a time when it’s not
happening at a time when it’s not even the same level of trading going
even the same level of trading going on. How does that factor into the
on. How does that factor into the situation for hauliers? Yes, that’s
situation for hauliers? Yes, that’s another important thing and we know
another important thing and we know that as Chris was saying in
another important thing and we know that as Chris was saying inJuly
that as Chris was saying in july they are
that as Chris was saying inJuly they are going to be plant and
they are going to be plant and animal checks which will create
animal checks which will create further friction.
animal checks which will create furtherfriction. 4000 of those
further friction. 4000 of those everyday
furtherfriction. 4000 of those everyday and September, the
everyday and September, the biometric passport checks. Added to
biometric passport checks. Added to all the extra traffic with people
all the extra traffic with peopla going on
all the extra traffic with people going on holiday and so forth, it
going on holiday and so forth, it does mean that things will be tough.
does mean that things will be tough. I think it’s important to say that
I think it’s important to say that the long queues that we have seen at
the long queues that we have seen at Dover are the new normal, but it
Dover are the new normal, but it doesn’t necessarily mean to say that
doesn’t necessarily mean to say that everyday will be bad. At peak times,
everyday will be bad. At peak times, we will probably be looking at three
we will probably be looking at three or four hour delays but that won’t
or four hour delays but that won’t be the picture everyday and I think
be the picture everyday and I think what we need to try and work out is
what we need to try and work out is how to best manage that going
how to best manage that going forward and it has been very tough
forward and it has been very tough for small businesses, this whole
for small businesses, this whole transition period that we are now
transition period that we are now in. what
transition period that we are now in. What would make things better?
in. what would make things better? The simplast,
in. What would make things better? The simplest, easiest thing I
The simplest, easiest thing I suppose would be around ESPN checks,
suppose would be around ESPN checks, the food checks. If we can have an
the food checks. If we ran have an agreement
the food checks. If we can have an agreement between the EU and the UK,
agreement between the EU and the UK, over basically getting rid of these
over basically getting rid of these SPS checks because we have very high
SPS checks because we have very high standards of food in Europe and the
standards of food in Europe and the UK and we could and should trust
UK and we could and should trust each other that would make a
each other that would make a difference. That would be one thing
difference. That would be one thing that would be important and also we
that would be important and also we need to have a very, lighter touch
need to have a very, lighter touch on these border controls in the
on these border controls in the sense of it’s about going back to
sense of it’s about going back to the checkout person, if you could
the checkout person, if you could deal with it quickly and get
deal with it quickly and get peopla through,
deal with it quickly and get people through, then you can deal with the
through, then you ran deal with the queue. Light
through, then you can deal with the queue. Light touch, I think the
queue. Light touch, I think the borders would be helpful. Thank you
borders would be helpful. Thank you very much. This
A Conservative Party donor has told BBC News that BorisJohnson’s
leadership is "past the point of no return."
John Armitage, a billionaire financier, said the current
situation in government was "tremendously upsetting"
and that the Tory party needed to "remake itself".
Mr Armitage has also donated money to three Labour MPs.
In response, a Conservative spokesperson said, "The government
remains fully focussed on delivering for the British people."
This is what Mr Armitage told us.
If you do something or say something, which on the front page
of the Sunday Times, looks terrible, and you do that consistently,
and you betray a sense of not really caring,
I think you should leave.
And I find the lack of honour inherent in modern politics
incredibly distressing.
Earlier, our political correspondent Iain Watson,
explained what impact John Armitage’s comments could have
among Conservatives.
He donated £3 million to the Conservative Party,
£500,000 under BorisJohnson’s leadership and now he says
he will not be donating again at this time, so he is withdrawing
the financial support for the time being.
But of course it is likely to have a political
consequence as well.
We know that various Conservative MPs have been wondering
about whether to submit a letter of no confidence in Borisjohnson,
some have told me they are waiting for various events to happen,
the police investigation to conclude, for example,
or to see if there is an electoral consequence to the so—called
Partygate allegations and investigations at
the local elections.
Now it looks as if there may be a financial consequence as well
so it may well be something which concentrates minds.
You asked me to tell you a little bit more aboutJohn Armitage.
He is not somebody who would be a classic
BorisJohnson supporter in any case.
He helped to fund the Remain campaign,
on Brexit, he wasn’t a Brexiteer unlike Borisjohnson.
As you mentioned, he has given small amounts to the Labour Party,
some ex—Labour politicians, about £12,500, nothing
of the same order he gave to the Conservative Party.
He does have deep pockets, he’s pretty wealthy,
he is a hedge fund manager.
It has to be said, though, he did say he will continue
as a Conservative Party member.
He is not resigning from the party.
So it looks at this stage that he is simply withdrawing
his financial rather than political support.
That said, he did sound pretty critical about how
things have been handled.
The Health Minister, Gillian Keegan, has apologised for continuing
a meeting yesterday after testing positive for Covid.
Ms Keegan said she found out as she was listening
to three fathers who had lost their daughters to suicide.
After getting their consent, she stayed on for a short period,
but admitted it had been an error ofjudgment.
In a tweet she said...
"I should have immediately ended the meeting and on reflection this
was an error ofjudgment on my part.
I fully recognise the importance of following the letter
and spirit of the policies, so want to be upfront
about what happened and to apologise for the mistake I made."
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan says the Metropolitan Police
commissioner Dame Cressida Dick, has only weeks to address
his concerns about her running of the force.
A report by the Independent Office for Police Conduct revealed highly
offensive language used on WhatsApp and Facebook chats by officers
from a now—disbanded team based in Westminster,
primarily at Charing Cross.
1A officers were investigated by the watchdog, nine remain serving,
and two officers have been promoted.
Here is Sadiq Khan speaking this morning.
I have been quite clear to the Commissioner,
my expectation is, the next time I see her, I want to see what her
response is to the examples, not of one officer, 01:14 officers
being involved in racist, sexist misogynistic,
homophobic, anti—Semitic, Islamophobic and the like behaviour,
nine of whom are still serving.
And secondly, what her plans are to win back the trust
and confidence that has been both knocked and shattered
as a consequence of these cases.
And I make this point, in the words of the IOPC,
the Independent Office for Police Conduct, these
cases are not historic, they are not isolated,
and that is why it is important for the Commissioner,
when I next see her, to answer me those
two big questions.
Scotland Yard’s commissioner has come under mounting pressure
of her handling over key events during recent years.
This includes a man who was a serving Metropolitan Police
officer who abducted, raped and strangled Sarah Everard.
The force faced severe criticism over their policing of a vigil
held in Clapham Common, London.
A pair of Met Police constables, who took photos of two murdered
sisters, Nicole Smallman and Bibaa Henry.
They shared the images on WhatsApp groups.
Both officers were jailed for 33 months each.
And Anthony Walgate, Jack Taylor, Gabriel Kovari and Daniel Whitworth,
four gay men were killed by Stephen Port.
A coroner’s report identified "basic investigative failings"
by the Scotland Yard into their deaths.
Our Correspondent Greg McKenzie has more on this story.
is Sadiq Khan clear on exactly what he wants to hear from Cressida
is Sadiq Khan clear on exactly what he wants to hearfrom Cressida Dick?
he wants to hear from Cressida Dick? I think he
he wants to hearfrom Cressida Dick? I think he is. In those cases you
I think he is. In those rases you mentioned,
I think he is. In those cases you mentioned, the Commissioner had to
mentioned, the Commissioner had to apologise on each and every one of
apologise on each and every one of those cases and she has apologised
those rases and she has apologised and
those cases and she has apologised and apologised again only last week
and apologised again only last week when the IOPC revealed their
when the IOPC revealed their findings of their investigation, the
findings of their investigation, the 14
findings of their investigation, the 1A officers they were investigating
14 officers they were investigating and looking
1A officers they were investigating and looking into between a period of
and looking into between a period of a few years, since 2018, and
a few years, since 2018, and discovered that there was sexism and
discovered that there was sexism and misogyny and defended in a way that
misogyny and defended in a way that it was all just
misogyny and defended in a way that it was alljust banter. So she
it was all just banter. So she apologised.
it was alljust banter. So she apologised. Now the mayor has come
apologised. Now the mayor has come out today saying that she has days
out today saying that she has days or weeks to reassure the public, or
or weeks to reassure the public, or restore the public’s faith in the
restore the public’s faith in the Metropolitan Police. Of course Met
Metropolitan Police. Of course Met police is the biggest force in this
police is the biggest force in this country, 42,000 officers and I think
country, 42,000 officers and I think it’s funded 25% of all money in
it’s funded 2596 of all money in England and
it’s funded 25% of all money in England and Wales go to MTM is a
England and Walas go to MTM is a policing
England and Wales go to MTM is a policing limit, so their budget huge
policing limit, so their budget huge and the responsibility but
and the responsibility but ultimately he has given her an
ultimately he has given her an ultimatum. But when you look into
ultimatum. But when you look into it, it’s actually the Home Secretary
it, it’s actually the Home Secretary Priti Patel who can hire or
it, it’s actually the Home Secretary Priti Patel who can hire orfire, so
Priti Patel who ran hire or fire, so in terms of
Priti Patel who can hire orfire, so in terms of the mayor, his opinion
in terms of the mayor, his opinion is highly regarded, and she would
is highly regarded, and she would listen to him in terms of his
listen to him in terms of his viewpoint, but it was only last year
viewpoint, but it was only last year that the Commissioner was granted a
that the Commissioner was granted a two-year
that the Commissioner was granted a two—year extension, her contract was
two-year extension, her contract was coming to an end
two—year extension, her contract was coming to an end in two months’
coming to an end in two months’ time, so the Met, I have called them
time, so the Met, I have called them today, and they have not without a
today, and they have not without a statement yet in relation to the
statement yet in relation to the Mayor of London’s request for the
Mayor of London’s request for the Commissioner to Act on this report
Commissioner to Act on this report and basically he wants to review. He
and basically he wants to review. He wants to know what she is going to
wants to know what she is going to do, he wants an action plan
do, he wants an action plan immediately as to how she is going
immediately as to how she is going to tackle racism and misogyny within
to tackla racism and misogyny within the
to tackle racism and misogyny within the Metropolitan Police. Is there
the Metropolitan Police. Is there any word on the Government were on
any word on the Government were on this? Does she have government
this? Does she have government support? That’s the question. Not
support? That’s the question. Not just yet. This only happened a few
just yet. This only happened a few ago so one is expecting statements
ago so one is expecting statements potentially from the Metropolitan
potentially from the Metropolitan Police, potentially the Commissioner
Police, potentially the Commissioner herself, Home Secretary Priti Patel
herself, Home Secretary Priti Patel we might get a statement from
we might get a statement from government shortly, but ultimately,
government shortly, but ultimately, the mayor has said that she has days
the mayor has said that she has days or weeks to come up with this
or weeks to come up with this action plan and he has said he is actually
plan and he has said he is actually going to meet the Commissioner. When
going to meet the Commissioner. when pushed this
going to meet the Commissioner. When pushed this morning about when that
pushed this morning about when that would he, he
pushed this morning about when that would be, hejust said I will be
would be, he just said I will be meeting her
would be, hejust said I will be meeting her very soon. So we don’t
meeting her very soon. So we don’t know whether that has this week,
know whether that has this week, next week or the week after. You
next week or the week after. You will keep us updated, thanks, Greg.
BorisJohnson will travel to Poland on Thursday and Liz Truss will visit
Moscow as part of a concerted effort to address the Ukraine crisis.
A top Russian diplomat has told the BBC the European initiative
to resolve the crisis has been positive, and there is still time
for a political settlement.
Vladimir Chizov said meetings in Moscow this week could be key.
European leaders said they’ll continue talking to Russia
to try to avert a conflict that follows two days
of shuttle diplomacy by the French president,
Emmanuel Macron.
Mosocow has denied any plans to invade Ukraine,
but it has assembled more than 100,000 troops near its borders.
And military exercises are continuing, these pictures show
Russian air defence systems in the Brest Region of Belarus,
which borders Ukraine.
Mr Chizov told the BBC’s Europe Editor, Katya Adler,
that the military build—up could be reduced later this month.
Those exercises, joint Russian—Belarusian exercises, that
are taking place there, they had been preannounced
since last year.
And, of course, after they are finished, the troops will return
to their own permanent stations.
Separately, there’s talk of more than 100,000 Russian soldiers.
Can we expect to see fewer than are present at the moment?
Why isn’t anybody speaking of Ukrainian soldiers?
They have an army of more than 250,000, and more than half
of it is placed directly facing Russia.
Is Russia interested, though, in diplomacy?
We certainly believe there is still room for diplomacy.
Russia is preparing a formal reply to answers that we received
from the United States and Nate, on Russia’s concerns
over European security.
The focus appears to be in preventing Nato’s
expansion further eastward, preventing Ukraine becoming
a member state of Nate, and the West has already said, "Gorget it."
has already said, "Forget it."
So where can diplomacy go now?
We are not going to forget it, first.
And we cannot afford to forget it.
Susi Dennison is a senior policy fellow at the European Council
on Foreign Relations.
Thanks for
Thanks forjoining us. Hearing from
Thanks for joining us. Hearing from the
Thanks forjoining us. Hearing from the Russian ambassador to the EU
the Russian ambassador to the EU that they don’t have any intention
that they don’t have any intention of invading Ukraine. It’s a message
of invading Ukraine. It’s a message we have heard repeatedly. Emmanuel
we have heard repeatedly. Emmanuel Macron says he has been assured by
Macron says he has been assured by Vladimir Putin that there will be no
Vladimir Putin that there will be no deterioration or escalation but
deterioration or escalation but Russia says any suggestion of a
Russia says any suggestion of a guarantee is not right. How do you
guarantee is not right. How do you read all of this? Where do you think
read all of this? where do you think we are? Is
read all of this? Where do you think we are? Is progress being made on
we are? Is progress being made on the diplomatic front? I think from
the diplomatic front? I think from the work we have been doing, public
the work we have been doing, public opinion polling in six EU member
opinion polling in six EU member states, it’s clear Europeans are not
states, it’s clear Europeans are not convinced by the Russian guarantees
convinced by the Russian guarantees that they are not going to invade.
that they are not going to invade. We asked the question of how likely
We asked the question of how likely people felt it was that Russia would
peopla felt it was that Russia would invade
people felt it was that Russia would invade Ukraine during the coming
invade Ukraine during the coming months and we ask this question in
months and we ask this question in january, and on
months and we ask this question in January, and on all of the six EU
january, and on all of the six EU member
January, and on all of the six EU member States we surveyed apart from
member States we surveyed apart from Finland, a majority felt it was
Finland, a majority felt it was likely to happen and therefore, and
likely to happen and therefore, and in Finland it was around 44%. So I
in Finland it was around 4496. So I think
in Finland it was around 44%. So I think there is a real sense in the
think there is a real sense in the EU again now that war is possible.
EU again now that war is possible. Therefore the high—level efforts we
Therefore the high-level efforts we are seeing
Therefore the high—level efforts we are seeing from Emmanuel Macron and
are seeing from Emmanuel Matron and the meeting of
are seeing from Emmanuel Macron and the meeting of the Weimar ministers
the meeting of the Weimar ministers in France, Germany and Poland over
in France, Germany and Poland over the last 24
in France, Germany and Poland over the last 2A hours are very important
the last 24 hours are very important for showing
the last 2A hours are very important for showing that Europeans are
for showing that Europeans are taking this threat seriously and are
taking this threat seriously and are willing to respond if necessary.
willing to respond if necessary. Russia has repeatedly said it has
Russia has repeatedly said it has got no intention of actually
got no intention of actually invading and obviously what is seen
invading and obviously what is seen on the border does potentially tell
on the border does potentially tell a different story. The president of
a different story. The president of Ukraine has said that he doesn’t
Ukraine has said that he doesn’t trust words, he will believe
trust words, he will believe actions. Can you envisage Russia
actions. (“an you envisage Russia actually
actions. Can you envisage Russia actually doing something in a
actually doing something in a concrete way to back—up its words
concrete way to back-up its words with
concrete way to back—up its words with action? May be moving troops
with action? May be moving troops away? There has been a suggestion
away? There has been a suggestion and I think it came out of the talks
and I think it came out of the talks with Emmanuel Macron that those
with Emmanuel Macron that those trips would be pulled out of Belarus
trips would be pulled out of Belams and
trips would be pulled out of Belarus and returned to Russia. I think for
and returned to Russia. I think for me the major reason to think that it
me the major reason to think that it does remain possible is that what
does remain possibla is that what Russia
does remain possible is that what Russia is asking of the West,
Russia is asking of the West, guarantees that circumstances will
guarantees that circumstances will need to expand to include Ukraine,
need to expand to include Ukraine, these are not demands for going to
these are not demands for going to be acceptable to European leaders
be acceptable to European leaders and therefore it seems that as long
and therefore it seems that as long as we are in this situation that if
as we are in this situation that if neither side can back down I think
neither side ran back down I think it does
neither side can back down I think it does remain a distinct
it does remain a distinct possibility. It is clear from the
possibility. It is clear from the work we’re doing that the threat
work we’re doing that the threat posed by Russia is not only about
posed by Russia is not only about military action, what Europeans are
military action, what Europeans are worried about is the impact of the
worried about is the impact of the continuing tensions around Ukraine
continuing tensions around Ukraine impacting on energy supply to
impacting on energy supply to Europe, the possibility of
Europe, the possibility of cyberattacks, economic consequences
cyberattacks, economic consequences and following on from the major
and following on from the major pressure on Europe’s eastern borders
pressure on Europe’s eastern borders from migration over the last month I
from migration over the last month I think this is something also that
think this is something also that Europeans are very worried about
Europeans are very worried about too, so
Europeans are very worried about too, sol
Europeans are very worried about too, so I think it is the package of
too, so I think it is the package of threats that we are seeing at the
threats that we are seeing at the moment from what Russia may
moment from what Russia may potentially do, goes much further
potentially do, goes much further than military action. Thank you very
than military action. Thank you very much for joining
than military action. Thank you very much forjoining us. Thank you for
much for joining us. Thank you for having me.
One of the fathers who met Health Minister Gillian Keegan
yesterday has said she did not need to apologise to them for continuing
a meeting, despite being told she’s just tested positive
for Covid.
Mike Palmerfrom Sale in Greater Manchester,
one of the three Dads Walking, who raised £500,000
for a suicide prevention charity, confirmed that the Minister told
the three fathers that she’d just received news that she’d tested
positive in the middle of a meeting with them.
He said...
"She put her coat on and started to prepare to leave.
"We were already at a social distance, but decided to move
"a little further away to be even safer.
"We agreed to keep talking to her as she waited for her car,
"and as she stood in the doorway.
"She has nothing to apologise for as far as we’re concerned.
"It was a very positive meeting, and she was charming.
"It was an important meeting for us, particularly as it came
"during Children’s Mental Health Week."
That reaction through from one of the fathers that Gillian Keegan was
the fathers that Gillian Keegan was meeting yesterday when she
meeting yesterday when she discovered that she was positive for
discovered that she was positive for Covid.
The manager of the English Premier League team
West Ham David Moyes, has defended his decision
to select Kurt Zouma against Watford last night
while police are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
The French international was booed by fans at the London stadium,
following the release of a video showing the 27—year—old, hitting,
dropping and kicking the animal across the ﬂoor.
We aren’t broadcasting the footage.
The club says it "unreservedly condemns" him for his actions,
but said it was a separate matter from the match.
I’m a human being and I’m also a great animal lover,
so I understand how people feel.
But again, as I said, I am the football manager
here and I have to find a way of getting the results here.
And Kurt Zouma is one of the key players to us.
I’m joined now by Sue Watson, Chair of the West Ham United
Supporters’ Trust.
What do you think about the fact
what do you think about the fact that he
What do you think about the fact that he played last night? Good
that he played last night? Good morning, thank you from inviting me
morning, thank you from inviting me onto your programme. We don’t think
onto your programme. We don’t think you should have played last night.
you should have played last night. Simple as that. For a host of
Simple as that. For a host of reasons, him being on the pitch
reasons, him being on the pitch sends a message. It sends a message
sends a message. It sends a message to the youngsters, it sends a
to the youngsters, it sends a message to the other players, it
message to the other players, it sends a message and I think it was
sends a message and I think it was the wrong message. Just for example,
the wrong message. just for example, a group of under
the wrong message. Just for example, a group of under 16 last night
a group of under 16 last night chanted Kurt Zouma kicks what he
chanted Kurt Zouma kicks what he wants. It’s not funny. It’s not
wants. It’s not funny. It’s not something that anybody should be
something that anybody should be proud of. West Ham is a family club.
proud of. West Ham is a family dub. Pets are part of a
proud of. West Ham is a family club. Pets are part of a family. Those two
Pets are part of a family. Those two rats are part of
Pets are part of a family. Those two cats are part of Kurt Zouma’s
rats are part of Kurt Zouma’s families.
cats are part of Kurt Zouma’s families. I think the fact that
families. I think the fact that there was a young child there as
there was a young child there as well is of concern. You can hear the
well is of concern. You ran hear the little one in
well is of concern. You can hear the little one in the background. They
little one in the background. They were laughing, it’s not funny. I
were laughing, it’s not funny. I accept that the club are now looking
accept that the club are now looking to have started internal
to have started internal investigations and disciplinary
investigations and disciplinary processes, but it’s almost like I’m
processes, but it’s almost like I’m not sure if he should be back on the
not sure if he should be back on the field until they have concluded
field until they have concluded those. Obviously sorry and Essex
those. Obviously sorry and Essex Police are in liaison so I cannot
Police are in liaison so I cannot discuss
Police are in liaison so I rannot discuss that,
Police are in liaison so I cannot discuss that, and the RSPCA are also
discuss that, and the RSPCA are also considering what they need to do. I
considering what they need to do. I hope those cats are OK, all I can
hope those rats are OK, all I ran 55V
hope those rats are OK, all I ran say is if you
hope those cats are OK, all I can say is if you drop kick the cat,
say is if you drop kick the rat, they have
say is if you drop kick the cat, they have lots of soft organs, they
they have lots of soft organs, they are, they feel fear, they are sent
are, they feel fear, they are sent eight beings, they feel pain. I can
eight beings, they feel pain. I ran only imagine --
eight beings, they feel pain. I can only imagine —— they are sentience
only imagine -- they are sentience beings. I
only imagine -- they are sentience beings. Iran
only imagine -- they are sentience beings. I ran only
only imagine —— they are sentience beings. I can only imagine those
beings. I ran only imagine those poor
beings. I can only imagine those poor creatures. We don’t think you
poor creatures. We don’t think you should have been on the pitch. The
should have been on the pitch. The only thing I would say about the
only thing I would say about the booing and it’s possible that he
booing and it’s possibla that he was, but
booing and it’s possible that he was, but his actual chant, which a
was, but his actual chant, which a few have several thousand people
few have several thousand people doing that, it kind of sounds like a
doing that, it kind of sounds like a blue but he’d get did get a very
blue but he’d get did get a very strong response and from the Watford
strong response and from the Watford supporters as well. The big shame of
supporters as well. The big shame of it really is West Ham is meant to be
it really is West Ham is meant to be a family club and we were
a family club and we were recognising and honouring the memory
recognising and honouring the memory of a supporter who passed away with
of a supporter who passed away with neuroblastoma at the end of January.
neuroblastoma at the end of january. This was a
neuroblastoma at the end of January. This was a really special time for
This was a really special time for the West Ham family that had
the West Ham family that had supported her
the West Ham family that had supported herfamily for
the West Ham family that had supported herfamily forfive
the West Ham family that had supported her family for five years
supported her family for five years and so we tried to focus it on that.
and so we tried to focus it on that. That’s what it should have been
That’s what it should have been about. The West Ham family coming
about. The West Ham family coming together. Briefly, you said that you
together. Brieﬂy, you said that you don’t
together. Briefly, you said that you don’t think you should play again
don’t think you should play again until all of the investigations are
until all of the investigations are rounded up, but if he is sort of
rounded up, but if he is sort of censored in an official way for
censored in an official way for this, ran you
censored in an official way for this, can you see him playing for
this, ran you see him playing for the dub again?
this, can you see him playing for the club again? Would you want him
the dub again? Would you want him to play for the
the club again? Would you want him to play for the club again? Will he?
to play for the dub again? will he? Probably is
to play for the club again? Will he? Probably is the honest answer for a
Probably is the honest answer for a host of financial reasons?
Reasons I think it needs to be more than and I hope the club are looking
than and I hope the club are looking into this, not
than and I hope the club are looking into this, notjust a fine or wrap
into this, not just a fine or wrap on the
into this, notjust a fine or wrap on the knuckles, I think there needs
on the knuckles, I think there needs to be some sort of education
to be some sort of education programme, possibly from the RSPCA
programme, possibly from the RSPCA or the Cats Protection League and a
or the Cats Protection League and a very, very sizeable donation to the
very, very sizeable donation to the Cats Protection League but I think
Cats Protection League but I think it’s an educational opportunity so
it’s an educational opportunity so that he actually understands why
that he actually understands why peopla are,
that he actually understands why people are, although he has
people are, although he has apologised, why people are taking a
apologised, why peopla are taking a stance
apologised, why people are taking a stance or a view that they are.
stance or a view that they are. Because I am a cat person, there was
Because I am a rat person, there was one still photo I
Because I am a cat person, there was one still photo I thought I cannot
one still photo I thought I rannot watch
one still photo I thought I cannot watch that. At that point, I turned,
watch that. At that point, I turned, I was not interested. I think there
I was not interested. I think there needs to be some sort of education
needs to be some sort of education as well, not just
needs to be some sort of education as well, notjust a straightforward
as well, not just a straightforward Sunday
as well, notjust a straightforward Sunday match ban or slap on the
Sunday match ban or slap on the wrist. It needs to be meaningful.
wrist. It needs to be meaningful. Thank you very much for
wrist. It needs to be meaningful. Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. Thank you very
Thank you very much forjoining us. Thank you very much.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
Hello again.
For many of us today, it is going to be a colder day
than it was yesterday.
The exception to that is across the south,
where we have got a weak weather front producing some cloud
and some patchy light rain.
But for most of us, we are looking at a day of sunshine and showers,
some of those showers wintry in the hills of Northern Ireland
and northern England, some of those snow showers getting
down to low levels across parts of Scotland and gusting to gale
force across the Northern and Western Isles.
Tonight, 3 weatherfront continues its journey south.
A potent area of low pressure across this northern
Scotland bringing gales, even severe gales, some rain,
sleet and snow as far south as the Southern uplands,
and potentially blizzards in the hills.
And where we have got lying snow, there is the risk of ice as well.
Tomorrow, that will all track of into the North Sea.
The winds will moderate, the front clears the far south
of England and then for most of us it’s a day of sunshine
and also showers, but it’s also going to feel cold.
The temperature range 3—9, but it will feel colder than that
if you are exposed to the wind.
Until our government gets to grip with competence and attention to
with competence and attention to detail and not grandstanding and
detail and not grandstanding and winding the French up, we are
winding the French up, we are absolutely. I can’t see an end to
absolutely. I can’t see an end to the problams.
The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, says the Commissioner
of the Metropolitan Police, Dame Cressida Dick, has "days
and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust
in her running of the force.
A flurry of international efforts,
as European leaders try to avert war in Ukraine, and say
there is some cause for optimism.
Health Minister Gillian Keegan apologises for continuing
with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested
positive for Covid.
Booing on the pitch for footballer Kurt Zouma, as police
confirm they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
Sport and for a full round up, from the BBC Sport Centre,
here’s Olly Foster.
Good morning.
Team GB were hoping that this was the day that they broke
their medal drought in Beijing.
The reigning World Champion Charlotte Bankes was the favourites
in the snowboard cross, but she was knocked out
in the quarterfinals.
Joe Lynskey reports.
Snowboard Cross is knock out racing through the ramps.
Snowboard Cross is knock out racing through the ramps. Even for the best
through the ramps. Even for the best riders, there is
through the ramps. Even for the best riders, there isjeopardy. That was
riders, there is jeopardy. That was brutal! So
riders, there isjeopardy. That was brutal! So to
riders, there isjeopardy. That was brutal! Soto start as favourite
brutal! So to start as favourite comes
brutal! Soto start as favourite comes with
brutal! So to start as favourite comes with conditions. Britain’s
comes with conditions. Britain’s Charlotte Bankes is the world
Charlotte Bankes is the world champion. Since being in GB, she has
champion. Since being in GB, she has accelerated. Look at this speed! She
accelerated. Look at this speed! She was born in Hemel Hempstead and move
was born in Hemel Hempstead and move to France when she was four. Battle
to France when she was four. Battle hardened in the Alps, she said the
hardened in the Alps, she said the French team lacked good support. 50
French team lacked good support. So with a
French team lacked good support. 50 with a move to GB, she became a
with a move to GB, she became a nation’s hopes for gold, but
nation’s hopes for gold, but predicting the spot comes with risk.
predicting the spot comes with risk. I don’t know if she is going to do
I don’t know if she is going to do this! Her quarterfinal had bunched
this! Her quarterfinal had bunched “P
this! Her quarterfinal had bunched up through the corners and came down
up through the corners and came down to the line. The top two go through
to the line. The top two go through and she was
to the line. The top two go through and she wasjust
to the line. The top two go through and she was just in third. Just to
and she was just in third. just to come away
and she was just in third. Just to come away like this is tough and we
come away like this is tough and we will bounce back, but we came here
will bounce back, but we came here really helping to do a good race
really helping to do a good race and... Few would begrudge the day’s
and... Few would begrudge the days smile for gold.
and... Few would begrudge the day’s smile for gold. She has waited 16
smile for gold. She has waited 16 years for redemption. Drama! She is
years for redemption. Drama! She is down! Look at her! Up to now, that
down! Look at her! Up to now, that trick had cost her Olympic gold. Now
trick had cost her Olympic gold. Now at 36, she made the most of her last
at 36, she made the most of her last chance. In one of these games most
chance. In one of these games most breathless spot, a clean run can’t
breathless spot, a clean mn can’t mean so
breathless spot, a clean run can’t mean so much. A fantastic event but
mean so much. A fantastic event but disappointment for Charlotte Bankes.
A fantastic event but disappointment for Charlotte Bankes.
In the Women’s slalom Great Britain’s Charlie Guest
finished in 21st place.
She was in 15th after her first run but a small mistake near the end
of her second cost her time, and despite recovering well
she was never going to get close to the podium.
The games aren’t going well for double—Olympic Champion
Mikaela Shiffrin either.
Two days after falling near the top of the Giant slalom course,
the American aborted her first run in the slalom.
She’s due to comepete in three more alpine skiing events,
but on this form, she says she’s considering whether
she should continue.
Slovakia’s Petra Vlhova.
took gold in the slalom.
Chelsea are playing their first match at the Club World Cup
in Abu Dhabi later.
The Champions League winners come straight in at the semifinal
stage and face Al Hilal, the African Champions
League winners.
The Brazilians Palmeiras are waiting in Saturdays final.
The Blues lost the 2012 final to Corinthians.
It’s the only trophy the captain hasn’t yet won with the club.
ii
It hurt a lot, losing that in 2012, and this is the only competition
and this is the only competition that the club didn’t win. Not
that the dub didn’t win. Not myself. I
that the club didn’t win. Not myself. I think to win it for the
myself. I think to win it for the first time for the club is huge. We
first time for the club is huge. We have to make everything that we have
have to make everything that we have to put it out on the pitch. I think
to put it out on the pitch. I think it has a great meaning for
it has a great meaning for everybody, the fans, we are
everybody, the fans, we are representing Europe.
representing Europe.
Formula One driver Lando Norris has signed a new deal that
will see him stay at McLaren until the end of 2025.
The 22—year—old Brit finished sixth in last season’s
standings, with four
podium finishes and he also claimed his first pole position
as the team finished fourth in the Constructors Championship.
Norris said that his new contract was a "a very strong message"
about his faith in McLaren, despite approaches from other teams.
That’s all the sport for now.
I’ll have more for you in the next hour.
Let me go back to the news we were just bringing you a few moments ago.
just bringing you a few moments ago. It is following on from the news
It is following on from the news that Gillian Keegan tested positive
that Gillian Keegan tested positive yesterday while she was in a
yesterday while she was in a meeting. She has apologised for
meeting. She has apologised for that. She had been meeting three
that. She had been meeting three fathers whose children had died by
fathers whose children had died by suicide. They have become known as
suicide. They have become known as the three dads walking. One of them
the three dads walking. One of them who was in the meeting has put out a
who was in the meeting has put out a statement this morning after she
statement this morning after she apologised, following on from that
apologised, following on from that meeting yesterday. Mike Palmer said
meeting yesterday. Mike Palmer said she didn’t need to apologise to them
she didn’t need to apologise to them for continuing the meeting. She had
for continuing the meeting. She had asked when news of the positive test
asked when news of the positive test fame
asked when news of the positive test came through whether she could
came through whether she could continue. She said that she would
continue. She said that she would leave the meeting and they said it
leave the meeting and they said it was fine for it to continue. Here
was fine for it to continue. Here is the detail now from Mike Palmer from
the detail now from Mike Palmer from sale in Greater Manchester of what
sale in Greater Manchester of what happened. He said she put her coat
happened. He said she put her coat on and started to prepare to leave.
on and started to prepare to leave. We were already at a social distance
We were already at a social distance but decided to move a little further
but decided to move a little further away to be even safer. We agree to
away to be even safer. We agree to keep talking to her as she waited
keep talking to her as she waited for her car and she stood in the
for her far and she stood in the doorway. She
for her car and she stood in the doorway. She has nothing to
doorway. She has nothing to apologise for as far as we are
apologise for as far as we are concerned. It was a very positive
concerned. It was a very positive meeting and she was charming. It was
meeting and she was charming. It was an important meeting for us,
an important meeting for us, particularty
an important meeting for us, particularly as it came through
particularly as it came through children’s mental health week. That
children’s mental health week. That reaction to that story from one of
reaction to that story from one of the fathers who met the health
the fathers who met the health Minister Gillian Keegan yesterday.
The main suspect in the trial over the 2015 Paris attacks —
Salah Abdeslam — is set to be cross—examined for the first time.
130 people were killed and many more injured when the city
was hit by multiple gun shootings and suicide bomb
explosions, including at the Bataclan music hall.
It was the deadliest ever attack seen in peacetime France.
Our paris correspondent Hugh Schofield is following the case.
Salah Abdeslam will appear in court this afternoon. It won’t be the
this afternoon. It won’t be the first time he has spoken. In
first time he has spoken. In September he was quite forthright in
September he was quite forthright in his statement that he still
his statement that he still considers himself a soldier of
considers himself a soldier of Islam. This is the first time he
Islam. This is the first time he will be cross—examined about the
will be cross-examined about the mn-up to the
will be cross—examined about the run—up to the attacks. Salah
run—up to the attacks. Salah Abdeslam has been dubbed the tenth
Abdeslam has been dubbed the tenth man, and he came with the attackers
man, and he came with the attackers and is believed that he was intended
and is believed that he was intended to be an attack himself but pulled
to be an attack himself but pulled out, either because his belt failed
out, either because his belt failed to explode Ari had a change of
to explode Ari had a change of heart. He smuggled himself back and
heart. He smuggled himself back and was arrested later. So he is keen to
was arrested later. So he is keen to all of this. He is the only one
all of this. He is the only one accused of taking part and a
accused of taking part and a co-author,
accused of taking part and a co—author, and anything he says will
co-author, and anything he says will be interesting.
co—author, and anything he says will be interesting. Up until now in the
be interesting. Up until now in the cross—examination by investigators
cross-examination by investigators he has
cross—examination by investigators he has not been very forthcoming and
he has not been very forthcoming and all sorts of questions remain
all sorts of questions remain unanswered about his role, and so
unanswered about his role, and so on. Some may be answered today or
on. Some may be answered today or later in the trial, but it all
later in the trial, but it all depends whether he will speak. Thank
depends whether he will speak. Thank you very much. Hugh Schofield
you very much. Hugh Schofield reporting from Paris.
The winner of the People’s Choice Wildlife Photographer
of the Year has been announced.
The winner is Italian photographer Cristiano Vendramin,
whose photo of a frozen Italian lake touched the hearts of over
31,800 wildlife and nature enthusiasts who voted online
for his breath—taking landscape to win from a shortlist of 25 images.
The shortlist was chosen by the Natural History Museum
in London, from a record breaking 50,000 images from 95 countries
submitted to the 57th annual competition.
I’m joined now by Ashleigh McCord, ‘Highly Commended’ for
Wildlife Photographer of the Year People’s Choice.
Her picture was of two male lions. If we take a look at your beautiful
If we take a look at your beautiful image now. It is stunning. There is
image now. It is stunning. There is so much tenderness captured in that
so much tenderness captured in that image. (“an you
so much tenderness captured in that image. Can you tell us, was it a
image. (“an you tell us, was it a ﬂeeting
image. Can you tell us, was it a fleeting moment? This is another
ﬂeeting moment? This is another image you
fleeting moment? This is another image you took shortly after. The
image you took shortly after. The first image is the one that has got
first image is the one that has got you the accolade. Tell us about how
you the accolade. Tell us about how you raptmed a
you the accolade. Tell us about how you captured a particular moment?
you captured a particular moment? What was the scene? We had been
what was the scene? We had been watching one
What was the scene? We had been watching one of the male lions who
watching one of the male lions who had been on a kill from a prior day
had been on a kill from a prior day and you ran see
had been on a kill from a prior day and you can see on the horizon a
and you ran see on the horizon a huge
and you can see on the horizon a huge thunderstorm approaching and
huge thunderstorm approaching and very quickly it made its way towards
very quickly it made its way towards us, and as it did we saw at a
us, and as it did we saw at a distance and another male lion
distance and another male lion started to approach and it was
started to approach and it was really sweet to see the two males
really sweet to see the two males start to nuzzle, which is common
start to nuzzle, which is common amongst males, but in this specific
amongst males, but in this specific situation when it was pouring down
situation when it was pouring down with rain, the embrace and watching
with rain, the embrace and watching them as the rain started to pick up
them as the rain started to pick up to where we could hardly even see
to where we could hardly even see them any more and they
to where we could hardly even see them any more and theyjust sat
them any more and they just sat together
them any more and theyjust sat together waiting out the storm, it
together waiting out the storm, it was almost as if one of the brothers
was almost as if one of the brothers was trying to protect the other as
was trying to protect the other as the thunder storm approached. How
the thunder storm approached. How close were you to them? We were
dose were you to them? We were probably 20
close were you to them? We were probably 20 feet away. It was pretty
probably 20 feet away. It was pretty close. They came pretty close to us,
dose. They came pretty close to us, so it was
close. They came pretty close to us, so it was incredible to be that
so it was incredible to be that close to wildlife in the special
close to wildlife in the special moments like this. And it is
moments like this. And it is tempting to read so much into that
tempting to read so much into that particular image and you’ve
particular image and you’ve described something of the
described something of the tenderness that you felt you picked
tenderness that you felt you picked “P
tenderness that you felt you picked up when you were there. You could
up when you were there. You could really feel that love between these
really feel that love between these two lions together, more so then I
two lions together, more so then I have ever
two [ions together, more so then I have ever felt.
two [ions together, more so then I have everfelt. I
two [ions together, more so then I have ever felt. I think the scene
have ever felt. I think the scene helped by being dark and cloudy and
helped by being dark and cloudy and raining, but it was a really special
raining, but it was a really special moment between the two of them. When
moment between the two of them. when you took the
moment between the two of them. When you took the picture, did you think,
you took the picture, did you think, this is going to be an award—winning
this is going to be an award-winning photograph?
this is going to be an award—winning photograph? At what point did you
photograph? At what point did you decide to submit it? It was
decide to submit it? It was definitely one of those moments
definitely one of those moments where you say that was something
where you say that was something incredible that we experience,
incredible that we experience, seeing something like that. I was
seeing something like that. I was there with my mum, and we both said,
there with my mum, and we both said, yes it pretty great, and as we got
yes it pretty great, and as we got back and looked at the photos I
hack and looked at the photos I thought,
back and looked at the photos I thought, this is something that is
thought, this is something that is pretty valuable and I thought I
pretty valuabla and I thought I would
pretty valuable and I thought I would submit it and see if other
would submit it and see if other peopla felt
would submit it and see if other people felt the same way, and
peopla felt the same way, and thankfuuy
people felt the same way, and thankfully they have and I
thankfully they have and I appreciate that. It is a perfect
appreciate that. It is a perfect image, but would either side of that
image, but would either side of that moment of not being quite right, how
moment of not being quite right, how do you get that particular moment?
do you get that particular moment? If you could see in the background
If you could see in the background what is really going on, the car is
what is really going on, the far is starting to leak
what is really going on, the car is starting to leak rain, water is
starting to leak rain, water is starting to come in. There was a
starting to come in. There was a person next to me
person next to me who lost her ramera
person next to me who lost her camera in the event because there
camera in the event because there were so much water. I had
were so much water. I had some protective gear on my camera, a
protective gear on my camera, a really long lens, so you are
really long lens, so you are fumbling with big equipment and
fumbling with big equipment and water is coming in and trying to
water is coming in and trying to balance, do I want to capture this
balance, do I want to rapture this amazing
balance, do I want to capture this amazing moment or save my camera? 50
amazing moment or save my camera? So at that point it was
amazing moment or save my camera? 50 at that point it was a risk—based
at that point it was a risk-based decision
at that point it was a risk—based decision so this was something I
decision so this was something I wanted to try and capture as well as
wanted to try and rapture as well as I ran,
wanted to try and rapture as well as Iran, and
wanted to try and capture as well as I can, and thankfully I could save
I ran, and thankfuuy I could save my ramera
I ran, and thankfuuy I could save my camera and
I can, and thankfully I could save my camera and have a great image as
my ramera and have a great image as well. And
my camera and have a great image as well. And when did you actually
well. And when did you actually manage to look back and realise
manage to look back and realise quite how special the photograph
quite how special the photograph was? I think even looking at the
was? I think even looking at the back of my camera right after when
back of my camera right after when we were going back to camp, it was
we were going back to ramp, it was raining so I was
we were going back to camp, it was raining so I was looking back at my
raining so I was looking back at my photos as we were going back and
photos as we were going back and thought this was something really
thought this was something really moving. It moved something inside
moving. It moved something inside me. So pretty soon after, getting
me. So pretty soon after, getting back to the camp and sharing it with
hack to the ramp and sharing it with others, they
back to the camp and sharing it with others, they felt it was pretty
others, they felt it was pretty great also. 50 it was pretty quick.
great also. So it was pretty quick. They are
great also. 50 it was pretty quick. They are really rare and special
They are really rare and special images. Thank you so much and
images. Thank you so much and congratulations. Thank you having
congratulations. Thank you having me.
Many UK families have been forced to cancel
half—term trips to Spain, because of a rule change which means
children over 12 must now be double vaccinated to enter the country.
Hoteliers in the islands say the restrictions have lost them
millions of pounds’ worth of trade.
Katy Austin reports.
Ben and his family have great memories of the Canary Islands.
They were looking forward to making more last year,
but restrictions forced them to postpone to this February.
Now, children over 12 need two jabs to enter Spain,
so the holiday is off.
Unfortunately, the 12—year—old has onlyjust turned 12, so doesn’t
have his second vaccination yet.
So we cancelled, only cancelled a few days ago,
we thought we would hold out until the lst of February
in case anything changed.
But unfortunately we had to pull the plug.
Ben is far from alone.
Travel agents say lots of people want to go away at the moment,
but they’re having to keep their customers informed
of an ever—changing international patchwork of Covid rules.
Spain, including the Canaries, is usually a half—term hit.
You can get a little bit of heat, wear your shorts,
sit outside and eat.
The rule barring over 12s with only one or no vaccinations
is having a big impact.
50% of our bookings were moved because actually, it’s for families.
They’ll move destinations or move dates and plan for Easter.
It’s a headache for tourism businesses in the Canaries.
They want the Spanish government to relax the restrictions
because many Brits are heading for places like Turkey
or Mexico instead.
In Tenerife, we have 2.5 million British citizens every normal year.
When we talk about Christmas, when we talk about February,
we are talking about nearly 30% of the business.
So that brings this loss to be nearly 1,000 million
euros if we do not take those measures out.
From Friday, it will get a lot easier to come into the UK.
Fully vaccinated travellers no longer to have to take any Covid
tests to enter this country.
But people planning trips overseas still really need
to know what the rules are at their destination.
Because every country has its own requirements.
And notjust for entry.
In France, over 16s need a pass showing proof of vaccination
to access certain activities, including getting a ski pass.
Unvaccinated 12 to 15—year—olds can take daily tests.
Tour operators still expect a bumper Easter and summer,
but many families who hoped for winter sun are having
to wait a little longer.
Katy Austin, BBC News.
A standoff between truckers and the Canadian government over
COVID restrictions shows no sign of ending.
The City of Ottawa has called for reinforcements asking for 1800
additional police officers to assist those already on the ground,
with concerns the demonstration is now getting out of hand.
Tanya Dendrinos reports.
They are used to hauling across the country but now they are packed up,
country but now they are packed up, demanding an end to a clean mandate.
demanding an end to a clean mandate. I think it is just a fact that they
I think it is just a fact that they I think you have to have a
I think you have to have a mandate, that you have to have a shot. That
that you have to have a shot. That is a problem because ever since
is a problem because ever since Covid started truckers have been
Covid started tmckers have been going back
Covid started truckers have been going back and forth across the
going back and forth across the border and across Canada, the United
border and across Canada, the United States, hauling things to first
States, hauling things to first responders, emergency is, masks, all
responders, emergency is, masks, all this stuff. When the truckers
this stuff. When the truckers couldn’t
this stuff. when the tmckers couldn’t get
this stuff. When the truckers couldn’t get it, they were getting
couldn’t get it, they were getting it out to other people. The protest
it out to other peopla. The protest going into its
it out to other people. The protest going into its second week has seen
going into its second week has seen around 500 trucks lining the streets
around 500 tmcks lining the streets of
around 500 trucks lining the streets of downtown Ottawa. Some have been
of downtown Ottawa. Some have been blockaded altogether, including the
blockaded altogether, including the busiest land
blockaded altogether, including the busiest [and crossing between Canada
busiest land crossing between Canada and the
busiest [and crossing between Canada and the United States, which was
and the United States, which was shut for hours on Tuesday. It has
shut for hours on Tuesday. It has turned into an occupation. They have
turned into an occupation. They have removed their tyres off their big
removed their tyres off their big tmcks, they
removed their tyres off their big trucks, they are putting fuel and
tmcks, they are putting fuel and they have
trucks, they are putting fuel and they have set up temporary shelters.
they have set up temporary shelters. This is no longer
they have set up temporary shelters. This is no longerjust a peaceful
This is no longerjust a peaceful conversation or attempt at
conversation or attempt at negotiation. This is a hostagetaking
negotiation. This is a hostagetaking situation. Canadian Prime Minister
situation. Canadian Prime Minister justin deeau
situation. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was heckled in
Justin Trudeau was heckled in Parliament as he defended the use of
Parliament as he defended the use of restrictions to fight the pandemic.
restrictions to fight the pandemic. It is clear patience is running thin
It is clear patience is mnning thin on many fronts.
It is clear patience is running thin on many fronts. An injunction has
on many fronts. An injunction has been granted to stop the truck is
been granted to stop the tmck is honking their
been granted to stop the truck is honking their horns. They have
honking their horns. They have quietened the scene but are
quietened the scene but are determined not to be silenced.
Home Secretary Priti Patel said: "Being a police officer
is a privilege which has been abused by these sickening officers.
"It has been clear for some time that there are problems
"with the culture of the Metropolitan Police,
"which is why last year
"I tasked the Angiolini Inquiry and the police inspectorate
"with investigating these deeply concerning issues.
"I expect the Metropolitan Police and the Mayor of London to implement
"the recommendations of this report as soon as practically possible.
"The public rightly expects the behaviour of the police
"to be beyond reproach — standards must be raised."
Adele was the big winner at last night’s Brit Awards,
taking home the three top prizes.
The singer was named best
artist, and also claimed awards for song and album of the year.
Women took 9 of the 12 awards for solo artists,
after the organisers scrapped specific male and female categories.
Well done to Adele.
We’re nowjoining our colleagues on Politics Live
on BBC for coverage of Prime Minister’s Question
Time in the Commons.
Right now we will
Right now we willjoin... We can
Right now we willjoin... We ran welcome
Right now we willjoin... We can welcome he was on BBC News.
BBC News. We are coming up to midday. Time for Prime Minister’s
midday. Time for Prime Minister’s Questions, going to the chamber. It
Questions, going to the chamber. It is starting to fill up. It’s been an
is starting to fill up. It’s been an extremely lively and eventful time,
extremely lively and eventful time, Prime Minister’s Questions on
Prime Minister’s Questions on Wednesdays over the last few weeks.
Wednesdays over the last few weeks. We will wait to see what happens
We will wait to see what happens today. We talked a little bit
today. We talked a little bit earlier about the reshuffle that was
earlier about the reshuffle that was undertaken by the Prime Minister. He
undertaken by the Prime Minister. He has been criticised for making Mark
has been criticised for making Mark Spencer, who was the Chief Whip,
Spencer, who was the Chief whip, Leader
Spencer, who was the Chief Whip, Leader of the House of Commons in
Leader of the House of Commons in yesterdays
Leader of the House of Commons in yesterday’s reshuffle. That’s
yesterday’s reshuffle. That’s because he is still being
because he is still being investigated for Islamophobia
investigated for Islamophobia comment that he made, which he
comment that he made, which he denies but an investigation is
denies but an investigation is ongoing into the matter. Peter, is
ongoing into the matter. Peter, is it appropriate for Mark Spencer to
it appropriate for Mark Spencer to be made Leader of the Commons, which
be made Leader of the Commons, which is a role which would give him
is a rola which would give him oversight of
is a role which would give him oversight of complaints made by MPs
oversight of complaints made by MPs when he himself is being
when he himself is being investigated for comments he
investigated for comments he allegedly made to Nusrat Ghani? It
allagedly made to Nusrat Ghani? It is very
allegedly made to Nusrat Ghani? It is very interesting. We have a
is very interesting. We have a poacher becoming the gamekeeper for
poacher becoming the gamekeeper for the gamekeeper becoming a poacher,
the gamekeeper becoming a poacher, as a Chief Whip you do everything
as a Chief whip you do everything for
as a Chief Whip you do everything for government business. My question
for government business. My question is about whether he should have that
is about whether he should have that rola
is about whether he should have that role whilst he is being investigated
role whilst he is being investigated himself? Call me old—fashioned, but
himself? (“all me old-fashioned, but isn’t everyone
himself? Call me old—fashioned, but isn’t everyone innocent until proven
isn’t everyone innocent until proven otherwise? I think it is crazy. I
otherwise? Ithink it is crazy. I think the
otherwise? I think it is crazy. I think the reshuffle, a tiny little
think the reshufﬂa, a tiny little reshufﬂa,
think the reshuffle, a tiny little reshuffle, all men, one woman. It
reshufﬂa, all men, one woman. It was
reshufﬂe, all men, one woman. It was really...
reshuffle, all men, one woman. It was really... Women... Many PPSs.
was really... Women... Many PPSs. Don’t say all when it’s not. Let me
Don’t say all when it’s not. Let me just dear
Don’t say all when it’s not. Let me just clear this up. It is true, some
just clear this up. It is true, some women have been promoted but
women have been promoted but Caroline Noakes, Conservative MP,
Caroline Noakes, Conservative MP, said...
Peter? She would say that. Why,
Peter? She would say that. why, because
Peter? She would say that. Why, because she is a woman? No, because
because she is a woman? No, because she does not like Boris. It’s as
she does not like Boris. It’s as simple as that! There is also that.
simple as that! There is also that. (“an I come
simple as that! There is also that. Can I come back to who has been
(“an I come back to who has been promoted. It
Can I come back to who has been promoted. It does seem people who
promoted. It does seem people who have failed have been promoted,
have failed have been promoted, that’s what happened. I wouldn’t...
that’s what happened. I wouldn’t... Steve Barclay and Jacob Rees—Mogg
Steve Barclay and jacob Rees-M099 have
Steve Barclay and Jacob Rees—Mogg have failed? If we focus on Mark
have failed? If we focus on Mark Spencer, we’ve talked a lot about
Spencer, we’ve talked a lot about trust today and how we can have
trust today and how we ran have trust on --
trust today and how we can have trust on —— in those who govern us,
trust on -- in those who govern us, how ran we
trust on —— in those who govern us, how can we have a man who we know is
how ran we have a man who we know is under
how can we have a man who we know is under investigation for Islamophobia
under investigation for Islamophobia comment, alleged, but under
comment, alleged, but under investigation at this point. We also
investigation at this point. We also know he was at the heart of the Owen
know he was at the heart of the Owen Paterson situation, which again...
Paterson situation, which again... He was not at the heart of it. It
He was not at the heart of it. It did so much damage, so the idea he
did so much damage, so the idea he is promoted to a position... What I
is promoted to a position... what I don’t
is promoted to a position... What I don’t understand more than anything
don’t understand more than anything is why if you are Prime Minister you
is why if you are Prime Minister you would want someone like that. Surely
would want someone like that. Surely there must be others out there that
there must be others out there that could do the job.
there must be others out there that could do thejob. If
there must be others out there that could do the job. If we are
could do the job. If we are discussing this as we are now and
discussing this as we are now and there has been something of a
there has been something of a backlash, do you think they were
backlash, do you think they were good decisions? I think reshuffle is
good decisions? I think reshufﬂa is normally
good decisions? I think reshuffle is normally passed me by because I
normally passed me by because I don’t really watch my phone because
don’t really watch my phone because they won’t invite me in. But this is
they won’t invite me in. But this is actually for the first time a good
actually for the first time a good reshuffle. We’d change things, we
reshufﬂa. We’d change things, we got a Brexit
reshuffle. We’d change things, we got a Brexit minister, chief of
got a Brexit minister, chief of staff in Downing Street, we got an
staff in Downing Street, we got an MP in research in Downing Street.
MP in research in Downing Street. Those things are bringing the
Those things are bringing the Government closer to Parliament and
Government closer to Parliament and Parliament closer to the Government
Partiament closer to the Government which is a good
Parliament closer to the Government which is a good thing. He says he
which is a good thing. He says he has another reshuffle up his sleeve
has another reshufﬂe up his sleeve for May time.
has another reshuffle up his sleeve for May time. At the moment he’s
for May time. At the moment he’s done just about
for May time. At the moment he’s donejust about enough,
for May time. At the moment he’s done just about enough, not to
done just about enough, not to reshape government but to please the
reshape government but to please the right wing of the party and be later
right wing of the party and be later or maybe or maybe not
or maybe or maybe not something might happen. The Chief Whip is
might happen. The Chief Whip is welcomed across... Let me... The
welcomed across... Let me... The leader of the houses supposed to be
leader of the houses supposed to be a guardian of propriety and
a guardian of propriety and standards. To put someone... I so
standards. To put someone... I so agree with Alison. I am trying to
agree with Alison. I am trying to bring you in, Inaya. I’m sure you’ve
bring you in, Inaya. I’m sure you’ve been listening to all of this.
been listening to all of this. Stepping back a minute,
been listening to all of this. Stepping backa minute, do
been listening to all of this. Stepping back a minute, do you think
Stepping back a minute, do you think this reset as it’s been dubbed by
this reset as it’s been dubbed by the Government has worked or is
the Government has worked or is working? I think Caroline Noakes’
working? I think Caroline Noakes’ comments are a bit questionable when
comments are a bit questionabla when she
comments are a bit questionable when she struggled to define what a woman
she struggled to define what a woman is and I think she is not in the
is and I think she is not in the right position to comment on gender
right position to comment on gender issues in politics. But when it
issues in politic. But when it comes
issues in politics. But when it comes to this, I think it’s not very
comes to this, I think it’s not very good optis for
comes to this, I think it’s not very good optics for the Government to be
good optis for the Government to be giving some in
good optics for the Government to be giving some in this position that is
giving some in this position that is also in an investigation right now
also in an investigation right now over these allegations of
over these allegations of Islamophobia. Sorry... What on earth
Islamophobia. Sorry... what on earth are you saying
Islamophobia. Sorry... What on earth are you saying about Caroline
are you saying about Caroline Noakes? She’s been a fantastic
Noakes? She’s been a fantastic campaigner
Noakes? She’s been a fantastic campaignerfor women, what are
Noakes? She’s been a fantastic campaigner for women, what are you
campaigner for women, what are you saying? That’s pathetic, that
saying? That’s pathetic, that comment. That’s the sort of nasty...
comment. That’s the sort of nasty... It is not pathetic. What are you
It is not pathetic. what are you arguing
It is not pathetic. What are you arguing about her? She is the chair
arguing about her? She is the chair of the women select committee and
of the women select committee and are at the head of advocating for
are at the head of advocating for the reform act and she has been
the reform act and she has been shutting many women down. There was
shutting many women down. There was a man’s net discussion only last
a man’s net discussion only last week that she shut down many mothers
week that she shut down many mothers raising issues. I
week that she shut down many mothers raising issues. Ithink
week that she shut down many mothers raising issues. I think it’s
raising issues. I think it’s absolutely right to raise those
absolutely right to raise those comments. I think it is extremely
comments. I think it is extremely unfair to raise the transition, 3
unfair to raise the transition, a controversial issue, where we are
controversial issue, where we are trying to navigate in a way to build
trying to navigate in a way to build consensus, to raise that... To
consensus, to raise that... To undermine and criticise a woman who
undermine and criticise a woman who I ran tell you, and
undermine and criticise a woman who I can tell you, and she is on the
I ran tell you, and she is on the other side
I can tell you, and she is on the other side of Parliament, she is a
other side of Parliament, she is a Conservative, who consistently and
Conservative, who consistently and Parliament has backed and promoted
Partiament has backed and promoted the
Parliament has backed and promoted the interests of women. That is
the interests of women. That is really rotten politics. No, it’s
really rotten politic. No, it’s not, it’s
really rotten politics. No, it’s not, it’s important for many women
not, it’s important for many women and it’s important to bring out
and it’s important to bring out because it’s one of the most talked
because it’s one of the most talked about issues right now. Inaya, does
about issues right now. Inaya, does it deprive Caroline Noakes to make a
it deprive Caroline Noakes to make a comment about the reshuffle in the
comment about the reshufﬂe in the “Y
comment about the reshufﬂe in the way she did,
comment about the reshuffle in the way she did, questioning whether it
way she did, questioning whether it was as she called it a he shuffle
was as she called it a he shufﬂe rather
was as she called it a he shuffle rather than a reshuffle? I think we
rather than a reshufﬂe? I think we are at a stage in
rather than a reshuffle? I think we are at a stage in our society where
are at a stage in our society where we cannot described reality, I think
we cannot described reality, I think it goes to the heart of many
it goes to the heart of many questions about women in politics
questions about women in politic and
questions about women in politics and women within society. I actually
and women within society. I actually think it is quite a central issue.
think it is quite a central issue. It is essential to raise it. It is
It is essential to raise it. It is not... You have to accept it is
not... You have to accept it is contentious issue. What we have got
contentious issue. what we have got to try and do on
contentious issue. What we have got to try and do on the trans issue is
to try and do on the trans issue is build a consensus, based, I agree
build a consensus, based, Iagree with you, on
build a consensus, based, I agree with you, on existing law and
with you, on existing law and existing rights. But to then because
existing rights. But to then because somebody disagrees with you on a
somebody disagrees with you on a contentious issue, to then allege
contentious issue, to then allege that she has absolutely no right or
that she has absolutely no right or lagitimacy to
that she has absolutely no right or legitimacy to talk on behalf of
legitimacy to talk on behalf of women as she has done incredibly
women as she has done incredibly successfuuy
women as she has done incredibly successfully and effectively and
successfully and effectively and Parliament, as a Conservative woman,
Partiament, as a Conservative woman, and I say this is a
Parliament, as a Conservative woman, and I say this is a Labour woman, I
and I say this is a labour woman, I think actually
and I say this is a Labour woman, I think actually below the belt and
think actually below the belt and you shouldn’t have done it. All
you shouldn’t have done it. All right... Inaya, 0K, briefly,
right... Inaya, 0K, brieﬂy, respond. I
right... Inaya, 0K, briefly, respond. I strongly disagree and
respond. I strongly disagree and it’s a contentious issue because it
it’s a contentious issue because it goes to the heart of many questions
goes to the heart of many questions about women and what it means to be
about women and what it means to be human. I think it’s right it was
human. I think it’s right it was raised and she is held to account in
raised and she is held to account in her position. We are going into
her position. We are going into Prime Minister’s Questions in a
Prime Minister’s Questions in a moment or two, what should Sir Keir
moment or two, what should Sir Keir Starmer go on, Alison Marco today I
Starmer go on, Alison Marco today I think we will be looking at energy.
think we will be looking at energy. We will be looking at the cost of
We will be looking at the cost of living. when
We will be looking at the cost of living. When you talk to real people
living. when you talk to real peopla in the
living. When you talk to real people in the real world, our readers, the
in the real world, our readers, the issue is about how they are going to
issue is about how they are going to pay bills when the energy bills,
pay bills when the energy bills, 500- £700
pay bills when the energy bills, 500— £700 increases, people are very
500- £700 increases, people are very worried.
500— £700 increases, people are very worried. That is what Keir Starmer
worried. That is what Keir Starmer last week effectively in terms of
last week effectively in terms of cost of living? Cost
last week effectively in terms of cost of living? Costa living,
cost of living? Cost a living, reducing
cost of living? Costa living, reducing council tax is a great
reducing council tax is a great thing, reducing energy is a good
thing, reducing energy is a good thing but looked at long—term
thing but looked at long—term solutions because this is the thing
solutions because this is the thing we will be talking about week after
we will be talking about week after week as we go forward. That is I
week as we go forward. That is I think people are concerned about,
think peopla are concerned about, not
think people are concerned about, not about parties but the cost of
not about parties but the cost of living. Concerned about parties as
living. Concerned about parties as well. They are not. They are. I
well. They are not. They are. I spend hours and hours knocking on
spend hours and hours knocking on doors and they are not concerned.
doors and they are not concerned. People who think the normal rules
People who think the normal mles don’t apply to
People who think the normal rules don’t apply to them. You go and
don’t apply to them. You go and knock on doors for ten hours and you
knock on doors for ten hours and you will get the people saying its cost
will get the peopla saying its cost of living,
will get the people saying its cost of living, even the BBC licence fee.
of living, even the BBC licence fee. Please! On that note,
After the half term recess to present our strategy for living
present our strategy for living with. Provided the current
with. Provided the current encouraging trends in the data
encouraging trends in the data continues it is my expectation that
continues it is my expectation that we will end the last domestic
we will end the last domestic restrictions, including the legal
restrictions, including the legal requirement to self—isolate if you
requirement to self-isolate if you test positive,
requirement to self—isolate if you test positive, a full month earlier,
test positive, a full month eartier, Mr Speaker.
test positive, a full month earlier, Mr Speaker. This morning I had
Mr Speaker. This morning I had meetings with ministerial colleagues
meetings with ministerial colleagues and others and in addition to my
and others and in addition to my duties in the house I shall have
duties in the house I shall have further such meetings later today.
further such meetings later today. The Northern Ireland protocol has
The Northern Ireland protocol has frustrated business, is undermining
fmstrated business, is undermining the
frustrated business, is undermining the Belfast agreement and is
the Belfast agreement and is restricting the free movement of
restricting the free movement of goods and people within our United
goods and peopla within our United Kingdom.
goods and people within our United Kingdom. What action will my right
Kingdom. What action will my right honourable friend the Minister for
honourable friend the Minister for the union now take to reunite the
the union now take to reunite the United Kingdom and uphold the
United Kingdom and uphold the interests of all residents,
interests of all residents, including those living in Northern
including those living in Northern Ireland? My honourable friend is
Ireland? My honourable friend is quite right, because the protocol
quite right, because the protocol does not require, contrary to the
does not require, contrary to the “Y
does not require, contrary to the way he is being applied by our
way he is being applied by our friends, it does not require that
friends, it does not require that all foods and medicines and plant
all foods and medicines and plant should be systematically checked in
should be systematically checked in the way that they are and we must
the way that they are and we must fix it and with good will and common
fix it and with good will and common sense I believe we can, but if our
sense I believe we ran, but if our friends
sense I believe we can, but if our friends don’t show the requisite
friends don’t show the requisite common sense, we will trickle
common sense, we will trickle article 16. —— trigger article 16.
artida 16. -- trigger artida 16. Was the
article 16. —— trigger article 16. Was the Business Secretary right to
Was the Business Secretary right to 55V
Was the Business Secretary right to say that fraud is not something that
say that fraud is not something that peopla
say that fraud is not something that people experience in their day to
people experience in their day to day lives? Of course this government
day lives? Of course this government and this country despises those who
and this country despises those who defraud people which is why we
defraud people which is why we cracked down on fraudsters and
cracked down on fraudsters and strengthened our anti fraud task
strengthened our anti fraud task force who are bringing forward an
force who are bringing forward an economic crime bill, but we also
economic crime bill, but we also attach huge importance to tackling
attach huge importance to tackling neighbourhood crime and crimes of
neighbourhood crime and crimes of violence and I’m very pleased that
violence and I’m very pleased that those crimes are down 17%. The Prime
those crimes are down 1796. The Prime Minister’s
those crimes are down 17%. The Prime Minister’s answer has got a big hole
Minister’s answer has got a big hola in it.
Minister’s answer has got a big hole in it. We’ve had lockdown for the
in it. We’ve had lockdown for the last two years and the two crimes
last two years and the two crimes that people could commit what online
that peopla could commit what online fraud and
that people could commit what online fraud and throwing parties, and as
fraud and throwing parties, and as far as I ran
fraud and throwing parties, and as far as I can see the numbers for
far as I ran see the numbers for both of
far as I can see the numbers for both of those have gone through the
both of those have gone through the roof. But I was asking the Prime
roof. But I was asking the Prime Minister about the 1A,000 cases of
Minister about the 14,000 rases of fraud per day.
Minister about the 1A,000 cases of fraud per day. Many older people
fraud per day. Many older peopla duped out of
fraud per day. Many older people duped out of hard earned savings.
duped out of hard earned savings. And the Business Secretary casually
And the Business Secretary casually suggests on TV, don’t worry, it’s
suggests on TV, don’t worry, it’s not real crime. There is a crime
not real crime. There is a crime gang in Manchester nicking cars and
gang in Manchester nicking cars and shipping them around the world all
shipping them around the world all financed by loans from the taxpayer.
financed by loans from the taxpayer. And what is the Chancellor’s
And what is the Chancellor’s response? Write off £4 billion in
response? Write off £4 billion in losses and block an investigation by
losses and block an investigation by the National Crime Agency. His
the National Crime Agency. His Cabinet turning a blind eye to
Cabinet turning a blind eye to scammers. Is it any wonder that he
summers. Is it any wonder that he is
scammers. Is it any wonder that he is antifraud minister realised no
is antifraud minister realised no one in government seems to care and
one in government seems to rare and threw in
one in government seems to care and threw in the towel? No, because what
threw in the towel? No, because what we are doing is tackling crime
we are doing is tackling crime across the board. And that is why we
across the board. And that is why we are investing more in tackling
are investing more in tackling fraud, but we are also tackling the
fraud, but we are also tackling the neighbourhood crime that is of such
neighbourhood crime that is of such a massive psychological damage to
a massive psychological damage to peopla in
a massive psychological damage to people in this country, tackling
peopla in this country, tackling knife
people in this country, tackling knife crime, tackling burglary and
knife crime, tackling burglary and crimes of violence in the street
crimes of violence in the street with tougher sentences which they
with tougher sentences which they voted against, by the way and
voted against, by the way and putting more police out on the
putting more police out on the street and the
street and the reason we are able to afford it is because we have a
afford it is because we have a strong economy and we are coming
strong economy and we are coming back strongly from and that is
back strongly from and that is thanks to the big calls that this
thanks to the big calls that this government got right. He is
government got right. He is antifraud minister quit saying the
antifraud minister quit saying the failure of government to tackle
failure of government to tackle fraud was so egregious that he had
fraud was so egregious that he had to, and these were his works,
to, and these were his works, smashed some crockery to get people
smashed some crockery to get people to take notice. When it seems that
to take notice. when it seems that the Prime
to take notice. When it seems that the Prime Minister hasn’t noticed
the Prime Minister hasn’t noticed the broken plates or shattered glass
the broken plates or shattered glass around him. It’s almost as if he’s
around him. It’s almost as if he’s been completely distracted four
been completely distracted four weeks. Talking of scams, households
weeks. Talking of sums, households are going to
weeks. Talking of scams, households are going to have to fork out an
are going to have to fork out an extra £19 billion on their energy
extra £19 billion on their energy bills. The government is insulting
bills. The government is insulting peopla is
bills. The government is insulting people is intelligence by pretending
people is intelligence by pretending it’s giving them a discount. But
it’s giving them a discount. But it’s not. It’s a con. Now, pay later
it’s not. It’s a con. Now, pay later scheme, a dodgy loan, not a proper
scheme, a dodgy loan, not a proper plan. He shakes his head, so let me
plan. He shakes his head, so let me put this in language he might
put this in language he might understand. When his donors give him
understand. when his donors give him rash to
understand. When his donors give him cash to fund his lifestyle and tell
rash to fund his lifestyle and tell him he
cash to fund his lifestyle and tell him he has to pay it all back
him he has to pay it all back later, are they giving him a loan or a
are they giving him a loan or a discount? Our plan to tackle the
discount? Our plan to tackla the cost of living
discount? Our plan to tackle the cost of living is faster,
cost of living is faster, more efficient and more generous than
efficient and more generous than anything that they have set out. We
anything that they have set out. We have lifted the living wage by
have lifted the living wage by a
record amount, we have cut the effective tax for people on
effective tax for people on Universal Credit and we are now
Universal Credit and we are now setting out a
Universal Credit and we are new setting out a fantastic plan to help
setting out a fantastic plan to help peopla
setting out a fantastic plan to help people with the cost of energy, and
people with the cost of energy, and it is more generous and more
it is more generous and more effective than anything the Labour
effective than anything the labour Party have
effective than anything the Labour Party have set out on the only
Party have set out on the only reason we can deliver. It’s £9.1
reason we ran deliver. It’s £9.1 billion.
reason we can deliver. It’s £9.1 billion. It’s huge sums we are using
billion. It’s huge sums we are using to help peopla
billion. It’s huge sums we are using to help people across the country
to help peopla across the country and the only
to help people across the country and the only reason we can afford it
and the only reason we ran afford it is because
and the only reason we can afford it is because we have a strong economy,
is because we have a strong economy, the fastest growing in the G7 as I
the fastest growing in the G7 as I think I may have pointed out to the
think I may have pointed out to the right honourable gentleman
think I may have pointed out to the right honourable gentlemen and not
right honourable gentleman and not just last year,
right honourable gentlemen and not just last year, but this year as
just last year, but this year as well. The Prime Minister clearly
well. The Prime Minister dearty doesn’t
well. The Prime Minister clearly doesn’t have the first clue what the
doesn’t have the first clue what the Chancellor has signed him up too, so
Chancellor has signed him up too, so let me help them out. His plan is to
let me help them out. His plan is to hand billions of pounds of taxpayer
hand billions of pounds of taxpayer rash to
hand billions of pounds of taxpayer cash to energy companies and then
rash to energy companies and then force
cash to energy companies and then force families to pay it off in
force families to pay it off in instalments for years to come. If it
instalments for years to come. If it sounds like he’s forcing people to
sounds like he’s forcing peopla to take out
sounds like he’s forcing people to take out a loan, and it looks like
take out a loan, and it looks like he’s forcing people to take out a
he’s forcing peopla to take out a loan, isn’t it
he’s forcing people to take out a loan, isn’t itjust forcing people
loan, isn’t it just forcing peopla to take
loan, isn’t itjust forcing people to take out a loan? We are giving
to take out a loan? We are giving peopla in
to take out a loan? We are giving people in band D council tax houses
peoplc in band D council tax houses across
people in band D council tax houses across the country, that is 27
across the country, that is 27 million homes, we are giving them
million homes, we are giving them the equivalent of a rebate of their
the equivalent of a rebate of their council tax. Their offer is for £89
council tax. Their offer is for £89 and ours is faster, more generous
and ours is faster, more generous and more effective and what they
and more effective and what they would do and this is a global
would do and this is a global problem caused by the spike in gas
problem caused by the spike in gas prices, but what they would do is
prices, but what they would do is dobber
prices, but what they would do is clobber the oil and gas companies
dobber the oil and gas companies right now
clobber the oil and gas companies right now with a tax that would
right now with a tax that would deter investment in gas just when
deter investment in gas just when this country needs gas as we
this country needs gas as we transition to green fuel. It would
transition to green fuel. It would be totally ridiculous and it would
be totally ridiculous and it would raise prices for consumers. I was
raise prices for consumers. I was always worried that the Prime
always worried that the Prime Minister was one for not reading
Minister was one for not reading terms and conditions and did not
terms and conditions and did not understand what the Chancellor has
understand what the Chancellor has signed him up to and he’s
understand what the Chancellor has signed him up to and he’sjust
signed him up to and he’sjust confirmed my worst fears. There is
confirmed my worst fears. There is an alternative. Can I
confirmed my worst fears. There is an alternative. Can Ijust say if
an alternative. (“an Ijust say if you want to
an alternative. Can Ijust say if you want to carry on, carry on
you want to carry on, carry on outside. I am
you want to carry on, carry on outside. lam not
you want to carry on, carry on outside. I am not having this
outside. I am not having this perpetual noise from the front
perpetual noise from the front bench. The Secretary of State should
bench. The Secretary of State should know better and I expect better and
know better and I expect better and I certainly don’t need to put up
I certainly don’t need to put up with it any more. There is an
with it any more. There is an alternative. You could stand up to
alternative. You could stand up to his Chancellor, tell him to support
his Chancellor, tell him to support families rather than loading them
families rather than loading them with debt. Tell him to look at those
with debt. Tell him to look at those bumper profits of oil and gas
bumper profits of oil and gas giants. Shell’s profits up £14
giants. Shell’s profits up £14 billion this year. BP’s profits up
billion this year. BP’s profits up £9.5
billion this year. BP’s profits up £9.5 billion this year. Every second
£9.5 billion this year. Every second of the day they have made £750 extra
of the day they have made £750 extra profits from rising prices and at
profits from rising prices and at the same time households are facing
the same time households are facing an extra £700 a year on their bills.
an extra £700 a year on their bills. Why
an extra £700 a year on their bills. why on earth is
an extra £700 a year on their bills. Why on earth is this government
why on earth is this government forcing loans
Why on earth is this government forcing loans on British families
forcing loans on British families when they should be asking those
when they should be asking those with an unexpected windfall to pay a
with an unexpected windfall to pay a little more to keep household bills
little more to keep household bills down? The Labour plan, it’s an
down? The labour plan, it’s an improvement
down? The Labour plan, it’s an improvement on what I thought he
improvement on what I thought he stood for, which was nationalising
stood for, which was nationalising the energy companies. Maybe he has
the energy companies. Maybe he has dropped that one now. I can’t
dropped that one now. I can’t tell whether he has dropped it or not.
whether he has dropped it or not. But what he would be doing is
But what he would be doing is hitting the energy companies are
hitting the energy companies are precisely the moment when we need to
precisely the moment when we need to encourage them to go for more gas,
encourage them to go for more gas, because we need to transition now to
because we need to transition now to cleaner fuels and what this
cleaner fuels and what this government is providing is £9.1
government is providing is £9.1 billion worth of support. It’s more
billion worth of support. It’s more generous than anything Labour is
generous than anything labour is offering
generous than anything Labour is offering and I will complete my
offering and I will complete my point. The only reason we can do it
point. The only reason we ran do it is because
point. The only reason we can do it is because we kept our economy
is because we kept our economy moving in those hard times when they
moving in those hard times when they took the wrong decisions and we came
took the wrong decisions and we came out of lockdown in
took the wrong decisions and we came out of lockdown inJuly
took the wrong decisions and we came out of lockdown in July when
took the wrong decisions and we came out of lockdown inJuly when he
out of lockdown in july when he opposed it
out of lockdown inJuly when he opposed it last year but we kept
opposed it last year but we kept going over Christmas and New Year
going over Christmas and New Year when they opposed it and that is why
when they opposed it and that is why we have the fastest growing economy
we have the fastest growing economy in the G7, not
we have the fastest growing economy in the G7, notjust last year, but
in the G7, not just last year, but this year as
in the G7, notjust last year, but this year as well, as I never tire
this year as well, as I never tire of saying. He can bluff and bluster
of saying. He ran bluff and bluster all he
of saying. He can bluff and bluster all he likes. The reality is this.
all he likes. The reality is this. On top of the Tory tax rises, on top
On top of the Tory tax rises, on top of the soaring prices, the loan
of the soaring prices, the loan shark Chancellor and his unwitting
shark Chancellor and his unwitting sidekick have now kicked up a buy
sidekick have now kicked up a buy now, pay later
sidekick have now kicked up a buy now, pay laterscheme. It
sidekick have now kicked up a buy now, pay later scheme. It leaves
now, pay later scheme. It leaves taxpayers in debt while oil and gas
taxpayers in debt while oil and gas companies say they’ve got more money
companies say therve got more money than they know
companies say they’ve got more money than they know what to do with. It’s
than they know what to do with. It’s the same old story with this
the same old story with this government. Getting a mess, protect
government. Getting a mess, protect their mates and ask working people
their mates and ask working peopla to pick up the
their mates and ask working people to pick up the bill. But isn’t he
to pick up the bill. But isn’t he worried that everyone can now see
worried that everyone ran now see that with
worried that everyone can now see that with this Prime Minister and
that with this Prime Minister and this Chancellor, it’s all one big
this Chancellor, it’s all one big sram
this Chancellor, it’s all one big scam and people across the country
scam and peopla across the country are paying the
scam and people across the country are paying the price? What they can
are paying the price? what they ran see is a
are paying the price? What they can see is a government that is
see is a government that is absolutely committed to doing the
absolutely committed to doing the right thing for the people of this
right thing for the peopla of this country and
right thing for the people of this country and taking the tough
country and taking the tough decisions when Labour is calling for
decisions when labour is railing for us to
decisions when Labour is calling for us to take the easy way out and
us to take the easy way out and spend more taxpayers money and it
spend more taxpayers money and it was this government that decided to
was this government that decided to keep going in
was this government that decided to keep going inJuly when he wanted to
keep going in july when he wanted to stay in
keep going inJuly when he wanted to stay in lockdown. We kept going over
stay in lockdown. We kept going over Christmas and New Year and by the
Christmas and New Year and by the way, it occurs to me, that we also
way, it occurs to me, that we also were able to use those Brexit
were able to use those Brexit freedoms to deliver the fastest
freedoms to deliver the fastest roll—out of the vaccine. Yes, Mr
roll-out of the vaccine. Yes, Mr Speaker, when
roll—out of the vaccine. Yes, Mr Speaker, when he not only voted 48
Speaker, when he not only voted 48 times to go back into the EU, yes he
times to go back into the EU, yes he did, but he also voted to stay in
did, but he also voted to stay in the European Medicines Agency, and
the European Medicines Agency, and our plan for
the European Medicines Agency, and our plan forjobs is working,
our plan forjobs is working, Mr Speaker. We have a record low youth
Speaker. We have a record low youth unemployment and our plan for the
unemployment and our plan for the NHS in care is working stop they
NHS in rare is working stop they have no
NHS in care is working stop they have no at all. Our plan for the
have no at all. Our plan for the country is working. We have a great
country is working. We have a great vision to unite and level up across
vision to unite and level up across our country. They have no plan
our country. They have no plan whatever. And I say to him, plan
whatever. And I say to him, plan beats no plan. We have a great plan
beats no plan. We have a great plan for our country and they play
for our country and they play politic. The
for our country and they play politics. The government’s £9
politic. The government’s £9 billion
politics. The government’s £9 billion support to help with rising
billion support to help with rising energy bills is most welcome, but
energy bills is most welcome, but will the Prime Minister assure the
will the Prime Minister assure the people of Anglesey and beyond that
peopla of Anglesey and beyond that it is
people of Anglesey and beyond that it is full steam ahead for new
it is full steam ahead for new nuclear and that this government is
nuclear and that this government is moving at pace on the future nuclear
moving at pace on the future nuclear enabling fund so the UK has energy
enabling fund so the UK has energy security, jobs and investment right
security, jobs and investment right here on these shores? Yes, and it
here on these shores? Yes, and it was only last week I was
was only last week I was congratulating her on her
was only last week I was congratulating her on herfantastic
congratulating her on her fantastic advocacy for
congratulating her on herfantastic advocacy for nuclear and don’t
advocacy for nuclear and don’t forget that Labour allowed a nuclear
forget that labour allowed a nuclear capacity to
forget that Labour allowed a nuclear capacity to decline by 11% on their
capacity to decline by 1196 on their watch
capacity to decline by 11% on their watch and maybe they had forgotten
watch and maybe they had forgotten that. We want to get back up there
that. We want to get back up there and that is why there will be at
and that is why there will be at least one big nuclear project of
least one big nuclear project of this Parliament, at least one, and
this Partiament, at least one, and the
this Parliament, at least one, and the nuclear financing
this Parliament, at least one, and the nuclearfinancing bill will
the nuclear financing bill will support
the nuclearfinancing bill will support that objective. I am sure
support that objective. I am sure you and the entire house will want
you and the entire house will want to join
you and the entire house will want tojoin me in welcoming the
tojoin me in welcoming the remembering Sabra nature campaign
remembering Sabra nature campaign that launched in Parliament last
that hunched in Partiament last night and we
that launched in Parliament last night and we must continue to strive
night and we must continue to strive for ongoing peace in Bosnia —— Sabra
The flurry of changes in Downing
The ﬂurry of changes in Downing Street
The flurry of changes in Downing Street in the last few days is a
Street in the last few days is a sight to behold. It is amazing how
sight to behold. It is amazing how much energy this Prime Minister can
much energy this Prime Minister ran sum up when it
much energy this Prime Minister can sum up when it comes to saving his
sum up when it comes to saving his own skin. Whilst he has been busy
own skin. whilst he has been busy rearranging
own skin. Whilst he has been busy rearranging the deck chairs, in the
rearranging the deck chairs, in the real world,
rearranging the deck chairs, in the realworld, people
rearranging the deck chairs, in the real world, people continue to be
real world, peopla continue to be punished by
real world, people continue to be punished by the Tory cost of living
punished by the Tory cost of living crisis. Yesterday open democracy
crisis. Yesterday open democracy found as a direct result of the
found as a direct result of the Chancellor’s national insurance like
Chancellor’s national insurance like that nurses will on average take a
that nurses will on average take a £275 yearty
that nurses will on average take a £275 yearly pay cut in April. That
£275 yearty pay cut in April. That pay cut will
£275 yearly pay cut in April. That pay cut will hit at the very same
pay cut will hit at the very same moment that soaring energy bills
moment that soaring energy bills land. Bills that have shot up £1000
land. Bills that have shot up £1000 in the space of a year. It is a bill
in the space of a year. It is a bill that they are the rest of the public
that they are the rest of the public cannot afford, so rather than the
rannot afford, so rather than the Prime
cannot afford, so rather than the Prime Minister and Chancellor
Prime Minister and Chancellor scrapping over the Tory leadership,
scrapping over the Tory leadership, will they do something useful and
will they do something useful and scrap their regressive hike in
scrap their regressive hike in national insurance?
It was interesting the gentleman opposite didn’t mention that because
opposite didn’t mention that because I think everybody can see how vital
I think everybody ran see how vital this is.
I think everybody can see how vital this is. We have to clear our Covid
this is. We have to clear our Covid backlogs, Mr Speaker. We had 6
backlogs, Mr Speaker. We had 6 million people already on the
million peopla already on the waiting
million people already on the waiting list. I am afraid that will
waiting list. I am afraid that will go
waiting list. I am afraid that will 9° “P
waiting list. I am afraid that will go up and we need to be recruiting
go up and we need to be recruiting the staff now. That is why we are
the staff now. That is why we are recruiting 50,000 more nurses,
recruiting 50,000 more nurses, 11,000 more this year than last
11,000 more this year than last year. To his point, we have
year. To his point, we have increased their starting salary for
increased their starting salary for nurses by 12.8%, in addition to
nurses by 12.8%, in addition to bursaries and other help we give
bursaries and other help we give them. We value our nurses, we love
them. We value our nurses, we love our NHS and we are paying for it.
our NHS and we are paying for it. Actions speak louder than words and
Actions speak louder than words and if he wants to reward the nurses,
if he wants to reward the nurses, then they are the backbone of the
then they are the backbone of the service, the very people he is
service, the very people he is hitting with the pay cut in April. I
hitting with the pay cut in April. I shouldn’t have to remind the Prime
shouldn’t have to remind the Prime Minister that at the same time that
Minister that at the same time that those nurses were going into work
those nurses were going into work every day to fight the pandemic, 16
every day to fight the pandemic, 16 different parties were happening in
different parties were happening in his government. The public know what
his government. The public know what nurses sacrifice during the pandemic
nurses sacrifice during the pandemic and they know exactly what this rule
and they know exactly what this mla breaking
and they know exactly what this rule breaking Prime Minister and his
breaking Prime Minister and his government were up to. So are the
government were up to. So are the Prime Minister and the Chancellor
Prime Minister and the Chancellor seriously telling those nurses their
seriously telling those nurses their reward for seeing us through the
reward for seeing us through the pandemic is a £270 wage cut? Mr
pandemic is a £270 wage cut? Mr Speaker, what we are telling the
Speaker, what we are telling the people of this country now, our
peopla of this country now, our fantastic
people of this country now, our fantastic nurses, is we back them
fantastic nurses, is we back them all the way. What they want is more
all the way. what they want is more nurses.
all the way. What they want is more nurses. That is why there are record
nurses. That is why there are record numbers in training. That is why we
numbers in training. That is why we have 11,000 more in the NHS now,
have 11,000 more in the NHS now, this year, than there were last
this year, than there were last year, Mr Speaker. And those I think
year, Mr Speaker. And those I think our fantastic investments in our
our fantastic investments in our country and our society. I must say
country and our society. I must say I think it is peculiar the Scottish
I think it is peculiar the Scottish National Party’s approach to health
National Party’s approach to health rare is
National Party’s approach to health care is to cut off the bottom of
rare is to cut off the bottom of doors in
care is to cut off the bottom of doors in schools in Scotland in
doors in schools in Scotland in order to improve ventilation.
order to improve ventilation. Thank you, Mr Speaker. As a proud
Thank you, Mr Speaker. As a proud will vary and I am proud my city is
will vary and I am proud my city is front and centre of the Government
front and centre of the Government has met levelling up. Getting
has met levelling up. Getting job—seekers of all Labour ages
job-seekers of all labour ages getting the
job—seekers of all Labour ages getting the skills they need will be
getting the skills they need will be vital in Wolverhampton and the city
vital in Wolverhampton and the city of Wolverhampton College is already
of Wolverhampton College is already doing this at their brand—new
doing this at their brand-new College of
doing this at their brand—new College of Bentley Bridge in my
College of Bentley Bridge in my constituency foster while the Prime
constituency foster while the Prime Minister
constituency foster whila the Prime Minister join
constituency foster while the Prime Ministerjoin me in congratulating
Minister join me in congratulating the college
Ministerjoin me in congratulating the college and when he meets with
the college and when he meets with me and my honourable neighbour and
me and my honourable neighbour and friend, preferably at Wolverhampton
friend, preferably at Wolverhampton College, so we can discuss how more
Collage, so we ran discuss how more job-seekers ran
College, so we can discuss how more job—seekers can get access to skills
job-seekers ran get access to skills and
job—seekers can get access to skills and potentially through the city
and potentially through the city learning quarter and that final bit
learning quarter and that final bit of funding that we need?
of funding that we need? I congratulate my honourable friend
I congratulate my honourable friend from Wolverhampton. She is truly a
from Wolverhampton. She is tmly a modern day
from Wolverhampton. She is truly a modern day resident of
modern day resident of Wolverhampton. She is completely
Wolverhampton. She is completely right, Wolverhampton and the Black
right, Wolverhampton and the Black Country were at the heart of the
Country were at the heart of the first industrial revolution and at
first industrial revolution and at the heart of the current 2ist
the heart of the current 2’Ist century
the heart of the current 21st century green industrial
the heart of the current 2ist century green industrial revolution.
century green industrial revolution. I’m very glad that since April 2020
I’m very glad that since April 2020 we have seen 125,000 starts to
we have seen 125,000 starts to sector work —based programme, in
sector work -based programme, in part thanks to
sector work —based programme, in part thanks to her programme and
part thanks to her programme and wild horses won’t keep me from
wild horses won’t keep me from Wolverhampton.
Wolverhampton. 74—year—old Janet had £25,000 stolen
74-year-old janet had £25,000 stolan by fraudsters.
74—year—old Janet had £25,000 stolen by fraudsters. She told the BBC the
by fraudsters. She told the BBC the money was my mum and dad’s. I
by fraudsters. She told the BBC the money was my mum and dad’s. Ifelt
money was my mum and dad’s. Ifelt I’d let them down. For
money was my mum and dad’s. Ifelt I’d let them down. ForJanet and for
I’d let them down. For janet and for the 4
I’d let them down. ForJanet and for the 4 million people who fell victim
the 4 million peopla who fell victim to
the 4 million people who fell victim to fraudsters and online scammers
to fraudsters and online summers last year,
to fraudsters and online scammers last year, fraud is a crime. 50 does
last year, fraud is a crime. So does the Prime
last year, fraud is a crime. 50 does the Prime Minister understand the
the Prime Minister understand the hurt he and his ministers because
hurt he and his ministers because fraud victims like Janet when they
fraud victims like janet when they write
fraud victims like Janet when they write them out of the crime figures
write them out of the crime figures and dismiss fraud as something
and dismiss fraud as something peopla
and dismiss fraud as something people don’t experience in their day
people don’t experience in their day lives? Mr Speaker, will be Prime
lives? Mr Speaker, will be Prime Minister correct the record on crime
Minister correct the record on crime figures and apologise?
figures and apologise? Mr Speaker, I direct you to what I
Mr Speaker, I direct you to what I have already said to my right
have already said to my right honourable friend the member for
honourable friend the member for Harﬂepool.
honourable friend the member for Hartlepool. He knows very, very well
Harﬂepool. He knows very, very well this
Hartlepool. He knows very, very well this government hates fraud and
this government hates fraud and onUne
this government hates fraud and online fraud. We are tackling the
online fraud. We are tackling the scammers
online fraud. We are tackling the summers by
online fraud. We are tackling the scammers by helping people to come
summers by helping peopla to come forward
scammers by helping people to come forward when they get an e—mail,
forward when they get an e-mail, when they get
forward when they get an e—mail, when they get duped. Of course we
when they get duped. Of course we will help them in any way we can.
will help them in any way we ran. But we
will help them in any way we can. But we are also cutting the crime
But we are also cutting the crime that affects people up and down
But we are also cutting the crime that affe the ieople up and down
But we are also cutting the crime that affe the neighbourhood own
But we are also cutting the crime that affe the neighbourhood crime,
country, the neighbourhood crime, dealing with the county lines drugs
dealing with the county lines dmgs gangs and I
dealing with the county lines drugs gangs and I think that is
gangs and I think that is something I think he should support as well
I think he should support as well and I am proud those numbers had
and I am proud those numbers had come down by 17%.
come down by1796. It is
come down by 17%. It is wonderful news that the first
It is wonderful news that the first in person Commonwealth Heads of
in person Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting for four years
Government meeting for four years will take place during Her Majesty’
will take place during Her Majesty’ Platinum
will take place during Her Majesty’ PlatinumJubilee. Can
will take place during Her Majesty’ Platinum Jubilee. Can the Prime
Platinum Jubilee. Can the Prime Minister ensure that the global
Minister ensure that the global learning crisis is high on their
learning crisis is high on their agenda and will he ask his amazing
agenda and will he ask his amazing diplomats to ensure that every
diplomats to ensure that every leader in the Commonwealth signs up
leader in the Commonwealth signs up to the Kenyatta declaration on
to the Kenyatta declaration on education?
education? I thank you very much. Everything
I thank you very much. Everything she does to support education for
she does to support education for giris. I think 12
she does to support education for girls. I think 12 years of quality
girls. I think 12 years of quality education for every girl in the
education for every girt in the world is
education for every girl in the world is the single most
world is the single most transformative thing we could do to
transformative thing we could do to improve the world. I remember
improve the world. I remember working on the declaration and we
working on the declaration and we will certainly ensure that everybody
will certainly ensure that everybody at the Commonwealth signs up to it.
at the Commonwealth signs up to it. Mr Speaker, at the height of the
Mr Speaker, at the height of the lockdown restrictions in 2020, my
lockdown restrictions in 2020, my constituents, who has worked for the
constituents, who has worked for the NHS for over 30 years was diagnosed
NHS for over 30 years was diagnosed with a tumour on her spine. Whilst
with a tumour on her spine. whilst in hospital
with a tumour on her spine. Whilst in hospital undergoing painful
in hospital undergoing painful surgery, her
in hospital undergoing painful surgery, herfamily obeyed
in hospital undergoing painful surgery, her family obeyed the
in hospital undergoing painful surgery, herfamily obeyed the rules
surgery, her family obeyed the mles and
surgery, herfamily obeyed the rules and didn’t visit her. Mr Speaker, in
and didn’t visit her. Mr Speaker, in the last few minutes, a photo has
the last few minutes, a photo has emerged of the Prime Minister in
emerged of the Prime Minister in Downing Street on the 15th of
Downing Street on the 15th of December 2020, surrounded by
December 2020, surrounded by alcohol, food and people wearing
alcohol, food and peopla wearing tinsel.
alcohol, food and people wearing tinsel. It looks like a lot like one
tinsel. It looks like a lot like one of the Christmas parties he told us
of the Christmas parties he told us never happened. For the sake of my
never happened. For the sake of my constituent and the sacrifices she
constituent and the sacrifices she made will be Prime Minister be
made will be Prime Minister be referring this party to the police
referring this party to the police as it’s not one of the ones already
as it’s not one of the ones already being investigated?
being investigated? I am
being investigated? lam afraid...
being investigated? I am afraid... First of all, first
I am afraid... First of all, first of all I am very sorry about his
of all I am very sorry about his constituent and for the difficulties
constituent and for the difficulties she’s been through and I
she’s been through and I understand... I understand very much
understand... I understand very much her feelings, Mr Speaker.
understand... I understand very much herfeelings, Mr Speaker. But in
her feelings, Mr Speaker. But in what he
herfeelings, Mr Speaker. But in what he has just said
herfeelings, Mr Speaker. But in what he hasjust said I’m
herfeelings, Mr Speaker. But in what he has just said I’m afraid
herfeelings, Mr Speaker. But in what he hasjust said I’m afraid he
what he has just said I’m afraid he is completely
what he hasjust said I’m afraid he is completely in error.
is completely in error. Thank you, Mr Speaker. On the 30th
Thank you, Mr Speaker. On the 30th of September 2020 the Prime Minister
of September 2020 the Prime Minister joined me on a building
joined me on a building site in Dudlay on
joined me on a building site in Dudley on what is now the new
Dudley on what is now the new Institute of Technology, delivering
Institute of Technology, delivering on skills for future jobs and
on skills for future jobs and creating opportunities across the
creating opportunities across the Black Country. Will he join
creating opportunities across the Black Country. Will hejoin me in
Black Country. Will hejoin me in congratulating the delivery team who
congratulating the delivery team who delivered on this amazing project,
delivered on this amazing project, including stakeholders like Thomas
including stakeholders like Thomas Dudlay and
including stakeholders like Thomas Dudley and Dudley College and will
Dudlay and Dudlay College and will he actually
Dudley and Dudley College and will he actually come and join me in
he actually come and join me in person in doing so at the nearest
person in doing so at the nearest opportunity?
opportunity? Mr Speaker, I thank my honourable
Mr Speaker, I thank my honourable friend. He is a great champion for
friend. He is a great champion for Dudley and for the Black Country, Mr
Dudley and for the Black Country, Mr Speaker. I’m delighted to hear the
Speaker. I’m delighted to hear the Black Country and Institute of
Black Country and Institute of Technology is now open and I will
Technology is now open and I will keep his kind invitation in mind.
keep his kind imitation in mind. Prime
keep his kind invitation in mind. Prime Minister, the immortal words,
Prime Minister, the immortal words, if you are not listening, you
if you are not listening, you probably don’t understand us. And if
probably don’t understand us. And if you don’t understand us, you are
you don’t understand us, you are probably not listening. The fact of
probably not listening. The fact of the matter is the protocol has zero
the matter is the protocol has zero support from Unionists. The fact of
support from Unionists. The fact of the matter is, I hope the Prime
the matter is, I hope the Prime Minister is listening to this, in a
Minister is listening to this, in a divided society, the solution that
divided society, the solution that only attracts the support of one
only attracts the support of one section of that community will never
section of that community will never stand. Will the Prime Minister
stand. Will the Prime Minister therefore take the opportunity to
therefore take the opportunity to speak to the Irish government, whose
speak to the Irish government, whose ambassador is running around
ambassador is running around Washington demanding... Running
Washington demanding... Running around Washington, demanding further
around Washington, demanding further implementation of the protocol on
implementation of the protocol on the basis that it will bring further
the basis that it will bring further checks upon the people of Northern
checks upon the peopla of Northern Ireland?
checks upon the people of Northern Ireland? Does the Prime Minister
Ireland? Does the Prime Minister accept that he has a responsibility
accept that he has a responsibility to bring forward a solution that
to bring forward a solution that unites the people of Northern
unites the people of Northern Ireland and bring forward a solution
Ireland and bring forward a solution that saves the union that has been
that saves the union that has been undermined by it?
undermined by it? Yes, Mr Speaker. I
undermined by it? Yes, Mr Speaker. Iagree
undermined by it? Yes, Mr Speaker. I agree with him
Yes, Mr Speaker. I agree with him completely that there must be a
completely that there must be a solution that commands cross
solution that commands cross community support. And at the
community support. And at the moment, there is no doubt that the
moment, there is no doubt that the balance of the Good Friday Agreement
balance of the Good Friday Agreement is being upset by the way the
is being upset by the way the protocol is being operated. And
protocol is being operated. And meaning to fix it and that is what
meaning to fix it and that is what we are going to do and if our
we are going to do and if our friends won’t agree, then of course
friends won’t agree, then of course we will, as I said earlier on, we
we will, as I said eartier on, we will implement
we will, as I said earlier on, we will implement article 16.
will implement artida 16. Thank
will implement article 16. Thank you, Mr Speaker. A compulsory
Thank you, Mr Speaker. A compulsory windfall tax favoured by the
windfall tax favoured by the opposition, would my right
opposition, would my right honourable friend take an
honourable friend take an alternative view, some on a
alternative view, some on a high-level
alternative view, some on a high—level meeting with oil and gas
high-level meeting with oil and gas companies
high—level meeting with oil and gas companies with the aim of a
companies with the aim of a voluntary agreement to bring more
voluntary agreement to bring more oil and gas onto the wholesale
oil and gas onto the wholesale market to reduce oil and gas prices,
market to reduce oil and gas prices, to help hard—pressed people deal
to help hard-pressed peopla deal with
to help hard—pressed people deal with the cost of living problems?
with the cost of living problems? Well, Mr Speaker, I
with the cost of living problems? Well, Mr Speaker, Ithank
with the cost of living problems? Well, Mr Speaker, I thank my right
Well, Mr Speaker, I thank my right honourable friend very much but that
honourable friend very much but that suggestion, which I think is an
suggestion, which I think is an interesting one and an ingenious
interesting one and an ingenious one. The oil and gas companies
one. The oil and gas companies create hundreds of thousands of
one. The oil and gas companies create hundreds of thousands ofjobs
create hundreds of thousands ofjobs in the UK and they are very, very
in the UK and they are very, very important to our economy. I will do
important to our economy. I will do what I ran
important to our economy. I will do what I can to take forward his
what I ran to take forward his request for a
what I can to take forward his request for a meeting with them. But
request for a meeting with them. But I
request for a meeting with them. But Ijust remind him and the House, we
Ijust remind him and the House, we have frozen fuel duty 12 years in a
have frozen fuel duty 12 years in a row, saving people £15 in the cost
row, saving peopla £15 in the cost of filling up
row, saving people £15 in the cost of filling up their tanks compared
of filling up their tanks compared to 2010.
to 2010. Thank you, Mr Speaker. I understand
Thank you, Mr Speaker. I understand the Prime Minister has been heard
the Prime Minister has been heard singing I will survive in recent
singing I will survive in recent days. I
singing I will survive in recent days. Iwould
singing I will survive in recent days. I would suggest he would be
days. I would suggest he would be better off singing Careless Whisper
better off singing Careless whisper it said.
better off singing Careless Whisper it said. In 2017 there Nazanin
it said. In 2017 there Nazanin Zaghari—Ratcliffe was given a longer
Zaghari—Ratcliffe was given a longer sentence because of the weather this
sentence because of the weather this Prime Minister. Now in 22 this week,
Prime Minister. Now in 22 this week, my friend, the Leader of the
my friend, the Leader of the Opposition, was hounded by thugs
Opposition, was hounded by thugs outside this Parliament because of
outside this Partiament because of the
outside this Parliament because of the careless disgraceful words of
the rarelass disgraceful words of this
the careless disgraceful words of this Prime Minister. So will the
this Prime Minister. So will the Prime Minister do the decent thing,
Prime Minister do the decent thing, will he reconsider his words, repent
will he reconsider his words, repent and resign?
and resign? Mr Speaker, I don’t think that she
Mr Speaker, I don’t think that she should either let the thugs and yobs
should either let the thugs and yobs who bullied and harassed the right
who bullied and harassed the right honourable gentleman off the hook,
honourable gentleman off the hook, because they are culpable, any more
because they are culpable, any more than she should let the Iranian
than she should let the Iranian government of the hook because they
government of the hook because they are culpable. Thank you very much Mr
are culpable. Thank you very much Mr Speaker. Since 2017, referrals for
Speaker. Since 2017, referrals for children’s mental health has gone up
children’s mental health has gone up by 5095.
children’s mental health has gone up by 60%. Eating disorders among young
by 6096. Eating disorders among young gins has gone
by 60%. Eating disorders among young girls has gone up 400% since
girls has gone up 400% since lockdown. We know social media
lockdown. We know social media companies play a huge part in this.
companies play a huge part in this. Given that social media platforms
Given that social media platforms like tiktok are providing crack for
like tiktok are providing crack for kids in terms of negative content,
kids in terms of negative content, negative imagery and predictive
negative imagery and predictive algorithms, will my right honourable
algorithms, will my right honourable friend consider implementing a 2%
friend consider implamenting a 296 levy
friend consider implementing a 296 levy on social
friend consider implementing a 2% levy on social media companies which
levy on social media companies which would raise 100 million to fund
would raise 100 million to fund mental health resilience programmes
mental health resilience programmes for children?
for children? Mr Speaker, I know my right
Mr Speaker, I know my right honourable friend has campaigned on
honourable friend has campaigned on this issue assiduously and he is
this issue assiduously and he is quite right about the psychological
quite right about the psychological damage that social media can do.
damage that social media ran do. I’ve
damage that social media can do. I’ve heard what he’s had to say
I’ve heard what he’s had to say recently about tiktok. We will see
recently about tiktok. We will see what we can do to address all these
what we ran do to address all these issues in
what we can do to address all these issues in the forthcoming online
issues in the forthcoming online harm’s bill.
harm’s bill. Mr Speaker, Bradford is a UK’
Mr Speaker, Bradford is a UK’ younger city and has the tenth
younger city and has the tenth largest city economy with a GDP of
largest city economy with a GDP of 11.6 billion and is bidding to be
11.6 billion and is bidding to be the capital of culture. Now it comes
the capital of culture. Now it comes out that no detailed analysis of the
out that no detailad analysis of the long-term
out that no detailed analysis of the long—term economic benefits of
long-term economic benefits of investing in
long—term economic benefits of investing in Bradford and the north
investing in Bradford and the north through the integrated rail plan was
through the integrated rail plan was carried out. This government’s
carried out. This government’s failure has robbed Bradford of 30
failure has robbed Bradford of 30 billion worth of growth over the
billion worth of growth over the next four years. When will the Prime
next four years. when will the Prime Minister
next four years. When will the Prime Minister match action to rhetoric in
Minister match action to rhetoric in levelling up and give Bradford the
levelling up and give Bradford the investment it deserves?
investment it deserves? Mr Speaker, I’m afraid she’s wrong
Mr Speaker, I’m afraid she’s wrong and what she says because we are not
and what she says because we are not only investing massively in
only investing massively in Yorkshire, investing in police in
Yorkshire, investing in police in Yorkshire, 640 more police,
Yorkshire, 640 more police, investing in education, she
investing in education, she misunderstood what we said in the
misunderstood what we said in the rail plan. What we are saying is we
rail plan. what we are saying is we will look
rail plan. What we are saying is we will look at ways in which we can
will look at ways in which we ran ensure
will look at ways in which we can ensure that we protract the eastern
ensure that we protract the eastern of high-speed
ensure that we protract the eastern of high—speed rail
ensure that we protract the eastern of high—speed railfrom north of
of high-speed rail from north of Birmingham
of high—speed railfrom north of Birmingham on the eastern leg to
Birmingham on the eastern leg to Bradford. What we are not doing is
Bradford. what we are not doing is coming up with
Bradford. What we are not doing is coming up with a scheme before we
coming up with a scheme before we have decided exactly what to do and
have decided exactly what to do and how to fund it but we are not ruling
how to fund it but we are not mling it out, Mr
how to fund it but we are not ruling it out, Mr Speaker.
it out, Mr Speaker. Mr Speaker, I served
it out, Mr Speaker. Mr Speaker, Iserved my
it out, Mr Speaker. Mr Speaker, I served my country with
Mr Speaker, I served my country with pride in the Royal Green
Mr Speaker, I served my country with pride in the Royal GreenJackets. I
pride in the Royal Green jackets. I will always
pride in the Royal Greenjackets. I will always be a Rifleman and
will always be a Rifleman and veteran and welcome the veteran
veteran and welcome the veteran strategy the Prime Minister has just
strategy the Prime Minister has just brought out but I ask the Prime
brought out but I ask the Prime Minister if veterans will always be
Minister if veterans will always be at the heart of this government’s
at the heart of this government’s strategy and everything can be done
strategy and everything ran be done to say they
strategy and everything can be done to say they always get what they
to say they always get what they need and are honoured?
need and are honoured? Yes, that is why we set up an office
Yes, that is why we set up an office for their veterans uninsured
for their veterans uninsured veterans get preferential treatment
veterans get preferential treatment on public transport. One of the
on public transport. One of the first things I did when I became
first things I did when I became Prime Minister and it’s why we made
Prime Minister and it’s why we made sure veterans receive particular
sure veterans receive particular support and encouragement in
support and encouragement in employment. We encourage employers
employment. We encourage employers to take on veterans, as well.
to take on veterans, as well. In the panicked Downing Street
In the panicked Downing Street reshuffle at the weekend the Prime
reshuffle at the weekend the Prime Minister pointed to a senior role a
Minister pointed to a senior rola a man who
Minister pointed to a senior role a man who recently lobbied the
man who recently lobbied the Government on the behalf of Huawei
Government on the behalf of Huawei technologies. I hostile vendor that
technologies. I hostile vendor that this House legislated to exclude
this House legislated to exclude entirely from our country’s SG
entirely from our country’s SG networks. Given the Number 10
networks. Given the Number 10 director of communications is by
director of communications is by definition access to some of the
definition access to some of the most sensitive government
most sensitive government information, can the Prime Minister
information, ran the Prime Minister told the
information, can the Prime Minister told the House whether his present
told the House whether his present role requires advanced strategy
role requires advanced strategy clearance and if he has gone through
clearance and if he has gone through the necessary checks to provide for
the necessary checks to provide for that level of clearance before he
that level of clearance before he took up his post?
A curious question to come from the benches that contain someone who
benches that contain someone who took £586,000 from the Chinese
took £586,000 from the Chinese government. But what I can tell him
government. But what I ran tell him is that
government. But what I can tell him is that this government took the
is that this government took the brave and necessary step of making
brave and necessary step of making sure that we excluded Huawei from
sure that we excluded Huawei from our critical national
our critical national infrastructure, and that was the
infrastmcture, and that was the right thing to
infrastructure, and that was the right thing to do, whatever he said.
right thing to do, whatever he said. (“an I ask
right thing to do, whatever he said. Can I ask the Prime Minister
(“an I ask the Prime Minister question
Can I ask the Prime Minister question about Sue Gray’s report?
question about Sue Grays report? Colleagues
question about Sue Gray’s report? Colleagues may groan, I’m only
Colleagues may groan, I’m only asking this question because I asked
asking this question because I asked the Prime Minister last week and I
the Prime Minister last week and I didn’t get a straight answer. It is
didn’t get a straight answer. It is important because it’s about those
important berause it’s about those who
important because it’s about those who make the law obeying the law.
who make the law obeying the law. The Prime Minister wants to be
The Prime Minister wants to be judged on the facts, and that is
judged on the facts, and that is right, so ran I
judged on the facts, and that is right, so can I ask him to commit at
right, so ran I ask him to commit at the dispatch box
right, so can I ask him to commit at the dispatch box that upon
the dispatch box that upon conclusion of the Metropolitan
conclusion of the Metropolitan Police investigation, will he ensure
Police investigation, will he ensure that Sue Gray’s final report is
that Sue Grays final report is published
that Sue Gray’s final report is published immediately and in full?
published immediately and in full? with great
published immediately and in full? With great respect to my right
With great respect to my right honourable friend I do believe I
honourable friend I do believe I answered this last week or whenever
answered this last week or whenever it was, but I will repeat for the
it was, but I will repeat for the benefit of the house that as soon as
benefit of the house that as soon as all of the inquiries are concluded I
all of the inquiries are concluded I will immediately publish in full
will immediately publish in full whatever Sue Gray gives me. I
whatever Sue Gray gives me. I understand that the UK Government
understand that the UK Government signed an agreement with the Iranian
signed an agreement with the Iranian authorities last summer that would
authorities last summer that would have resulted in the payment of the
have resulted in the payment of the £400 million that would see the
£400 million that would see the release of my constituent. That
release of my constituent. That agreement fell through and the debt
agreement fell through and the debt has still not been paid. This case
has still not been paid. This use urgently
has still not been paid. This case urgently needs the Prime Minister’s
urgently needs the Prime Minister’s attention and personal intervention,
attention and personal intervention, so will he meet personally with me
so will he meet personally with me and Richard Radcliffe question like
and Richard Radcliffe question like I don’t want to meet as colleagues,
I don’t want to meet as colleagues, I want to meet with him personally
I want to meet with him personally why the agreement fell through and
why the agreement fell through and why she is still not home after six
why she is still not home after six long years? I thank you very much
long years? I thank you very much and also for the hard work she does
and also for the hard work she does on behalf of Huawei. We remain
on behalf of Huawei. We remain committed to securing the release of
committed to securing the release of Naunin
committed to securing the release of Nazanin and all of the difficult
Nazanin and all of the difficult consular cases in Iran —— Nazanin.
consular cases in Iran -- Naunin. As she knows,
consular cases in Iran —— Nazanin. As she knows, the IMS debt is
As she knows, the IMS debt is difficult to settle and two square
difficult to settle and two square away for all sorts of reasons to do
away for all sorts of reasons to do with sanctions but we will continue
with sanctions but we will continue to work on it and I will certainly
to work on it and I will certainly make sure that we have another
make sure that we have another meeting with Richard Radcliffe in
meeting with Richard Radcliffe in due course. Dover is once again be
due course. Dover is once again be sent by milas of
due course. Dover is once again be sent by miles of traffic
due course. Dover is once again be sent by miles of trafficjams across
sent by milas of traffic jams across motorways,
sent by miles of trafficjams across motorways, affecting residents and
motorways, affecting residents and [oral
motorways, affecting residents and local businesses alike. Not because
[oral businesses alike. Not because of
local businesses alike. Not because of Brexit. But because of Brussels
of Brexit. But because of Bmssels bureaucracy.
of Brexit. But because of Brussels bureaucracy. Will my right
bureaucracy. Will my right honourable friend the Prime Minister
honourable friend the Prime Minister meet with me to discuss how we can
meet with me to discuss how we ran invest in
meet with me to discuss how we can invest in our local roads in the M2,
invest in our [oral roads in the M2, the 20 and
invest in our local roads in the M2, the 20 and the Dover Tunnel to
the 20 and the Dover Tunnel to unplug the roads once and for all
unplug the roads once and for all and also to get rid of the
and also to get rid of the unnecessary red tape for a trading,
unnecessary red tape for a trading, global Britain. She is absolutely
global Britain. She is absolutely right in what she says and as the
right in what she says and as the economy rebounds we are seeing all
economy rebounds we are seeing all sorts of pressures but we do need to
sorts of pressures but we do need to make sure that we clear bottlenecks
make sure that we dear bottlenecks everywhere in
make sure that we clear bottlenecks everywhere in our system and that is
everywhere in our system and that is what we will do. I’d like to refer
what we will do. I’d like to refer to the prime Minster’s answer to my
to the prime Minster’s answer to my honourable friend the member for
honourable friend the member for Leeds North East. The photograph
Leeds North East. The photograph referred to is all over social media
referred to is all over social media and everyone can see the photo and
and everyone ran see the photo and the Prime
and everyone can see the photo and the Prime Minister is in the photo,
the Prime Minister is in the photo, so will he refer the matter to the
so will he refer the matter to the police because this is not one of
police because this is not one of the party is already being
the party is already being investigated by the Metropolitan
investigated by the Metropolitan Police? That’s precisely the point.
Police? That’s precisely the point. It already has been. That event
It already has been. That event already has been submitted for
already has been submitted for investigation. That ends Prime
investigation. That ends Prime Minister’s Questions. I will let
Minister’s Questions. I will let peopla
Minister’s Questions. I will let people leave before we start the
people leave before we start the next debate.
Two important developments, the first coming right at the start when
first coming right at the start when the Prime Minister said that he is
the Prime Minister said that he is planning to lift all Covid rules in
planning to lift all Covid mles in England a
planning to lift all Covid rules in England a month early. As things
England a month earty. As things currently
England a month early. As things currently stand, they are due to end
currently stand, they are due to end on the 23rd of March, so that would
on the 23rd of March, so that would mean the 23rd of February would be
mean the 23rd of February would be when there is no need to
when there is no need to self—isolate after a positive Covid
self-isolate after a positive Covid test. So
self—isolate after a positive Covid test. 50 that very significant
test. 50 that very significant development obviously, and I want to
development obviously, and I want to just bring in a tweet that was put
just bring in a tweet that was put out. It was referred to in Prime
out. It was referred to in Prime Minister’s Questions. It is a new
Minister’s Questions. It is a new photograph in the mirror. It is an
photograph in the mirror. It is an exclusive. The paper tweeting about
exclusive. The paper tweeting about this latest Mirror exclusive on
this latest Mirror exclusive on parties at Downing Street, this
parties at Downing Street, this referring to a party at Downing
referring to a party at Downing Street on the 15th of December, I
Street on the 15th of December, I think. It is not one of the event is
think. It is not one of the event is being investigated by police, but
being investigated by police, but that image they’re showing the Prime
that image therre showing the Prime Minister
that image they’re showing the Prime Minister alongside an open bottle of
Minister alongside an open bottle of champagne and some crisps and as we
champagne and some crisps and as we have heard already, that is leading
have heard already, that is leading to more questions about what was
to more questions about what was going on and what the police are
going on and what the police are investigating. Let’s go back to the
investigating. Let’s go back to the Covid restrictions. Our health
Covid restrictions. Our health correspondent is here. A big
correspondent is here. A big announcement there from the Prime
announcement there from the Prime Minister said that he is thinking he
Minister said that he is thinking he would like to bring forward the end
would like to bring forward the end of the legal restrictions by a
of the legal restrictions by a month. That would mean
of the legal restrictions by a month. That would meanjust
of the legal restrictions by a month. That would mean just weeks
of the legal restrictions by a month. That would meanjust weeks ——
month. That would meanjust weeks -- two weeks“
month. That would meanjust weeks —— two weeks’ time. No need to
two weeks’ time. No need to self—isolate after a positive Covid
self-isolate after a positive Covid test.
self—isolate after a positive Covid test. Where are the statistics? He
test. Where are the statistics? He mentioned encouraging data and by
mentioned encouraging data and by that he means things like the number
that he means things like the number of rases in
that he means things like the number of cases in the last seven days have
of rases in the last seven days have fallen by 2096,
of cases in the last seven days have fallen by 20%, the number of
fallen by 2096, the number of patients
fallen by 20%, the number of patients admitted to UK hospitals
patients admitted to UK hospitals has fallen by 10%, and the number of
has fallen by1096, and the number of in
has fallen by 10%, and the number of in ventilated beds is around 440
in ventilated beds is around 440 people at the moment. So that is the
people at the moment. So that is the context. They
people at the moment. 50 that is the context. They failed this data is
context. They failed this data is moving in the right direction. They
moving in the right direction. They were already thinking about removing
were already thinking about removing the legal requirement to
the legal requirement to self—isolate at the end of March,
self-isolate at the end of March, but dearty
self—isolate at the end of March, but clearly they are thinking of
but dearty they are thinking of bringing it
but clearly they are thinking of bringing it forward. He is going to
bringing it forward. He is going to announce what happens on the 2ist of
announce what happens on the 2’Ist of Febmary, and it
announce what happens on the 21st of February, and it would probably mean
Febmary, and it would probably mean that England,
February, and it would probably mean that England, because the devolved
that England, because the devolved nations have their own rules,
nations have their own mles, but England would
nations have their own rules, but England would be one of the first
England would be one of the first countries in the world to do this.
countries in the world to do this. South Africa have removed it for
South Africa have removed it for asymptomatic cases, but not for
asymptomatic cases, but not for positive cases in general. 50 it
positive rases in general. So it leads to
positive cases in general. 50 it leads to loads of questions, because
leads to loads of questions, because you then think, where does that
you then think, where does that leave testing? Where does that leave
leave testing? where does that leave people
leave testing? Where does that leave people needing to test when they
people needing to test when they come into this country if there is
come into this country if there is no requirement to self—isolate? We
no requirement to self-isolate? We don’t
no requirement to self—isolate? We don’t know the answers but it is
don’t know the answers but it is important to think through what it
important to think through what it will mean. Exactly, it would mean
will mean. Exactly, it would mean treating it essentially is like you
treating it essentially is like you might with flu. It is down to
might with ﬂu. It is down to people’s
might with flu. It is down to people’s discretion what they do.
people’s discretion what they do. One of the really interesting
One of the really interesting questions is, what does that mean
questions is, what does that mean for testing?
questions is, what does that mean fortesting? Does
questions is, what does that mean for testing? Does that mean they’re
for testing? Does that mean they’re wholesale dismantling of the testing
wholesale dismantling of the testing system we have got used to?
system we have got used to? Presumably, people would still want
Presumably, peopla would still want to
Presumably, people would still want to exercise some discretion when
to exercise some discretion when they are around vulnerable family
they are around vulnerable family members and certainly earlier this
members and certainly eartier this month at
members and certainly earlier this month at the World Health
month at the World Health Organization, they were asked about
Organization, they were asked about the wisdom of doing this and one of
the wisdom of doing this and one of their officials said I think it is
their officials said I think it is premature. Our guidance is still to
premature. Our guidance is still to do this, to prevent onward spread.
do this, to prevent onward spread. So there could be some pushback from
So there could be some pushback from other organisations about the wisdom
other organisations about the wisdom of doing this. And you mention South
of doing this. And you mention South Africa already stopping isolation
Africa already stopping isolation for asymptomatic cases. South Africa
for asymptomatic cases. South Africa has been ahead of us in Omicron and
has been ahead of us in Omicron and has obviously provided a very
has obviously provided a very helpful guide as to where things
helpful guide as to where things might go. Is there any evidence yet,
might go. Is there any evidence yet, I don’t know when they removed that
I don’t know when they removed that need for isolation, but is there any
need for isolation, but is there any evidence yet? It is only last week
evidence yet? It is only last week they did that so we don’t fully know
they did that so we don’t fully know what effect it might have but they
what effect it might have but they are thinking there was that the
are thinking there was that the Omicron wave went up very sharply
Omicron wave went up very sharply and felt very sharply and self
and felt very sharply and self isolation has a massive impact on
isolation has a massive impact on the economy, and so that is part of
the economy, and so that is part of the thinking here. But we would be
the thinking here. But we would he certainly doing it in England if we
certainly doing it in England if we were to do it ahead of American
were to do it ahead of American States. What about my squaring? My
States. what about my squaring? My squaring at the
States. What about my squaring? My squaring at the moment in England,
squaring at the moment in England, transport for London still mandate
transport for London still mandate it on their trains and buses
it on their trains and buses and tubes. But otherwise my squaring has
tubes. But otherwise my squaring has essentially been the legal demand to
essentially been the legal demand to wear them in public places anyway.
wear them in public places anyway. So this isolation would be one of
So this isolation would be one of the remaining restrictions which
the remaining restrictions which would be removed. 50 it is an
would be removed. So it is an interesting
would be removed. 50 it is an interesting aspect to think about in
interesting aspect to think about in terms of the mask wearing
terms of the mask wearing requirement has gone generally, but
requirement has gone generally, but there are obviously areas where we
there are obviously areas where we still have to wear them. Could that
still have to wear them. Could that potentially happened
with isolation, in that some organisations and businesses might
organisations and businesses might say that they don’t want staff to
say that they don’t want staff to come in if they test positive? I
come in if they test positive? I think that is almost certain to
think that is almost certain to happen because businesses would be
happen berause businesses would be probate,
happen because businesses would be probate, particularly the obvious
probate, particularty the obvious example is
probate, particularly the obvious example is NHS hospitals who might
example is NHS hospitals who might be worried about stuff coming back
be worried about stuff coming back to work prematurely. We have already
to work prematurely. We have already seen that disconnect between what
seen that disconnect between what the government is suggesting but
the government is suggesting but what businesses suggest. Part of
what businesses suggest. Part of that is to keep confidence up in the
that is to keep confidence up in the workplace, so there may well be
workplace, so there may well be departures from this and as I
departures from this and as I mentioned before, Scotland, Wales,
mentioned before, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland managed to do their
Northern Ireland managed to do their own thing also. Just because England
own thing also. just because England is doing it.
own thing also. Just because England is doing it. Boris
own thing also. Just because England is doing it. BorisJohnson has said
is doing it. Boris johnson has said that he
is doing it. BorisJohnson has said that he wants to show the world how
that he wants to show the world how we ran
that he wants to show the world how we can live with Covid. So this is
we ran live with Covid. So this is definitely a
we can live with Covid. So this is definitely a political decision to
definitely a political decision to some extent to go down this route
some extent to go down this route but there may be others who
but there may be others who disagree. Thank you very much,
disagree. Thank you very much, Naomi. Let us know what you think.
Naomi. Let us know what you think. You ran get in
Naomi. Let us know what you think. You can get in touch with us via
You ran get in touch with us via Twitter.
You can get in touch with us via Twitter. The
Conservative MP...
Conservative MP Mark Spencer has stood by whis comments
that the Prime Minister would "not have lied about any parties".
The newly appointed Leader of the House of Commons didn’t
comment in detail on the parties due to the ongoing police
investigation
but suggested people wanted to move on.
Here he is speaking to Radio Nottingham.
Let’s focus on the real world. People are worrying about their
People are worrying about their jobs, the NHS, going through that
jobs, the NHS, going through that global pandemic and that has given
global pandemic and that has given us quite a backlog to overcome. And
us quite a backlog to overcome. And I think we have to focus on the real
I think we have to focus on the real world issues here.
BorisJohnson will travel to Poland on Thursday and Liz Truss will visit
Moscow as part of a concerted effort to address the Ukraine crisis.
A top Russian diplomat has told the BBC the European initiative
to resolve the crisis has been positive and there is still time
for a political settlement.
Vladimir Chizov said meetings in Moscow this week could be key.
European leaders said they’ll continue talking to Russia
to try to avert a conflict, that follows two days
of shuttle diplomacy by the French president,
Emmanuel Macron.
Mosocow has denied any plans to invade Ukraine,
but it has assembled more than 100,000 troops
near its borders.
And military exercises are continuing, these pictures show
Russian air defence systems in the Brest Region of Belarus,
which borders Ukraine.
Mr Chizov told the BBC’s Europe Editor, Katya Adler,
that the military buildup could be reduced later this month.
Those exercises, joint Russian—Belarusian exercises,
that are taking place there, they had been preannounced
since last year.
And, of course, after they are finished, the troops will return
to their own permanent stations.
Separately, there’s talk of more than 100,000 Russian soldiers.
Can we expect to see fewer than are present at the moment?
Why isn’t anybody speaking of Ukrainian soldiers?
They have an army of more than 250,000, and more than half
of it is placed directly facing Russia.
Is Russia interested, though, in diplomacy?
We certainly believe there is still room for diplomacy.
Russia is preparing a formal reply to answers that we received
from the United States and Nate, on Russia’s concerns
over European security.
The focus appears to be in preventing Nato’s
expansion further eastward, preventing Ukraine becoming
a member state of Nate, and the West has already said,
"Forget it."
So where can diplomacy go now?
We are not going to forget it, first.
And we cannot afford to forget it.
Scientists say they have made a major breakthrough in their quest
to develop practical nuclear fusion, the energy process that powers
the stars.
The UK—based JET laboratory has smashed its own world
record for the amount of energy it can extract by squeezing together
two forms of hydrogen.
The experiments produced 59 megajoules
of energy over five seconds.
This is more than double what was achieved in similar
tests back in 1997.
Our climate editorJustin Rowlatt is with me to tell us all about it.
ii
It sounds really important, so please explain exactly what it
please explain exactly what it means. We have the two nuclear
means. We have the two nuclear reactions that are used to generate
reactions that are used to generate energy. Fishing, which powers most
energy. Fishing, which powers most nuclear reactors, and that is about
nuclear reactors, and that is about splitting the atom, a splitting
splitting the atom, a splitting heavy uranium atoms and generating
heavy uranium atoms and generating energy and fusion is the energy
energy and fusion is the energy source from the sun and the stars
source from the sun and the stars and it involves forcing together two
and it involves forcing together two hydrogen atoms so they fuse together
hydrogen atoms so they fuse together and create a helium atom along the
and create a helium atom along the way, a lot of energy and a little
way, a lot of energy and a little bit of short lived radiation. Much
bit of short lived radiation. Much lass
bit of short lived radiation. Much less radiation. The fuel for
bit of short lived radiation. Much less radiation. The fuel forfusion
lass radiation. The fuel for fusion reactors
less radiation. The fuel forfusion reactors is abundant
reactors is abundant because hydrogen is all
hydrogen is all around us, so it holds out the prospect, the holy
holds out the prospect, the holy grail of power generation. All of
grail of power generation. All of our energy needs? Yes, unlimited
our energy needs? Yes, unlimited pretty much whatever. An
pretty much whatever. An unbelievable prospect. But it is
unbelievable prospect. But it is really, really difficult. This is
really, really difficult. This is obviously a big leap in terms
obviously a big leap in terms of taking things where we need to get.
taking things where we need to get. It is proof of the design of the
It is proof of the design of the reactor we have in Oxfordshire. It
reactor we have in Oxfordshire. It is a five second reaction they are
is a five second reaction they are interested in, generating 60
interested in, generating 60 megajoules, enough enough to power
megajoules, enough enough to power 60 kettles. But it is proof that the
60 kettles. But it is proof that the design seems to work and if you
design seems to work and if you could do five minutes, maybe you
could do five minutes, maybe you could do may be a week. So scaling
could do may be a week. So scaling “P
could do may be a week. So scaling up looks like it could be possible.
up looks like it could be possible. So jet fusion
up looks like it could be possible. SoJet fusion will
up looks like it could be possible. So Jet fusion will close down
up looks like it could be possible. SoJet fusion will close down and
So jet fusion will close down and then
SoJet fusion will close down and then there is a new, much bigger
then there is a new, much bigger fusion reactor in the South of
fusion reactor in the South of France run
fusion reactor in the South of France mn by
fusion reactor in the South of France run by a consortium of
France mn by a consortium of European
France run by a consortium of European governments and the idea is
European governments and the idea is that the batting patches from
that the batting patches from Oxfordshire to this new reactor
Oxfordshire to this new reactor based on the same principles as jet,
based on the same principles as jet, and hopefully that will fulfil the
and hopefully that will fulfil the dream of unlimited energy. It is not
dream of unlimited energy. It is not there yet, so how can this be
there yet, so how ran this be factored
there yet, so how can this be factored into what their future...
factored into what their future... This will not get us out of the
This will not get us out of the climate fix we have at the moment
climate fix we have at the moment but it may, before the end of this
but it may, before the end of this century, the next 50 years, it may
century, the next 50 years, it may be something that could provide an
be something that could provide an alternative source of energy and
alternative source of energy and ultimately may be all the energy we
ultimately may be all the energy we need. And if we have the kind of
need. And if we have the kind of suppUes
need. And if we have the kind of supplies of energy, they have said
supplies of energy, they have said that before about cheap technology,
that before about cheap technology, but if we had it it would be truly
but if we had it it would be truly transformative for human society. 50
transformative for human society. So a huge
transformative for human society. 50 a huge potential but still quite a
a huge potential but still quite a long way away. Thank you.
Pope Benedict XVI has acknowledged errors were made
in the handling of sexual abuse cases before he assumed the Papacy.
In a letter released by the Vatican, he asked forgiveness
for any "grievous fault", but denied personal wrongdoing.
The cases date back to his time as Archbishop of Munich
more than A0 years ago.
He stepped down from the papacy in 2013.
The BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Long before he was Pope, Joseph Ratzinger was
Archbishop of Munich.
During his time there, several priests were accused
of sexually abusing young boys.
It is claimed he knew what was happening and failed to stop it.
Now, many years later, he denies any cover—up
but admits mistakes were made.
TRANSLATION: I have had great responsibilities
in the Catholic Church.
All the greater is my pain for the abuses and the errors that
occurred in those different places during the time of my mandate.
It was this report published last month that laid out a series
of claims against the Pope Emeritus.
Not only was he accused of overlooking the alleged abuse,
he denied attending a meeting to discuss the matter in 1980,
a denial he now admits was wrong.
TRANSLATION: Amid the massive work of those days, and oversight
occurred regarding my participation in the meeting.
This error was not intentional and I hope may be excused.
CHEERING.
The issue of child sexual abuse has dogged the Catholic Church
long before and long after Pope Benedict took office.
He has talked of his profound shame and deep sorrow,
making a heartfelt request for forgiveness and he admits soon
he will find himself before the finaljudge of his life.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
Are rising prices a present to the so called gifting economy?
As the cost of living soars in America, so has the use
of gifting platforms such as the Buy—Nothing project.
Buy—Nothing is one of a number of social media driven schemes
to help people give away things they don’t need.
It also enables people to pick up many essential items for free.
Michelle Fleury reports from the local Buy—Nothing group
in her neighbourhood of Brooklyn.
These cushions were all from Buy Nothing.
That end table, this chair.
This man moved into his new apartment last month.
I got a book about Gothic cathedrals, which I love,
which I was able to scrap and start turning into an art
installation piece.
When he saw how much it would cost to furnish it,
he joined his local Buy Nothing group on Facebook, where people
offer unwanted items for free.
Being a part of this group has been incredible because all the basic
necessities are there and then some.
He saved a lot.
Inflation in the US has soared and the price of living room,
kitchen and dining room furniture like you hope to buy has
jumped more than 17%.
You got a lot.
I did get a lot.
Huge savings.
When I did some calculations, it ended up being about
$2000 worth of stuff.
Full disclosure, I belong to one of those groups where members give
things away for free.
Maybe like me you have tonnes of stuff you are not necessarily
using any more that could be useful to somebody else.
And with inflation in America at levels not seen in nearly A0
years, these groups are seeing a surge in popularity.
The Buy Nothing Project certainly acts as a social safety net
for families and entire communities.
The Buy Nothing Project has seen its membership double over
the last two years to more than 5.3 million.
It added an app to cope with demand.
People are getting much more comfortable with it.
It is becoming a behavioural change we are seeing within communities.
A lot of people are saying, I don’t know how I survived without this.
With soaring inflation and the stresses of the pandemic,
gift—giving services like these have become a financial and emotional
lifeline for some.
We probably have seen about a 15% increase in posts every day.
Deron Bealfounded Freecycle, where members offer some
20,000 items each day.
Freecycle and the sort of community spirit that you have for Freecycle
is a good alternative for folks to save a little bit of money
and also may be re—gift items instead of throwing them away,
to help others out who might be in need.
A real wood frame and real glass in, it’s a painting.
As a protection from inflation, finding free items
online has its limits.
There is no guarantee that what you want is
available when you need it.
But that hasn’t stopped this man being amazed
by what people are offering.
There is another dining table set.
Michelle Fleury, BBC News, New York.
Vinyl record sales in the UK are at the highest point for 30
years, but with only a handful of vinyl manufacturing plants,
demand is outstripping supply.
A team of entrepreneurs noticed this gap in the market and launched
a new site in Middlesbrough, which aims to produce
50,000 records a month.
LeeJohnson reports.
For many music lovers, vinyl can become an obsession.
But for the team at Press On, it’s also the chance to fill
a big gap in the market.
Recorded quite a few artists, we wanted to put
a compilation out on vinyl.
And we’ve looked around everywhere and the lead times
were really long back then.
And even in 2019, we couldn’t have got it done within five months
which meant it would not have been done in time for Christmas.
So that got our brains going, and we thought,
how come it’s so hard
to get records manufactured and delivered to you?
Making records is a complex process.
First, a master cut, grooves and all, is produced.
That is then copied, and moulded, before it’s pressed,
and set aside to be packaged.
There are only a handful of plants like this in the UK.
Most records are manufactured in Europe.
But demand is outstripping supply.
Vinyl is enjoying an incredible revival.
Last year, more than 5 million LPs were sold, that’s an increase of 8%
on the previous year.
And one in four albums sold last year was on the format.
That’s its highest sales for more than 30 years.
to the North East’s heritage of making records.
A0 years ago, RCA records in Washington produced LPs
by artists including Elvis Presley and David Bowie.
For Press On’s managing director, there was only one place
they wanted to be based.
Middlesbrough is everything we’re about.
We all care passionately about the area.
It is important that it’s here.
We’ve got a rich heritage and a rich history of manufacturing
and creativity whether it be in industry or chemicals or pottery,
and now we have got computer game manufacturers, as we’ve seen.
So we are proud of that and we are proud to be a part of it.
And that’s good news for local bands like Teesside group Comparison,
whose debut EP was the first off the production line.
It’s crazy, to be honest.
To see it physically happening, it kind of set in stone
how lucky we all, like, as the band we all are to
have this opportunity.
The vinyl revival shows no signs of slowing.
LeeJohnson, BBC News, Middlesbrough.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Susan Powell.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Susan Powell.
Lots of sunshine across the UK this Wednesday afternoon, but quite a
Wednesday afternoon, but quite a cold feel as the majority of the UK
cold feel as the majority of the UK now sits in arctic air. This line of
now sits in arctic air. This line of cloud UC is a boundary between the
cloud UC is a boundary between the Arctic air and milder air, still
Arctic air and milder air, still clinging on in the southernmost
clinging on in the southernmost counties of the UK. That front will
counties of the UK. That front will drift southwards overnight and
drift southwards overnight and this area of low pressure will land a
area of low pressure will land a blow into Scotland. The strong
blow into Scotland. The strong winds, widespread gales and heavy
winds, widespread galas and heavy snow
winds, widespread gales and heavy snow for a time. Ice likely to be an
snow for a time. Ice likely to be an issue on Thursday as we see Frost
issue on Thursday as we see Frost developing across Scotland and in
developing across Scotland and in Northern Ireland and England, patchy
Northern Ireland and England, patchy further south,
Northern Ireland and England, patchy furthersouth, but
Northern Ireland and England, patchy further south, but quite chilly.
further south, but quite chilly. This low still in place by Thursday
This low still in place by Thursday morning’s rush hour. Some difficult
morning’s rush hour. Some difficult conditions early on across Scotland.
conditions earty on across Scotland. The snow
conditions early on across Scotland. The snow in the high ground but even
The snow in the high ground but even at lower levels, a wintry mix, some
at lower levels, a wintry mix, some ice and winds of 50 to 60 mph. The
ice and winds of 50 to 60 mph. The low goes into the North Sea by the
low goes into the North Sea by the afternoon so it will be quiet. A
afternoon so it will be quiet. A blustery day to come. Early cloud
blustery day to come. Earty cloud clears to
blustery day to come. Early cloud clears to the south, 3 lot of
clears to the south, 3 lot of sunshine through the afternoon and
sunshine through the afternoon and some showers into the north—west.
some showers into the north-west. These are
some showers into the north—west. These are the temperatures you would
These are the temperatures you would read a thermometer. You have to
read a thermometer. You have to factor in the strength of the wind
factor in the strength of the wind on Thursday and in Aberdeen it will
on Thursday and in Aberdeen it will feel closer to —A. Overnight
feel closer to -4. Overnight Thursday
feel closer to —A. Overnight Thursday into Friday the wind will
Thursday into Friday the wind will fall, because a ridge of high
fall, because a ridge of high pressure builds as that low pulls
pressure builds as that low pulls away toward Scandinavia. Light
away toward Scandinavia. Light winds, still conditioned setting up
winds, still conditioned setting up for a hard frost into Friday,
for a hard frost into Friday, temperatures as low as —10 in parts
temperatures as low as -10 in parts of mral
temperatures as low as —10 in parts of rural Scotland, a risk of
of mral Scotland, a risk of freezing
of rural Scotland, 3 risk of freezing fog in some places on
freezing fog in some places on Friday and a lot of early sunshine
Friday and a lot of earty sunshine turning hazy
Friday and a lot of early sunshine turning hazy as the day goes on. A
turning hazy as the day goes on. A little bit milder on Friday.
little bit milder on Friday. Temperatures don’t
little bit milder on Friday. Temperatures don’tjump up, but with
Temperatures don’t jump up, but with a lighter wind it
Temperatures don’tjump up, but with a lighter wind it will be
a lighter wind it will be noticeable. A little milder
a lighter wind it will be noticeable. A little milderfor the
noticeable. A little milderfor the weekend but certainly not feeling
weekend but certainly not feeling one. It will be quite stormy, a deep
one. It will be quite stormy, a deep area of low pressure bringing in
area of low pressure bringing in heavy rain and strong winds again.
programme?! LAUGHTER As this transpires. She will act
As this transpires. She will act accordingly, I’m absolutely sure.
accordingly, I’m absolutely sure. That is all we have time for,
The last Covid restrictions in England are set to end
within weeks and a month earlier than had been expected.
Laws requiring people with Covid—19 to self—isolate
will be lifted as long as the improving
situation continues.
Provided the current encouraging trends in the data continue,
it is my expectation that we will be able to end the last
domestic restrictions, including the legal requirement
to self—isolate if you test positive, a full month early.
It will be almost two years since the first Covid
restrictions were imposed — we’ll be live at Westminster.
Also this lunchtime...
The Mayor of London tells the head of Britain’s biggest police force
she has just days and weeks to show she can restore
public trust in the force.
Booed by his own supporters — Kurt Zouma, the footballer
filmed kicking his cat.
Two, one, zero.
And getting a reaction — British scientists break
the record for creating energy from nuclearfusion.
And coming up in the sport later in the hour on the BBC News Channel:
Team GB were banking on a first medal at the Beijing Games
but Charlotte Bankes failed to reach the final in the snowboard cross.
Good afternoon and welcome to the BBC News at One.
The Prime Minister says the last remaining legal restrictions
on Covid—19 in England should be lifted within weeks —
a month earlier than expected.
BorisJohnson told the Commons 3 short time ago that
as long as the data continues to be encouraging, England’s rules
requiring people with Covid to self—isolate will come to an end.
It will be just under two years since the first restrictions
were imposed at the start of the pandemic.
Our political correspondent Iain Watson reports.
There has been big changes behind the Black door in Downing Street but
the Black door in Downing Street but here is the question... In an
here is the question... In an attempt to stave off further
attempt to stave off further criticism from his own MPs Boris
criticism from his own MPs Boris johnson has
criticism from his own MPs Boris Johnson has trained some ministers
johnson has trained some ministers and staff
Johnson has trained some ministers and staff and today he also changed
and staff and today he also changed some of his policies. It is my
some of his policies. It is my intention to return on the first day
intention to return on the first day after the half term recess to
after the half term recess to present our strategy for living with
present our strategy for living with Covid. Provided the current
Covid. Provided the current encouraging trends in the data
encouraging trends in the data continue, it is my expectation that
continue, it is my expectation that we will be able to end the last
we will be able to end the last domestic restrictions including the
domestic restrictions including the legal requirement to self—isolate if
legal requirement to self-isolate if you test
legal requirement to self—isolate if you test positive a full month
you test positive a full month earty. From
you test positive a full month early. From the 24th of February in
earty. From the 24th of February in England you
early. From the 24th of February in England you will not have to
England you will not have to self—isolate port Covid any more
self-isolate port Covid any more then if you
self—isolate port Covid any more then if you had a cold or
self—isolate port Covid any more then if you had a cold orﬂu as
then ifyou had a cold orﬂu as long as the
then if you had a cold orﬂu as long as the data on infections
long as the data on infections doesn’t get worse. This is likely to
doesn’t get worse. This is likely to reduce staff shortages but may have
reduce staff shortages but may have also done something for the Prime
also done something for the Prime Minister’s job
also done something for the Prime Minister’sjob prospects. Some Boris
Minister’s job prospects. Some Boris johnson’s MPs
Minister’sjob prospects. Some Boris Johnson’s MPs are calling on him to
johnson’s MPs are falling on him to go. Covid
Johnson’s MPs are calling on him to go. Covid restrictions were
go. Covid restrictions were unpopular with parts of his party
unpopular with parts of his party and sweeping them away early will
and sweeping them away earty will help his
and sweeping them away early will help his campaign to stay in Downing
help his campaign to stay in Downing Street but Labour say perhaps this
Street but Labour say perhaps this announcement is not entirely driven
announcement is not entirely driven by the science. We would want to see
by the science. We would want to see the scientific advice on this and we
the scientific advice on this and we have only heard what the Prime
have only heard what the Prime Minister said and we know he has
Minister said and we know he has motivations that are all to do with
motivations that are all to do with protecting his position to get red
protecting his position to get red meat for his backbenchers. But the
meat for his backbenchers. But the end of self—isolation has come late
end of self-isolation has come late for this
end of self—isolation has come late for this Health Minister. Gillian
for this Health Minister. Gillian Keegan said she made an error of
Keegan said she made an error of judgment by staying in a meeting
judgment by staying in a meeting after receiving a positive Covid
after receiving a positive Covid result. The Health Secretary has
result. The Health Secretary has expected her apology and she is not
expected her apology and she is not expected to resign. Ending
expected to resign. Ending restrictions will be popular with
restrictions will be popular with many Conservative MPs but what about
many Conservative MPs but what about the experts? I was surprised when I
the experts? I was surprised when I heard that news this morning. We
heard that news this morning. We have seen infections dropped
have seen infections dropped noticeably in recent days especially
noticeably in recent days especially in children where numbers are
in children where numbers are dropping quickly so at some point we
dropping quickly so at some point we will be wanting to remove the need
will be wanting to remove the need to self—isolate but I think we would
to self-isolate but I think we would need a
to self—isolate but I think we would need a few more days of data yet to
need a few more days of data yet to be sure that the recent

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 09/02/2022, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BEE92B7?bcast=136172376 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)