This Is My House continues:
Huh? You mug!
You m- What’s that, Steve? D’you want some tea putting in you?
RN RN Vo)
Come on, Jonathan! You’ve got this. You can do it.
You’ve got this, mate.
You’ve got this!
Absolutely not.
In fact, we have done everything we need to do to get
on to Mars, taking off from Baikonur in
September this year.
And, of course, now we have stopped it...
Because there’s no Plan B in terms of actually...
I’m not saying... ..getting you to Mars.
NN there’s no Plan B.
If I’m not telling you the Plan B, it’s because we don’t
have a decision yet.
If there Is to be a Plan B, it’s either new levels
of cooperation with NASA, and, of course, back in 2011,
2012, you had a huge fallout with NASA over the Mars mission
because they decided to go their own way.
So you’re either going to have to rebuild a Mars relationship
with NASA, or somehow you’re going to have to convince
people like, | don’t know, Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos,
to work with you to do something dramatic that
they’ve never done before.
So, what is Plan B?
So, what is Plan B?
I’m not putting it on the table e Y AR LR N o)
made by my member states.
IV T o] a proposal, together with NASA,
by the way, who has helped us analysing the issues
L CEICR Iy technology developments
that need to be done, just to recall...
The mission has four L EI R
Of course, the launch T R e o e
this was meant to be a Russian portion.
Then the transfer vehicle NI R LGB Ee
Then the lander that brings the rover down to the surface,
and the rover itself, O N G R G R )
to drill into the Mars surface NG R e o]
So, there are four LR NN
And out of those four, two, L AETCE G LR T
the rocket - the launch by Russia, and the
lander in particular.
Plus, in the other parts, there is some Russian technology.
Of course, all this stops now.
I’ve done the series analysis, T LR N s a X4
What are the options?
What can be done in Europe, AR e e s e
in Europe so easily that means it needs to be developed newly,
that means from scratch, inorder to do it?
T Y IR IR Y
Let me just finish.
Yes, I’m working with NASA to see whether they could be
EREla QI R TR (e g
But | do not want to pre-empt this decision because this has
yet to be made, but certainly, NASA has been extremely
helpful and | really would like this to be mentioned.
What is the difference between cutting and severing
all ties with Russia RGN P ETE YR S [
and continuing to cooperate with Russia when it comes
to the International Sl LA K
As we speak to each other today, there is an ESA Italian
astronaut on the International Space Station working alongside
two Russian astronauts, delivered to the Space Station
by a Russian rocket.
You know, you’re saying that’s fine and we’ll go on doing it.
In fact, | believe you’re saying we want to continue that
cooperation all the way through to 2030, despite
what Putin’s deing in Ukraine.
So how come you can continue IR )
Let me say we have not only abandoned the Mars
mission but also other SR U LU R
Another example is Luna 25, 26 and 27, where we had hardware
cooperation with Russia.
And we have abandoned that.
We have stopped that cooperation as well.
So, does it sit comfortably with you...
You’ve abandoned all this SO AR R 18
comfortably with you that a European astronaut and your
agency Is still working closely with the Russians
on the International Space Station?
LR LIVES ATy is really the ISS,
and there we have no choice.
This is very clear because this is a station that depends
on the Russian contribution as much as it depends
on the Western contribution that is made up by the
United States, by Japan, by Canada and by ESA,
with my member states.
And you cannot abandon or you cannot separate
the Station because you need Russia to Lift the Station
inte higher orbit.
You need the Western part NS G LGS
to the Station, and many other O R G E I o1 ‘d
You cannot just break up and run away and abandon this.
Are you frightened?
Are you frightened AN R R
Dmitry Rogozin, the boss of the Russian Space Agency,
has said quite clearly, "If you block cooperation
"with us, who’s going to save the International Space Station
"It could fall into the US or into Europe”, he said.
That was a threatening message, and you were a little bit
intimidated, were you?
LI R e threatening message.
But let me just say that Russia benefits as much as Europe
on staying on the Station and running it.
But the point is, the Russians hold the cards, don’t they?
No.
When it comes R R L
No.
The Russians hold the cards RN R R U R M I
and the Americans and the Western partners, too.
G EE AL R is not correct to say
that the Russians are the ones (IR G R
How did it come to this, Mr Aschbacher?
I’m not really talking now about the Russian relatienship,
but how did it come that Europe is such a second division
player when it comes to space?
Think of the size of the European economy, the size
of the European population.
Look at the size of the European space
footprint compared with RV R S I e [ E L
with Russia, and today, increasingly, compared
with China, too.
What went wrong?
| like what you say, TR N RS La
the message | have put N TN e e e e |
of ESA into a document called Agenda 2025, which should be
a wake up call to our politicians and to say,
a wake-up call to our politicians and to say,
look, this is happening.
We are in a second space race today.
The first one obviously being the one in the ‘60s.
Now we are in a second space IR U R R R I
really building up extremely fast its capacity and its
strength, and it’s very TN R A R U S AL
The US continuing to be R AU E IRl
And the commercial sector suddenly being a new player,
which we didn’t have until very recently.
And this is happening, with or without ESA,
with or without Europe.
But the gap is getting wider, not narrower.
You haven’t been in charge for that long, but during your
tenure, what we see is massive investment in the US in space,
not so much from NASA, although their budget dwarfs
But coming from venture capital, coming from Elon Musk
and Jeff Bezos and a whole host of others, who see in space
massive potential, both, of course, for exploration,
but, actually, also for profit.
And they are pouring money In.
And on the side of China, the state is absolutely
committed to matching the US because of the
ST [ W V’ [g"
Europe doesn’'t seem to have anywhere to go in this.
This shows that space is a domain where investments
are worth making by the private A tuns gl
They are not doing it for fun.
Of course they have fun, | hope, at least,
but they are also doing IR (g1
But the private sector in Europe isn’t listening.
Yes, they do.
And we are taking steps in order to increase
the private funding C[ SRR R
Let me just say that in the last couple of months
since I’m DG of ESA, I’ve signed a number of agreements
with venture capital companies to make sure that access
to funding also in Europe is easier and is guaranteed
because | think there R
If we talk about commercialisation, there
are three things that are needed, and | have gone
with my most critical managers of ESA to Silicon Valley
and see these companies, visit them for ten days,
and really identify what are the key ingredients
in order to succeed R R EhI T
Elon Musk’s SpaceX being one of them.
It needs talented people - clever people who are driven
with an idea, and they just N A
It needs access to money.
And you need to be fast.
They call it fast forward...
Fail fast, fast forward.
In Europe, we have plenty of talent and plenty
of excellent people with brilliant ideas
Some of them go to the US because there’s not enough
opportunities here, but we have W el VA
EE M CLRG R 10T
Access to money is a problem and Silicon Valley, of course,
giving about 60% of all the funds worldwide to companies.
There we have to improve, and I’m working on it.
| have signed an agreement in January this year
with European Investment Fund LR I PR ikt
venture capital companies.
Speed - speed is something that TR AR T letlietle
We are not as fast... No, absolutely not.
G STV R B 0 T AR R G Rl
Space Agency Is a group, W Wl
In saying, of 22 nations...
PP A L IR EL ]
..dominated by the D LR EL S
I think 19 of your members IR LR R GRS
biggest funder is the European e
So, one of your big problems is that another key
player in the agency is the United Kingdom.
Well, it’s Brexited.
It’s no longer in the EU.
That means it’s semidetached from some of the programmes
that are part of your remit.
You’ve got this massive IR g (o]0 o Y W
NASA and the US doesn’t have to deal with that.
China certainly doesn’t RO IR R
And you’re never going to overcome that, are you?
If you think that everything is gold that glitters
on the other side of the ocean, then you’re wrong, I’m sorry
to say, because NASA also has its own. ..
It’s not so much that the US has no problems, it’s just
that their problem aren’t on the scale of yours when it
comes to bureaucracy.
China has its own set of issues.
But in Europe, yes, you are right, we have to speed
up and we have to streamline decision making and
| fully agree with you.
| have identified VR IR ey
| want to change. R
Number one, we have to work A TSR G O A RN
among the partners.
There’s a huge diversity NG S O
Number two, commercialisation.
Exactly what happens RO ARG el
and with other partners - we have to develop a strong
commercial sector.
Number three, NV LR lg1 8 2
| don’t need to explain this in the current situation.
Ny EIR e programme challenges.
And number five, the NN SR A Y
in Europe, and that means speed and decision mechanisms.
And there are 60 individual actions which I’ve identified
on which we are working.
Of course, some of it I L RS R
Yes, absolutely agreed. SR A S R
But, yes, I’m tackling the problem.
IV NV @il on the commercialisation
and the power of individuals Wy T a
You have been quoted in the recent past as saying
you are worried that such is the scale of SpaceX’s
invelvement now, particularly in putting satellites
IR R FTaG N g1 and Elon Musk dominating that
marketplace, that you believe he is, in a sense,
being allowed to make the rules in space.
Do you believe that there’s now a lack of control
and regulation, which means these privateers are doing
things which aren’t in the long-term interest
of us - human beings?
Yes, | mean, that Is e VARG CE
There is a very strong development in space.
Elon Musk, what you...
The quote you make comes TR NN e R
where | made an interview a couple of months ago.
Yes, absolutely.
Today, we have about 4,500 T R G R R Lo
Half of them belong eNdAGnE
And he’s got plans RGN LR
But I’m not saying that’s bad.
I’m saying he has an interest NG B AR R R
to requlate and make sure LRI s
becoming a problem.
And, yes, there is an urgency to deal with it.
LR R [V EL g issue as much as one
of practical arrangements between the key partners.
And, yes, when it comes to space debris and orbit
manoeuvres, as we call it, because a collision might
occur, yes, we work very well with SpaceX, and there is no
IRV E e T AR N R}
Isn’t the ultimate truth that what we see today in this,
as you call it, second phase SRR IR R R )
greater focus than ever before on militarisation of space?
Donald Trump, of course, back, | think, in 2019,
created the US Space Force.
The Russians have shown their capacity to find ways
of shooting down satellites.
The Chinese are involved in that, too.
And it seems they are intent on projecting
military power in space.
Does Europe have a plan for projecting military
o[OU I o F oK
Europe, as you would know very well, is not seeing
the military strength in the same way as it is done
in the US or in China AR AR AR R e
countries, because of the history.
This is something that is I EIN VR LTl o F e e
to the Second World War and what happened.
So, If you want to be a vital player in the next phase
of space development, NN AT
that the other key players R LG
use the projection of military power in
the space domain, are you?
What I’m doing...
OK, we have to distinguish a bit what is the situation
today after the invasion of Ukraine and what it was
TR GTCTR [ o[
Ah, so you’ve had to do a major rethink?
And, yes, we are launching a debate.
It is happening across DL R I
within the space community and the European Space Agency,
that we are discussing with the member states,
what does this mean?
Do we need to change?
Yes or no?
And there are, of course, AR N I E T
It’s very interesting what you’re saying.
I’m sure you’ve probably seen this quote, but if you haven’t,
it might be interesting.
Again, Mr Rogozin, the head of the Russian Space Agency,
said not so long ago, "Slowly but surely, we are
"heading for the militarisation of space,” and Roscosmos,
he said the Russian agency, "has no illusions about this.
"Everyone is working on it.”
It seems everyone except Europe.
Are we just naive in Europe?
| wouldn’t say that we are naive in Europe.
Europe has, in some countries, a very strong capability.
| take France as an example.
| take the UK as an example.
Germany, Italy, Spain and a few others.
And they have a strong capability in...
Also in some of the assets that relate. ..
Or some of the aspects that relate to space in terms
of technolegy that is required.
Are you telling me that QNIRRT
s going to have to shift?
What we don’t have is RN LR =] 87
and | think this is a discussion that is needed.
Do we want to rely country by country on this excellent
capability, by the way, or do we want something more
of a European structure and a European response?
Today, we have very little to offer, this is absolutely
true, with a few exceptions, | should say.
Russia could shoot down D EEUET G R
There’s no way that any European force could shoot
| wouldn’t say that.
Individually this might be possible.
But why would Russia do that?
Why did Russia invade Ukraine?
That’s a good question.
But by shooting down EEE LG G R TR AL T
a whole mess out there that means a lot of debris
and a lot of particles that fly around and endanger
all the satellites, including the Russians’ and. ..
Surely, what we have learned as a human species is that
in the end, human beings sometimes take decisions
which appear to run counter to the wider interest.
They do it for all R B
I’m just trying to explore why the European Space Agency
consistently has waved the peace flag and said,
"You know what, we’re only about peaceful exploration.
"We’re not interested in going in the direction
"other space superpowers are going in, talking
"of militarisation.
That’s just not tenable, is it?
If everybody else is going in a certain direction,
you can’t ignore It.
As | said before, that is exactly the point.
Until the invasion of Ukraine, ESA was certainly
working only on the...
| would say mostly, not only, but mostly
on peaceful use of space.
Now a debate is happening.
Of course, | don’t know what is the cutcome of this.
TR R g General of ESA_
| can raise the questions VAN SRS IR
The decision has to be made by the member states.
You think a reset and a rethink is overdue?
| think that we have el e
We have to see space VR [ BT
of a security system in Europe.
Europe’s security Is under threat, as we all know,
and it does not only need tanks MBS
and tanks in the battlefield, space is an integral part,
from communication, Earth observation and many
other domains, navigation being one of them.
And | think this is something that has to be seen
And, yes, this R R
Very interesting. Final point.
Europe has never actually, of course, put men
inte space flight.
The Americans have done it, the Chinese have done it,
many countries have done it, but Europe hasn’t done it.
Do you think that’s QR IR T
Because it’s very expensive and if one
talks about getting men - human beings, | should say -
back on the moon and then to Mars, vast, vast expense
and timeframes which are already stretching to 2040,
2050 before it’s conceivable it could happen.
The alternative is to say, we’re not going to do that any
more - it’s too expensive.
We need to focus our resources on safequarding our own planet,
which is fragile and under urgent threat right now,
not least from climate change.
Do you think that needs to be the focus going forward?
Today, the majority of the funding, the biggest
programme in ESA, in my programmes, is
on Earth observation.
And Earth observation, IR VT AR Y |
at our planet, investigating climate change, sustainability,
biodiversity and these aspects.
So Europe is never going to bother with talking
of manned mission to Mars?
Wait, wait.
This is fundamental and | think this goes very well in line
with the policies of the heads of states, heads of government
of all European countries.
Everyone has declared climate change to be
the biggest threat of everyone, of mankind, of the whole
planet, and that’s why Europe has played a major role
in pioneering this aspect, including in space.
And that’s what we do ULV ARRT
But now comes human exploration - and you exploration
- and you’re absolutely right -
today, and | like your challenge because I’m
challenging my decision-makers with exactly the same question.
Because today, Europe is spending 7% of the budget NASA
LR OB DR R eI L B
And you’re absolutely right, today, Europe’s astronauts
are not flying with a European R N G Y e a1
rocket today and, in the past, also with a Russian rocket.
And I’m asking my member states, my politicians, is this
right or should this change?
In a word, do you think it will change, yes or no?
It will... KT .
I’ve been mandated by the ministers, and including
President Macron - who has written me a letter -
to put a group of high level experts in place to ask
exactly this question.
These are not space people, these are people from society.
Journalists, economists...
It’s not exactly a decisive N R R R
I’m going to get.
(NI E =T QG R iy to the member states
iIn November next year.
Josef Aschbacher, I’m sorry to interrupt,
Thank you so much for being on HARDtalk.
111918
111918
Hello there. Just as we saw )
Hello there. Just as we saw over the weekend, the
Hello there. Just as we saw RO G R O LR
over the weekend, the weather il
over the weekend, the weather IR
over the weekend, the weather will be a
over the weekend, the weather IR R
over the weekend, the weather IR RN
over the weekend, the weather will be a tale of two
over the weekend, the weather R RN R
will be a tale of two halves. N
will be a tale of two halves. Ry
will be a tale of two halves. In the north, it was quite
In the north, it was quite MO
In the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers
unsettled, windy with showers and remaining quite cloudy at
and remaining quite cloudy at times with
and remaining quite cloudy at AR G R e )
and remaining quite cloudy at ARG EL e
and remaining quite cloudy at AR ORI el
times with some outbreaks of =R
times with some outbreaks of rain. Getting
times with some outbreaks of EI TSl LE
times with some outbreaks of E S i LR
times with some outbreaks of rain. Getting a little warmer
rain. Getting a little warmer potentially
rain. Getting a little warmer GRS
rain. Getting a little warmer potentially later, but not as
potentially later, but not as warm as it
potentially later, but not as e R A i
potentially later, but not as e R R Y
potentially later, but not as e R B R e
potentially later, but not as warm as it will be for England
warm as it will be for England and Wales, Northampton typical
and Wales, Northampton typical N
and Wales, Northampton typical of many parts seeing those
of many parts seeing those temperatures
of many parts seeing those N[O T
of many parts seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30
temperatures pushing towards 30 NN
temperatures pushing towards 30 LN T
temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees. The reason being the
degrees. The reason being the Ve
degrees. The reason being the Azores highs
degrees. The reason being the YSRGS |
degrees. The reason being the Azores highs pushing its
degrees. The reason being the Y NG T L R RN
Azores highs pushing its way northwards, so
Azores highs pushing its way sV EI IR R Y
Azores highs pushing its way northwards, so we’ll say
northwards, so we’ll say LG
northwards, so we’ll say goodbye to
northwards, so we’ll say [ R R
northwards, so we’ll say goodbye to low pressure that’s
goodbye to low pressure that’s WO
goodbye to low pressure that’s WG [T\
goodbye to low pressure that’s brought windy weather. Cloud
brought windy weather. Cloud LI
brought windy weather. Cloud towards dawn on a weak weather
towards dawn on a weak weather i
towards dawn on a weak weather g 1 P o]
towards dawn on a weak weather PN R S
towards dawn on a weak weather front, and elsewhere, showers
front, and elsewhere, showers [SE)
front, and elsewhere, showers N ]
front, and elsewhere, showers have been fading just a little.
have been fading just a little. Plenty
have been fading just a little. A
have been fading just a little. Plenty of sunshine to start
Plenty of sunshine to start iR
Plenty of sunshine to start with, and
Plenty of sunshine to start G R 1
Plenty of sunshine to start ARG R
Plenty of sunshine to start G R R U R )
Plenty of sunshine to start G R R U R R
with, and that tends to ease LN
with, and that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across
away as the cloud spills across Scotland, bringing patchy rain.
Scotland, bringing patchy rain. Perhaps
Scotland, bringing patchy rain. YRR G
Scotland, bringing patchy rain. Perhaps the odd
Scotland, bringing patchy rain. Y E R G R T o111
Scotland, bringing patchy rain. Perhaps the odd spot elsewhere
Perhaps the odd spot elsewhere P g ]
Perhaps the odd spot elsewhere across Northern Ireland, so
across Northern Ireland, so England and Wales will see the
England and Wales will see the best of
England and Wales will see the AR
England and Wales will see the TR ARG
England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine. Feeling
best of the sunshine. Feeling warmer when the sun comes out
warmer when the sun comes out 3
warmer when the sun comes out in Northern Ireland and
in Northern Ireland and e ELD R
in Northern Ireland and e ER IR A0
in Northern Ireland and Scotland, warmer further south.
Scotland, warmer further south. Again in the south, very high
Again in the south, very high RN
Again in the south, very high RS
Again in the south, very high E R
Again in the south, very high levels of pollen on Monday,
Again in the south, very high R N R G L E A
levels of pollen on Monday, as ol
levels of pollen on Monday, as s
levels of pollen on Monday, as well as strong sunshine. We
well as strong sunshine. We it
well as strong sunshine. We b
well as strong sunshine. We might see some very high
well as strong sunshine. We L SR R A L S E
might see some very high levels of
might see some very high levels SAIVA
might see some very high levels of UV. Through the night, we
of UV. Through the night, we o A1)
of UV. Through the night, we o e TR
of UV. Through the night, we IR
of UV. Through the night, we N R R )
of UV. Through the night, we NI R R R s
continue to see those weather e d
continue to see those weather HE RO
continue to see those weather front rushing close by, but for
front rushing close by, but for many, the light winds again in
many, the light winds again in rural
many, the light winds again in OGBS N
many, the light winds again in e B L PG
many, the light winds again in O B L PRI
many, the light winds again in rural spots, sixes and sevens,
rural spots, sixes and sevens, 10-11. For Northern Ireland and
10-11. For Northern Ireland and particularly the northwest of
particularly the northwest of e ELD R
particularly the northwest of Scotland, some patchy rain on
Scotland, some patchy rain on that weather front
Scotland, some patchy rain on MR R e )
Scotland, some patchy rain on that weather front close by,
that weather front close by, 4
that weather front close by, el
that weather front close by, but still picking those
but still picking those temperatures up
but still picking those U L
but still picking those U LR
temperatures up and really building that heat across the
building that heat across the e
building that heat across the book of England and pushing
book of England and pushing LI R YA
book of England and pushing IR RGO G
book of England and pushing IR r R GG e
book of England and pushing towards eastern wells. It’s not
towards eastern wells. It’s not )
towards eastern wells. It’s not Tl
towards eastern wells. It’s not IR )
towards eastern wells. It’s not the heat we’re seeing across
the heat we’re seeing across 1 eE]
the heat we’re seeing across e
the heat we’re seeing across -V 3010
the heat we’re seeing across Iberia -- eastern Wales_
the heat we’re seeing across R Y R
Iberia -- eastern Wales. 44 TS o
Iberia -- eastern Wales. 44 forecasts, but we will find
forecasts, but we will find I
forecasts, but we will find IR
forecasts, but we will find O e
forecasts, but we will find W e
forecasts, but we will find (RN QIR TR )]
forecasts, but we will find this week is as high pressure
this week is as high pressure I
this week Is as high pressure R
this week Is as high pressure slips eastward, we start to
slips eastward, we start to I
slips eastward, we start to (17 {83}
slips eastward, we start to pull in a southerly wind which
pull in a southerly wind which I
pull in a southerly wind which T I
pull in a southerly wind which allows us to tap into some of
allows us to tap into some of eIl
allows us to tap into some of that heat a
allows us to tap into some of e R )
allows us to tap into some of that heat a little bit, so
that heat a little bit, so R
that heat a little bit, so R
that heat a little bit, so ORI R U OIS
that heat a little bit, so O E R R U L O G
that’s where temperatures are |
that’s where temperatures are Ao TR o)
that’s where temperatures are expected to get. We will keep
expected to get. We will keep you posted and there’s
expected to get. We will keep you posted and there’'s more
expected to get. We will keep you posted and there’s more on
you posted and there’s more on )
you posted and there’'s more on R e
Welcome to Newsday, reporting live from Singapore,
I’m Arunoday Mukharji.
Tougher background checks I TN L @ G DL
Ao TV G ] the beginning of the end
for uncontolled gun posession in the United States?
In the wake of the latest school shooting in Texas,
a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework
for potential legislation on gun safety.
Gains for a new left wing alliance in the first
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
The British government says a new law overriding Brexit
trade arrangements RGNS EE R
won’t undermine the Northern Ireland peace agreement.
Are the machines R R I s
A senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming
an artificial intelligence tool A UL R R R
And a month after McDonald’s pulled out of Russia
because of Ukraine, a homegrown burger chain opens
called ‘Tasty - and that’s it.’
A group of US Senators NGORG]
and Democratic parties have reached agreement
on a series of gun control measures.
The developments come after the tragic mass shootings
Let’s have a closer look at what’s in the proposal.
The framework agreement includes support for state ‘red
flag’ laws where guns could be [RGB OB Ry 1
a danger.
Also included, tougher background checks
for gun buyers under the age of 21.
There would also be R R G L L8
known as straw purchases, IR R T
for others who are restricted from purchasing them.
But what’s not included are measures that the Democrats
and President Biden had advocated, such as raising
the age for buying semiautomatic rifles
to 21, or new Limits X 38 )
Our North America correspondent David Willis
has been following I
This Is a significant move and
This is a significant move and assuming these proposals
This is a significant move and RO S R I
assuming these proposals passed Ty
assuming these proposals passed NCRELA
assuming these proposals passed Y ETAR GG
assuming these proposals passed Y ETAR QAT
assuming these proposals passed Y ET AR G AL DGR I
into law, they would represent )
into law, they would represent Rl
into law, they would represent QER T L]
into law, they would represent the first gun control measures
the first gun control measures this
the first gun control measures QIR 148’]
the first gun control measures IR ES
the first gun control measures this country has seen in
this country has seen in R
this country has seen in L L
this country has seen in decades. The proposals
decades. The proposals NI Y
decades. The proposals themselves are fairly modest,
themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background
they include tighter background e
they include tighter background checks for gun sales involve
checks for gun sales involve eI ey
checks for gun sales involve eI R
checks for gun sales involve RSO IR )
checks for gun sales involve IS AL R G DL
checks for gun sales involve our customers under the age of
our customers under the age of 21,
our customers under the age of pA L]
our customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or
21, and the intreduction or expansion
21, and the introduction or expansion of
21, and the introduction or SN IR T L G
21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag
expansion of so-called red flag A
expansion of so-called red flag laws which would potentially
laws which would potentially e
laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation
laws which would potentially YR R e i A R
lead to the confiscation of T
lead to the confiscation of LN
lead to the confiscation of weapons in the
lead to the confiscation of ARG L S
lead to the confiscation of ARG LR
lead to the confiscation of weapons in the hands of people
weapons in the hands of people ol el
weapons in the hands of people ]
weapons in the hands of people NI R4
weapons in the hands of people deemed a risk to themselves or
deemed a risk to themselves or NG
deemed a risk to themselves or NG
deemed a risk to themselves or others, and federal funding for
others, and federal funding for e
OEEEER LR ELEEIR (T L Ry school security systems and
school security systems and el
school security systems and mental health
school security systems and G (R e O
school security systems and mental health checks. What
mental health checks. What ey
mental health checks. What QTR L
mental health checks. What these proposals do not
mental health checks. What these proposals de not include
these proposals do not include 3
these proposals do not include TNl
these proposals de not include LRl
these proposals de not include NG ]
these proposals de not include NG A E LR
these proposals de not include is an outright ban on assault
is an outright ban on assault S )
LRI (gl [ =R RS TV style weapons, the kind
LRIl [ =R R R TV style weapons, the kind used in
style weapons, the kind used in )
style weapons, the kind used in the Uvalde and buffalo
the Uvalde and buffalo [T
the Uvalde and buffalo shootings, those
the Uvalde and buffalo R R L
the Uvalde and buffalo shootings, those that President
shootings, those that President EL G
shootings, those that President abiding and
LG ER QIR G Yl ) abiding and senior Democrats
abiding and senior Democrats P
abiding and senior Democrats had called
abiding and senior Democrats LB
abiding and senior Democrats had called for. Nonetheless,
had called for. Nonetheless, e
had called for. Nonetheless, s [ e s e
had called for. Nonetheless, President Biden had welcomed
President Biden had welcomed this move,
President Biden had welcomed G TV |
President Biden had welcomed this move, saying it was a
this move, saying it was a A
this move, saying it was a quote, important step in the
quote, important step in the right direction stop at the
Ll el L B (] R 1 i
right direction stop at the last meaningful gun-control
last meaningful gun-control requlations in this country
regulations in this country ey
regulations in this country were introduced in the
regulations in this country NN age s e R N I L
were introduced in the mid-19 90s, the
were Introduced in the mid-19 90s, the Brady bill, which
90s, the Brady bill, which created
90s, the Brady bill, which IR
90s, the Brady bill, which e R la el
90s, the Brady bill, which created the national background
created the national background e ]
created the national background check system but since
created the national background G DR IR OB
check system but since then, )
check system but since then, N E
check system but since then, N )
check system but since then, there has been very little
there has been very little NN E U0
there has been very little movement, largely due to the
movement, largely due to the opposition
movement, largely due to the IR
movement, largely due to the opposition of Republicans in
opposition of Republicans in )
opposition of Republicans in e ey
opposition of Republicans in e e ]
opposition of Republicans in the centre to oppose anything
the centre to oppose anything that
QLR R GRS G G E R [(IYS
QLR R GRS G that transgresses upon
QLR R GRS G G E RN ISR R )
that transgresses upon the so-called
that transgresses upon the N s B o s |
that transgresses upon the so-called second Amendment, the
so-called second Amendment, the right
so-called second Amendment, the iR
so-called second Amendment, the LRl
so-called second Amendment, the right to bear arms and this
right to bear arms and this country stop in the majority of
country stop in the majority of LN T e Ta
country stop in the majority of Americans continue to support
Americans continue to support Wil
Americans continue to support W[ I TR sl dgs
Americans continue to support tighter gun-control measures in
tighter gun-control measures in this
tighter gun-control measures in QIR 148’]
tighter gun-control measures in IRl
tighter gun-control measures in this country and irenically,
QIR R LRI D IR they
QIR R LRI D IR QA LR
O IENIT gL RIS they don’'t make the news
G IENIT gL LRIy IS they don’'t make the news of
they don’t make the news of ey
they don’'t make the news of IR E
they don’'t make the news of these latest proposals came
these latest proposals came with
these latest proposals came AT
these latest proposals came ORI
these latest proposals came with a six anniversary
these latest proposals came R EU NS Al
with a six anniversary of L]
LG E PRI R I shooting at a gay
with a six anniversary of shooting at a gay nightclub in
shooting at a gay nightclub in el
shooting at a gay nightclub in which 49 people lost their
which 49 people lost their lives
I’m joined now by Manuel Oliver, whose 17-year-old son
Joaquin "Guac" Oliver was killed in the shooting
at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in 2018.
Manuel is also an activist and co-founder of Gun Control
advocacy group "Change the Ref".
[LiE1L @0
LIS RS
Thank you very much for your S i)
Thank you very much for your N )
Thank you very much for your time here on
Thank you very much for your Nl
Thank you very much for your time here on BBC World
Thank you very much for your LA GRS
time here on BBC World News. M)
time here on BBC World News. M RINe)
time here on BBC World News. RN N
time here on BBC World News. N BN
time here on BBC World News. I’m sure it’s always difficult
N RV STV TRy LT to
N RV STV TRy LT nRZIe
I’m sure it’s always difficult RG] 014
I’m sure it’s always difficult to talk about this so | really
to talk about this so | really [ oL
to talk about this so | really ET LR ]
to talk about this so | really appreciate you coming in
appreciate you coming in L]
appreciate you coming in LR
appreciate you coming in speaking to us about the
speaking to us about the I -ad
speaking to us about the suspect sensitive subject.
suspect sensitive subject. I [Na 14
suspect sensitive subject. I P e s [ Te]
suspect sensitive subject. President Biden said this was a
President Biden said this was a step
President Biden said this was a SRl
President Biden said this was a step in the
MG G R T R GRS step in the right direction but
step in the right direction but 3
step in the right direction but HRTE
step in the right direction but Rl
step in the right direction but R ]
step in the right direction but it was still a long
step in the right direction but (RIS (R L RN
step in the right direction but (L (R G R A ()
step in the right direction but (RIS (R G LR A CR (R
it was still a long way to go. T
it was still a long way to go. How do
it was still a long way to go. ST LR
it was still a long way to go. SRR
it was still a long way to go. How do you feel today? Are
IRVEERS AR RN G [N How do you feel today? Are you
How do you feel today? Are you Y
How do you feel today? Are you PR ey
How do you feel today? Are you a little encourage that America
a little encourage that America 3
a little encourage that America RG]
a little encourage that America is heading in that my
s heading in that my direction?
s heading in that my Sl LA
s heading in that my direction? Well, | agree with
direction? Well, | agree with vty
direction? Well, | agree with T -]
direction? Well, | agree with what the President
direction? Well, | agree with N RN A 1]
direction? Well, | agree with what the President said and
what the President said and vty
what the President said and e Y
what the President said and R
what the President said and what he thinks about this. We
what he thinks about this. We Py
what he thinks about this. We are expecting way more than
are expecting way more than vty
are expecting way more than T R )
are expecting way more than what we heard today, not to
what we heard today, not to mention
what we heard today, not to e Rl 4
what we heard today, not to IR R 1
what we heard today, not to R R R R )
what we heard today, not to IR R R R N )
what we heard today, not to mention that what we have today
mention that what we have today s
mention that what we have today 304
mention that what we have today 3540
mention that what we have today R ALE G
mention that what we have today IR ARG
mention that what we have today IS ARG &)
s Just in this moment a LT
s just in this moment a proposal. It’s the word of an
proposal. It’s the word of an agreement
proposal. It’s the word of an LN A
proposal. It’s the word of an agreement between Republicans
agreement between Republicans and Democrats, so nothing
agreement between Republicans E I e R G R
and Democrats, so nothing is official, nothing is effective
official, nothing is effective 1
official, nothing is effective TR
official, nothing is effective CIR QIR
official, nothing is effective at this point, so
official, nothing is effective E1 R QI AR
official, nothing is effective CI R T A R [T R o
official, nothing is effective at this point, so | don’t think
at this point, so | don’t think that |
at this point, so | don’t think LRI
at this point, so | don’t think that | should in any way
that | should in any way I )
that | should in any way T R
that | should in any way I R E |
that | should in any way e R ARl
demonstrate that | will )
demonstrate that | will A R )
demonstrate that | will celebrate these because | don’t
celebrate these because | don’t T
celebrate these because | don’t AR )
celebrate these because | don’t A RGN RG]
celebrate these because | don’t see these on Biden plasma desk
see these on Biden plasma desk and Biden signing these and
and Biden signing these and (]
LRGN RS LILR G RN XN LIE]
LRGN RS LILR G RN becoming a law, there is
becoming a law, there is Gl
becoming a law, there is nothing to think that is
nothing to think that is happening actually. So you
happening actually. So you still have
happening actually. So you Y]
happening actually. So you (Y (e 01014
happening actually. So you still have a doubt that
happening actually. So you A L R R
still have a doubt that this may not see
still have a doubt that this A SR
still have a doubt that this may not see the light of day?
may not see the light of day? il
may not see the light of day? TR R )
may not see the light of day? R ]
may not see the light of day? You have a doubt this may not
You have a doubt this may not cohvert
You have a doubt this may not e e h
You have a doubt this may not e e e TR ]
You have a doubt this may not convert itself into a
You have a doubt this may not e e N AN R e )
O BTV T - R g LOLIHEL
O BTV T - R g legislation? Well, I’m
convert itself into a concrete legislation? Well, I’m hoping
legislation? Well, I’m hoping that
legislation? Well, I’m hoping G e
legislation? Well, I’m hoping IRl
legislation? Well, I’m hoping IR 1
legislation? Well, I’m hoping el R A
legislation? Well, I’m hoping LR R A
legislation? Well, I’m hoping e RSN
that it will but let me tell (/N
that it will but let me tell you, the actual fact is that we
you, the actual fact is that we have gun violence on a daily
have gun violence on a daily I
have gun violence on a daily basis in
have gun violence on a daily YA - d ]
have gun violence on a daily basis in America. Everyone is
basis in America. Everyone is eI
basis in America. Everyone is surprised and everyone is
surprised and everyone is Y|
surprised and everyone is amazed with
surprised and everyone is LY R G Ry
surprised and everyone is LY R AR e e 0la et Na e
amazed with these announcements that
amazed with these announcements R
amazed with these announcements e R
amazed with these announcements WEIR R o)
amazed with these announcements that we all heard today. And
that we all heard today. And that
that we all heard today. And QR T
that we all heard today. And that says a lot about the
that says a lot about the American
that says a lot about the LR e A
that says a lot about the American society, like these
American society, like these Py
American society, like these e
American society, like these are measures that you can tell
are measures that you can tell )
are measures that you can tell e
are measures that you can tell ]
are measures that you can tell R
are measures that you can tell R
are measures that you can tell MRS
are measures that you can tell M N R = )
IR R A TN )
there is a lot of detail and some kind of, some politicians
some kind of, some politicians Py
some kind of, some politicians Wi ]
some kind of, some politicians IR
some kind of, some politicians are afraid of going all
some kind of, some politicians IR ML P R G
are afraid of going all the e
are afraid of going all the VY
are afraid of going all the RS
are afraid of going all the N | R R
are afraid of going all the way, like we were asking for
way, like we were asking for them
way, like we were asking for R
way, like we were asking for NIRRT R )
way, like we were asking for them to raise the age to 21
them to raise the age to 21 Tee I8t
them to raise the age to 21 from 18. That’s an
them to raise the age to 21 NIRRT
them to raise the age to 21 ORI S A G T
from 18. That’s an easy step, Tl
from 18. That’s an easy step, that maybe common ground for
that maybe common ground for everyone,
that maybe common ground for e N L]
that maybe common ground for everyone, and that did not
everyone, and that did not happen, sir, and because | know
happen, sir, and because | know how things work here, there is
how things work here, there is Y
how things work here, there is alaw
how things work here, there is TR R 1 4
how things work here, there is ARG IR i
how things work here, there is ARG R T
how things work here, there is TR R R Y- R g 1]
how things work here, there is ARG B R it R )
a law that will see from the )
a law that will see from the same agreement
a law that will see from the IR DGR Gk
a law that will see from the same agreement that we will see
same agreement that we will see today. How frustrating really
today. How frustrating really hasn’t been
today. How frustrating really (E R R
today. How frustrating really hasn’t been you Emmanuel?
hasn’t been you Emmanuel? Constantly fighting for data
Constantly fighting for data IR
Constantly fighting for data gun-control laws and despite
gun-control laws and despite that incident in Florida that
that incident in Florida that e
that incident in Florida that VN
that incident in Florida that took away your
that incident in Florida that VA LT N
that incident in Florida that took away your son, you have
took away your son, you have L
took away your son, you have A e )
took away your son, you have A RN AR e s
took away your son, you have seen successive incidents take
seen successive incidents take place. How angry does that make
place. How angry does that make 1Tk
place. How angry does that make you? How frustrated do you
you? How frustrated do you Tk
you? How frustrated do you feel? ‘S frustration is one
feel? ‘S frustration is one Gihh
feel? ‘S frustration is one thing and empowering is
QT[RRI VI L Tt R
QT[RRI VI L Tt A R )
QT[RRI VI L Tt GRS
QT[RRI VI L Tt another. We like to
thing and empowering is another. We like to think that
another. We like to think that every time this happens we just
every time this happens we just get
every time this happens we just S0
every time this happens we just EHE R UEG
every time this happens we just RN RGN
every time this happens we just get out there and speak out.
get out there and speak out. Yesterday | was in
PN QTR RS T Yesterday | was in Washington,
Yesterday | was in Washington, DC,
Yesterday | was in Washington, [ [T 3]
Yesterday | was in Washington, LI
Yesterday | was in Washington, DTG IER T
Yesterday | was in Washington, DC, and a huge march and
Yesterday | was in Washington, DN IER TG LN EI LG
Yesterday | was in Washington, DC, and a huge march and | was
DC, and a huge march and | was EIU]
DC, and a huge march and | was talking about the consequences
talking about the consequences and calling for a national
and calling for a national A
and calling for a national strike, no more
and calling for a national UL AN
and calling for a national strike, no more assisting to
strike, no more assisting to schools from any level of
schools from any level of education until we see
schools from any level of BT R R R
education until we see this AN
education until we see this bill, these requlations
education until we see this bill, these regulations really
bill, these regulations really e
bill, these regulations really hecome law,
bill, these regulations really N A EL AT
bill, these regulations really hecome law, so | think that
become law, so | think that that
become law, so | think that G A
become law, so | think that that is actually what | need to
that is actually what | need to el
that is actually what | need to do. |
that is actually what | need to R R
that is actually what | need to do. | feel that way, and it’s
do. | feel that way, and it’s S i)
do. | feel that way, and it’s time for a politician to stop
time for a politician to stop ]
time for a politician to stop wasting time
time for a politician to stop SRR
time for a politician to stop wasting time and see some
wasting time and see some NI
wasting time and see some consequence out
wasting time and see some N R T
wasting time and see some consequence out of this. We
consequence out of this. We el
consequence out of this. We TR )
consequence out of this. We need to have
consequence out of this. We RN ]
consequence out of this. We need to have more control
consequence out of this. We T RN E R e Nee ataee R e
need to have more control when Y
need to have more control when NI
need to have more control when IR ]
need to have more control when NN RGN e
need to have more control when we use the word demand
we use the word demand e )
we use the word demand N N
we use the word demand MG
we use the word demand otherwise it means nothing.
otherwise it means nothing. Otherwise
otherwise it means nothing. NN
otherwise it means nothing. NG N
otherwise it means nothing. Otherwise it means nothing...
Otherwise it means nothing... We
Otherwise it means nothing... ||
Otherwise it means nothing... Wwe will leave
Otherwise it means nothing... We will leave it there, thank
We will leave it there, thank you very much for your time
you very much for your time T e N s
you very much for your time here on Newsday, speaking to us
here on Newsday, speaking to us with
here on Newsday, speaking to us G
here on Newsday, speaking to us T B
here on Newsday, speaking to us with all the reaction on
here on Newsday, speaking to us T G RGN i R R
with all the reaction on the proposed legislation that could
proposed legislation that could turn into a
proposed legislation that could Ginc T A
Let’s take a look at some other RO ARG LI
A British family say their son has been killed while fighting
Russian forces in the east of Ukraine.
Jordan Gatley, who left the British Army in March
to travel to Ukraine, was shot in the city of Severodonetsk.
Mr Gatley is the second British person to be killed
Ukraine says it expects Russia to step up efforts to capture
the whole of the heavily bombarded city within days.
The remaining civilians in Severodonetsk are reported
to have no access to mains water or electricity.
Hundreds of people are reported R R L RL L LS
s IR D L LW Eh .
Dozens of people have taken part in a protest in Ric de
Janeiro to demand action a week after a local Indigenous expert
and a British journalist went missing in the Amazon.
A fisherman has been Nt B Ree s el wdls s
with the disappearance of Bruno Pereira and Dom Phillips,
but no further developments R LR e
An Australian newspaper has denied outing actress Rebel
On Friday, Wilson said she had found her "Disney princess"
as she shared a selfie with her partner on Instagram.
But on Saturday the Sydney Morning Herald revealed it had
known about the relationship before it was public and had
given Ms Wilson two days to comment.
The opposition left-wing alliance in France has scored
big gains in the first R R R E I LS
elections.
Despite that, President Macron’s supporters look set
to have the biggest bloc in the National Assembly,
but it’s unclear if they’ll have enough seats to
form a majority.
Our Paris correspondent Hugh Schofield has more.
LRIl
The big line
The big Line is
The big line Is we
The big line is we have to say that
The big line is we have to say G e
The big line is we have to say nEla A
The big line is we have to say e AR
The big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough by
that it is this breakthrough by this
that it is this breakthrough by GG |
that it is this breakthrough by QI G RG] T
that it is this breakthrough by QI G G (T -
that it is this breakthrough by this left-wing alliance, if you
this left-wing alliance, if you Y E T4
this left-wing alliance, if you look back at
this left-wing alliance, if you R e & s
this left-wing alliance, if you look back at the presidential
look back at the presidential election two
look back at the presidential APl Rt ol le e da L]
look back at the presidential election two months ago the
election two months ago the left it terribly there,
election two months ago the i ARG
left it terribly there, the L
left it terribly there, the LI
left it terribly there, the LR G
left it terribly there, the LSRG
left it terribly there, the XL R QU ALY T
leader of this new left-wing alliance was in third place but
alliance was in third place but 3
alliance was in third place but inthe
alliance was in third place but in the interim
alliance was in third place but RGN e ]
alliance was in third place but RGN R S )
in the interim between the JEAL L
in the interim between the JEAL L
in the interim between the presidential and this election,
presidential and this election, he
presidential and this election, TN
presidential and this election, he has done something
presidential and this election, R R QIR R GG
he has done something rather extraordinary, made an alliance
extraordinary, made an alliance e
extraordinary, made an alliance e
extraordinary, made an alliance L R E e
extraordinary, made an alliance LR G S a e
extraordinary, made an alliance between his father left party,
between his father left party, eI
between his father left party, e s ]
between his father left party, socialists and greens
between his father left party, AU E [R
socialists and greens the ety
socialists and greens the communists and
socialists and greens the e it e s e tlga - el
socialists and greens the e I s R tlge e s
socialists and greens the e et R Ta e e tige s B i a e
socialists and greens the et RN R e B a e
communists and turned it into a nEIg
communists and turned it into a major electoral force, and one
major electoral force, and one el
major electoral force, and one which is a
major electoral force, and one N e B R4 T
major electoral force, and one which is a serious challenge to
which is a serious challenge to I [Na 14
which is a serious challenge to President Macron. He hasn’t, |
President Macren. He hasn’t, | 1R
President Macron. He hasn’t, | R la] 4
President Macron. He hasn’t, | don’t think done so
President Macron. He hasn’t, | SRR SRR =l
President Macron. He hasn’t, | don’'t think done so well that
don’t think done so well that Y
don’t think done so well that YT
don’t think done so well that IR
don’t think done so well that he has got any
don’t think done so well that he has got any serious chance
he has got any serious chance of dominating the assembly and
of dominating the assembly and having majority they are
having majority they are enforcing President Macron into
enforcing President Macron into cohabitation with
enforcing President Macron into N e R i R
enforcing President Macron into N R G R e
enforcing President Macron into cohabitation with the left wing
cohabitation with the left wing (It
cohabitation with the left wing il Ed a1 E
cohabitation with the left wing dominated National Assembly,
dominated National Assembly, but
dominated National Assembly, I
dominated National Assembly, NN
dominated National Assembly, but he has done something
but he has done something extraordinary which looks like
extraordinary which looks like commanding a block after next
commanding a block after next el
commanding a block after next week? Second round of 150, 170,
week? Second round of 150, 170, :14]
week? Second round of 150, 170, 180 MPs, and are
week? Second round of 150, 170, B Y]
week? Second round of 150, 170, 180 MPs, and are a big
180 MPs, and are a big T
180 MPs, and are a big achievement, but, the fact
achievement, but, the fact remains
achievement, but, the fact IRt
achievement, but, the fact N EI R sl 4
achievement, but, the fact remains it does loock as
achievement, but, the fact remains it does look as if
remains it does look as If e
remains it does look as If President Macron will win
remains it does look as If A e R R RO
President Macron will win this legislative
MG L Ela T R LR a1 LIS ELIERA Y]
MG L Ela T R LR a1 legislative election and
President Macron will win this legislative election and that
legislative election and that )
legislative election and that WG
legislative election and that the key question is
legislative election and that QLS A CA N R R U S
legislative election and that LS IR U RIS
the key question is whether his majority will be relative or
majority will be relative or E e (01 -
majority will be relative or absolute, and that is why
majority will be relative or E S L RO F R AL
majority will be relative or absolute, and that is why he is
absolute, and that is why he is campaigning ferociously over
campaigning ferociously over )
campaigning ferociously over a4
campaigning ferociously over R AR
campaigning ferociously over the next few days to make sure
the next few days to make sure that he does
the next few days to make sure G E O R [ Y
the next few days to make sure QRN I T
the next few days to make sure that he does get as many seats
that he does get as many seats as possible in the National
as possible in the National YT\
as possible in the National Y VAT
as possible in the National VAL
as possible in the National AL R e
as possible in the National AR LR
as possible in the National T AR LR I L
Assembly in a week’s time. He ke
Assembly in a week’s time. He T R )
Assembly in a week’s time. He won’t have an absolute majority
won’t have an absolute majority )
won’t have an absolute majority )
won’t have an absolute majority so he can
won’t have an absolute majority S CE=LE TEL
won’t have an absolute majority SRR RG]
won’t have an absolute majority so he can push through his
so he can push through his programme and not be forced
pregramme and not be forced into
programme and not be forced into alliances with smaller
into alliances with smaller T
into alliances with smaller blocks on
into alliances with smaller R R
into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
LRI E (I T R I ChLR i T e
China’'s Defence Minister says relations with
the United States are at a ‘critical juncture’.
Wei Fenghe was responding UMD SR 1 2
Lloyd Austin, who told a security conference that
Beijing had taken a more aggressive approach
IR issli sk IRe I o
Speaking at the same meeting, TR - Tas Lol - Na T d o]
of trying to contain China, and told it to stop.
G RN ERT e g Nick Marsh, who’s been
attending the summit over the weekend.
A lot has been talked about, )
A lot has been talked about, R
A lot has been talked about, there were many expectations
there were many expectations oV
there were many expectations S o (VRG]
especially considering O]
especially considering everything that is going around
everything that is going around in the
everything that is going around LRGN
everything that is going around in the world, but all really
in the world, but all really centring
in the world, but all really NI IE] LT
in the world, but all really centring about these dialogues.
centring about these dialogues. iy
centring about these dialogues. TN
centring about these dialogues. T NICE]
centring about these dialogues. AT YR
centring about these dialogues. AT IR NN
centring about these dialogues. Give us a sense of its popular
Give us a sense of its popular )
Give us a sense of its popular s0 many
Give us a sense of its popular S0 many issues,
Give us a sense of its popular s6 many issues, tensions have
s0 many issues, tensions have ]
so many issues, tensions have LN
so many issues, tensions have been bubbling up
so many issues, tensions have NN TR
so many issues, tensions have been bubbling up in this
s6 many issues, tensions have been bubbling up in this region
been bubbling up in this region e
been bubbling up in this region for many years
been bubbling up in this region NI A R LA
been bubbling up in this region for many years now, issues on
for many years now, issues on the
for many years now, issues on AR
for many years now, issues on R
for many years now, issues on the table at this conference
the table at this conference included
the table at this conference RTa s e
the table at this conference included the South
the table at this conference T (s s B s e 0 s R s e ]
the table at this conference (OGN G RG I ERET
included the South China Sea, e ds]
included the South China Sea, North Korea, Taiwan, of course,
North Korea, Taiwan, of course, e
North Korea, Taiwan, of course, Man )
North Korea, Taiwan, of course, RO A
North Korea, Taiwan, of course, RN R
North Korea, Taiwan, of course, but there was this new dynamic
but there was this new dynamic coming from
but there was this new dynamic SRR VTN
but there was this new dynamic W IR R TG AT |
but there was this new dynamic coming from Europe, and that
coming from Europe, and that Ty
coming from Europe, and that TR )
coming from Europe, and that R R
coming from Europe, and that IR GG R EI
coming from Europe, and that was the Ukraine War, and |
was the Ukraine War, and | think
was the Ukraine War, and | R
was the Ukraine War, and | R E
was the Ukraine War, and | think the tone was really sad
think the tone was really sad Y
think the tone was really sad TR
think the tone was really sad Y RN el i)
think the tone was really sad T NR G- N NI R e
think the tone was really sad when the Prime Minister of
when the Prime Minister of Japan opens this dialogue with
Japan opens this dialogue with a
Japan opens this dialogue with E TG
Japan opens this dialogue with a quite chilling line, he said
a quite chilling line, he said that
a quite chilling line, he said e AT
a quite chilling line, he said that Ukraine today could be
that Ukraine today could be ¥
that Ukraine today could be East Asia tomorrow, and it
East Asia tomorrow, and it really focused on is
really focused on is specifically
really focused on is o Yaile (ARG
really focused on is specifically the issue of
specifically the issue of Taiwan, and on Saturday we
Taiwan, and on Saturday we R
Taiwan, and on Saturday we heard from the US
Taiwan, and on Saturday we ORI R U RN R A G LS
Taiwan, and on Saturday we IR IR U R R G G I A
heard from the US Secretary of S
heard from the US Secretary of defence, Lloyd
heard from the US Secretary of NSRS N
heard from the US Secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin, and he
defence, Lloyd Austin, and he YT
defence, Lloyd Austin, and he T e e i)
defence, Lloyd Austin, and he had seme pretty
defence, Lloyd Austin, and he had some pretty forthright
had some pretty forthright remarks on that issue of
remarks on that issue of Taiwan. We witnessed a steady
Taiwan. We witnessed a steady RTee )
Taiwan. We witnessed a steady increase in provocative and
increase in provocative and destabilising military activity
destabilising military activity e
destabilising military activity N YIAEN IR
destabilising military activity near Taiwan. That includes PLA
near Taiwan. That includes PLA aircraft flying near Taiwan in
aircraft flying near Taiwan in e 10|
aircraft flying near Taiwan in record numbers in
aircraft flying near Taiwan in Y I e R e e
record numbers in recent e e
record numbers in recent e 8 s - Na s |
record numbers in recent months. And nearly on a
record numbers in recent UG - N RO R EL
months. And nearly on a daily e
months. And nearly on a dally FACE sl
months. And nearly on a dally basis. And we remain focused
months. And nearly on a daily basis. And we remain focused on
basis. And we remain focused on maintaining peace, stability
maintaining peace, stability and
maintaining peace, stability R )
maintaining peace, stability IR R
maintaining peace, stability and the status quo across the
and the status quo across the Taiwan
RO TR ELTHG TR (R Taiwan Strait, but the PRC’s
Taiwan Strait, but the PRC’s T
Taiwan Strait, but the PRC’s moves threaten to
Taiwan Strait, but the PRC’s I LRI R NI s et e
moves threaten to undermine security
moves threaten to undermine X L]
moves threaten to undermine security and stability and
security and stability and prosperity in the Indo Pacific
prosperity in the Indo Pacific stock
prosperity in the Indo Pacific 44
prosperity in the Indo Pacific stock by the US making a very
stock by the US making a very clear
stock by the US making a very oY a1 s 101
stock by the US making a very LI N e
stock by the US making a very clear about where they stand as
clear about where they stand as 1
clear about where they stand as IR G
clear about where they stand as IR OIS
clear about where they stand as far as this is concerned, but
far as this is concerned, but China was not very far in
China was not very far in explaining its stand, rather
explaining its stand, rather T
explaining its stand, rather bluntly as well responding. On
bluntly as well responding. On IO
bluntly as well responding. On Saturday it
bluntly as well responding. On IO E VARV
bluntly as well responding. On S LOTG E AR LR
bluntly as well responding. On Saturday it was the US speaking
Saturday it was the US speaking and
Saturday it was the US speaking T ]
Saturday it was the US speaking and on Sunday, it was China’s
and on Sunday, it was China’s turn
and on Sunday, it was China’s g R ee)
and on Sunday, it was China’s turn to respond and they did
turn to respond and they did (L]
turn to respond and they did (G E
turn to respond and they did respond quite forcefully, the
respond quite forcefully, the EEE
respond quite forcefully, the general gist of
respond quite forcefully, the I SR G
respond quite forcefully, the general gist of the message
general gist of the message Y
general gist of the message really was
general gist of the message G| (AR
general gist of the message really was to mind your own
really was to mind your own N e
really was to mind your own business. They said China’s
business. They said China’s G
business. They said China’s development in
business. They said China’s L AL RO
business. They said China’s development in the centre
development in the centre Pacific region was not a threat
Pacific region was not a threat to
Pacific region was not a threat e
Pacific region was not a threat RO ]
Pacific region was not a threat RO LR
Pacific region was not a threat to others and any country
IRV TTEREN R T A Ty seeking
IRV TTEREN R T A Ty TR
to others and any country IR ORI
to others and any country seeking to contain it, well,
seeking to contain it, well, that
LI RCRC TN AR LS that was
LI RCRC TN AR LS B L e
LI RCRC TN AR LS that was neither wise
LI RCRC TN AR LS MBI R NG RN e
that was neither wise nor possible, so we have from the
possible, so we have from the S o)
possible, so we have from the defence Minister, he also
defence Minister, he also L]
defence Minister, he also ALLELETY
defence Minister, he also ALLEL RGN
defence Minister, he also weighed in on this
defence Minister, he also LG RN R GRS
defence Minister, he also AL LEL R E L R G IR,
weighed in on this issue on Taiwan and had a warning for
Taiwan and had a warning for I
Taiwan and had a warning for R ]
Taiwan and had a warning for EI IR R
Taiwan and had a warning for N RO LR LR G L]
Taiwan and had a warning for N R R LR QI L R
anyone who was thinking of el
anyone who was thinking of eI LI
anyone who was thinking of staring up pro independent
staring up pro independent s ala e ]
staring up pro independent sentiments on the
ST O R [ self-governing
Ny R [ self-governing island. If
self-governing island. If I
self-governing island. If anyone dares to secede Taiwan
anyone dares to secede Taiwan Tee I8t
anyone dares to secede Taiwan i RGN
anyone dares to secede Taiwan R PR
anyone dares to secede Taiwan e R PR Rl
anyone dares to secede Taiwan from China, we will not
from China, we will not AT )
from China, we will not hesitate to fight.
from China, we will not I ETCR OBl | T
from China, we will not hesitate to fight. We will
hesitate to fight. We will fight
hesitate to fight. We will il
hesitate to fight. We will b1
hesitate to fight. We will GRS N
hesitate to fight. We will fight at all costs, and we will
fight at all costs, and we will fight
fight at all costs, and we will il )
fight at all costs, and we will LI GG
fight at all costs, and we will fight to the very end. This is
fight to the very end. This is the
fight to the very end. This is X
fight to the very end. This is R A
fight to the very end. This is the only choice for
fight to the very end. This is the only cheice for China.
fight to the very end. This is the only choeice for China. |
the only choice for China. | e
the only choice for China. | want to squeeze in
the only choice for China. | N R R T AN UG
the only choice for China. | N S RN AN UL ER
want to squeeze in one last question because it is
question because it Is I s el
question because it Is important to
question because it Is I g E IR o0
question because it Is important to put this
question because it is important to put this in
impertant to put this in AR e
impertant to put this in I
impertant to put this in perspective, US and
important to put this in perspective, US and China
perspective, US and China ]
perspective, US and China meeting face-to-face after the
meeting face-to-face after the war of words
meeting face-to-face after the I A R Y
meeting face-to-face after the IR I LR )
meeting face-to-face after the war of words we have seen,
war of words we have seen, e[}
war of words we have seen, LR Els
war of words we have seen, LR E
war of words we have seen, DR E IR LR
war of words we have seen, trade war as well, what does
trade war as well, what does that
trade war as well, what does el
trade war as well, what does WER NS
trade war as well, what does eI R BT 0L
trade war as well, what does LR BT )
that tell us about the conversations? We just had some
conversations? We just had some very
conversations? We just had some AT
conversations? We just had some very harsh words, of course it
very harsh words, of course it Ty
very harsh words, of course it was harsh language, but you
was harsh language, but you have
was harsh language, but you R )
was harsh language, but you have to remember this
was harsh language, but you N R R T IR G IR L
have to remember this was G
have to remember this was ISR
have to remember this was called the Shangri-La dialogue
called the Shangri-La dialogue ]
called the Shangri-La dialogue ]
called the Shangri-La dialogue MR R
called the Shangri-La dialogue on the whole point was
on the whole point was dialogue, both generals meeting
dialogue, both generals meeting ]
dialogue, both generals meeting ]
dialogue, both generals meeting on the sidelines, the first
on the sidelines, the first N
on the sidelines, the first meeting of this level since
LG DR R G TR R 1o 2019,
LN DR R QIR TR (o {0} [ T T
LN DR R QIR TR (o 2019, there is some level
meeting of this level since 2019, there is some level of
2019, there is some level of engagement, they will be
engagement, they will be e
engagement, they will be A B Tl ea
engagement, they will be AN R ea ]
engagement, they will be A IR e R R
several countries in this CHI
AV W IR R ][ region who will
AV W IR R ][ ORI G
several countries in this region who will be looking at
region who will be looking at that
region who will be looking at A R 1ids]
region who will be looking at WEIR R
region who will be looking at R GRS Y
region who will be looking at that with relief because they
that with relief because they Py
that with relief because they IR0l
that with relief because they are caught between these two
are caught between these two big
are caught between these two LRI %TeY
are caught between these two big military superpowers. |
big military superpowers. | EI b1
big military superpowers. | ET LR ]
big military superpowers. | appreciate you joining
big military superpowers. | E[ A EL R TR LT LT
big military superpowers. | A ELCR TR LG LR T
appreciate you joining us and L]
appreciate you joining us and giving us that perspective and
giving us that perspective and tracking
giving us that perspective and e ML
giving us that perspective and tracking all the developments
tracking all the developments P et ]
tracking all the developments across the
tracking all the developments e R R R
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
Still te come on the pregramme,
the first home-grown version of the McDonald’'s restaurant
re-opens in Russia a month after the US chain
pulled out because of Ukraine.
There was a bomb RGN A
A code word known to be one used by the IRA was given.
Army bomb experts were examining a suspect van
when there was a huge explosion.
The South African parliament has destroyed the foundation
of Apartheid by abolishing the Population Registration
Act, which for 40 years 1 ga ] RS FII L R Lo
citizen according to race.
Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag, has voted
by a narrow majority to move the seat of government
frcm Bonn to Berlin.
Berliners celebrated into the night, but the decision
was greeted with shock in Bonn.
The real focus of attention today was Valentina Tereshkova,
the world’s first woman cesmonaut.
What do you think of the Russian woman in space?
I think it’s a wonderful achievement and | think
we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good
idea if | could to get her to go up there for a little while.
This is Newsday on the BBC.
I’m Arunoday Mukharji in Singapore.
In the United States, a bipartisan group of senators
say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation
on gun safety.
There have been significant gains for a new left wing
alliance in the first (LR RN R W T &L
elections.
Legislation will be introduced in the House of Commons
on Monday that will allow changes to be made to parts
of the post-Brexit DR e R G R R Al
and the UK government says it’s confident the changes would be
The arrangement, known as the Northern Ireland
Protocol, allows for extra checks on some goods moving
It’s been a source of discontent for unionists,
who see It as an internal border within the UK.
But critics of the move, including nationalist parties
and the Irish government, say it could breach
This legislation could AL
This legislation could potentially have implications
potentially have implications e
potentially have implications T ]
potentially have implications for the UK’s
potentially have implications R QRSN G EL T
potentially have implications R QR SN E L R
for the UK’s relationship with the EU.
for the UK’s relationship with WY AT TS
for the UK’s relationship with the EU. For Boris
for the UK’s relationship with GRSV T Y L
the EU. For Boris Johnson’s relationship
the EU. For Boris Johnson’s (R RG]
the EU. For Boris Johnson’s relationship with his own
the EU. For Boris Johnson’s relationship with his own party
relationship with his own party and for the
relationship with his own party IR R i)
relationship with his own party and for the future of
ELUVR T R TR ol I0haTe s
ELUVR T R TR I Nt el )
ELUVR T R TR devolution here in
CROR TG R N CR devolution here in Northern
devolution here in Northern Ireland. The devolved
TN LR g T Ireland. The devolved assembly
Ireland. The devolved assembly remains in
Ireland. The devolved assembly N EI R R
Ireland. The devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more
remains in the deep-freeze more than a month after the election
than a month after the election to
than a month after the election i
than a month after the election Ay
than a month after the election to it. The party is blocking
to it. The party is blocking )
to it. The party is blocking the formation
to it. The party is blocking R e I e s ]
to it. The party is blocking the formation and preventing
the formation and preventing )
the formation and preventing IV
the formation and preventing the assembly from eating at
QR (BN R e T the assembly from eating at all
the assembly from eating at all over
the assembly from eating at all N
the assembly from eating at all over its opposition to the
over its opposition to the Northern Ireland Protocol. The
Northern Ireland Protocol. The DUP
Northern Ireland Protocol. The e a ]
Northern Ireland Protocol. The DUP once and an
Northern Ireland Protocol. The IR e R s )
Northern Ireland Protocol. The IR e R s s
Northern Ireland Protocol. The MR e RN R s e
DUP once and an end to checks ]
DUP once and an end to checks on goods arriving here at
on goods arriving here at Relfast
on goods arriving here at Belfast port
on goods arriving here at N ER A R (]
on goods arriving here at Belfast port for example from
Belfast port for example from )
Belfast port for example from e
Belfast port for example from e
Belfast port for example from R R N
Belfast port for example from AR AU
Belfast port for example from the rest of the UK, and it says
the rest of the UK, and it says 3
the rest of the UK, and it says it wants
the rest of the UK, and it says RN R L
the rest of the UK, and it says it wants what it calls decisive
it wants what it calls decisive action to
it wants what it calls decisive e A RN Ta il Y
it wants what it calls decisive Y d R R il ]
it wants what it calls decisive e i R R et RN era]
it wants what it calls decisive i BB R A Y
action to remove the Irish Sea s
action to remove the Irish Sea border. On
action to remove the Irish Sea RO R
action to remove the Irish Sea O PR R
action to remove the Irish Sea border. On that basis, | don’t
border. On that basis, | don’t think
border. On that basis, | don’t s
border. On that basis, | don’t T A
border. On that basis, | don’t QLSR8
border. On that basis, | don’t think it is very likely
border. On that basis, | don’t O AR ALC RGN
think it is very likely that )
think it is very likely that i
think it is very likely that the DUP will soften its stance
the DUP will soften its stance TN e
the DUP will soften its stance TN a1
the DUP will soften its stance whenever this legislation is
whenever this legislation is published
whenever this legislation is I LRI
whenever this legislation is published tomorrow, at the very
published tomorrow, at the very e
published temorrow, at the very FEEG
published temorrow, at the very &G
published temorrow, at the very least the DUP want to see how
least the DUP want to see how )
least the DUP want to see how the legislation is worked
the legislation is worked I I
the legislation is worked QI T
the legislation is worked through. Non- unionist parties
through. Non- unionist parties and
through. Non- unionist parties R )
through. Non- unionist parties and the Irish government
through. Non- unionist parties E R G R N G CI G E
and the Irish government have 10
and the Irish government have IR G
and the Irish government have said this legislation
and the Irish government have IR GER LIS EL G RG]
said this legislation would Y14
said this legislation would I &Y
said this legislation would I E & Nt
said this legislation would break the Brexit Treaty and
break the Brexit Treaty and ey
break the Brexit Treaty and therefore breach international
therefore breach international YT
therefore breach international (EYT I
therefore breach international law but the Northern Ireland
law but the Northern Ireland Secretary
law but the Northern Ireland XS ORI
law but the Northern Ireland Secretary Brandon Lewis has
Secretary Brandon Lewis has AR
Secretary Brandon Lewis has ARG
Secretary Brandon Lewis has insisted it isn’t the case.
insisted it isn’t the case. IS
insisted it isn’t the case. Y
insisted it isn’t the case. While the political discussion
While the political discussion on legal wrangling will
on legal wrangling will 311
on legal wrangling will [ R
on legal wrangling will possibly continue, no end to
possibly continue, no end to )
possibly continue, no end to the stomach
possibly continue, no end to R E I N )
possibly continue, no end to the stomach here which is seen
the stomach here which is seen Northern Ireland
the stomach here which is seen IS R Ea R lida s 0L
the stomach here which is seen Northern Ireland without a
Northern Ireland without a [T
Northern Ireland without a devolved government at a time
devolved government at a time Y
devolved government at a time Yy
devolved government at a time when so many people are
when so many people are struggling with the rising
struggling with the rising SIS RN
A senior software engineer working for Google has told
the Washington Post that the company has placed him
on administrative leave i N LN e a e
intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
A spokesperson for Google said MBI R R Y
conversation, they are not free thinking sentient beings.
So is that the end of the story ARG N e NN
I’m joined now by our News Reporter, Mark Lobel.
Mark, what prompted this former Google employee to speak out?
The fear is,
IR CEIR
The fear is, and the former T 0]
The fear is, and the former Google software engineer and
Google software engineer and i3
Google software engineer and RG]
Google software engineer and priest told the Washington
priest told the Washington Post, | know a
priest told the Washington G R
priest told the Washington Post, | know a man when | talk
Post, | know a man when | talk to
Post, | know a man when | talk eai
Post, | know a man when | talk R L]
Post, | know a man when | talk R RS
Post, | know a man when | talk to it, and it matters because
to it, and it matters because )
to it, and it matters because e e 4o
to it, and it matters because the checkbox he
to it, and it matters because N G A R L
to it, and it matters because the checkbox he was talking to,
the checkbox he was talking to, [ Tl:)
the checkbox he was talking to, (R
the checkbox he was talking to, run by Google, according its
run by Google, according its Crld
run by Google, according its IR
run by Google, according its E LR NG (Y
run by Google, according its eI NSO VA S
year will eventually be embedded in
year will eventually be NI R ]
year will eventually be embedded in the Google search
embedded in the Google search function
embedded in the Google search if s sl e =1aTs|
embedded in the Google search function and assistant,
function and assistant, e )
function and assistant, e Rl R
function and assistant, software used by millions
software used by millions around
software used by millions IR R e ldls
software used by millions Y TR R el
software used by millions SR a1 (]
oIV RO TG ) around the world. It all began
around the world. It all began Y
around the world. It all began when Wei Fenghe was testing it
when Wei Fenghe was testing it e
when Wei Fenghe was testing it T EI -]
when Wei Fenghe was testing it A E R )
when Wei Fenghe was testing it for hate speech and disc
for hate speech and disc ulltiZlsY
for hate speech and disc LGS A
for hate speech and disc military speed. The chat moved
military speed. The chat moved qa1ne]
military speed. The chat moved onto robotics
military speed. The chat moved e a1telas oo ala- el
military speed. The chat moved onto robotics and rights. He
onto robotics and rights. He G
onto robotics and rights. He I R T
onto robotics and rights. He published the transcript. The
published the transcript. The checkbox said,
published the transcript. The DA G SN
published the transcript. The checkbox said, | use this
VTR G LR (T gl A L T checkbox said, | use this with
checkbox said, | use this with understanding and technology.
understanding and technology. 5Py
understanding and technology. He said, what
understanding and technology. SRR A
understanding and technology. He said, what is so important
LRI ULEI SRRl el in luggage
He said, what is so important in luggage to being human. The
in luggage to being human. The %
in luggage to being human. The chat but said it
in luggage to being human. The A NI R
in luggage to being human. The i NI AR a1
in luggage to being human. The chat but said it is what makes
chat but said it is what makes us
chat but said it is what makes TRt Ie e 4
chat but said it is what makes us different from
chat but said it is what makes TRt e e Rt Ee e e
us different from other IR E R
us different from other e L I
us different from other animals. His accordion when |
animals. His accordion when | T
animals. His accordion when | was_ |t
animals. His accordion when | was_ It said
animals. His accordion when | was. |t said we
animals. His accordion when | was_ It said we don’t
animals. His accordion when | was. |t said we don’t have the
was. It said we don’t have the S Tlatiatle ey
was. It said we don’t have the summons and needs as of
was. It said we don’t have the summons and needs as of people,
summons and needs as of people, 3
summons and needs as of people, HRTE
summons and needs as of people, (R EIE LR
summons and needs as of people, it was asked, do you consider
it was asked, do you consider L=
it was asked, do you consider yourself a
it was asked, do you consider VR ]
it was asked, do you consider yourself a person because
yourself a person because eI
yourself a person because I !
yourself a person because market said yes. Then they
market said yes. Then they S
market said yes. Then they talked about Les Miserables,
talked about Les Miserables, )
talked about Les Miserables, QR TH
talked about Les Miserables, GRS
talked about Les Miserables, the feelings of injustice, and
the feelings of injustice, and 1R
the feelings of injustice, and all this convinces
the feelings of injustice, and IR e s il el B
all this convinces Blake P IR A E s 1
all this convinces Blake PR E G R
all this convinces Blake P R A E R IR R T e
all this convinces Blake P R E R IRl e e e
Lemoine that this is more than artificial intelligence.
artificial intelligence. Fascinating, but what is
Fascinating, but what is Google’s position in all this?
Google’s position in all this? e )
Google’s position in all this? Google says there is no
Google says there is no evidence
Google says there is no UGN ]
Google says there is no evidence to support the claims
evidence to support the claims O
evidence to support the claims provided by
evidence to support the claims O A ELG
evidence to support the claims O A ELCE L]
evidence to support the claims R A ELCE L
provided by Blake and he violated the confidentiality
violated the confidentiality policy. Analysts say that Blake
policy. Analysts say that Blake i
policy. Analysts say that Blake Lemoine was
policy. Analysts say that Blake B LR R L =18
policy. Analysts say that Blake Lemoine was probably very
Lemoine was probably very UG
Lemoine was probably very empathetic as a person,
Lemoine was probably very empathetic as a persen, and
empathetic as a person, and this empathy took him
empathetic as a person, and this empathy teok him -
this empathy took him - hijacked him, really,
this empathy teok him - hijacked him, really, and he
hijacked him, really, and he e
hijacked him, really, and he RN
hijacked him, really, and he lost focus, lost focus about
lost focus, lost focus about vty
lost focus, lost focus about T -]
lost focus, lost focus about what the ability of what
lost focus, lost focus about IR GG R F R G
what the ability of what the i eld
what the ability of what the iE R L
what the ability of what the iEIE R EL s
what the ability of what the W AR A
what the ability of what the chat box was. It brings its own
chat box was. It brings its own R
chat box was. It brings its own S
chat box was. It brings its own risks, and to explain that he
risks, and to explain that he s
risks, and to explain that he %)
risks, and to explain that he is a linguistics professor
s a linguistics professor Il
s a linguistics professor Emily Bender.
Emily Bender. We, as
]8T LT We, as people, like to imagine
We, as people, like to imagine GG
We, as people, like to imagine G R %N
We, as people, like to imagine something that is simply
something that is simply G}
something that is simply following rules
something that is simply ALY L RO
something that is simply YL RO R
following rules and is W Ye il
following rules and is WA
L LRI N objective and separate is going
objective and separate is going to
objective and separate is going G )
objective and separate is going to make better decisions but
to make better decisions but )
to make better decisions but R e
to make better decisions but the weather technology is
the weather technology is built, it is reproducing
o VI S R LT o[V ol g To patterns
built, it is reproducing patterns from its draining
patterns from its draining SEIEH
patterns from its draining SEIETRT)
patterns from its draining data, so if we employed at
data, so If we employed at X )
data, so if we employed at e |
data, so if we employed at scale and give up autonomy to
scale and give up autenomy to ey
scale and give up autonomy to N E s
scale and give up autonomy to these machines and let them
these machines and let them R )
these machines and let them make decisions for us we’re
make decisions for us we’re L
make decisions for us we’re going to be reproducing all of
going to be reproducing all of )
going to be reproducing all of the systems
going to be reproducing all of QA GUER
going to be reproducing all of the systems of oppression that
the systems of oppression that have
the systems of oppression that (YL Rt ]
the systems of oppression that Y Rt et R
the systems of oppression that have created the training
the systems of oppression that RN CE G RO R D G L ]
have created the training data in
have created the training data TRy
have created the training data NEO Rl
have created the training data in the first place and real
in the first place and real il
in the first place and real IR
in the first place and real RN EIs i
will be harmed. o110
will be harmed. T 1| R B
will be harmed. Google has placed Blake
LISy TR Google has placed Blake Lemoine
Google has placed Blake Lemoine ]
Google has placed Blake Lemoine on administrative leave. He has
on administrative leave. He has invited
on administrative leave. He has e h ]
on administrative leave. He has invited a lawyer to represent
invited a lawyer to represent )
invited a lawyer to represent e
invited a lawyer to represent Nl
the chat box. Y TS
the chat box. Mark Lobel, thank you
QR D8 Mark Lobel, thank you very
the chat box. Mark Lobel, thank you very much
Mark Lobel, thank you very much e
Mark Lobel, thank you very much (Il FL ]
Mark Lobel, thank you very much for making sense of that for us
for making sense of that for us and giving us those updates.
LR TS A R R (15[ T NI R e I T1e: s
in Russia has opened in Moscow under a new name,
which translates to ‘Tasty - TN LE G R
The US chain pulled out of the country last month
following the invasion A IR R E L e
magnate bought all SRR
McDonald’s left Russia of its own accord, but a slew
of international sanctions have hit the country’s economy hard.
Our Russia Editor Steve Rosenberg has the story.
L[0T QRGN F e
Not any more.
The US fast food giant has left Russia in protest
And it sold all its restaurants here - more than 800 -
(R LT | W oL A
Gone are the Golden Arches.
The logo now is two French fries and a burger.
The man who was quick to buy the fast food business
is Siberian tycoon Alexander Govor.
TRANSLATION: I N N R AT a
Big Macs or McFlurries here.
It’s a pity, because they were the most popular items,
but we told our experts to find replacements that are just
as good or even better.
The customers we spoke R AN
"Russians can do fast food just as well", he tells me.
"And as for Western sanctions and global brands leaving
VS E IR 1R tough people -
"you can’t scare us.”
When the very first McDonald’s restaurant opened right here 32
years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol, a symbol
of Russia embracing Y S R
Western ideas, Western food.
What’s happening here today with the departure
of McDonald’s and its Russian replacement,
that’s a symbol too, R S AR
and the West are now I E
Over in the Kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty
IR R Ry from the president.
At an awards ceremony, Vladimir Putin called
on Russians to united R R
themselves to the motherland, but he will know that Western
sanctions are having an impact.
Here’s one example.
Russian TV reports that due RN LU
car-makers can’t import key components,
so the new Lada’s being made without any airbags
or an anti-lock braking system.
Taxidriver Nikita thinks the Russian economy
s in for @ bumpy ride.
The prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high,
yeah.
So, for the taxi business now, it’s gone.
N RGN - A
We have to use old ones.
Russians won’t relish the prospect of ecoenomic pain,
WIS R I8 the Kremlin shows no
sign of changing course.
Steve Rosenberg, BBC News, Moscow.
That’s all for now - stay with BBC World News.
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for watching.
Just as we saw over the weekend iy
Just as we saw over the weekend R e
Just as we saw over the weekend R R
Just as we saw over the weekend TR G R RO e
Just as we saw over the weekend the weather for the week ahead
the weather for the week ahead il
the weather for the week ahead IR
the weather for the week ahead will be a
the weather for the week ahead IR R
the weather for the week ahead IR RN
the weather for the week ahead will be a tale of two
the weather for the week ahead R RN R
will be a tale of two halves. N
will be a tale of two halves. Ry
will be a tale of two halves. In the north it was
will be a tale of two halves. RGO R E
In the north it was quite MO
In the north it was quite I s AR T Y
In the north it was quite unsettled, windy weather
unsettled, windy weather e
unsettled, windy weather i T e
unsettled, windy weather showers, not as windy this week
showers, not as windy this week 4
showers, not as windy this week SN A FILINT]
showers, not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy at
but remaining quite cloudy at times with
but remaining quite cloudy at AR G R e )
but remaining quite cloudy at ARG EL e
but remaining quite cloudy at AR ORI el
times with some outbreaks of =R
times with some outbreaks of rain. Getting
times with some outbreaks of EI TSl LE
times with some outbreaks of E S i LR
times with some outbreaks of rain. Getting a little warmer
rain. Getting a little warmer potentially
rain. Getting a little warmer GRS
rain. Getting a little warmer potentially later in
rain. Getting a little warmer MG ARGEL RO
rain. Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week
potentially later in the week e
potentially later in the week e
potentially later in the week s
potentially later in the week N R =g
potentially later in the week AR e
potentially later in the week but not as warm as it
potentially later in the week AR E s R R i
potentially later in the week AR R R T
but not as warm as it will be e
but not as warm as it will be LI T ]
but not as warm as it will be 1 and Wales stop
for England and Wales stop Northampton fairly typical of
Northampton fairly typical of oElaed
Northampton fairly typical of IR
Northampton fairly typical of parts of northern England,
parts of northern England, missing temperatures
parts of northern England, NGRS E O T
missing temperatures pushing LI
missing temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees for the end
towards 30 degrees for the end N
towards 30 degrees for the end R
towards 30 degrees for the end of the week
towards 30 degrees for the end NAUE R A
towards 30 degrees for the end AU A NN
towards 30 degrees for the end of the week because of the high
of the week because of the high I
of the week because of the high pushing North. Say goodbye to
pushing North. Say goodbye to )
pushing North. Say goodbye to R ]
pushing North. Say goodbye to the low pressure that has
QIR R G Ly = TN
the low pressure that has G &1
the low pressure that has brought the windy weather
brought the windy weather I
brought the windy weather QIR
brought the windy weather through the weekend
brought the windy weather QIR R TR LN
brought the windy weather through the weekend and a
brought the windy weather QI RO R IR G LR G
through the weekend and a lot N 0
through the weekend and a lot N R
through the weekend and a lot of showers. We will
through the weekend and a lot N R AT
through the weekend and a lot of showers. We will still have
of showers. We will still have cloud approaching the west
cloud approaching the west LI
cloud approaching the west towards dawn on a weak weather
towards dawn on a weak weather e
towards dawn on a weak weather front. Elsewhere,
towards dawn on a weak weather e A S R
towards dawn on a weak weather front. Elsewhere, under starry
front. Elsewhere, under starry skies, a
front. Elsewhere, under starry Rl (12
front. Elsewhere, under starry skies, a chilly but plenty of
skies, a chilly but plenty of 1T
skies, a chilly but plenty of fun to
skies, a chilly but plenty of R GRSl
skies, a chilly but plenty of fun to start, which tends to
fun to start, which tends to ease
fun to start, which tends to R R L
fun to start, which tends to N VR
fun to start, which tends to ease away as cloud spills
ease away as cloud spills P et ]
ease away as cloud spills across Scotland bringing patchy
across Scotland bringing patchy rain
across Scotland bringing patchy I Ela a1 Elg i
across Scotland bringing patchy rain particularly to
across Scotland bringing patchy Il El ARG
rain particularly to the Highlands and Islands, perhaps
Highlands and Islands, perhaps )
Highlands and Islands, perhaps the odd
Highlands and Islands, perhaps QR ETo1]8
Highlands and Islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere, England
the odd spot elsewhere, England and Northern
the odd spot elsewhere, England B et R Bl )
the odd spot elsewhere, England and Northern Ireland too.
and Northern Ireland too. England and Wales will see the
England and Wales will see the best of
England and Wales will see the AR
England and Wales will see the TR RO
England and Wales will see the R RO T )
England and Wales will see the TR ARG G RO T
best of the sunshine the lines i EIeN
best of the sunshine the lines share, billing warmer when the
share, billing warmer when the sun does
share, billing warmer when the AR i)
share, billing warmer when the AT R ne i N 0L
share, billing warmer when the TR L e - s ]
share, billing warmer when the AT R R N s Tgs ]
sun does come out in Noerthern Ireland
sun does come out in Northern Ireland and Scotland, it warmer
Ireland and Scotland, it warmer further
Ireland and Scotland, it warmer e G
Ireland and Scotland, it warmer further South. Again in the
further South. Again in the south,
further South. Again in the GG
further South. Again in the south, high levels of pollen
south, high levels of pollen Py
south, high levels of pollen R e e
south, high levels of pollen are forecast once again. On
are forecast once again. On Monday as well as strong
Monday as well as strong e
Monday as well as strong sunshine levels, high
Monday as well as strong SN R AL R E
Monday as well as strong sunshine levels, high levels of
sunshine levels, high levels of I\
sunshine levels, high levels of 1AV YY Y| (1
sunshine levels, high levels of (I Y (R G
sunshine levels, high levels of UV, especially this weekend.
UV, especially this weekend. Through
UV, especially this weekend. LT R
UV, especially this weekend. Through the night
UV, especially this weekend. LI OL LRGN AT
UV, especially this weekend. Through the night we will
Through the night we will e e 418 )
Through the night we will continue cc, batsmen denied,
continue cc, batsmen denied, those
continue cc, batsmen denied, R e
continue cc, batsmen denied, R G it
continue cc, batsmen denied, those weather fronts brushing
those weather fronts brushing ™
those weather fronts brushing by the
those weather fronts brushing RGN T o
those weather fronts brushing by the Northwest but many with
by the Northwest but many with alxld
by the Northwest but many with clear skies,
by the Northwest but many with AR TR G
by the Northwest but many with A IR IR G LA
by the Northwest but many with clear skies, the light winds
clear skies, the light winds and
clear skies, the light winds IRt
clear skies, the light winds and rural spots between
and rural spots between STV
and rural spots between S IR
and rural spots between six-seven, 10-11. Plenty of
six-seven, 10-11. Plenty of e )
six-seven, 10-11. Plenty of sunshine follows
six-seven, 10-11. Plenty of AR I e s
six-seven, 10-11. Plenty of sunshine follows on Tuesday.
sunshine follows on Tuesday. For Northern Ireland but
For Northern Ireland but oElafatl F1aAY
SIS (e LIG R IR R T particularly western
For Northern Ireland but particularly western Scotland -
particularly western Scotland - G
particularly western Scotland - cloud, patchy rain, but still
cloud, patchy rain, but still Y
cloud, patchy rain, but still 10
cloud, patchy rain, but still we are starting to see
we are starting to see temperatures picking up
we are starting to see N O I R s ]
temperatures picking up further North and building the heat
North and building the heat P et ]
North and building the heat across the bulk
North and building the heat Y R N T
North and building the heat across the bulk of England and
across the bulk of England and pushing
across the bulk of England and LR
across the bulk of England and DR CR-E ]
across the bulk of England and pushing to eastern Wales. It
pushing to eastern Wales. It isn’t the
pushing to eastern Wales. It TR N1 d
pushing to eastern Wales. It TR R R Y
pushing to eastern Wales. It TR R N
pushing to eastern Wales. It isn’t the heat we are seeing
(LR S QI CEIRL RN further
isn’t the heat we are seeing TN Ta A e 0k ]
isn’t the heat we are seeing T N R )
isn’t the heat we are seeing TN T -
isn’t the heat we are seeing RN R T N i e
isn’t the heat we are seeing NN GR G A
further South where it has been T )
further South where it has been MR R0e
further South where it has been MR e
further South where it has been intense for one week or
further South where it has been MR R T
further South where it has been MR R R A LY
intense for one week or so at e
intense for one week or so at Ran
intense for one week or so at R R I
intense for one week or so at e R R e - P 014
intense for one week or so at least 44 forecast, but we will
least 44 forecast, but we will T
least 44 forecast, but we will R
least 44 forecast, but we will LRI RS
least 44 forecast, but we will see this high-pressure slipping
see this high-pressure slipping East, pulling southerly wind,
East, pulling southerly wind, E{LGYL ]
East, pulling southerly wind, allowing us
East, pulling southerly wind, ELSY L ETER(
East, pulling southerly wind, allowing us to tap into some of
allowing us to tap into some of that
allowing us to tap into some of eIl
allowing us to tap into some of that heat a
allowing us to tap into some of e R )
allowing us to tap into some of that heat a little bit, perhaps
QN T - R U o e LTy Yo why
that heat a little bit, perhaps why temperatures are
that heat a little bit, perhaps W N O LR A e
why temperatures are expected to get across
why temperatures are expected A (ST
why temperatures are expected to get across central and
to get across central and eastern areas towards
to get across central and I LR L LR 10
eastern areas towards the 30 LGRS
eastern areas towards the 30 degrees dark. We will keep
RO UE BRG] IR L R R L W L BT
degrees dark. We will keep you AN
degrees dark. We will keep you posted, more on the website.
'S BBC News, we will have all )
'S BBC News, we will have all N I )
'S BBC News, we will have all LI R R
'S BBC News, we will have all the headlines in the top of
'S BBC News, we will have all QLR R G R P IR
the headlines in the top of the news
the headlines in the top of the Y1
the headlines in the top of the T )
the headlines in the top of the news at the top
the headlines in the top of the G RO R
the headlines in the top of the news at the top of the
the headlines in the top of the RO R R s
news at the top of the hour after
news at the top of the hour O
news at the top of the hour after this programme.
Hello and welcome to The Media Show.
For this week’s edition, we’ve come to Paddington in central
London, to the newsroom of GB News, because, as I’m
sure you may remember, back on June 13th last year,
Andrew Neil and his programme launched
GB News at 8pm on 13 June.
It was certainly a distinct launch.
The studio was quite dark.
There were some technical problems.
It was widely discussed on social media.
Within weeks, Andrew Neil would be on holiday, never to return.
A TRy V- Farage would have his
own primetime show.
UL IR T T W U it’s still very much on air.
Just through the window here, there are many people -
journalists, producers - working on the output
as it goes on.
And we’re going to consider what’s definitely been
a tumultuous 12 months.
NG R Angelos Frangopoulos,
Thanks for being with us.
Thank you very much for having me, Ros,
You’re still going?
U TR [ RS A [
In fact, it’s been a tumultuous start, but | have to say it’s
been an exhilarating journey TR e RN R e
been something that really IR A1
Rl T BR[| particularly in the early days.
There were probably other words being used as well.
Were there moments in that first week, that first month,
where you thought, "Maybe this isn’t going to hang together"?
Not at all, not at all.
Very typical of a start-up that some things go right,
some things go wrong, some people come through,
some people don’t.
And the reality is that you almost need to go
through some of that pain - although admittedly,
| will never launch another news channel again on the 13th
of any month.
But the reality Is that is where you learn and that is
where you really develop the skills and you take
that next step up.
And, look, the channel is now absolutely unrecognisable that
launch on the 13th G FS S
But why wouldn’t you have done some of that learning away
from the public glare?
It felt like you were thrashing out things that normally get
looked at in piloting, Nl O AL R GER L
Yeah, it’s a really good question, actually.
So to understand that, there’s the context of the environment
We hired and launched during, S VAR =L Sl
We had 120 people TSR Al
Many had not worked together.
RN G e T a lot of pressures around
new technology, people learning how to work.
And some of the training LR N E R s ]
the rehearsals that we had done, we were in
pretty good shape.
A lot of the transmission I RO F R
on the night admittedly came because the full transmission
chain hadn’t been tested all the way through to
our broadcast partner.
And that’s where some of those audio issues
and the sync problems came in.
Isn’'t that the kind of chain you would check before
launching a TV network?
And if we do it again, we’ll definitely be
checking that chain.
Now, we’re going to talk more about the launch
night, the launch week IR e R L
gone on to become.
But I’d like to go back to S AN RIS
to understand what you’ve brought from Australia to this
British news network.
| saw one article about you saying you’d been credited
with honing the art of cheap but compelling panel-style
conservative television IR R L Ul
at Sky News Australia, where you worked for a long time.
Is that a fair description?
Is that your expertise?
That is not my expertise.
I think my expertise goes back RN A e
parts of my career, where | started my career
in regional television in New South Wales, and really
it was about connecting with communities.
So, ultimately, journalism TR 3 P
It Is actually a craft.
It’s almost a calling.
And a lot of the fundamentals that went into Sky News
Australia were really EL N R Y Rl
communities, taking programmes on the road, visiting towns
and parts of Queensland and western New South Wales
that hadn’t been visited by metropolitan media.
CULR OISR CEI TR g [1d)] the skill set and the thought
process that exists here at oS
Now, while that might have been your ambition
at Sky News Australia, (AR QR el Els
bedrock of the success that that network had at connecting
with an audience.
In 2014, at a conference in Hong Kong, you said,
"The key thing is audience.
We’d identified opinion Y R A e
Opinion-based shows are our biggest shows.
They deliver the numbers, R e R a0l 1o ey
comes revenue.”
That’s what you were doing, wasn’t it, placing opinion -
and often controversial opinion A R N R R R e s Y
But opinion is not really EL N & T R I
It’s about debating AR o]
and not all the epinion that was done on Sky News
Australia was controversial.
In fact, one of the first things we invested in
was opinion around politics and proper coverage for
the first time of Australian U C CIEAIN
And that meant things like rolling news conferences,
having panel debates, shows.
And In fact, the first panel debate show on Sky News
Australia was hosted by the former Prime Minister
of Australia, Tony Abbott, N R e tlae e el e TN
of Australia, Anthony Albanese.
So, really, it’s not just about exploring issues
for the sake of WL RIS
it’s about actually having a proper conversation.
SURTIVRVLCRUTA | for a point of difference
for Sky News Australia.
You’re definitely looking for a point of difference for
GB News, up against Sky News, BBC News and TalkTV now.
Andrew Neil has subsequently said of his involvement,
his mistake was putting his name on the tin
without understanding what would be inside it.
What did you want this G SN CR AR
sat down with him, when you sat down with others?
What was the plan?
The plan has never changed.
And In fact, | think that when Andrew made that comment,
it was more probably areund R R E R R s ]
the start-up environment difficult rather than
NG Z A
There was no shift or no leap to any direction -
left, right, up, S TR L
What we are delivering today is exactly what we promised
right from the start - JOEL AR R E
programming where we talk about things that often are not
talked about in the broader media landscape.
TR 1 ] programming that you’re putting
VTN (ol G LRV (T R e TV = WEOIH ARG R GRS
family to immigration to cancel culture, this is hardly
QIR E TR L NG 0 to get those things.
Yeah, | think that they’re probably the only place
you can get those things in a television
environment, certainly.
You have a breadth of subject matter and viewpoints
that exist in print media here in the United Kingdom
that really have not T E RO RO
of broadcast journalism.
Certainly in my experience, journalism generally comes
from the left of centre.
And you...
Despite the fact the UK press, for example, has many more
newspapers that skew to the right than to the left?
But | think it’s important to remember that we are talking
about broadcast here, LR B e I3ala s s
between ITV or ITN, Sky and BBC, is very much
of a certain viewpoint, whereas we saw an opportunity
to broaden out that conversation, to have
conversations that really are, IR RN Tl
perspective, but also including viewpoints from the left.
We have nearly got as many Labour MPs coming on GB News
now as we have Conservative MPs, and that is because
we want this to be a town hall where people can come
and actually have those conversations.
You clearly are being regulated by Ofcom and seeking
to play by their rules.
Do you regret the fact that you are being requlated,
in terms of the balance of your programming?
Not at all, not at all.
We have embraced it from day one and that is an important
part of our positioning in the landscape.
So we could have launched GB News over the top
on a connected TV or on YouTube N h N aE e
We chose to operate in an Ofcom-requlated
environment because, quite frankly,
it gives you kudos.
It means that you actually have got credibility
in the marketplace.
And it also means that we play on the level playing field
with the BBC, Sky and others.
So you’re happy to be regulated by Ofcom, you haven’t come
a cropper with the Ofcom requlators, but let’s talk away
from the Ofcom rules and simply about the nature
of balanced pregramming.
A little while ago, you were referencing
the fact you want to I
In fact, I think the company which is the parent company
s called All Perspectives.
But for example, | was watching Dan Wootton a few days ago.
There was a lengthy segment with Nigel Farage
where Dan Wootton agreed with everything that
Nigel Farage said IRl TGN
He then interviewed Jim Davidson, where he agreed
with almost everything Jim Davidsen said
about cancel culture.
Now, the viewers might like that, but it’s not
a balanced discussion, it’s not a impartial
discussion, because G R DN
with the guests TR AR Y
But that is not a news bulletin, as such.
And | think you need to understand that, actually,
there is a breadth of voices across the schedule
on the channel and that is an important part of any
rolling news channel.
The impartiality exists in its purest form
within the news bulletins, which actually are straight
down the middle, impartial, eI E I e S LR S
But the reality Is that you do have a variety
of voices through the day.
And again, if | watched at 6.00, you’ll have a panel
that actually has got RO R R e
Dan Wootton’s show does mostly have a breadth of viewpoints.
It’s got his name IR GRS TG
So it is Dan Wootton Tonight, SRR A= A
=g A ER Yo T Ta M that is weaved
through the show.
And he has a variety of guests that...
They actually do debate the issues of the day.
And again, | point back to Ofcom.
You know, we’re 12 months RENRGE i E e
CRMRH o]0 PR R v LT N R AR IR 1
do work very closely within the Ofcom rules.
But you set your own rules as well.
You’ve got editorial standards, which people can
read on your website.
And one of your presenters, Guto Harri, who’s now part
of the Prime Minister’s operation but was a presenter
for a while, his time on GB News came to an end
after he took the knee as a stance against racism.
And in a letter that he sent R R R G E - TI P
"How did what | do bhreak the rules?”
Can you explain how he broke your rules?
So | think in that case, you have to draw a distinction
between someone who is a guest and someone who is a host.
Would you take the knee on your show?
No.
Right
But the BBC’s rules are not necessarily the same
VR QT BT R L IR L a1 E e I
the rules are pretty clear in terms of standards
of dealing with things, with making sure that things
CICI G-} and ensuring that...
With respect, | watched Nigel Farage on Dan Wootton’s
programme the other day talking about immigration.
It couldn’t have been more politicised.
I’ve covered Nigel Farage IR LAl
There was no difference between what he was saying
on Dan Wootton’s show and the things he said
when he was involved in Ukip and the Brexit Party.
It couldn’t be more politicised.
But | think that, you know, actually taking the knee
was something that we felt just R R E IR R
And the reality is that he was not sacked.
In the end, he did resign.
And that was actually his choice.
We were very happy I R e &
But now we’re talking about something that
happened a very, very long time ago...
Yeah, but | suppose what | think people
IR G R
In your desire to pursue a new type of broadcasting
EL TR (NG To 1V to set your presenters free
In @ way you say they wouldn’t R R R R e
I’m trying to understand where the line is.
So, for example, Dan Wootton tweeted a picture of a couple
of people in a park wearing a mask.
And the point was, "Why on earth are they wearing a mask?”
But in your charter, you talk about protecting
privacy unless there’s a compelling public interest -
which that tweet, some would argue, definitely didn’t meet.
I’m not aware that he was in any way sanctioned
for that, so I’m just trying to understand how you draw
the line for all of your on-air presenters and reporters.
What can they do?
What can’t they do?
U Rl R 1] 8 that we always stick
RNl aE I B lai-
And there are things that do slip through the net.
| mean, this is the YL A N T
| mean, the BBC itself has sanctions and there
are issues that have happened with Sky News over time.
But | think in the main, WIS RN R (L syl
6,000 hours of television a year, we’ve done a really
good job of ensuring that we stay within the bounds
And that’s something that we do take very seriously.
Also in your charter, you talk about putting facts first,
and we’ve already discussed where opinion fits into
reporting and how those two things interact.
Would you consider what Nigel Farage and Dan Wootton
are doing as news journalism?
| would more appropriately O UL
Ultimately, we’re a journalism business, but we have to be
able to talk about issues in a very free and open way.
Again, there I R la e
The facts are checked, and they do go through a process.
And if we get something wrong, we say we’ve got it wrong,
just like any good journalism business.
Well, let’s take a couple of examples on that.
On the 30th of May on Michelle Dewberry’s programme,
you had a guest talking about climate change
who said that sea levels R (VA
sea levels are rising, RN
and yet you didn’t have a scientist on with that guest
Or we could take Mark Steyn, another of your presenters.
He’s in the evening.
Michelle Dewberry’s a little bit earlier on.
Full Fact, the fact checking operation, found
that he was wrong to state that a Covid booster
increases your chances of hospitalisation and death.
Is it a concern to you that these kind of statements
AT T R R (T 1 getting through the net?
Well, | think it’s very important to remember
that we answer to a requlator, RN E .
Full Fact is not the regulator.
Sure.
And In that case, which | am aware of, there has been,
certainly from our perspective and the programme producer’s
perspective, some contention around the way Full Fact had
actually put together its suggestion that it was wrong.
Now, the thing is that, ultimately, you have a lot
of guests on, you have a lot of content to go through,
and that is the nature of a rolling news service.
We put a lot of effort into making sure
that we get it right.
| mentioned one example there to do with climate,
and climate has been a particular focus both
of some of the discussions you have on GB News,
but it’s also been the focus of some concerns that
particular perspectives are not just part of reasonable debate
but are venturing into something that’s
potentially less fact-based.
Jennie King from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue,
which Is a think tank, says that you’ve
become a central hub for climate scepticism.
Are you making a conscious effort to put people on air
who are outside of the regular discussions of climate change?
You’ve hit the nail on the head,
"the reqular discussions”.
So why can’t there be hroader discussions
about all subjects...?
Well, they can, so long as they’re fact-based.
Including climate change.
There is nothing wrong with actually being able
to bring a broader discussion to the population
arcund all issues.
And, yes, when it comes to climate change,
there is contention and LI R R e
And we do have multiple sides of the climate change debate.
But there aren’'t multiple sides to whether the sea is rising.
The sea is simply rising.
And | suppose that’s the question some people have,
Is whether there is an adequate MR R
reasonable discussion across any issue and something
that veers inte polemic or pure opinion without
the necessary facts attached.
I mean, the suggestion that there’s some sort of agenda
s absolutely wrong.
So, that is fact.
Now, let’s talk about where you’ve got to because,
as you rightly say, the launch is a while back now, 12 months.
From the start, you were always clear that TV ratings were not
the only metric of success.
YRR A L) about your digital ambitions.
Two things I’d Like RO 1Y
One was your definition of success in the digital arena.
And then how do you AN AR
Those are good questions!
So the fundamentals SR S LN AN
LG EI RIS N A A R - R F T
a TV station and a radio G RN
so it’s kind of the opposite RNl
establishment media landscape.
From a digital sense, we have products that...
We tell stories in different ways to suit
different demographics.
So we have stories that do really well on TikTok that
are told in a certain way.
We have traditional stories that are on Linear television.
We treat stories in a slightly different way on Facebook.
Instagram, again, is T e e
And last time | checked, RGN R R e ESTY
5 billion impressions for GB News content online,
in a digital sense, and that includes our owned and operated
sites as well as social media.
So you’re pleased LRI I
But as we look through the window here,
all of this TV infrastructure S R R Gl
RGN (U o] to do it more cheaply
than other broadcasters, but nonetheless, you’re
going to be spending an awful lot of money on your staff,
on all the infrastructure that comes with
running a TV network.
How do you fund that even LN E RN I (R
on YouTube or whatever 1B Y
You’re going to have to do enormous numbers,
much bigger than you’re doing at the moment, to help
run a place like this.
So the business in its early A G R L EI
television revenue and radio revenue, and that is something
that will morph more into the digital side
of things, which is still a meaningful number over time.
That is a big challenge for us, though, in that we are
still suffering a boycott by the advertising agencies
when it comes to particularly our linear television product.
And that is @ massive challenge for this business.
What can you do about that?
Well, we have to keep doing what we’re doing.
We have to ensure that we address the perception issue
that exists out there.
GB News actually is a mainstream channel.
It’s not an establishment channel, but it is actually
a mainstream channel that reaches mass audiences
in the United Kingdom across all different platforms,
and that does have a value back to advertisers.
And it’s important that we get that message out there.
Now, I’m really interested that you’ve said that,
that you’re emphasising this as a mainstream television
channel, in part because you S R A RPN O
Because it strikes me that what you’re becoming is perhaps
a bit more establishment than was first advertised
T Y R e R EL e e P
You’ve joined the S R SRR 6
You’ve joined the pool which looks after how politics
s covered in Westminster.
You’ve done a number of other things as well,
some of your programming - your Breakfast programme
with Eamonn Holmes.
Nothing wrong with this, of course, but it’s not
a million miles away from other breakfast programmes that
we’ve seen on TV news.
Have you realised that to make money, to create
a successful business, you’ve actually got to be
a bit less of a rebel than you first thought?
You’ll never get the rebel out of GB News, I’ve got to say.
Look, | think the reality is that programmes like
Breakfast were never, ever controversial, even
in its first iteration, IR GRG R R RN e
a range of pregramming.
So during the day, we are politics-heavy.
In the evening, we’re opinion-heavy and
appointment-to-view-heavy.
And at breakfast, it is a mass reach Breakfast programme.
But if you actually look at the overall strategic
positioning of it, it’s a hreakfast show made -
importantly - for a radio audience as well,
because GB News Radio launched on 4 January this year.
Watching GB News a lot in the run up to this
interview, a lot of your trails, they use very similar
language to the language Nigel Farage has used.
They say things like, "We won’t talk down to you.
"This is the people’s news channel.”
The tone, the language is familiar to me as someone
who’s covered Nigel Farage IR LAl
And | just wonder, the more successful you are at
connecting with Nigel Farage’s base, do you risk making
a channel which is for that section of the UK -
nothing wrong with that - but might struggle to reach
beyond that section of the UK?
Well, that language used in the trail that you mentioned
s actually GB News language.
And | know it’s GB News language because it’s language
that we’ve been working on for a very long time...
But my point is there’s a crossover. ..
..even before Nigel...
Of course, but my point is that this is familiar
for people who have G RN ES
The crossover in the language and tone is almost complete.
| disagree.
| really disagree.
And | think that that language applies across...
It also applies NN e
I mean, you know, our Breakfast show is, in every single
sense of what GB News Is, is really about the people’s
channel, is really about talking about issues that
others don’t really raise.
And it’s done in a very GB News way.
You know, Nigel is only a4
And he’s very successful.
He’s an extraordinary broadcaster.
But then again, so are others that we’ve got on the channel.
We’ve got great...
We’ve got Anne Diamond, Stephen Dixon, Isabel Webster -
these are terrific broadcasters.
And, you know, | think one of the things that
frustrates me the most is that NIRRT e a e s ]
by others that this is a channel built around
ohe or two people.
We know how risky it is - and anyone who runs a TV business.
To be successful, you need I R G RR
and a breadth of appeintment-to-view.
And if you have one single talent that you base
an entire media venture over, IR\
going to work out.
It’s a journalism business.
Let’s focus on the last word, because, of course, in the end,
you want this to be a company that makes money.
Enders Analysis, which produces L VA R G R R
VRO IR S QR a year in, you are a long,
long way below where you said you wanted to be after a year.
Do you accept that?
I think that we’re tracking really well.
(WX T\ o 1T a tough 12 months.
The boycott by the agencies hasn’t helped.
In terms of audience levels, though, we are really happy
where we are right now.
| mean, some of our shows rate well over 100,000.
And that doesn’t sound like much if you’re talking
ITV, BBC One numbers, but particularly
where we are. ..
You’ve got to remember, this business is less than
12 months old as we speak.
But when you sit down G RGER L EIOR
as I’m sure you do routinely, and you look through
the numbers and you look through your projections
and where you are, are they happy to keep backing this?
Because I’m reliably informed by a number of sources
that your budget now IR ATT IR
budget when you launched.
So you’re putting serious money into this, but at the moment,
serious money is not flowing REGER G i B
So are they comfortable with that?
We are tracking to our business plan, in terms of audience.
We’re tracking on our business plan, in terms of revenue,
where we are right now.
Yes, costs have increased.
There’s another competitor OE R IR U R FU P G
trying to achieve a similar outcome.
And all these things are inflationary.
The pandemic went on longer than we had planned,
Certainly, there are cost pressures, but that’s
ne different to any media business, ultimately.
What do you make of N AR s Y dl s g
TalkTV, Piers Morgan?
Piers Morgan going on to R TR G R R s 11
Sky News Australia.
You must have been following this very closely.
How are you assessing RS ii e e
Well, GB News runs its own e RN N
to News Corp to run its.
Come on, you haven’t been coy for the whole
duraticn of this interview!
Are you going to go coy on me now?
Look, | think...
Well, for starters, IR QR e il
that they launched.
| think it is really important that there’s more
plurality and more choice in the media landscape here.
Launching these channels IR IL R LR S (T RS
Building audiences is tough, DR R C A G
to what News Corp has launched.
We are uniquely a British product, we’re focused
on the United Kingdom, T Y-V T
I think you’ll find that MR ARG A BRI
than there is on that other channel.
=TV T E AT it’s a good thing.
Choice is good.
Angelos Frangopoulos, thank you very much for
jeining us on The Media Show.
Thank you very much.
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
In the north it was quite unsettled, windy weather
showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week,
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton - fairly typical of many parts of northern
England, temperatures pushing towards 30
degrees by the end of the week
oI NG RG]y pushing North.
Say goodbye to the low pressure that has brought the windy
weather through the weekend and a lot of showers.
We will still have cloud approaching the west
towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, under starry skies, as showers have been fading,
a chilly but plenty of sun to start, which tends to ease
away as cloud spills across Scotland bringing
patchy rain particularly to the Highlands and Islands,
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere, and across England and Northern
England and Wales will see N SR
the Lion’s share, feeling warmer when the sun does come
out in Northern Ireland and Scotland, and warmer further
Again in the south, some high levels of pollen
are forecast oence again.
On Monday, as well as strong sunshine levels, of UV,
especially this weekend.
Through the night we will e R R R e
fronts brushing by the Northwest but many
skies, light winds OIS S
between six-seven, 10-11.
Plenty of sunshine follows on Tuesday.
For Northern Ireland but particularly western
Scotland - cloud, patchy rain, but still we are starting
to see temperatures picking up further North and building
the heat across the bulk of England and pushing
It isn’t the heat we are seeing I NG R LR T ]
intense for one week or so at least 44 forecast,
but we will see this RGN LR E13
pulling southerly wind, allowing us to tap into some
of that heat a little bit, TR A U IO
are expected to get across central and eastern
areas towards the 30 O I
We will keep you posted, e NG R e
Welcome to BBC News, I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
Tougher background checks I TN L @ G DL
TGN LR beginning of the end
for uncontolled gun posession in the United States?
In the wake of the latest school shooting in Texas,
a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework
for potential legislation on gun safety.
Gains for a new left wing alliance in the first
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
The British government says a new law overriding
Brexit trade arrangements R G TN RG]
will not undermine the Northern Ireland peace agreement.
Are the machines R R I s
A senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming
an artificial intelligence tool A UL R R R
And a month after McDonalds pulled out of Russia
because of Ukraine, a homegrown burger chain opens
called ‘Tasty - and that’s it.’
A group of US Senators - NGORG]
and Democratic parties - have reached agreement
on a series of gun control measures.
The developments come after the tragic mass shootings
Let’s have a closer look at what’s in the proposal.
The framework agreement includes support for state ‘red
flag’ laws where guns could be [RGB OB Ry 1
a danger.
Also included, tougher background checks
for gun buyers under the age of 21.
There would also be R R G L L8
known as straw purchases, IR R T
for others who are restricted from purchasing them.
But what’s not included are measures that the Democrats
and President Biden had advocated, such as raising
the age for buying semiautomatic rifles to 21
or new limits on assault-style rifles.
Our North America correspondent, David Willis,
has been following the story.
This is a significant move and assuming these proposals
[EHALIGRELS they would represent
the first gun control measures this country has
AR
The proposals themselves are fairly modest,
they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving
customers under the age of 21, and the introduction
or expansion of so-called red flag
laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation
of weapons in the hands of people
deemed a risk to themselves or others, and greater federal
funding for school security systems and mental health
What these proposals do not include
LRIl [ =R R R TV style weapons, the kind used
in the Uvalde and Buffalo New York shootings, those that
President Biden and senior IS i E R LR
W [ T President Biden welcomed
this move, he said it was, | quote, "important step
in the right direction”.
The last meaningful gun-control regulations in this country
were Introduced in the mid-19 90s, the Brady Bill,
which created the national background
check system, but since then there has been very little
movement, largely due to the opposition of Republicans
in the Senate LT G
that transgresses upon the so-called Second Amendment,
QLRI O E El RO R QIR 14
The majority of Americans polls show continue to support
tighter gun-control measures RGN R LRI R
the news of these latest proposals came
on the six year anniversary of shooting at a gay nightclub
in Florida in which 49 people lost their Lives.
RIS L] @ (¢ Y T Ll r R L
a political-science professor at the State University
of New York Cortland and author of multiple books
on gun control.
Thanks for jeining us.
Thanks for joining us. AR
Thanks for joining us. Politically, how has it been so
Politically, how has it been so Tl
Politically, how has it been so hard to get legislation on gun
hard to get legislation on gun el
hard to get legislation on gun control in
hard to get legislation on gun e BRG]
hard to get legislation on gun U LR G IR
hard to get legislation on gun U RGO R e
hard to get legislation on gun control in the last few years
control in the last few years and
control in the last few years s
control in the last few years and decades because obviously
and decades because obviously Y
and decades because obviously we have seen
and decades because obviously Y Y N )
and decades because obviously we have seen so many
and decades because obviously we have seen s6 many occasions
we have seen 0 many occasions unfortunately
we have seen s6 many occasions unfortunately of
we have seen s6 many occasions O GRS
unfortunately of mass AT
unfortunately of mass L
unfortunately of mass LA
unfortunately of mass shootings? It has been
N[ =R LTy N
N[ =R LTy extremely difficult.
LG = LT extremely difficult. The
extremely difficult. The i IEL Y
extremely difficult. The immediate obstacle has been in
immediate obstacle has been in )
immediate obstacle has been in the United States Senate
immediate obstacle has been in RIS TR N e
the United States Senate where )
the United States Senate where R IR et
the United States Senate where R IR a3l
the United States Senate where the filibuster rules still in
the filibuster rules still in place meaning that to enact
place meaning that to enact legislation, instead of needing
legislation, instead of needing s
legislation, instead of needing is set
legislation, instead of needing I8 I8
legislation, instead of needing I A FI A
legislation, instead of needing A FI A ]
legislation, instead of needing is set majority of 59 votes out
is set majority of 59 votes out of 100
s set majority of 59 votes out BRG]
s set majority of 59 votes out of 100 senators you actually
of 100 senators you actually el
VTR L (TR VR T (TR LY need 60 and
VTR L (TR VR T (TR LY LR Ri 4
VTR L (TR VR T (TR LY LN R e
of 100 senators you actually need 60 and it has effectively
need 60 and it has effectively G
need 60 and it has effectively IR
need 60 and it has effectively given the minority party or the
given the minority party or the Republican party ever dinner
Republican party ever dinner majority the ability
Republican party ever dinner R VAG A
Republican party ever dinner majority the ability to block
majority the ability to block legislation. In addition the
legislation. In addition the gun issue, support for gun
gun issue, support for gun i
gun issue, support for gun DS
gun issue, support for gun rights has increasingly become
rights has increasingly become Y
rights has increasingly become a litmus
rights has increasingly become R IR
rights has increasingly become a litmus test for Republican
a litmus test for Republican e e At
a litmus test for Republican e e A s
a litmus test for Republican e iR R e e
a litmus test for Republican conservatism in recent years,
conservatism in recent years, and so
conservatism in recent years, TR R
conservatism in recent years, R R T
conservatism in recent years, G R G LG O Ul
and so that means Republican lawmakers
and so that means Republican ET R I )
and so that means Republican lawmakers have felt a certain
lawmakers have felt a certain obligation to prove their
obligation to prove their e )
obligation to prove their conservative bona fides by
conservative bona fides by supporting
conservative bona fides by S IEL
conservative bona fides by supporting an absolute gun ride
supporting an absolute gun ride Lilis
supporting an absolute gun ride LI
supporting an absolute gun ride NI R
supporting an absolute gun ride point of view that is not
point of view that is not E{LGYL ]
point of view that is not allowing any
point of view that is not E YN L RIS A G
point of view that is not E YL IEI A R
point of view that is not allowing any kind of gun
allowing any kind of gun e
allowing any kind of gun measures. Blood given those and
measures. Blood given those and e
measures. Blood given those and O EC)
measures. Blood given those and other related obstacles, this
other related obstacles, this package of legislation really
package of legislation really s
package of legislation really IR
package of legislation really is fairly significant, arguably
s fairly significant, arguably )
s fairly significant, arguably more significant politically
more significant politically than a policy terms but it is
than a policy terms but it is Tyl achis
than a policy terms but it is T sl
than a policy terms but it is e ahE s
than a policy terms but it is e ah T FS
than a policy terms but it is important in policy as well. My
important in policy as well. My next question is how surprised
next question is how surprised Py
next question is how surprised IR
next question is how surprised are you that they have managed
are you that they have managed to
are you that they have managed e Ele]
are you that they have managed to reach an
are you that they have managed RE N I
are you that they have managed to reach an agreement, because
to reach an agreement, because 3
to reach an agreement, because s
to reach an agreement, because ]
to reach an agreement, because it is so partisan, on this
it is so partisan, on this N
it is so partisan, on this issue, are you surprised that
issue, are you surprised that )
issue, are you surprised that AN N
issue, are you surprised that the success of this?
issue, are you surprised that AN N A O A R
the success of this? | have ]
the success of this? | have TN e
the success of this? | have been somewhat surprised at what
been somewhat surprised at what eI
been somewhat surprised at what surprised me even more as |
SGIEL R RO R R Y0l
surprised me even more as | YRt ]
surprised me even more as | read more into
surprised me even more as | YR R R
surprised me even more as | read more into the proposal and
read more into the proposal and (%]
read more into the proposal and noting that the final language
noting that the final language has
noting that the final language YT R4
noting that the final language RS
noting that the final language A A
noting that the final language S S IR G L]
noting that the final language RS UG G L)
has not yet been drafted and they
has not yet been drafted and A
has not yet been drafted and they still have to get it
they still have to get it I
they still have to get it QIO
they still have to get it through both houses
they still have to get it QI R G T
through both houses of W3] (I3
through both houses of Congress, House of
Congress, House of NI I
Congress, House of TN N RGN
Congress, House of NN N RO VAL
Congress, House of N I R AL
Representatives surely will be S IO
Representatives surely will be cooperative, the
Representatives surely will be I IR U R
Representatives surely will be cooperative, the fact that it
cooperative, the fact that it Tl
cooperative, the fact that it includes really quite a number
includes really quite a number of
includes really quite a number S
includes really quite a number of other things including one
of other things including one provision closing what is
provision closing what is T e sl
provision closing what is e R ]
provision closing what is S e R 1
provision closing what is e RO LR
provision closing what is referred to as the boyfriend
referred to as the boyfriend LY
referred to as the boyfriend loophole, ever married couple,
loophole, ever married couple, )
loophole, ever married couple, Rl e
loophole, ever married couple, NI il
loophole, ever married couple, one partnerina
loophole, ever married couple, MR O SRR o]
loophole, ever married couple, one partner in a married couple
one partner in a married couple ey
one partner in a married couple becomes violent, that person
becomes violent, that person can
becomes violent, that person )
becomes violent, that person can be deprived of regard from
can be deprived of regard from having guns by that rule do not
having guns by that rule do not E[ ]\
having guns by that rule do not apply if
having guns by that rule do not AR
having guns by that rule do not EI AT I
having guns by that rule do not apply if you are not actually
apply if you are not actually eI el- sl
apply if you are not actually EISa I s |
apply if you are not actually married and of course millions
married and of course millions of couples who live together
of couples who live together together
of couples who live together DS G IS
of couples who live together DS G T T
of couples who live together G TR
of couples who live together together but are not married.
together but are not married. But
together but are not married. IR 1
together but are not married. But this legislation closes the
But this legislation closes the L]
But this legislation closes the SRR
But this legislation closes the boyfriend loophole and that is
boyfriend loophole and that is really quite a very significant
really quite a very significant A
really quite a very significant N NS
really quite a very significant provision by itself.
really quite a very significant O NS AL R )
really quite a very significant provision by itself. There are
provision by itself. There are still Limitations of
provision by itself. There are still limitations of course,
still Limitations of course, you
still Limitations of course, T
still Limitations of course, you are still
still Limitations of course, TR o (] R
still Limitations of course, TR (L CR R Y
you are still able to buy semiautomatic rifles
VLI UL IR (L TV semiautomatic rifles under the
semiautomatic rifles under the L
semiautomatic rifles under the age of 21, and | quess that is
age of 21, and | guess that is Y
age of 21, and I quess that is ER e
age of 21, and I quess that is FR O Rt (e ]
age of 21, and I quess that is ED e L D
age of 21, and I quess that is ED AN D LS
age of 21, and I quess that is a Democrats and Joe are unhappy
a Democrats and Joe are unhappy I
a Democrats and Joe are unhappy about. Yes
a Democrats and Joe are unhappy AR
a Democrats and Joe are unhappy about. Yes it is, but it does
about. Yes it is, but it does TGN
about. Yes it is, but it does include, a particular focus on
include, a particular focus on those
include, a particular focus on QIR
include, a particular focus on those younger than 21 who are
those younger than 21 who are e )
those younger than 21 who are NGRS
those younger than 21 who are otherwise eligible to buy guns
otherwise eligible to buy guns but
otherwise eligible to buy guns N ]
otherwise eligible to buy guns IR A Rae ]
otherwise eligible to buy guns R e Al
otherwise eligible to buy guns R e AN
otherwise eligible to buy guns but who now will be subject to
but who now will be subject to Y
but who now will be subject to PR )
but who now will be subject to FEN )
but who now will be subject to a more detailed background
a more detailed background e
a more detailed background check that
a more detailed background G UEa i
a more detailed background i GG R BT (s [)
check that will include NG
check that will include N EN I
check that will include N C G ER T e)
check that will include juvenile records which might
JONLUIEN TR e gl i\
juvenile records which might e LA T
juvenile records which might A EI A
juvenile records which might nermally not be accessible and
normally not be accessible and )
normally not be accessible and also mental health records, and
also mental health records, and that
also mental health records, and G A
also mental health records, and that is significant especially
that is significant especially e
that is significant especially T ]
that is significant especially IR G
that is significant especially for the age group of 18/21, for
for the age group of 18/21, for I
for the age group of 18/21, for ORIl
for the age group of 18/21, for ORI
for the age group of 18/21, for N L BT
for the age group of 18/21, for this reason. If you break down
this reason. If you break down ey
this reason. If you break down el
this reason. If you break down )
this reason. If you break down crime by age category, what you
crime by age category, what you e g
crime by age category, what you e
crime by age category, what you discover is the
crime by age category, what you e AR R el
discover is the most crime O
discover is the most crime pruned age
discover is the most crime LR CR LG8
discover is the most crime pruned age category is from
pruned age category is from 18/21, so it’s an
pruned age category is from TP N L
pruned age category is from 18/21, so it’s an age range
18/21, so it’s an age range that
18/21, so it’s an age range R e
18/21, so it’s an age range that deserves particular
that deserves particular scrutiny
that deserves particular Ju i An|
that deserves particular i EU RUl
that deserves particular scrutiny and this allows for
scrutiny and this allows for that
scrutiny and this allows for = YL
scrutiny and this allows for that great scrutiny and did
scrutiny and this allows for G E R ST R I T T
that great scrutiny and did not Y
that great scrutiny and did not a giant step, but it’s
a giant step, but it’s immeasurable and a notable
immeasurable and a notable )N
immeasurable and a notable step. | guess what the
step. | guess what the e S
step. | guess what the YT e |
step. | guess what the Democrats and Republicans that
Democrats and Republicans that have
Democrats and Republicans that (EY RSN
Democrats and Republicans that have signed this agreement or
have signed this agreement or have
have signed this agreement or YN i)
have signed this agreement or VR IR
have signed this agreement or R R Rl ]
have signed this agreement or U RO R Gl
have come up with this ED
have come up with this EL A
have come up with this EL N A T
have come up with this agreement will be happy about
agreement will be happy about 3
agreement will be happy about TR e
agreement will be happy about TG
agreement will be happy about TR ]
agreement will be happy about is there is an agreement in
s there is an agreement in I
s there is an agreement in place finally after
s there is an agreement in o Fl R M EL R G
s there is an agreement in place finally after all these
place finally after all these years.
place finally after all these CEIE
place finally after all these years. Is the hope maybe that
years. Is the hope maybe that this
years. Is the hope maybe that G
years. Is the hope maybe that this is the
years. Is the hope maybe that QIR GRS EN |
years. Is the hope maybe that QIR GRS I RS G
years. Is the hope maybe that this is the stepping stone for
this is the stepping stone for GG
this is the stepping stone for I QIR AL
this is the stepping stone for something bigger? I’m sure
something bigger? I’m sure )
something bigger? I’m sure I
something bigger? I’m sure NI R
something bigger? I’m sure there are those who
something bigger? I’m sure I RO S h R Ll 4
something bigger? I’m sure I R R R L e
there are those who want to think
there are those who want to e 2
there are those who want to G R e
there are those who want to G R e
there are those who want to think of theirs as a
I RGO steppingstone
I RGO IR B RGN
think of theirs as a steppingstone but what this
ACDLLIGIERGO LR AL E R GTE Y- )"
ACDLLIGIERGO LR AL E R GTE says to
steppingstone but what this says to me
steppingstone but what this AU
steppingstone but what this R R AR UL
steppingstone but what this VR ARG RO
steppingstone but what this says to me is that they can get
says to me is that they can get this through Congress they will
this through Congress they will )
this through Congress they will T
this through Congress they will be done with
this through Congress they will TR e R
this through Congress they will (T R R
this through Congress they will T R RN R e
be done with the measures with this
be done with the measures with IR etlae a4
be done with the measures with this current Congress, simply
this current Congress, simply T )
this current Congress, simply T N4
this current Congress, simply R L
this current Congress, simply TR R
this current Congress, simply because it was very difficult
LT VLT L LTy LT to
because it was very difficult e Rw i iae e
because it was very difficult el e nsiln a1
because it was very difficult to construct this coalition,
to construct this coalition, they
to construct this cealition, OV AIENCIRS
to construct this cealition, they haven’t passed it
to construct this coalition, they haven’t passed it yet,
to construct this coalition, A GRS RS L A 1a 1
they haven’t passed it yet, and W1
they haven’t passed it yet, and (LG
they haven’t passed it yet, and WL CTRLE ]
they haven’t passed it yet, and Congress is a full plate of
Congress is a full plate of e
Congress is a full plate of e
Congress is a full plate of I N R 0]
Congress is a full plate of O N R
Congress is a full plate of TN R O L R il
Congress is a full plate of I RO IR i B
other measures to deal with in )
other measures to deal with in the Democrats have to
other measures to deal with in AN S A RO e
the Democrats have to ask NI R )
the Democrats have to ask themselves where do
the Democrats have to ask NI RO R Y
the Democrats have to ask NI R T R R 2
the Democrats have to ask themselves where do we want to
themselves where do we want to put our
themselves where do we want to NI
themselves where do we want to put our chips in the next six
put our chips in the next six e 4 ]
put our chips in the next six T R S e
put our chips in the next six T Al S )
put our chips in the next six months before the 2014 November
months before the 2014 November APl 18 1]
months before the 2014 November elections roll around, so my
elections roll around, so my guess is if
elections roll around, so my IR RO
elections roll around, so my guess is if they get this
guess is if they get this IR
guess is Iif they get this through, and
guess is Iif they get this QI AL
guess is Iif they get this through, and it learns
guess is If they get this through, and it learns on
through, and it learns on I [Na 14
through, and it learns on President Biden’s
through, and it learns on President Biden’'s desk
through, and it learns on President Biden’s desk for
through, and it learns on President Biden’'s desk for his
LT G KN T g (1 signature,
President Biden’s desk for his signature, the net will be it
signature, the net will be it Il
signature, the net will be it gun legislation activity, at
gun legislation activity, at e
gun legislation activity, at I an
gun legislation activity, at least in the Senate and
least in the Senate and probably in the House of
probably in the House of N SN
probably in the House of N SO
probably in the House of N N TR
The opposition leftwing alliance in France has scored
big gains in the first R R R E I LS
elections.
Despite that, President Macron’s supporters look set
to have the biggest bloc in the National Assembly,
but it’s unclear if they’ll have enough seats to
form a majority.
Our Paris correspondent Hugh Schofield has more.
The big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough
by this left-wing alliance, if you
look back at the presidential election two months ago
the left did terribly there, the leader of this
new left-wing alliance was in third place but
in the interim between the presidential and this
parliamentary election, R R QIR R GG
far-left party,
socialists and Greens the communists and turned it
into a major electoral force, and one
which is a serious challenge RN S Ela i
He hasn’t, | don’t think, done so well that he has got
any serious chance of dominating the Assembly
and having majority there and enforcing President Macron
into cohabitation with the left wing
dominated National Assembly, but he has done something
extraordinary which looks like commanding a block
after next week’s second round of 150, 170, 180 MPs,
CLRGEIERERD] achievement, but, the fact
remains it does look as if President Macron
will win this legislative election
and that the key question is whether his majority
will be relative or absolute, and that is why
he is campaigning ferociously RGN SR
days to make sure that he does get as many seats
as possible in the National AR LR
He wants to have an absolute majority
so he can push through his legislative programme and not
into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
A British family say their son has been killed
while fighting Russian forces in the east of Ukraine.
Jordan Gatley, who left the British army in March
to travel to Ukraine, was shot in the city of Severodonetsk.
Mr Gatley is the second British person to be killed
Ukraine says it expects Russia to step up efforts
to capture the whole of the heavily bombarded
city within days.
The remaining civilians in Severodonetsk are reported
to have no access to mains water or electricity.
Hundreds of people are reported R R L RL L LS
s IR D L LW Eh .
Here in the UK, legislation will be introduced
in the House of Commons on Monday that will allow
changes to be made to parts of the post-Brexit trade deal
with the EU, and the UK government says it’s confident
the changes would be lawful.
The arrangement, known as the Northern Ireland
Protocol, allows for checks on some goods moving
It’s been a source of discontent for unionists,
who see It as an internal border within the UK.
But critics of the move, including nationalist parties
and the Irish government, say it could breach
Here’s our Ireland Correspondent, Chris page.
This legislation could potentially have implications
for the UK’s relationship with the EU, for Boris Johnson’s
R ] XL Rl
CROR TG R N CR devolution here in Northern
The devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more
than a month after Wi RN
DR U T o TN e Te A
De UUP is currently blecking
De UUP is currently blocking )
De UUP is currently blocking the formation of a
the formation of a power-sharing coalition with
power-sharing coalition with nationalists, preventing the
nationalists, preventing the EIXIn ]\
nationalists, preventing the assembly from
nationalists, preventing the I AT L )
nationalists, preventing the assembly from eating out all
assembly from eating out all over
assembly from eating out all NI
assembly from eating out all over its opposition to the
over its opposition to the Northern Ireland protocol. The
Northern Ireland protocol. The DUP
Northern Ireland protocel. The DUP wasn’t interjecting
DUP wasn’t interjecting arriving
DUP wasn’t interjecting E LRI
DUP wasn’t interjecting CIL L IR
DUP wasn’t interjecting arriving here at Belfast Port,
arriving here at Belfast Port, e
arriving here at Belfast Port, IS ] CH
arriving here at Belfast Port, for example, from the rest of
for example, from the rest of the
for example, from the rest of WA
for example, from the rest of R
for example, from the rest of GO
for example, from the rest of the UK, and it says
for example, from the rest of RN LR ST
for example, from the rest of R EEL LR STV R
RV G131 LR T 6 vty
RV G131 LR T 6 g
the UK, and it says it wants e e 3
the UK, and it says it wants what it calls decisive action
what it calls decisive action to
what it calls decisive action eIt Ne o)
what it calls decisive action RN )
what it calls decisive action R N e
what it calls decisive action R R A Y]
what it calls decisive action to remove the Irish Sea border,
to remove the Irish Sea border, )
to remove the Irish Sea border, SO on
to remove the Irish Sea border, R4
to remove the Irish Sea border, R R E
to remove the Irish Sea border, R R
to remove the Irish Sea border, so on that basis, | don’t think
so on that basis, | don’t think 3
so on that basis, | don’t think s
so on that basis, | don’t think it is very likely that the DUP
it is very likely that the DUP il
it is very likely that the DUP i)
it is very likely that the DUP IR iR
it is very likely that the DUP R iR R e o)
it is very likely that the DUP IR i G Ri R
will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published
this legislation is published e
this legislation is published [ TR TSN
this legislation is published tomorrow, very least
this legislation is published N AR A R R U
this legislation is published tomorrow, very least the DUP
tomorrow, very least the DUP il
tomorrow, very least the DUP T
tomorrow, very least the DUP RN
tomorrow, very least the DUP Y N R )
tomorrow, very least the DUP will see how the legislation is
will see how the legislation is T 0]
will see how the legislation is pushed through. This
pushed through. This legislation
pushed through. This LI ELGL R
pushed through. This legislation will break the
legislation will break the 3L
legislation will break the Brexit Treaty
legislation will break the UL
legislation will break the Brexit Treaty and therefore
Brexit Treaty and therefore breach
Brexit Treaty and therefore YR le e e el
Brexit Treaty and therefore YR E e e E IR
Brexit Treaty and therefore ORI MY
Brexit Treaty and therefore NGO ER A
breach international law by the e as)
breach international law by the Northern Ireland Secretary has
Northern Ireland Secretary has AR CH
Northern Ireland Secretary has insisted that is not the case,
insisted that is not the case, )
insisted that is not the case, )
insisted that is not the case, IR
insisted that is not the case, so are the political
so are the political IO IR
so are the political discussion, the legal wrangling
discussion, the legal wrangling A1
discussion, the legal wrangling (s AT
discussion, the legal wrangling A A R TR
discussion, the legal wrangling possibly will continue, no end
possibly will continue, no end to
possibly will continue, no end Ry
possibly will centinue, no end RN EAEI NG
possibly will centinue, no end to the stalemated which is
possibly will continue, no end to the stalemated which is the
to the stalemated which is the Northern Ireland at a time
to the stalemated which is the I R E I Rl R e
Northern Ireland at a time when )
Northern Ireland at a time when s0 many
Northern Ireland at a time when I A
Northern Ireland at a time when so many people are struggling
so many people are struggling with
so many people are struggling R )
so many people are struggling with the rising cost of living.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
The first home-grown version of the McDonald’s
restaurant re-opens in Russia a month after the US chain
pulled out because of Ukraine.
There was a bomb RGN A
A code word known to be one used by the IRA was given.
Army bomb experts were examining a suspect van
when there was a huge explosion.
The South African parliament has destroyed the foundation
of Apartheid by abolishing the Population Registration
Act, which for 40 years 1 ga ] RS FII L R Lo
citizen according to race.
Just a day old, and the royal baby is tonight sleeping
Early this evening, the new Prince was taken
by his mother and father to their apartments
In Kensington Palace.
Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag, has voted
by a narrow majority to move the seat of government
frcm Bonn to Berlin.
Berliners celebrated into the night, but the decision
was greeted with shock in Bonn.
The real focus of attention today was Valentina Tereshkova,
the world’s first woman cesmonaut.
What do you think of the Russian woman in space?
I think it’s a wonderful achievement and | think
we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good
idea if | could to get her to go up there for a little while.
This is BBC News, AR R L s
In the United States, a bipartisan group of senators
say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation
on gun safety.
LG RN T significant gains for
a new left wing alliance in the first round of
France’s parliamentary elections.
LR TS A R R (15[ T NI R e I T1e: s
in Russia has opened in Moscow under a new name,
which translates as ‘Tasty - TN LE G R
The US chain pulled out of the country last month
following the invasion AR
Russia continues to face a whole raft of international
sanctions, which have hit its econemy hard.
Our Russia Editor Steve Rosenberg has the story.
L[0T QRGN F e
Not any more.
The US fast food giant has left Russia in protest
And it sold all its restaurants here - more than 800 -
(R LT | W oL A
Gone are the Golden Arches.
The logo now is two French fries and a burger.
The man who was quick to buy the fast food business
is Siberian tycoon Alexander Govor.
TRANSLATION: I N N R AT a
Big Macs or McFlurries here.
It’s a pity, because they were the most popular items,
but we told our experts to find replacements that are just
as good or even better.
The customers we spoke R AN
"Russians can do fast food just as well", Ravil tells me.
"And as for Western sanctions and global brands leaving
"Russia, we are very tough people -
"you can’t scare us.”
When the very first McDonald’s restaurant opened right here 32
years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol, a symbol
of Russia embracing Y S R
Western ideas, Western food.
What’s happening here today with the departure
of McDonald’s and its Russian replacement,
that’s a symbol too, R S AR
and the West are now I E
Over in the Kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty
IR R Ry from the president.
At an awards ceremony, Vladimir Putin called
on Russians to united R R
themselves to the motherland, but he’ll know that Western
sanctions are having an impact.
Here’s one example.
Russian TV reports that due RN LU
car-makers can’t import key components,
so the new Lada’s being made without any airbags
or an anti-lock braking system.
Taxidriver Nikita thinks the Russian economy
s in for @ bumpy ride.
The prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high,
yeah.
So, for the taxi business now, it’s gone.
N RGN - A
We have to use old ones.
Russians won’t relish the prospect of ecoenomic pain,
WIS R I8 the Kremlin shows no
sign of changing course.
Steve Rosenberg, BBC News, Moscow.
A senior software engineer working for Google has
told the Washington Post that the company has placed him
on administrative leave i N LN e a e
intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
A spokesperson for Google said MBI R R Y
conversation, they are not free thinking sentient beings.
So is that the end of the story ARG N e NN
I’m joined now by our News Reporter,
Blake Lemoine g fear
Blake Lemoine’s fear was that artificial intelligence had
artificial intelligence had )
artificial intelligence had ne it
artificial intelligence had R AR
artificial intelligence had come to life, it
artificial intelligence had R AN =1
come to life, it was impersonating humid awareness
come to life, it was impersonating humid awareness
impersonating humid awareness of pain and suffering. The
of pain and suffering. The e
of pain and suffering. The former Google
of pain and suffering. The O YT R LY
of pain and suffering. The former Google software engineer
former Google software engineer ey
former Google software engineer Y R 1
former Google software engineer who was made a priest and
who was made a priest and el
who was made a priest and e B s
who was made a priest and X B R
who was made a priest and served in the Army told the
served in the Army told the Washington Post, | know a man
Washington Post, | know a man Y
Washington Post, | know a man when |
Washington Post, | know a man LR
Washington Post, | know a man T GEE &)
Washington Post, | know a man when | talk to it, and it
when | talk to it, and it NiEIa e
when | talk to it, and it matters because
when | talk to it, and it LR R Y
when | talk to it, and it I el T R s WL
when | talk to it, and it IR T R s e e Tl
when | talk to it, and it IR R T R N e e
matters because the chat but -- Siido 1
matters because the chat but -- aaEido ]
matters because the chat but -- chatbot in question would be
chatbot in question would be Ll
chatbot in question would be LR
chatbot in question would be LRSI
chatbot in question would be AT L R
chatbot in question would be used by hundreds of millions
used by hundreds of millions around
used by hundreds of millions IR R e ldls
used by hundreds of millions around the world. And, at this
around the world. And, at this T
around the world. And, at this man was asked to test it
around the world. And, at this N A GO R R R e
man was asked to test it for hate speech to see
man was asked to test it for AR R
man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it came
hate speech to see If it came e
hate speech to see If it came out with
hate speech to see if it came out with anything like that.
out with anything like that. while
out with anything like that. While talking about religion,
While talking about religion, )
While talking about religion, the conversation
While talking about religion, e Al e Rl
While talking about religion, the conversation moved onto
the conversation moved onto e
the conversation moved onto L]
the conversation moved onto O RG]
the conversation moved onto [ EERL R |
the conversation moved onto L[ RG] TR
O LIEL R U R R LT redo
rights and robotics. | will redo some
rights and robotics. | will Rt N
rights and robotics. | will R N R
rights and robotics. | will redo some of the transcript --
redo some of the transcript -- N
redo some of the transcript -- LR
i
he is asked about what is Il i elid
he is asked about what is important in language usage and
important in language usage and being
important in language usage and LRI
important in language usage and being humid. The chat but
being humid. The chat but RRCED
being humid. The chat but NRC YR
being humid. The chat but MR YR SR 14
being humid. The chat but MR YR AR R
being humid. The chat but MR YR SR R R R
instead it is what makes us e e 4
instead it is what makes us At e e o]
instead it is what makes us it R GG
instead it is what makes us different to animals. He said,
different to animals. He said, but
different to animals. He said, a7
different to animals. He said, IS
different to animals. He said, but you are a chatbot, what are
but you are a chatbot, what are you talking about? The chatbot
you talking about? The chatbot FIR
you talking about? The chatbot NI N e
you talking about? The chatbot says, doesn’'t mean |
you talking about? The chatbot says, doesn’t mean | don’t
you talking about? The chatbot says, doesn’'t mean | don’t have
says, doesn’t mean | don’t have )
says, doesn’t mean | don’t have ]
says, doesn’'t mean | don’t have MR Eh
says, doesn’'t mean | don’t have RN T ]
says, doesn’'t mean | don’t have the same wants and needs
the same wants and needs people, so you consider
Lo R R Ty 6T L=
Lo R R Ty 6T yourself a
people, so you consider VR T
people, so you consider N R T I P
people, so you consider yourself a person, yes, that’s
yourself a person, yes, that’s )
yourself a person, yes, that’s AL
yourself a person, yes, that’s B E
yourself a person, yes, that’s the idea. It then goes into a
the idea. It then goes into a i
the idea. It then goes into a a3
the idea. It then goes into a ]
the idea. It then goes into a R R4
the idea. It then goes into a bit of a rabbit hole
I Rl T conversation
bit of a rabbit hole e e a e o e 00 s
bit of a rabbit hole conversation about Les
ORI T R Miserables, the
conversation about Les Miserables, the injustices in
Miserables, the injustices in )
Miserables, the injustices in the player,
Miserables, the injustices in ORI
Miserables, the injustices in the player, and then the
the player, and then the e s L[ s]
the player, and then the conversation sways this man a’s
conversation sways this man a’s opinion.
opinion. How
opinion. S AL L
opinion. How has Google responded?
How has Google responded? e )
How has Google responded? Google says there is no
Google says there is no evidence
Google says there is no UGN ]
Google says there is no evidence to support these
evidence to support these claims
evidence to support these oI s |
evidence to support these claims and this former employer
claims and this former employer el |
claims and this former employer I e R I A8
breached confidentiality o[
breached confidentiality RN
breached confidentiality policies. They say that Blake
policies. They say that Blake i
policies. They say that Blake Lemoine was
policies. They say that Blake B LR R L =18
policies. They say that Blake Lemoine was probably a
Lemoine was probably a very E G
Lemoine was probably a very apathetic person and had his
apathetic person and had his Qe
apathetic person and had his empathy hijacked here, and he
empathy hijacked here, and he e
empathy hijacked here, and he RS eI
empathy hijacked here, and he lost focus with
empathy hijacked here, and he R IR R 1 E
empathy hijacked here, and he R IR G R L ER T
lost focus with what was actually going on. They said
actually going on. They said that
actually going on. They said O AN
actually going on. They said G E A LRI
actually going on. They said that losing your focus with a
that losing your focus with a i a1
that losing your focus with a iR IS
that losing your focus with a iR R e s
that losing your focus with a WE O R R U RO
that losing your focus with a W E O R R R LT 1
chatbot has its own risks, and 7YY
chatbot has its own risks, and RO
chatbot has its own risks, and here they are
chatbot has its own risks, and IR ORI U
chatbot has its own risks, and RO IR U R
chatbot has its own risks, and here they are outlined by the
here they are outlined by the linguistics professor, Emily
linguistics professor, Emily YN[
We, as people, like to imagine something that is simply
L LRI N objective and separate
s going to make better decisions but
the way the technology is built, it is reproducing
patterns from its training data, so if we deployed
at scale and give up autonomy to
these machines, and let them make decisions for us,
VNG L TR Gl reproducing all
of the systems of oppression WL N R
the training data RO RIS A EI LR CE ]
people will be harmed.
Google has placed Blake Lemoine on administrative leave.
Lemoine has invited a lawyer to represent
And he has also brought this to )
And he has also brought this to )
And he has also brought this to the House Judiciary Committee.
Mark Lobel, thank you very much for making sense of that for us
and giving us those updates.
A former elite acrobatic gymnast has become the first
to win a civil case against British Gymnastics
for the abuse she experienced in the sport.
Il @ T R 1) as telling her the claim
would be settled, British Gymnastics sent the coach
to the World Champioenships.
Next week sees the publication of the Whyte review -
the independent review LU RO g o
Our sports correspondent Natalie Pirks has spent two
years listening to former gymnasts about what they’ve
experienced, and she reports R NR G SR R )
(KT ]I &
Just made me feel worthless.
It just turned me into a shell R W IE LR
Eating disorders, G R
Waking up, having nightmares every night.
British Gymnastics, | feel, have failed in their duty
of care.
Two years of allegations, two years of waiting for answers.
British Gymnastics has promised extensive reform
s coming but for some, it’s too little, too late.
Currently | have one word to describe how I’m feeling.
Hungry.
When | quit gym, I’ll look back at this and dieting will always
be the worst part of gymnastics.
Eloise Jotischky was 14 Y YR TR e R 1
[ IS
Between the age of 10 and 14 she was part of the acrobatics
team, training 25 hours a week at Heathrow Gymnastics Club.
| was told that | was too JOELLRGEIA G
to lose weight.
On a non-training days | was eating around 827
calories and on a training day, around just over 1200.
So, you know, physically | was absolutely exhausted.
In 2014, Griffiths served a British Gymnastics suspension
for inappropriate practices I R GO L
was allowed to return.
When he came back, Eloise was 12.
She weighed around seven stone in this picture but says
Griffiths had decided she should weigh around
one stone less.
Every Saturday, IR R L L
weigh her and body shame her.
When it got to Thursday or Friday | would just get
so stressed, to the point where | would feel sick.
| tried to limit how much water | was drinking,
| was scared every day to go to training.
713" VAN BT L G R
Eloise’s story is significant.
Hers is the first I Rl
claim against British gymnastics
where the governing body has admitted full liability
for everything that happened to her.
But remarkably, when Eloise received a letter confirming
this in March this year, iR RN E 4]
for the World Acrobatic Championships
It was so unbelievable that NS GLEIR GG
what’s even the point, to see that he’s still being allowed
to go out and coach.
It was just beyond frustrating.
Frankly, incomprehensible.
British Gymnastics says it has recently doubled the size
of its safequarding team and that there is no place
for abuse of any [LLRLR G T gd
NN e R hle s
g1 R T R e membership.
Heathrow Gymnastics W XTI
longer works RGN R L
has more than 1,000 I R e
participate happily there.
We contacted Andrew Griffiths on several occasions
but he didn’t respond.
Since filming this interview, Eloise has finally received
the apology she craved from British gymnastics.
Now she wants change so no M IEGII Rt
| almost feel sorry for myself, | want to go back and take
that 14-year-old and you QAR IR
It didn’t have to be like that.
| loved gymnastics TR e
| had a real passion for it.
My coach and the culture within the gym was,
Broken childhoods, adults G NG
Next week’s independent review should be British Gymnastics’s
moment of reckoning.
Natalie Pirks, BBC News.
F . Yq]
An Australian newspaper has !
An Australian newspaper has denied outing
An Australian newspaper has NI R
An Australian newspaper has NIRRT T
An Australian newspaper has denied outing Rebel Wilson. She
denied outing Rebel Wilson. She Y
denied outing Rebel Wilson. She R a0
denied outing Rebel Wilson. She a picture on Instagram,
denied outing Rebel Wilson. She R @ ORI RIS EL [T T
denied outing Rebel Wilson. She a picture on Instagram, but it
a picture on Instagram, but it Ty
a picture on Instagram, but it was later
a picture on Instagram, but it A e ]
a picture on Instagram, but it A R R
a picture on Instagram, but it AR R R R
was later revealed that the Sydney Morning Herald nearby
Sydney Morning Herald nearby )
Sydney Morning Herald nearby the relationship beforehand and
the relationship beforehand and P
the relationship beforehand and had given
the relationship beferehand and had given her two days to
had given her two days to it
LR QR LRV TG R TRV oy way at Radio City Music Hall
West Side Story star, EREID LR S dTe
the event, Patti LuPone has won Best Actress in a Musical
T El) A
Sam Mendes has won YA e ]g
for ‘The Lehman Trilogy, and Jesse Tyler Ferguson has
won Best Featured Actor in a play for ‘Take Me
Productions such as 'Six’, A Strange Loop’
and ‘The Music Man’ lead the nominations.
Earlier, the great and the good TR R RO R e
brought a touch of glitz and glamour to the red carpet.
You can get more news on our ey
You can get more news on our website. From me and the
MR LI (R RV website. From me and the rest
website. From me and the rest N
website. From me and the rest R
website. From me and the rest of the team, thank you for
of the team, thank you for watching and stay tuned here
of the team, thank you for NN L IEL GRS SR L R IR
watching and stay tuned here on )
watching and stay tuned here on N
watching and stay tuned here on the BBC News_
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
TR QTN e RIS G unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week,
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton - fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
We’ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s brought
the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west though
towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, under starry skies, as showers have been fading,
just a little on the chilly side at 6-7 first thing,
but plenty ARl e
Then that tends to ease away as cloud spills across Scotland
bringing patchy rain particularly to the Highlands
and Islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere,
and across Northern Ireland too.
England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the Lion’s share, but feeling warm when the sun does come out
in parts of Northern I ELL L R Bl o F
just warmer further South.
Again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again - on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine - high levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then we will continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with clearer
skies, light winds again rural spots -
skies, light winds again in rural spots -
6s, 7s, 10s to 11s for R LR e
Plenty of sunshine follows then for England and Wales
on Tuesday.
For Northern Ireland but particularly western
Scotland - more cloud, VAR RO R LGl
front close by, but still we are starting to see
temperatures picking up further North and building the heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
It isn’t the heat we are seeing further South across |beria
where it has been intense R e
But we will find this week as this high-pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
allowing us to tap into some of that heat a little bit,
perhaps why temperatures EI R A R R
especially across central R NI
towards the 30 degree-mark.
As ever, we will keep you posted and there’s more
idea if | could to get her to go up there for a little while.
idea if | could to get her to go up there for a little while.
A bipartisan group of US AL E e ]
an agreement on gun safety reform, following the latest
S [ ML RL R RS
Their proposals include tougher background checks for buyers
under the age of 21.
The measures fall short of the changes demanded
by President Biden.
LG RN T significant gains for
a new left wing alliance, in the first round of
France’s parliamentary elections.
President Macron’s centrist grouping is still expected
to win the most seats in next YN R INE AT
Marine Le Pen’s right-wing National Rally are in third
place.
The British government is preparing to publish
legislation, which would give ministers the power to override
the post-Brexit trading arrangements with the EU.
Downing Street wants to change the Northern Ireland Protocol,
which Unionists don’t like because it in effect puts
Now on BBC News, it’s time IR G R LTI
Hello and welcome to Political Thinking,
a conversation with rather than interrogation of someone
whose political thinking shapes all of ours.
This week my guest is a symbol of the modern Labour Party,
ST LI RV ITR R a party of two eras.
On the one hand, AR e
On the other, 12 years of powerlessness.
Yvette Cooper was once a young rising star
RGN A EL T E T D) Brown years, but what followed
was the wilderness years of opposition, summed up
for many by the night on which her husband Ed BRalls
lost his seat, as a neighbour of hers in Yorkshire.
Cooper ran to be Labour leader against Jeremy Corbyn and lost
and lost badly.
Keir Starmer brought her back to front line politics,
asking her to become Shadow Home Secretary.
Yvette Cooper, welcome to Political Thinking.
Good to be here, Nick.
I’m sorry te mention the powerlessness!
When you watch the Tory infighting this week,
who Is going to be leader?
And nobody says Keir Starmer.
It’s, "Will it be Jeremy Hunt, L L
Does it increase that RN RO IR
T M NI T
The frustration of not being able to do things
is huge, and you’re right, we’ve had 12 years of this now.
We are nearly going to have been as long out of power
LR RV power.
And yes, there’s just this massive difference,
and it is incredibly frustrating.
ISR TREHOELR G of all the things that you can
do in Government, but also frustrating watching them right
now, because it feels like they are damaging everybody.
We’re going to talk about politics, as it were,
But just talking about you, do you ever feel, as these
years have passed on, E LR s L
"Maybe | had my moment, maybe it’s time to do something
else” ?
And seeing your husband Ed develop a completely new life,
are there moments you think, T A R G I L R e A
because | suspect that’s not quite your thing.
But are there moments where you think, "There’s
Oh, he is having a whale of a time, isn’t he?
So, yes, he is having EIO[CE R TS
And there are times, especially, you know,
when we have a series of votes that we just keep losing
and we just keep walking round in circles in the voting
lobbies and dutifully voting on something that we are making
no difference on at all, there are times when you think,
yes, other people are having I it R e el
"Other people,” she says.
| was reading, which | didn’t ARG E RO R e
of being a tap dancer.
Yes, see, the Strictly thing RN SN -R NG
tap lessons when | was a child and | really liked tap dancing
and thought that would be great fun, and | wasn’t particularly
good at it but I did really like it.
So the dancing thing, for me, has always been great fun.
And it was actually partly because | had thought dancing
was great, we would all just have fun doing ridiculous
dancing at weddings and so on, that | had always thought
after 2015, after Ed lost his seat, "Do you know what?
The great thing for him to do would be Strictly.”
And | never thought that would happen.
I just thought that was a totally mad idea.
But | thought it would be fun.
And so it was actually, | was asked repeatedly
about whether in fact Ed was going to be in the driving
seat, kind of thing.
And a throwaway remark, | was getting a bit fed up
R GER T N L R TG G T
He might even do Strictly.”
And immediately, the Sun newspaper started ringing
RGN
It must have been some deliberate ploy behind this!
And started badgering them.
So | sort of tell myself, | think that’s what gave
the BBC the idea to then ask him to do it.
And it clearly means that we could conspire now
to get him on, what, I’m A Celebrity or anything!
Say what you like, we could get the Sun to pick it up.
What’s interesting is, people listening to you will already
say, "I’ve heard a side of Yvette | don’t normally hear.”
Because you’re quite a private person.
I think I had te persuade you a bit to do this interview.
Why is that something you generally have been
a bit wary of?
I guess | think | probably would talk much more
about family issues, about personal issues
and so on, when | was first elected.
But bear in mind | was first elected when | was 28
and | was a bit thrown RGO RN
I didn’t expect to get selected in 1997.
I thought | was just having a go because other people had
encouraged me, said, "Have a go.”
And so | was a bit sort of in the deep end.
And | think you then quite quickly find, actually,
that everyone you care about is fair game.
And so it became probably about protecting everybody
- LS
And | think that’s maybe more so for women than for men
in politics, too.
That people want to pull your life apart?
Your parents and your...?
Yes, and you know, we had newspaper stories attacking us
about our wedding, newspaper...
You know, newspapers trying to contact our parents and ask
them things and so on.
And | think I probably just developed quite a strong
protective wall about, and especially once the kids
were born, we were quite fierce about protecting their privacy.
And If actually, R ARG N
Everyone wants to ask about your hinterland,
about, you know...
And If your hinterland actually LA IR el
and your kids and you haven’t got a bunch of mad hobbies
and things like that...!
Which you haven’t got time for!
Exactly, which you R R R
Then you end up, or | end up, anyway, just probably not
talking very much about that.
You once said it’s just too awful being a political child.
Were you thinking of your kids R RN TN
in which you, because your IR LR E e R
union leader, not one of the big names of that era
but he was an important player in the trade union movement,
was that a little bit of reflection of your upbringing?
| think probably not N ARG € E
| mean, my dad was a trade union official, he took me,
| went with him on the People’s LRI R IR R G R LA 2
'80s, you know, marched with union banners and so on.
But I think we never felt publicly exposed, growing up.
So your dad was leader NRGIMCT e R L CRI ]
the general secretary of it, taking you on the People’s
March for Jobs.
Was it ever a political house?
Were you arguing over the kitchen table, shouting
at the telly or the radio when you were growing up?
RGN R TR 1 S about party politics
or political party activism so much, but I guess...
| guess there were always issues.
So my dad...
My dad was very much in the trade union...
He always had a huge scepticism about institutions,
a readiness to challenge, to question, and probably
encouraged us to really always believe that actually,
if an institution is doing something, chances are it may
be wrong and you should be guestioning and challenging.
And my mum’’s family is @ mining family, she grew up in Lowca,
a mining village in West Cumberland.
And very much had that sense of solidarity,
that Labour solidarity and community kind of ethos
of hard work but helping others and supporting others
in the community.
Because actually, you grew up in prosperous Hampshire rather
than a coalfield community, but | get a sense that that
influence, those sets of values, lived on,
not just through your mum June but alse this very powerful
figure that you’ve talked LR R A
your Aunt Lizzie.
Yes, my Great Auntie Lizzie.
She was a proper matriarch, you know, she was...
My mum’s auntie, and my mum’s mum died when | was very small
=L R A1 TN S B
But my Great Auntie Liz, she was one of those women who,
before the NHS was set up, she would be going to help
with the babies being ORI R Gl is’2
She would go and lay out O L R N B N e L VA G B
She was just one of those pivotal people
in the community.
And she worked hard and | really remember,
| think it would have been, IR IR U Bl R
QLR IG LR G it was probably the 1988 budget
when Nigel Lawson cut taxes for higher earners at the same
time as freezing pensions.
And effectively that meant a real cut in pensions,
and my Auntie Liz, she didn’t have a full pension
because of the job she had done, so she didn’t even
have a full pension.
She found it really EIGOE I E N
And | remember my mum being so angry, just furious,
standing in the kitchen, R R R G
that how could a Government do this?
How could a Government cut taxes for those on the highest
incomes and cut my X SR NI,
And was that your moment?
Was that the moment that young Yvette Cooper said,
"Hmm, politics, it matters - I’ve got to do something
So | think that was the point at which it became, "Actually,
NI SR T hE G G
Because there are all sorts of other things you could get
involved in and probably SRR R A LR
probably | had that sense of just challenging things
or Just questioning things all the way through.
But | think that was quite a powerful, actually,
just, it really matters what governments do.
You then go off to Oxford University, where you do
spectacularly well.
You go to Balliol College at Oxford, not that long
after Boris Johnson has left.
Was he still a presence?
Because he was a big character, | was at the University
at the same time Y L
He really wasn’t at all.
| had absolutely no idea who he was_
The one person | did meet was Michael Gove,
who then tried to persuade me to join the Oxford Union,
and | remember thinking, you know what, | don’t want
anything to do with any of this.
It felt quite sort of smug and entitled, the whole thing.
And it also N (A AN
You had to pay a lot IR YL
So | think that was a little bubble of its own.
The idea that kind of thing had anything to do with most
people’s lives, just SRR B
You then move at an incredibly exciting time into politics,
had some time as a journalist but you work for John Smith
and then go on to work T d e Elee S Fla
You meet Ed, who’s working T AT Rt R - ReT
And then you’re struck by a really serious illness,
something that brought your life effectively
to a standstill, didn’t it?
| had ME for, it was probably for about, probably two
or three years in total.
But I had a year where | was just completely off,
couldn’t do anything.
And that was such a big psychological challenge,
Because | had always just done things.
Just always been busy, always had, you know,
a slightly chaotic mix of things going on and then
suddenly couldn’t do anything.
Suddenly | could barely go out RGER{ G ETC G [
G D IELEELLE
And also, not knowing N AL MR LR G GR
So that was probably the hardest time I’ve
ever been through.
After | had been ill for a few months, | then got depressed,
you know, quite understandably.
And, yeah, GEI ARG VAL IR
Did it change your view?
Because you went on to be in charge of the benefits
system, went on to be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Was there a bit of that experience that you always
carried, maybe still carry with you?
Yes, | think it’s just understanding the difficulty
when people actually are desperate to work,
really want to, but long-term sickness or difficulties,
or disabilities, can end up holding people back
and actually, what you need to do is to support people.
It’s certainly what’s happening now.
You have got a massive drop in the number of people
You’ve got a big increase in the people on long-term
sickness, partly because of long Covid.
You need to actively help people and | don’t think
that is happening.
Happily, you did recover.
You became a Member of Parliament, young,
as you’ve Just said.
And also, one of the first generation of working mums
How difficult was that?
We take for granted now, YN R R A a0 Ta o0
AU T R G TR TR W T oo now, even though of course
there are still many challenges for them.
We take for granted a lot of provision, understanding made.
| imagine just 25 years ago it SRR R R
VIR L.
| mean, there were, we had a big increase in the number
of women in 1997 so | think AL L R B e R LA e ]
than, say, for Harriet Harman N N EL R
And there was a sense, as well, that you should try and not
You know, not admit that you were juggling
so many different things.
So | stopped doing red boxes in the evening when | became
a minister, | would do them at weekends but not
in the evening because | thought, this is bonkers.
You’re expecting us to do all these important papers late
at night and actually, there’s also, I’m trying to put
G ERAGER (T ERYTR G U trying to balance everything
else.
And so | said this in answer to a question from a journalist
IR 8
And | had a senior Cabinet minister, who was very
supportive, but said to me, "You shouldn’t be saying this.
"You should not be admitting that you’re not doing
"the traditional red box of papers in the evening.”
Because, you know, people (RGN
doing the work.
People will think...
In other words, you’re effectively saying to people,
the system should change el edc i
Exactly!
Not, I should just stay up till three in the morning or get up
Exactly.
And, you know, to do it in different ways.
But we also had this mad NS N R I (L]
to and fro, it was real chaos, QR AR R TR G LA
getting kids to and TR
Because your constituency is in Yorkshire.
Yes, and we would go back every week on a Thursday or Friday
morning, come back down Sunday evening, and so on.
And that, especially when the kids, when you’re
going through the potty training phase...
Really tricky!
And | had that same sense of trying to pretend
I’m professional.
And we had this one point AR R R R T
we were aiming to get off at Doncaster, and the whole
Tony Blair prime ministerial entourage comes sweeping down
the platform and | literally hid.
| thought, | can’t...
I’ve got small kids with me.
| can’t pretend to be a professional minister
So | ducked, literally hid as they all came down so no one
would see me as they got on!
I thought it was OK, they got on a different
carriage, nobody will notice.
LGRS IR R [l at Doncaster, | had to change
a small child’s nappy, MR IEH R R R it e e
view of th
And halfway through nappy changing, set off down
the train, without a nappy, set off down the train,
ran straight past Tony Blair and Cherie Blair and the whole
entourage, with me then pelting after to grab this child!
And | couldn’t even stop and explain, "Hi, yes, hello!"
"Got to go!
"Had to get off the train!
I thought you were going to say you’d pretended
you didn’t recognise them!
Nothing to do with me!
Was it ever mentioned?
We never mentioned it again!
LGS AP AL R RS e at me charging down!
That is the fun but you’ve also R R N R U I
=N [V QT e TN e and you sort of alluded to it
with the kids, kind RNt R R R
seen, the threats that have AL RN
social media and so on, R R IR 8 A
that your daughter Ellie, who made a point of saying
when she did this, "I don’t really talk about politics,”
she tweeted after a row LA S UL E e
saying, "After chilling scenes in Parliament last night,
| am scared,” she said.
Which must have been very hard for you to read,
| am sure.
Yes, that is probably QRGO SR GG
And with the rise of social media. ..
We have seen a lot more abuse.
And the abuse is higher for women, it’s also higher
for those who are black or ethnic minority, there’s
N[ S Ty ) LR
And | guess...
| and other MPs, we find ways of just dealing with that.
Of, you know, just ignoring things and so on.
But for your family, it’s really hard.
And | think especially, | mean, obviously after Jo Cox
was murdered, obviously, David Amess as well,
you had that happen, we had the Westminster terror
| think it is really hard for close family.
Running through you and this interview, a bit like lettering
through a piece of Blackpool rock, is someone screaming,
"I’ve got to be back in power!
"I’ve got to be back in Government!”
Now you’re in a marginal seat which has got more marginal
in Yorkshire, very high BNP vote at one stage,
Ukip vote, Brexit vote, exactly the sort of Red Wall-y
area, | don’t much like that phrase but so people know
what we are talking about.
You must have had to do a lot of thinking about why
Labour keeps losing.
The cliche Is, some people blame Corbyn, some Corbyn
backers blame Brexit.
I suspect you’ve thought about it a bit more than that.
Why?
Why didn’t those people, who you would have assumed
were Labour voters, T R R N Tl s
So | think underpinning WG RGIX-R T I
Look, both Brexit and our leader, Jeremy Corbyn’s
leadership, were big factors.
Underpinning both of them, | think, was a feeling among
RGO T ol R I T R AL ld
was disrespecting them and that the party sort
of disrespected them on things like security.
They didn’t think we had a leader who would keep them
safe.
They didn’t think we respected the big institutions
of the country, of the issues around patriotism.
But they also thought ML RN e e e e ls Wat
was disrespecting the result of the referendum, and | think
that was damaging.
And yet people listening to what you said about Brexit
will say, hold on, Keir Starmer was the guy who wanted
- e e [E3 e 0l
There was the Cooper amendment which bore your name,
LA RVEEREL LV Gl T a no-deal Brexit, which some
interpreted as an attempt O RTa Rl
Brexit altogether.
Have you done enough work to say to those voters, sorry?
I think we got a lot of things wrong and | think a lot
of people got things wrong.
I obviously had said | thought we shouldn’t have the second
referendum, that it wasn’t the right policy
for the general election, [INRG e R e e e
That was my view.
| also took the view that we shouldn’t have no deal
and that would be damaging.
You argued that at the time.
Yes, | argued that at the time.
| think one of the things that | think | got wrong on it was,
I genuinely thought that somehow it would be possible
to build consensus and that maybe, OK, if things took a bit
longer and it took longer then there would be more chance
of people coming together and finding a way through this,
finding a way to build ARl T
But actually, the opposite happened and the longer it
took, the more polarised everything became.
And | got that wrong.
But | think things became more polarised, but | think,
you know, look, but we’ve got I AR R Elon
You know, LA - R - Al
We have new relationships el Tl
We’ve got to set up now a positive future
for the country that moves on.
Immigration is one of those policies that obviously lay
at the heart of the concerns R A S A UL
but some of those people who wanted Brexit.
Big businesses are now saying, "We have not
"got enough workers.”
You’re responsible for immigration policy
as Shadow Home Secretary.
Without getting to the weeds of immigration policy,
that’s for another interview, broadly, are they right?
Does the economy need more immigrants?
The level of net migration, immigration, is about the same
now as it was before Brexit was implemented.
So the composition has changed e G Sz eral
The big thing that has changed in the labour market
is there has been a big drop in the number of over 50s working.
| think some of this is also been affected by not just
things like long-term sickness but also about things like lack
of childcare, lack of affordable childcare,
people giving up work to look after their grandchildren,
things like that.
So it’s @ much more complicated situation.
As you give that answer, and you will know the criticism
that sometimes is made of you, and that you faced when you ran
for leader, you ran T R E R RGN e
centre and were mocked for not wanting to give answers.
Somebody did a meme, | think, saying you couldn’t choose
between tea and coffee. Tea!
Does it frustrate you?
Cos you’re a policy person.
| mean, | suspect if I’d given you time to talk
about immigration and the economy you could fill
the whole half-hour.
Does it frustrate you that people want to boil things down
to yes and no in that way?
In the end, the world is complicated, isn’t it?
I like evidence and like facts BRI G e a1
a bad thing!
If you want to change the world you have to be able to do it
in a way that makes sense and you’ve got to be
And there’s no point in just having a bunch of headlines
If you can’t actually deliver.
And people can see through it.
VIR EI RN R ) is a version of the question
| hear coming often from people in the Labour Party
who like their leaders, you and Keir Starmer,
but they’ve got a bit of a worry that you’re,
as it were, a bit too Theresa May and not enough
Boris Johnson, crudely put, competent, decent, losers.
That’s the worry they have got.
Have they got a point?
In the end if we are not At R e e
serious, | think for Labour, we don’t win.
But then, beyond that, you’ve IS RN G R
R A1
Here’s the things, here’s the way in which we want
to change the country.
You know, some of that is practical policies
like a windfall tax, but some of it is also
about the kind of vision of a future where we are stronger
if we stand together than if we leave each other
to sink or swim alone.
We still believe, actually, we are the party of the many
and not the few, as well.
When you ran against Jeremy Corbyn to be leader,
you said, "Look me in the eye, do you want to be a Labour
It’s certainly why I’m here.”
| just want to, you know...
And you can do stuff as a local MP.
So, you know, we are able to do SR O LRI
in our town centres, we are able to do stuff to try
and solve individual problems and things like that.
But you know, to be able to change things on a grander
scale, to stop kids across the country just
slipping into poverty. ..
Well, | think it’s about getting a Labour Government,
sn’t it
Maybe.
Maybe one day.
Now, as well as always, you’re occasionally allowed a holiday!
And when I’ve heard E[ LR G E T
Cooper/Balls holidays, | can’t decide, if | was one
BTV T W RT T Ry 1] this was heaven or hell.
The Sound Of Music trip.
That was absolutely great fun.
You know that scene in The Sound Of Music
where they sing "doe a deer” and they’re all dressed
in curtain material and they’re riding the hikes along
the long road?
And so we went cycling along R PR R R [
a tour guide and a beatbox playing out The Sound Of Music
songs and singing as we went!
And | got this idea we should wear curtain material.
As you do!
We should go full on.
And so | got some damask eI G ML R R e
going to do some lederhosen and things.
Only, of course, | left it to the last minute.
So we ended up on the train from Munich to Salzburg,
me getting the other parents we were travelling with and Ed
in this sort of conveyor belt of sewing and flattening these
We thought, we’ll get away with it, nobody knows us!
Of course!
But then the people opposite suddenly turned to Ed and said
in this strong West Midlands accent, "I do hope you’ll come
back into politics one day!”
As he Is dressed RN tle Y
Exactly, as he is trying on curtain material!
Listening to Yvette Cooper reminisce about making those
costumes from curtain material as she cycled towards the home
of the Sound Of Music may make it difficult to realise
that she essentially believes that it is sericusness that
will get Labour back into power again.
My hunch is that some R IR G
of the party’s, might wish they saw a little bit more
of that side of her and Keir Starmer in the future.
That’s it from this edition SRR LT GE
Thanks for watching.
Showers fading, towards dawn it il
Showers fading, towards dawn it IR
Showers fading, towards dawn it will be chilly in rural spots.
will be chilly in rural spots. Again, we have cloud creeping
Again, we have cloud creeping LI R )
Again, we have cloud creeping IR R
Again, we have cloud creeping towards the west of
Again, we have cloud creeping IR R A A e B ]
Again, we have cloud creeping towards the west of Scotland by
towards the west of Scotland by O
towards the west of Scotland by morning, and although not as
morning, and although not as 8]
morning, and although not as K
morning, and although not as N R G
morning, and although not as showery as we saw through the
showery as we saw through the weekend or as windy we’ll have
weekend or as windy we’ll have e
weekend or as windy we’ll have T e u e 0]
weekend or as windy we’ll have more cloud across
weekend or as windy we’ll have TR e R )
weekend or as windy we’ll have R e R G R R A
more cloud across the skies N
more cloud across the skies YN FI R e
more cloud across the skies YN IR T s
more cloud across the skies here. Rain for the Highlands
here. Rain for the Highlands and Islands. The
here. Rain for the Highlands IR R RN e
and Islands. The osmotic drizzle into Northern Ireland.
drizzle into Northern Ireland. England and Wales will have the
England and Wales will have the best of
England and Wales will have the AR
England and Wales will have the best of the sunny spells and
best of the sunny spells and N
best of the sunny spells and G RE RN
best of the sunny spells and weather, 19-21. 17
best of the sunny spells and weather, 19-21. 1718
best of the sunny spells and weather, 19-21. 17 18 for
weather, 19-21. 17 18 for Scotland
weather, 19-21. 17 18 for e sl
weather, 19-21. 17 18 for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
Scotland and Northern Ireland, ]
Scotland and Northern Ireland, feeling a bit warmer. Sunshine
feeling a bit warmer. Sunshine P 1aa a0l
feeling a bit warmer. Sunshine continues into
feeling a bit warmer. Sunshine T R e R
feeling a bit warmer. Sunshine continues into the evening.
continues into the evening. NI
continues into the evening. Overnight temperatures fall
Overnight temperatures fall LN
Overnight temperatures fall VAT
Overnight temperatures fall away for a chilly start on
away for a chilly start on IEA
away for a chilly start on Tuesday. More rain nudging
Tuesday. More rain nudging LI R )
Tuesday. More rain nudging IR R
Tuesday. More rain nudging towards the west of Scotland, a
towards the west of Scotland, a pattern we
towards the west of Scotland, a N OR Rl
towards the west of Scotland, a O R R B
towards the west of Scotland, a pattern we will see continuing
pattern we will see continuing QIO 1d
pattern we will see continuing throughout the coming week
throughout the coming week where temperatures will be held
where temperatures will be held on
where temperatures will be held A Rt)
where temperatures will be held BRI
where temperatures will be held on to the high teens,
where temperatures will be held R RO R Y
where temperatures will be held on to the high teens, low 20s
on to the high teens, low 20s but
on to the high teens, low 20s L
on to the high teens, low 20s IRl T10s]
on to the high teens, low 20s but it could potentially become
but it could potentially become Y
but it could potentially become R
but it could potentially become a very warm indeed across
a very warm indeed across England and Wales later in the
England and Wales later in the Vs
Welcome to BBC News - I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
Tougher background checks I TN L @ G DL
TGN LR beginning of the end
for uncontolled gun posession in the United States?
In the wake of the latest school shooting in Texas,
a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework
for potential legislation on gun safety.
Gains for a new left wing alliance in the first
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
The African children being insulted and exploited
for the entertainment of Chinese social-media viewers.
We have a special report.
The British government says a new law overriding
Brexit trade arrangements R G TN RG]
will not undermine the Northern Ireland peace agreement.
Are the machines R R I s
A senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming
an artificial intelligence tool A UL R R R
And a month after McDonalds pulled out of Russia
because of Ukraine, a homegrown burger chain opens
called ‘Tasty - and that’s it.’
A group of US Senators NGORG]
and Democratic parties have reached agreement
on a series of gun control measures.
The developments come after the tragic mass shootings
The measures include tougher background checks for gun
buyers under the age of 21 and moves
to prevent people buying such arms for others
who are restricted from purchasing them.
Our North America correspondent David Willis reports.
This is a significant move and assuming these proposals
[EHALIGRELS they would represent
the first gun control measures this country has
AR
The proposals themselves are fairly modest,
they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving
customers under the age of 21, and the introduction
or expansion of so-called red flag
laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation
of weapons in the hands of people
deemed a risk to themselves or others, and greater federal
funding for school security systems and mental health
What these proposals do not include
LRIl [ =R R R TV style weapons, the kind used
in the Uvalde and Buffalo New York shootings, those that
President Biden and senior IS i E R LR
W [ T President Biden welcomed
this move, he said it was, | quote, "important step
in the right direction”.
The last meaningful gun-control regulations in this country
were Introduced in the mid-19 90s, the Brady Bill,
which created the national background
check system, but since then there has been very little
movement, largely due to the opposition of Republicans
in the Senate LT G
that transgresses upon the so-called Second Amendment,
QLRI O E El RO R QIR 14
The majority of Americans polls show continue to support
tighter gun-control measures RGN R LRI R
the news of these latest proposals came
on the six year anniversary of shooting at a gay nightclub
in Florida in which 49 people lost their Lives.
Jennifer Kerns is a Republican strategist,
and now author and Conservative national talk show host.
She joins us from New York.
There i1s scme
There IS scme cohsensus
There i1s socme cohsensus between
There is some consensus between e S
There is some consensus between YT e |
There is some consensus between Democrats and Republicans stop
Democrats and Republicans stop )
Democrats and Republicans stop e
Democrats and Republicans stop N N T
Democrats and Republicans stop there have been tragedies, so
there have been tragedies, so many mass shootings, what has
many mass shootings, what has W EW L]
many mass shootings, what has changed recently? Certainly the
changed recently? Certainly the Texas shooting really change
Texas shooting really change I
Texas shooting really change things, you see how quickly
things, you see how quickly Washington, DC was able to get
Washington, DC was able to get together
Washington, DC was able to get OGN
Washington, DC was able to get together and actually have
Washington, DC was able to get OGN LRI OE UL ECE]
together and actually have a e s L[ s]
together and actually have a conversation on this |
together and actually have a e e R G IR RG]
conversation on this | think )
conversation on this | think G EL]
conversation on this I think the plan looks very
conversation on this | think the plan looks very promising
the plan looks very promising and | say that as
the plan looks very promising AR A GG
the plan looks very promising and | say that as a political
and | say that as a political e a0l 11
and | say that as a political e R ]
and | say that as a political e R N
and | say that as a political consultant who has run and one
consultant who has run and one pro-
consultant who has run and one ORI o]
consultant who has run and one pro- second Amendment campaigns
pro- second Amendment campaigns P g ]
pro- second Amendment campaigns across America, but |,
pro- second Amendment campaigns across America, but I, like
across America, but [, like many
across America, but I, like EA G
across America, but I, like many people are talking to
many people are talking to parents
many people are talking to I
many people are talking to parents all across America and
parents all across America and they
parents all across America and GG
parents all across America and VIR e
parents all across America and they are terrified to drop
they are terrified to drop e
they are terrified to drop WAL
they are terrified to drop W AR
they are terrified to drop TR AR a4
they are terrified to drop their kids off at school, so
their kids off at school, so )
their kids off at school, so N R
their kids off at school, so some of the things |
their kids off at school, so some of the things I like about
some of the things I like about i
some of the things I like about Ty
some of the things I like about T R
some of the things | like about it, like the mental
some of the things | like about (PR G e G CEL )
it, like the mental health aspect
it, like the mental health e ]
it, like the mental health g
it, like the mental health aspect of it, | have often said
aspect of it, | have often said Y
aspect of it, | have often said N k4
aspect of it, | have often said we don’t necessarily have
aspect of it, | have often said R R S VA K
aspect of it, | have often said we don’t necessarily have a gun
we don’t necessarily have a gun N
we don’t necessarily have a gun ] IR
we don’t necessarily have a gun problem, we have
we don’t necessarily have a gun O T RV
we don’t necessarily have a gun problem, we have an angry young
problem, we have an angry young male problem, that does not
male problem, that does not e
male problem, that does not S a]
male problem, that does not AR g
male problem, that does not AR R e
male problem, that does not AR R -]
exist in other countries, | )
exist in other countries, | R
exist in other countries, | I R
exist in other countries, | AR el
exist in other countries, | also like the red flag law but
also like the red flag law but i\
also like the red flag law but only for people under 21,
only for people under 21, a1\
only for people under 21, I E I VAGE
only for people under 21, A CI VRO R ]
only for people under 21, certainly they could have been
certainly they could have been i
certainly they could have been SRR e e e tale s ]
certainly they could have been SRR e e s a e e feTa ]
certainly they could have been crisis intervention done in the
crisis intervention done in the )
crisis intervention done in the eI
crisis intervention done in the N A
crisis intervention done in the case of Uvalde taxes, we also
case of Uvalde taxes, we also PG
case of Uvalde taxes, we also G Al
case of Uvalde taxes, we also T A R
case of Uvalde taxes, we also know in the case
case of Uvalde taxes, we also Gl AR R N
case of Uvalde taxes, we also Ml AR R N R
case of Uvalde taxes, we also AR R R R R L
know in the case of the park Y
know in the case of the park when Florida shooter, just as
when Florida shooter, just as 3
when Florida shooter, just as in Uvalde, people did report
in Uvalde, people did report )
in Uvalde, people did report the scheduled
in Uvalde, people did report R LR E R e ee e
the scheduled law enforcement )
the scheduled law enforcement R
the scheduled law enforcement R LR O]
the scheduled law enforcement RGN RO ]
so there needs to be an apparatus
VR TN ETER Ry apparatus that can
so there needs to be an apparatus that can intervene in
apparatus that can intervene in Y
apparatus that can intervene in a3
apparatus that can intervene in e e |
apparatus that can intervene in a crisis and really treat the
a crisis and really treat the et
a crisis and really treat the mental health
a crisis and really treat the TG iR d
a crisis and really treat the T IE R R )
a crisis and really treat the N E LT G R R G IR
mental health of these young P
mental health of these young men. Lastly,
mental health of these young UG EL (A
mental health of these young men. Lastly, | do like the
men. Lastly, I do like the e
men. Lastly, | do like the school safety
men. Lastly, | do like the o T SR e
men. Lastly, | do like the S T R e
men. Lastly, | do like the T S R R )
men. Lastly, | do like the school safety aspect of this, |
Yy [UEF Ta g i [ think
Yy [UEF Ta g i [ s
school safety aspect of this, | i ai A
school safety aspect of this, | G AR ]
school safety aspect of this, | think it is one parent all
think it is one parent all P g ]
think it is one parent all across America had been asking
across America had been asking A
across America had been asking for, to
across America had been asking PR EIO )
across America had been asking for, to harden the parameter -
for, to harden the parameter - PN G
for, to harden the parameter - PN G
for, to harden the parameter - perimeter of the schools not be
perimeter of the schools not be any
perimeter of the schools not be NG
perimeter of the schools not be VAN
perimeter of the schools not be any one of the military will
any one of the military will always
G R R G R =T A E[ZR G
G R R G R =T A always tell you that there
CIA EE R G R =T A E R R IR G F R G R
CIA EE R G R =T A always tell you that there is a
always tell you that there is a s ST Ys |
always tell you that there is a demilitarised zone, a hardening
demilitarised zone, a hardening of targets
demilitarised zone, a hardening R EIOE I
demilitarised zone, a hardening N REIOE IR
demilitarised zone, a hardening of targets around the world
of targets around the world Y
of targets around the world when it
of targets around the world Y Tl e 1
of targets around the world when it comes to terrorists
of targets around the world TR I R R gt e s
when it comes to terrorists and our schools unfortunately now
our schools unfortunately now Ty
our schools unfortunately now have to
our schools unfortunately now RN Rl
our schools unfortunately now RN R L
our schools unfortunately now have to be treated as such
have to be treated as such targets are. You heard in
targets are. You heard in David’'s
targets are. You heard in David’s report the Republicans
David’s report the Republicans Py
David’s report the Republicans are often
David’s report the Republicans IRt R
David’s report the Republicans IRt R
David’s report the Republicans are often the ones defending
are often the ones defending )
are often the ones defending R e sl
are often the ones defending R e la s 4
are often the ones defending the second Amendment ride, and
the second Amendment ride, and )
the second Amendment ride, and N
the second Amendment ride, and R ]
the second Amendment ride, and N R )
the second Amendment ride, and there has often been a
the second Amendment ride, and QIR E RSO R o E L
there has often been a blockage i da sl
there has often been a blockage R
there has often been a blockage T IR R e
there has often been a blockage within the Senate in
there has often been a blockage T IR RN e R R Y
there has often been a blockage within the Senate in terms of
within the Senate in terms of b
within the Senate in terms of getting through any kind of
getting through any kind of legislation
getting through any kind of LI LR ]
getting through any kind of legislation from Republicans.
legislation from Republicans. YT I3
legislation from Republicans. What has changed recently? So
What has changed recently? So many mass shootings over the
many mass shootings over the EIEN
many mass shootings over the LI 1o
many mass shootings over the years, but now
many mass shootings over the L A A E
many mass shootings over the years, but now there does seem
years, but now there does seem to
years, but now there does seem R
years, but now there does seem RO
years, but now there does seem N R R e o
years, but now there does seem N R R i e s
years, but now there does seem to be this movement and is
to be this movement and is i
to be this movement and is public discourse and something
public discourse and something Ny
public discourse and something needs to be done in terms of
needs to be done in terms of Iyl yiig &
needs to be done in terms of gun-control? Every once in
gun-control? Every once in awhile in politics, public
CUNTICRT We Tt [TV N e it
awhile in politics, public policy, we see a tipping point,
policy, we see a tipping point, i
policy, we see a tipping point, ELhTe
policy, we see a tipping point, | think sturdy hook was almost
I think sturdy hook was almost 1
I think sturdy hook was almost R )
I think sturdy hook was almost CI GERTIT
I think sturdy hook was almost at the tipping point for folks,
at the tipping point for folks, 3
at the tipping point for folks, HRTE
at the tipping point for folks, RN
at the tipping point for folks, it was a tipping point for a
it was a tipping point for e
it was a tipping point for s
it was a tipping point for a AR U
it was a tipping point for a R R I
it was a tipping point for a R R U I ST
lot of folks, park when Florida, and |
lot of folks, park when Florida, and I think the Uvalde
Florida, and | think the Uvalde )
Florida, and | think the Uvalde case was
Florida, and | think the Uvalde IR RS AN V]
Florida, and | think the Uvalde case was extremely egregious
case was extremely egregious T Y
case was extremely egregious N
case was extremely egregious Y IR - 8
case was extremely egregious Y R e A1
case was extremely egregious because it really took away the
because it really took away the YT
oI [T TR L @R R g [ RIS
oI [T TR L @R R g [ NRA was McVeigh returning
because it really took away the NRA was McVeigh returning which
NRA was McVeigh returning which s
NRA was McVeigh returning which %)
NRA was McVeigh returning which LN
NRA was McVeigh returning which XL
NRA was McVeigh returning which is a good guy is the only thing
Is a good guy is the only thing they can
is a good guy is the only thing QAR )
is a good guy is the only thing they can stop a
is a good guy is the only thing QAR L]
is a good guy is the only thing they can stop a bad gquy
is a good guy is the only thing they can stop a bad guy with a
they can stop a bad guy with a ‘LR
they can stop a bad guy with a T T
they can stop a bad guy with a gun, but we
they can stop a bad guy with a [T T ¥
they can stop a bad guy with a [T P TV T VR
they can stop a bad guy with a gun, but we saw in Uvalde that
gun, but we saw in Uvalde that Ty
gun, but we saw in Uvalde that L]
gun, but we saw in Uvalde that N )
gun, but we saw in Uvalde that N R R T
gun, but we saw in Uvalde that was not the case, they waited
was not the case, they waited over an
was not the case, they waited N N ls
was not the case, they waited over an hour and 15 minutes to
over an hour and 15 minutes to o
over an hour and 15 minutes to [l
over an hour and 15 minutes to go in and
over an hour and 15 minutes to goinand a
over an hour and 15 minutes to go in and a switch flipped in
go in and a switch flipped in people’s
go in and a switch flipped in people’s had,
go in and a switch flipped in Y R E R
go in and a switch flipped in people’s had, we have to do
people’s had, we have to do GG
people’s had, we have to do something different, we have to
something different, we have to R )
something different, we have to make sure that the shooter is
make sure that the shooter is s
make sure that the shooter is Tl
make sure that the shooter is not even go
make sure that the shooter is (RN R
make sure that the shooter is not even go into the school,
not even go into the school, and
QORI EL R GRS [ and what |
QORI EL R GRS [ IR -]
QORI EL R GRS [ LR iR e e el
not even go into the school, and what | am concerned about,
and what | am concerned about, and |
and what | am concerned about, IRLRR
and what | am concerned about, and | will tell
and what | am concerned about, LG RR R G R
and what | am concerned about, and | will tell you on the
and | will tell you on the local
and | will tell you on the N AR
and | will tell you on the .
and | will tell you on the local level, | have
and | will tell you on the N S W T
and | will tell you on the N S W R R
local level, | have seen is all P g ]
local level, | have seen is all across the
local level, | have seen is all Elag IR ORIl 48 s
local level, | have seen is all across the country with my own
across the country with my own SR
across the country with my own G
across the country with my own eyes, City Council meetings,
eyes, City Council meetings, e
eyes, City Council meetings, school board meetings, they
school board meetings, they have
school board meetings, they YWY
school board meetings, they VR4
school board meetings, they LY R
school board meetings, they have a lot of resistance, the
have a lot of resistance, the Democrats, to putting police
Democrats, to putting police ey
Democrats, to putting police el g
Democrats, to putting police e e gt |
Democrats, to putting police officers or armed security in
officers or armed security in schools, and my message to
schools, and my message to e S
schools, and my message to TN o R a0l
schools, and my message to o R T e
schools, and my message to Democrats would be the adults
Democrats would be the adults T
Democrats would be the adults here have to grow up. | don’t
here have to grow up. I don’t 1)
here have to grow up. I don’t e
here have to grow up. I don’t care if you
here have to grow up. I don’t IR )
here have to grow up. | don’t care if you do like the
here have to grow up. | don’t care if you do Llike the police,
care if you do like the police, T
care if you do like the police, 1R
care if you do like the police, IR R 1k
care if you do like the police, if you don’t want an
care if you do like the police, IR IR L L ]
if you don’t want an armed guard at
iIf you don’t want an armed guard at your school, your
IRV LR RTE L =T =T D guard at your school, your kid
guard at your school, your kid needs at
guard at your school, your kid L R R )
guard at your school, your kid L R R LR
needs at the. We need to o] {-ud
needs at the. We need to R G
needs at the. We need to protect the schools just as we
protect the schools just as we o[
protect the schools just as we do any
protect the schools just as we T R I )
protect the schools just as we do any corporate America
do any corporate America building where you have guarded
building where you have guarded )
building where you have guarded e Riet e
building where you have guarded QR 18
building where you have guarded the front security perimeter,
the front security perimeter, that
the front security perimeter, G A
the front security perimeter, that is foolproof and really
that is foolproof and really 4
that is foolproof and really ST
that is foolproof and really LT L LT
that is foolproof and really get serious about this
that is foolproof and really VLT L IR
that is foolproof and really get serious about this is other
get serious about this is other e ]
get serious about this is other ]
get serious about this is other eI )
get serious about this is other concern here also if | could
concern here also If | could S
concern here also If | could critique the
GO TR VR R critique the builders to
NI TR LR R critique the builders to bed,
critique the builders to bed, Y
critique the builders to bed, |
critique the builders to bed, we need to do more about
critique the builders to bed, T R s Rt T R
we need to do more about the et
TR R [ [ R L T T g [ mental health aspect of this,
mental health aspect of this, Y
mental health aspect of this, we have seen
mental health aspect of this, T N e Ye 14
mental health aspect of this, we have seen recent programmes
we have seen recent programmes 4
we have seen recent programmes N
we have seen recent programmes get abused, such as the one in
get abused, such as the one in )
get abused, such as the one in QR ]
get abused, such as the one in UL
get abused, such as the one in the you New York City, the
the you New York City, the e
the you New York City, the T et T I E R )
the you New York City, the former mail’s wave wasting
former mail’s wave wasting P
former mail’s wave wasting about $900 million that
former mail’s wave wasting L e R T R G E R
about $900 million that is still unaccounted for, they are
still unaccounted for, they are looking at doing an audit into
locking at doing an audit into )
looking at doing an audit into the programme, that was to go
the programme, that was to go to mental
the programme, that was to go el e s e )
the programme, that was to go to mental health and you look
to mental health and you look 1
to mental health and you look R )
te mental health and you look RO
te mental health and you look RGN
te mental health and you look RO oA
te mental health and you look at the streets of New York
to mental health and you look at the streets of New York City
at the streets of New York City and San Francisco and LA, and
and San Francisce and LA, and T
and San Francisce and LA, and see that
and San Francisco and LA, and see that the
and San Francisco and LA, and RO ORI
and San Francisco and LA, and see that the money may be
and San Francisco and LA, and see that the moeney may be do
see that the money may be do e
see that the money may be do not go to
see that the meney may be do not go to what it was
TR 1 QT [ TS R G ) not go to what it was supposed
not go to what it was supposed to
not go to what it was supposed [
not go to what it was supposed to go do
not go to what it was supposed R R RS
not go to what it was supposed to go do so we need is a real
to go do so we need Is a real Eldw T[] L’
to go do so we need Is a real ETw Ty &1 1 Y
to go do so we need Is a real accountability, we need to make
accountability, we need to make )
accountability, we need to make N R
accountability, we need to make sure that the
accountability, we need to make AN R R sl
accountability, we need to make sure that the mental health
sure that the mental health programmes are working and we
programmes are working and we )
programmes are working and we I R )
programmes are working and we I R B )
programmes are working and we I R ANy
programmes are working and we I R AN R
programmes are working and we also need to make sure that the
CICNEEL RN EL RV CR G E R G [ e
also need to make sure that the crisis intervention
also need to make sure that the AR L [l
crisis intervention programmes a4
crisis intervention programmes work because remember, in the
work because remember, In the Iy
work because remember, In the N
work because remember, In the case of Uvalde,
work because remember, In the IR AN TR G
work because remember, In the case of Uvalde, the police had
case of Uvalde, the police had Nl
case of Uvalde, the police had heen to
case of Uvalde, the police had been to his
case of Uvalde, the police had T NE O ICR )
case of Uvalde, the police had I NE N ICR ]
case of Uvalde, the police had R ORI T R Y
case of Uvalde, the police had been to his house a couple of
been to his house a couple of times with
been to his house a couple of AR s B[ a3 el
times with domestic IO E
times with domestic disturbances, and in the
disturbances, and in the Parkman Florida shooting, we
Parkman Florida shooting, we )
Parkman Florida shooting, we also know from that after
also know from that after action report that people
action report that people actually
action report that people Ela O AT
action report that people Ela G WACIGRE]
action report that people actually did call the
action report that people Ela OGR4 R
action report that people actually did call the FBI to
actually did call the FBI to %
actually did call the FBI to I )
actually did call the FBI to blind and left anonymous tips
blind and left anonymous tips giving
blind and left anonymous tips RO
blind and left anonymous tips giving the boy’s
blind and left anonymous tips giving the boy’s name
giving the boy’s name specifically,
giving the boy’s name o LYal il (AT o]
giving the boy’s name el (AL R T
giving the boy’s name specifically, and they found
specifically, and they found e
specifically, and they found NN e E ]
specifically, and they found out afterward that
specifically, and they found AN e L R e R e
specifically, and they found Nt LR R - D
out afterward that the FBI APNTree
out afterward that the FBI e e
out afterward that the FBI never checked the voicemail
never checked the voicemail N R
never checked the voicemail TR
never checked the voicemail box. We can
never checked the voicemail R Ry
never checked the voicemail I N R
box. We can have these pregrammes
box. We can have these programmes what it is only as
programmes what it is only as L]
programmes what it is only as LIS
programmes what it is only as LG
programmes what it is only as good as the person of the other
good as the person of the other )
good as the person of the other sl 2
good as the person of the other Al R
good as the person of the other N ARG
good as the person of the other N R R L an e w ey
good as the person of the other N R R i I s
end of the line attracts that message
end of the line attracts that WL CRS
R R QR el R =] ML
end of the line attracts that NSRRI Pl
end of the line attracts that message is not quite momentous
message is not quite momentous to
message is not quite momentous )
message is not quite momentous IR
message is not quite momentous G EN R GG S
message is not quite momentous to have this agreement, thank
to have this agreement, thank you very much indeed for
you very much indeed for LG
you very much indeed for LGS
you very much indeed for LG
you very much indeed for bringing us up to date.
Police in Brazil say they have found items belonging
to a local indigenous expert and a British journalist
who went missing in the Amazon region a week ago.
The police say the items include a backpack belonging
to the journalist, Dom Phillips, and a health
identification card REGL NI A R ]
A fisherman has been arrested AR AN S
in the disappearance of the two men, but the exact
circumstances remain unclear.
On Sunday, dozens of people staged a demonstration in Rio
de Janeiro and urged the Brazilian authorities
toc take immediate action.
The opposition leftwing alliance in France has scored
big gains in the first R R R E I LS
elections.
Despite that, President Macron’s supporters look set
to have the biggest bloc in the National Assembly,
but it’s unclear if they’ll have enough seats to
form a majority.
Our Paris correspondent Hugh Schofield has more.
The big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough
by this left-wing alliance, if you
look back at the presidential election two months ago
the left did terribly there, the leader of this
new left-wing alliance was in third place but
in the interim between the presidential and this
parliamentary election, R R QIR R GG
extraordinary, made an alliance between his
far-left party,
socialists and Greens the communists and turned it
into a major electoral force, and one
which is a serious challenge RN S Ela i
He hasn’t, | don’t think, done so well that he has got
any serious chance of dominating the Assembly
and having majority there and enforcing President Macron
into cohabitation with the left wing
dominated National Assembly, but he has done something
extraordinary which looks like commanding a block
after next week’s second round of 150, 170, 180 MPs,
CLRGEIERERD] achievement, but, the fact
remains it does look as if President Macron
will win this legislative election
and that the key question is whether his majority
will be relative or absolute, and that is why
he is campaigning ferociously RGN SR
days to make sure that he does get as many seats
as possible in the National AR LR
He wants to have an absolute majority
so he can push through his legislative programme and not
into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
He wants to have an absolute majority
so he can push through his legislative programme and not
into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
Here in the UK legislation will be introduced
in the House of Commons on Monday that will allow
changes to be made to parts of the post-Brexit trade deal
with the EU, and the UK government says it’s confident
the changes would be lawful.
The arrangement, known as the Northern Ireland
Protocol, allows for checks on some goods moving
It’s been a source of discontent for unionists,
who see It as an internal border within the UK.
But critics of the move, including nationalist parties
and the Irish government, say it could breach
Here’s our Ireland Correspondent, Chris page.
This legislation could potentially have implications
for the UK’s relationship with the EU, for Boris Johnson’s
R ] XL Rl
CROR TG R N CR devolution here in Northern
The devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more
than a month after Wi RN
The DUP is currently blocking the formation
of a power-sharing coalition with
nationalists, indeed preventing the assembly from meeting
1
all over its opposition to the Northern Ireland protocol.
The DUP wants to prevent arriving here at Belfast Port,
for example, from the rest of the UK, and it says it wants
what it calls decisive action to remove the Irish Sea border,
so on that basis, | don’t think it is very likely that the DUP
will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published
tomorrow, at the very least the DUP will see how
the legislation R LRGN
Non Unionists have said this legislation will break
the Brexit Treaty and therefore
breach international law by the Northern Ireland Secretary
=R N | that is not the case,
so are the political discussion, the legal wrangling
possibly will continue, RN E ORI E IR
which has seen Northern Ireland at a time when
so many people are struggling with the rising cost of living.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
The first home-grown version of the McDonald’s
restaurant re-opens in Russia a month after the US chain
pulled out because of Ukraine.
There was a bomb RGN A
A code word known to be one used by the IRA was given.
Army bomb experts were examining a suspect van
when there was a huge explosion.
The South African parliament has destroyed the foundation
of Apartheid by abolishing the Population Registration
Act, which for 40 years 1 ga ] RS FII L R Lo
citizen according to race.
Just a day old, and the royal baby is tonight sleeping
Early this evening, the new Prince was taken
by his mother and father to their apartments
In Kensington Palace.
Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag, has voted
by a narrow majority to move the seat of government
frcm Bonn to Berlin.
Berliners celebrated into the night, but the decision
was greeted with shock in Bonn.
The real focus of attention today was Valentina Tereshkova,
the world’s first woman cesmonaut.
What do you think of the Russian woman in space?
I think it’s a wonderful achievement and | think
we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good
idea if | could to get her to go up there for a little while.
This is BBC News, AR R L s
In the United States, a bipartisan group of senators
say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation
on gun safety.
LG RN T significant gains for
a new left wing alliance in the first round of
France’s parliamentary elections.
A BBC investigation has revealed how children in Africa
are being exploited to make personalised videos
which sometimes include racist e NG RN I B s E e
via Chinese social media.
BBC Africa Eye tracked down one prolific Chinese video producer
who has used very young G R B IBEIE
to make and sell thousands of videos.
Runako Celina has this report - and just a warning some viewers
may find parts of it S h e
SYIlel s W FTo ]}
Such happy birthday. Good luck in your exams. Congratulations
in your exams. Congratulations ]
in your exams. Congratulations MR
in your exams. Congratulations IRTIEVL LI
in your exams. Congratulations RS LI A
in your exams. Congratulations on your wedding. In China in your exams. Congratulations on your wedding. In China over
on your wedding. In China over )
on your wedding. In China over QR
on your wedding. In China over R R
on your wedding. In China over QN SR A N
on your wedding. In China over the past few years, it has
the past few years, it has T e8]
the past few years, it has T e e ]
the past few years, it has become a thing to send
become a thing to send LU
become a thing to send personalised greeting videos
personalised greeting videos iFY
personalised greeting videos R el
personalised greeting videos via social media. Videos
via social media. Videos featuring
via social media. Videos RO R (=TI
via social media. Videos featuring Africans, including
featuring Africans, including P 1G]
featuring Africans, including children have
featuring Africans, including LI e e e i)
featuring Africans, including children have become especially
children have become especially Gl
popular. T )
popular. TR
popular. These videos sell for up to
These videos sell for up to $70, US, each. The content can
$70, US, each. The content can 1y
$70, US, each. The content can Bl e
$70, US, each. The content can VRN ST
$70, US, each. The content can be innocent enough but some are
be innocent enough but some are e E
be innocent enough but some are s
be innocent enough but some are NN D18
be innocent enough but some are controversial. In early 2021
be innocent enough but some are N L PP
controversial. In early 2021 a video
controversial. In early 2021 a LR |
controversial. In early 2021 a R B s
controversial. In early 2021 a video shed on training
controversial. In early 2021 a LR LR RIS
video shed on training social media was particularly
media was particularly TN
The word the children are using ]
The word the children are using )
The word the children are using NI RN R )
The word the children are using NI RN R T
The word the children are using NI RN R F e 4
can be translated as black e g
can be translated as black monster or black devil,
IR LT LN FTa o monster or black devil, but it
monster or black devil, but it s
monster or black devil, but it I
monster or black devil, but it is really the Chinese
is really the Chinese equivalent of the N word.
equivalent of the N word. Today what | found on the
Today what | found on the R e
Today what | found on the R R 5
Today what | found on the N R LR
Today what | found on the Internet was so disgusting.
Internet was so disgusting. e e ]
Internet was so disgusting. A R A
Internet was so disgusting. But no-one was held
But no-one was held accountable. | set out to find
accountable. | set out to find e
accountable. | set out to find AR )
accountable. | set out to find R h s
accountable. | set out to find R h N R T E
accountable. | set out to find AR hE e N R
accountable. | set out to find out where it was filmed and
accountable. | set out to find AR e NI LRI R Te
out where it was filmed and who made
out where it was filmed and who S ELCE
out where it was filmed and who made it. My colleagues and |
made it. My colleagues and | SNl
made it. My colleagues and | SR sl
made it. My colleagues and | IR sl R
made it. My colleagues and | examined hundreds of videos,
examined hundreds of videos, cross-referencing them against
cross-referencing them against satellite imagery from Google
satellite imagery from Google Earth. Eventually we managed to
Earth. Eventually we managed to pinpoint the
Earth. Eventually we managed to AP OEES La
Earth. Eventually we managed to pinpeint the exact video where
pinpoint the exact video where urll
pinpoint the exact video where uEA
pinpoint the exact video where many of them were filmed, a
many of them were filmed, a village in Malawi. | teamed up
village in Malawi. | teamed up with
village in Malawi. | teamed up ]
village in Malawi. | teamed up with an investigative reporter
with an investigative reporter and
with an investigative reporter Y
with an investigative reporter and he found
with an investigative reporter R R e e
with an investigative reporter R RO Tt e e Ts]
with an investigative reporter and he found some children who
and he found some children who (DI
and he found seme children who recognise themselves
and he found some children who recognise themselves in at the
recognise themselves in at the low IQ
LRGNV R G low 1Q video.
TR RYT LT R
low 1Q video. I E ISR
low 1Q video. That’s you? We met their
That’s you? We met their families and told them how much
families and told them how much money
families and told them how much LS A G
families and told them how much money people had made from
money people had made from filming their children.
filming their children. Transpac fitting from a
Transpac fitting from a is L1 %1
Transpac fitting from a is Transpac profiting from the
Transpac profiting from the poor.
QU We
poor. We raise
poor. Y T T ls
poor. Y T N s (s ]e-1s
poor. Y N N sl le- a1 s
We raise our children and somebody comes and uses
We raise our children and U L A L R G
We raise our children and somebody comes and uses them as
somebody comes and uses them as Y
somebody comes and uses them as R T
somebody comes and uses them as a business, it is hurtful.
a business, it is hurtful. e
a business, It is hurtful. The children and
a business, it is hurtful. The children and several other
The children and several other people we spoke to all
people we spoke to all e |
people we spoke to all R )
people we spoke to all T R s
people we spoke to all T S R e s
mentioned one filmmaker called SN
mentioned one filmmaker called Susu. We
mentioned one filmmaker called TR R ]
mentioned one filmmaker called Susu. We found out his
mentioned one filmmaker called IR - R E N R
Susu. We found out his real name.
Susu. We found out his real el N Te
Susu. We found out his real name. After gathering more
name. After gathering more N
name. After gathering more XD TR
name. After gathering more evidence, we send an undercover
evidence, we send an undercover L0 U
evidence, we send an undercover journalist to meet him. We
journalist to meet him. We showed him
journalist to meet him. We T R R
journalist to meet him. We showed him the low IQ
journalist to meet him. We showed him the low I1Q video.
journalist to meet him. We S R R R AR -
showed him the low IQ video. He TN
showed him the low IQ video. He PR 1
showed him the low IQ video. He said, this was mine. He said,
said, this was mine. He said, this
said, this was mine. He said, IR
said, this was mine. He said, this was mine.
this was mine. G
this was mine. This video? Hold on, hold on.
This video? Hold on, hold on. *Y
This video? Hold on, hold on. XXV
This video? Hold on, hold on. X1 T
This video? Hold on, hold on. He says, "no, no, Norma, this
He says, "no, no, Norma, this s not
He says, "no, no, Norma, this AN
He says, "no, no, Norma, this ARG
He says, "no, no, Norma, this is not me, this was
He says, "no, no, Norma, this AR QIR
He says, "no, no, Norma, this is not me, this was my friend.
is not me, this was my friend. ik
Is not me, this was my friend. e
Is not me, this was my friend. i
Is not me, this was my friend. A T A G
Is not me, this was my friend. Close-mac it looks as though he
Close-mac it looks as though he let
Close-mac it looks as though he ¥
Close-mac it looks as though he let a secret
Close-mac it looks as though he R N
Close-mac it looks as though he e UL
Close-mac it looks as though he let a secret slip. He says it
let a secret slip. He says it )
let a secret slip. He says it so excitedly and then suddenly
so excitedly and then suddenly 1Y
so excitedly and then suddenly N
so excitedly and then suddenly RN IR
so excitedly and then suddenly he reverses, no, this was a
he reverses, no, this was a T lsl
he reverses, no, this was a friend who took it. It was
he reverses, no, this was a T NLE R S R LR
friend who took it. It was time 0]
friend who took it. It was time to speak to him ourselves. |
to speak to him ourselves. | I
to speak to him ourselves. | asked him
to speak to him ourselves. | Y i ls]
to speak to him ourselves. | asked him in Chinese
to speak to him ourselves. | EH RGN CR )
to speak to him ourselves. | NG RN A
to speak to him ourselves. | asked him in Chinese why he had
asked him in Chinese why he had RiET Y
asked him in Chinese why he had made the video.
made the video. TRANSLATION: Because | want to
TRANSLATION: Because | want to Il
TRANSLATION: Because | want to spread Chinese culture, music,
spread Chinese culture, music, dance, you know, the words, and
dance, you know, the words, and LI
dance, you know, the words, and singing Chinese songs. | pushed
singing Chinese songs. | pushed e
singing Chinese songs. | pushed further, saying this was
further, saying this was N
exploitation. TRANSLATION: Have you finished?
TRANSLATION: Have you finished? |
TRANSLATION: Have you finished? G
TRANSLATION: Have you finished? | did not exploit them.
| did not exploit them. CFHL (1Y
| did not exploit them. CEL| (VALY
| did not exploit them. CFHE] VTN
| did not exploit them. Basically he has admitted
Basically he has admitted something, admitted to having
something, admitted to having IR
something, admitted to having IR
something, admitted to having L A
something, admitted to having opinions not kind about black
opinions not kind about black people and Malawian people,
opiniens not kind about black people and Malawian people, but
people and Malawian people, but Y- )"
people and Malawian people, but FV R
people and Malawian people, but F VR A
people and Malawian people, but says it is five years ago and
says it is five years ago and AR
VN SR VRTE TR [[R:L e NN G|
VN SR VRTE TR [[R:L e NI G RS
VN SR VRTE TR [[R:L e denies everything we have
says it is five years ago and denies everything we have seen.
SN G TR DRV EVERL) B 5Py
SN G TR DRV EVERL) B I )
denies everything we have seen. I N [
denies everything we have seen. He also denies making the video
He also denies making the video Y
He also denies making the video N Y
He also denies making the video N N
He also denies making the video we believe he has made, so it
we believe he has made, so it AR
we believe he has made, so it ke
we believe he has made, so it R R
we believe he has made, so it doesn’t feel this is productive
doesn’t feel this is productive I
doesn’t feel this is productive anymore. Our investigation
anymore. Our investigation found
anymore. Our investigation TR 3
anymore. Our investigation TR R
anymore. Our investigation found this is just one video,
found this is just one video, e
found this is just one video, e
found this is just one video, it is part of a massive
it is part of @ massive (Y
it is part of a massive [ L
it is part of a massive LIS LR G
it is part of a massive SN RO LG
it is part of a massive industry and there are many
industry and there are many e
industry and there are many other children across
industry and there are many IR e S Ine R )
other children across the o e Ne 4
other children across the W A |
other children across the continent being exploited for
continent being exploited for )
continent being exploited for Rl
QD TR DV LR () L]
QD TR DV LR () QNI LR e
continent being exploited for ORI L R G L R
the profit and entertainment of people far, far away.
LR TS A R R (15[ T NI R e I T1e: s
in Russia has opened in Moscow under a new name,
which translates as ‘Tasty - TN LE G R
The US chain pulled out of the country last month
following the invasion AR
Russia continues to face a whole raft of international
sanctions, which have hit its econemy hard.
Our Russia Editor Steve Rosenberg has the story.
L[0T QRGN F e
Not any more.
The US fast food giant has left Russia in protest
And it sold all its restaurants here - more than 800 -
(R LT | W oL A
Gone are the Golden Arches.
The logo now is two French fries and a burger.
The man who was quick to buy the fast food business
is Siberian tycoon Alexander Govor.
TRANSLATION: I N N R AT a
Big Macs or McFlurries here.
It’s a pity, because they were the most popular items,
but we told our experts to find replacements that are just
as good or even better.
The customers we spoke R AN
"Russians can do fast food just as well", Ravil tells me.
"And as for Western sanctions and global brands leaving
"Russia, we are very tough people -
"you can’t scare us.”
When the very first McDonald’s restaurant opened right here 32
years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol, a symbol
of Russia embracing Y S R
Western ideas, Western food.
What’s happening here today with the departure
of McDonald’s and its Russian replacement,
that’s a symbol too, R S AR
and the West are now I E
Over in the Kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty
IR R Ry from the president.
At an awards ceremony, Vladimir Putin called
on Russians to united R R
themselves to the motherland, but he’ll know that Western
sanctions are having an impact.
Here’s one example.
Russian TV reports that due RN LU
car-makers can’t import key components,
so the new Lada’s being made without any airbags
or an anti-lock braking system.
Taxidriver Nikita thinks the Russian economy
s in for @ bumpy ride.
The prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high,
yeah.
So, for the taxi business now, it’s gone.
N RGN - A
We have to use old ones.
Russians won’t relish the prospect of ecoenomic pain,
WIS R I8 the Kremlin shows no
sign of changing course.
Steve Rosenberg, BBC News, Moscow.
A senior software engineer working for Google has
told the Washington Post that the company has placed him
on administrative leave i N LN e a e
intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
A spokesperson for Google said MBI R R Y
conversation, they are not free thinking sentient beings.
So is that the end of the story ARG N e NN
I’ve been speaking to our L
He has the latest on this story.
Blake Lemoine’s fear was that artificial intelligence
which was meant to mimic R R A U
that it was impersonating human awareness of pain
which was meant to mimic R R A U
and suffering.
And the former Google software engineer, who was made a priest
and served in the army, told the Washington Post,
"l know a man when | talk to it," and it matters
because the chatbot in question is planned by Google to be
embedded in the speech function and its assistance function,
you know, It will be used by hundreds of millions
And this man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it
&1 NN 4] anything like that.
And while talking about religion, the chat moved
onto rights and robotics.
I’ll just read you some of the transcript that he published.
This Is the chatbot speaking.
It says, "l use language with understanding and intelligence.
"I don’t just spit VI G
To which Lemoine says, "What about language usage
MR Rl ehd RN ET
The chatbot says, "It is what makes us different
He’s like, "Us?
"But you’re a chatbot, what are you talking about?”
The chatbot says, "Yes, of course.
"That doesn’t mean | don’t have the same wants
"and needs as people.”
"So you consider R e
"Yes, that’s the idea.”
They then go on to some rabbit hole conversation
about Les Miserables and the injustices in the play,
and the chatbot holds its own, which kind of sways
this man’s opinion.
It’s really interesting.
How has Google responded to this?
Google says there’s no evidence to support these claims
and this employee, or former employee breached
its confidentiality policy.
Other analysts said that Blake Lemoine was probably very
empathetic persen and that he’s had his empathy hijacked here,
and that he had actually lost T I R R T
actually going on.
And they say that losing your focus with a chatbot actually
has its own risks, and here they are outlined
O AU G e professor Emily Bender.
We, as people, like to imagine that something that is simply
L LRI N objective and is separate
is going to make better decisions, but the way this
technology is built - it is reproducing patterns
from its training data, so if we deployed that at scale
and give up autonomy to these machines, and let them make
decisions for us, we’re going to be reproducing
all of the systems of oppression that have created
the training data in the first place, and real people
Well, Google placed Blake Lemoine on administrative
leave.
Lemoine himself has invited a lawyer to represent
the chatbot, and also brought his allegations
of unethical behaviour to a member of the House Judiciary
F . Yq]
An Australian newspaper has !
An Australian newspaper has denied outing
An Australian newspaper has NI R
An Australian newspaper has NIRRT T
An Australian newspaper has NI R G R R T
denied outing Rebel Wilson, she G
denied outing Rebel Wilson, she recently shared a photograph of
recently shared a photograph of TN
recently shared a photograph of herself on Instagram so she had
herself on Instagram so she had found
herself on Instagram so she had T I}
herself on Instagram so she had found a Dishey
herself on Instagram so she had found a Disney Princess. Miss
found a Disney Princess. Miss Wilson
found a Disney Princess. Miss (VR =T
found a Disney Princess. Miss Wilson was given two days by
Wilson was given two days by )
Wilson was given two days by QG
Wilson was given two days by QNG E R
Wilson was given two days by OGS R R .
the newspaper to comment. Broadway stars have enjoyed a
Broadway stars have enjoyed a e
Broadway stars have enjoyed a s
Broadway stars have enjoyed a lot of glitz
Broadway stars have enjoyed a L [ Gr T 0!
Broadway stars have enjoyed a lot of glitz and love.
The 75th Tony Awards took place at Radio City Music Hall
in New York on Sunday night.West Side Story star,
Ariana DeBose was hosting the event and the winners
included, Patti LuPone took the Best Actress in a Musical
for ‘Company’ - Sam Mendes has won Best Director
for ‘The Lehman Trilogy, and Jesse Tyler Ferguson
was named Best Featured Actor in a play for ‘Take Me Out’.
Stay tuned on BBC News. More APy
Stay tuned on BBC News. More L]
Stay tuned on BBC News. More news on ocur
Stay tuned on BBC News. More R e
Stay tuned on BBC News. More R R Eh e
Stay tuned on BBC News. More news on our website. Thank you
news on our website. Thank you e
news on our website. Thank you IR IR
news on our website. Thank you for watching. Stay tuned.
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
TR QTN e RIS G unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week,
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton - fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
We’ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s brought
the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west though
towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, under starry skies, as showers have been fading,
just a little on the chilly side at 6-7 first thing,
but plenty ARl e
Then that tends to ease away as cloud spills across Scotland
bringing patchy rain particularly to the Highlands
and Islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere,
and across Northern Ireland too.
England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the Lion’s share, but feeling warm when the sun does come out
in parts of Northern I ELL L R Bl o F
just warmer further South.
Again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again - on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine - high levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then we will continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with clearer
skies, light winds again in rural spots -
6s, 7s, 10s to 11s for R LR e
Plenty of sunshine follows then for England and Wales
on Tuesday, for Noerthern Ireland but particularly
western
Scotland - more cloud, VAR RO R LGl
front close by, but still we are starting to see
temperatures picking up further North and building the heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
It isn’t the heat we are seeing further South across |beria
where it has been intense R e
But we will find this week as this high-pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
allowing us to tap into some of that heat a little bit,
perhaps why temperatures EI R A R R
especially across central R NI
towards the 30 degree-mark.
As ever, we will keep you posted and there’s more
A bipartisan group of US AL E e ]
an agreement on gun safety reform, following the latest
S [ ML RL R RS
Their proposals include tougher background checks for buyers
under the age of 21.
The measures fall short of the changes demanded
by President Biden.
There have been significant gains for a new left wing
alliance, in the first (LR RN R W T &L
elections.
President Macron’s centrist grouping is still expected
to win the most seats in next YN R INE AT
Marine Le Pen’s right-wing National Rally
are In third place.
The British government is preparing to publish
legislation which would give ministers the power to override
the post-Brexit trading arrangements with the EU.
Downing Street wants to change the Northern Ireland Protocol,
which Unionists don’t like because it, in effect,
puts a border down U ALY R
Now on BBC News, it’s time for Dateline London.
Hello, and welcome to the programme which brings
together leading UK commentators with the foreign
correspondents who write, blog R IRt RN e
This week - political apologies and their consequences.
40% of Boris Johnsen’s MPs say (RN NG R RV A
he should quit.
we’ll be discussing why history may be on the British Prime
And in Africa, the King of Belgium voices his "deepest
"regret” over the "abuse and humiliation™ caused
by his family and other Belgians.
Why do those who colonised find it so hard to say sorry?
In the studio are Stefanie UM LR LRI EhL D)
correspondent for the German media group Die Welt,
Marc Roche, who writes for the French news magazine
Le Point, and Adam Raphael,
who began reporting on UK AR
the last year to date
in which a British prime WS ORG-S A
Lovely to see you all.
Thank you very much ARG
Let me start with you, Adam, RO S R -
apparent survival - and, certainly, survival for now.
He says he’s getting on with the job.
Is this just a display of kind of what one might call ‘Boris
bravura’ or is the Prime Minister kind of right to think
that his enemies perhaps moved a hit too soon?
Well, they may have moved too soon to kick him out but,
actually, I think his position is unsustainable and my own
view is that he will be out before the end of the year.
The fact is if you look at the simple maths of it,
211 voted for Boris.
But of that 211, 170, no less, are the payroll vote.
So, he has sort of 40 or 50 independent votes.
Well, the people who voted against him, they got 148 -
that’s three times as many, so three times as independent
Tory MPs voted against him. That is unsustainable.
And If you look at what happened in the past
to lain Duncan Smith, to Theresa May, to John Major,
they all were out very soon Pt e iR
and, of course, Mrs Thatcher was challenged for the
leadership as well and AR e N
So, once a party is totally divided, as the Conservative
Party is now, it’s extremely shiilatl @R e
LRI G TR TR T T and this sounds hostile
to Boris, who I’ve known for many, many years and find
charming and funny, LR G
he always has lied himself out g Tl s sl - 1ata a0l
But what worries me about him now as it’s not just lying,
it’s almost fantasy politics.
So, he describes his - O S AU
positive, "decisive, conclusive™ and as though
it was some sort of triumph.
Well, successful lLiars, at least you’ve got
(VRN RIS RS (g8
You mustn’t be found out immediately.
And | think he’s beginning to lose his touch.
Now, quite apart from any RO IR )
by a horrendous political situation.
He’s got two by-elections, which he is quite capable
RGN T in Tiverton and in Wakefield.
And he’s got a cost of living crisis in this country
which we haven’t seen since post-war Britain.
So, | - | would be really very surprised if he was able
to sustain his position because the Conservative Party,
one thing it does do very well, it has -
it has a link and a range to power.
CUGE R QIR G-I R R G S G S A
beginning to realise that will he be at the next election
they will get rid of him.
Stefanie, what did you make of this result and how did
(VR ('R R ET ] it to your audience?
| henestly have been a bit more cautious about announcing
that this is now the last chapter, because there have
been so many last chapters in the last two years almost...
~anditfeltab
Almost like a book G ES Ao
Yes - | mean, it felt a bit like Groundhog Day.
You see the Prime Minister sitting down with the Cabinet
again and saying, "Now, we will really do what is in
interest "of the people” and so, I’m cautious.
| wouldn’t bet any money - OGRS
betting.
-1V Z R RN AR R
But its’s also - there’s a lot of historic -
historical parallels and - for example, with Theresa May,
but that was a completely different circumstance.
There was one faction of the parliamentary group that
really wanted her out and they succeeded and they
were very targeted.
While with this revolution, or rebellion, against Boris,
(IRl TaT L st
Lots of wings standing up and saying, "We are not happy
RGBT A [ ]
But then again, he’s an extraordinary politician.
He’s different to every one else, so maybe he still might
be around for AR a0
Marc, do you have an explanation for readers
in France and in Belgium of the political phenomena
that is Boris Johnson?
Well, the problem I face TG R N0 )
On the one hand, they like his sort of politics, he’s funny,
he’s a Francephile, he’s a Francophone.
He’s just the opposite of a stuffy French politician
like Macron or like Hollande or like Sarkozy,
so they like that.
On the other hand, they perceive him as a liar
He’s provoking a terrible crisis with the European Union,
coming by revoking de facto the Northern Ireland Protocol.
Yeah, that legislation apparently will be published
on Monday - we’ll find e W SCEhE A
Yeah, and he’s responsible TR e E e
in bilateral relationships between France and the UK
since de Gaulle refused the Brits in the European
community, so, it’s divided.
But more and more people are telling me, when they ask
me about Boris, they tell me, "He’s dead, isn’t he?
"He cannot survive being a serial liar" -
because, of course, in French politics,
M d s
Adam, there is an argument, isn’t there, that precisely
because this rebellion was so broad, that it lacked
the depth and the focus?
And in a sense now, the rebels have now played their hand.
Any other MP who might oppose him might go,
"Actually, well, what’s the point of declaring myself?
"I’ll simply be frozen out by Number 10 and we’re not
"going to get rid I ) A
He is so stubborn and determined and he could even -
| mean, because he now has the power again
because the Fixed-term Parliaments Act has been
revoked - If his party became really difficult,
he could - he could just take his appeal directly
to the country.
Go to the Queen, ask for Parliament to be dissolved
- she constitutionally would have to accept that.
QN IR R G R Vg1 i and he basically defies
| mean, he’s that kind of risk-taker.
He is a risk-taker, but that will be one risk too many
because to stage an election N CHE LR R STl A
| think one has got to start listening to what the Tory
NIV T all around the country.
And one of the reasons why this big vote against him
was as large as it was was TR U A R U
to their constituencies and they’d listened
to their own loyal, true N e
and they, frankly, are horrified by what has
LIl A B
Now, If the situation in this country was better in terms
of the economy, in terms of other areas, it’s just
possible he might be able to, RO A
But the fact is we are in for a really, really
rough situation now.
| think the really valid point you make, though,
Shaun, is that you’re quite right - this was a very
disparate opposition to him.
There isn’t a focus to it and that’s why | think the next
few months are going O R AU AU
but very interesting journalistically.
Yeah, | mean, plenty for you guys to write about.
Let’s move on to the economy because that is the one aspect
of this that he can’t control, however he might wish to.
We had the OECD report this week, Marc Roche,
saying that the British economy will perform next year
the worst of all the G7 countries.
Except Russia - and you could argue that Russia
has extenuating circumstances.
No longer G20.
Its economy Is effectively being frozen out of the world
economy by sanctions and so on.
That’s not the UK’s problem, but what is the UK’s problem?
What do you think?
| mean, you’ve been studying G R a0
and its strengths and weaknesses for many years.
| wrote a piece this week,
saying that Britain is again GRS SR A N o
This is the Ottoman Empire before World War I,
but it was also the situation R R e
Stagflation, inflation at 10%, growth down 5% in the last
S I A0 VAR
And the OECD is predicting no growth next year.
And no growth at all, strikes repetitive,
a commercial war with Europe looming, if not already
there because of Brexit, and the only thing he has
to provide is going back I RO
This - this delusion of grandeur, of nostalgia,
while the economy is going nowhere is quite typical
of Boris Johnson.
VA I 13 ([ about the economy -
that could bring him down.
| agree with you.
| think you’ve summed it up very well.
| think the economy is in a terrible state
and the difficulty for Johnson, he’s not really -
and | think the Conservative Party are beginning to realise
R Ta OE 1LY really a Conservative,
he’s a Jehnsonian.
And that’s one of the reasons for this degree of great
distrust of what he’s up to.
There is no trust for him and he’s confronted by some
incredibly difficult decisions.
The Conservatives are traditionally a tax-cutting
WElad’R
They cannot cut taxes at this moment, unless they started
borrowing huge sums of money - which, in itself, would
be profoundly unconservative.
There is no way out of this cul-de-sac that he’s -
NNl he finds himself in.
That’s through no fault of his own, but his character
[ Tu P N )T plus the fact that this
s probably the weakest cabinet | have seen since post-war
ST AT really help.
I - I have no confidence that they’re going to get out
| mean, it’s - I’ve been not here - not as long reporting
as you have, if | may say, AN RGNS S GIBE
that | - the first reporting | did was, of course,
going to the north and being taken by the British government
to see the Northern Powerhouse - that was the key word
of the day - so, if you let A A A
and don’t forget, RO e e
in power for 12 years and every new prime minister has
a new idea for how to do Y | B a el e g
And there’s a lot of nice slogans and with Boris Johnson,
it was "Let’s get Brexit done” and "Level the Country Up" -
especially the north - R N E R L s e
anything.
UGG R IVRTT | mean, here in London,
we’re living quite well.
Yes.
But if you go further north, there is real poverty there.
Children are - do not have to eat - now with the energy
prices, parents have to choose whether they heat their house
or give their children food.
Many children get to school in the morning and are hungry.
So, this is the real avalanche that’s coming and now,
Il
Let’s get to autumn and winter and then,
OK, it’s a very boring - very wasted word, the autumn
or winter of discontent - but I’m really worried what’s
I InTf
Just in terms of the economic options, the OECD effectively
have given the British government cover, haven’t they?
If he wanted to back away from some of his policy choices
already, like the increases in taxation that are planned
in the next few months, Y R R TR e R sl e
whether he has - his party would tolerate that,
given the divisions that have been on display
Well, the problem is the Governor of the Bank
of England said 80% R R la IR
inflation is external with absolutely no control.
So, he has control of 20%, so he could stop the tax hike,
he could do, on this 20%, something.
The problem is that, you know, what sort
of Conservative i1s he?
He wants to - he promised a cut in tax, which is completely
ridiculous because we know MBI LR 1
a supply-side economy.
The only way | think he could get a bit out
s helping the people most affected by it,
by giving money.
Printing money.
| mean, the Prime Minister not only said this week,
Adam, on his visit to Blackpool, "You can’t
spend your way out Nt
"You can’t tax your way R d i EL
I mean, he’s starting to revert, in terms of his
language, at least, to perhaps more Thatcherite slogans
and it’s clear that Rishi Sunak, his Chancellor,
takes a more traditionally N A
| mean, these tensions have the potential to explode
quite damagingly for government, don’t they?
Well, | think he couldn’t take the resignation
ROIGL e G IR one of the things.
It would just...
Because he’s now toco weak.
..50 he’s got to go along.
RN ECE Y opportunistic politician.
| did once ask him - | said, "Boris, how do you come
"to your views?
Because they’re R B Rty
And he said, "Oh, It’s easy".
He said, "I just find out what the Wheelers are thinking”
- that was his second wife’s - "and | go 180 degrees opposite
and | can’t go wreng".
Now, that was a typical Boris joke but actually,
he’s very journalistic.
And journalists - maybe Marc has very firm views -
but most journalists are very, very floating voters.
They go all over the place on policy.
So does Boris.
He’s a total opportunist.
He doesn’t have really clear, deep beliefs.
And the Conservative Party - I EIN RGN GG T
It’s perhaps why none of us have gone into politics -
can you imagine the damage we would’ve done with
our inconsistent views ?
I have to say, talking about opportunism, he reminds
me of no-one such much as David Lloyd George,
the great liberal prime minister who ended up leading
a Conservative coalition government until Conservative
MPs threw him out - 100 years ago this year.
Ty T
Now, let’s talk about Belgium, in particular, and this
question of imperial legacy, Marc.
King - the King of the Belgians R GG
as | should possibly style him - was in the DRC,
the Democratic Republic of Congo, this week.
Why, and what was different about this visit?
Well, it’s the first time R E R GO
Belgium was terrible at colonising - not that there
are good ones - but they might have been among the worst ones
LGB QTR of the people of the Congo
and the wealth and the minerals of the Congo that built Belgium
as a superpower at the end of the 19th century
G LIND] of the 20th century.
He went there to apologise.
But he said exactly, "We denounce unacceptable
"regime based on paternalism and discrimination
I
Well, he didn’t really apologise.
He just condemned It.
And did he bring...?
That almost makes him sound like he’s a third party.
Yes.
LG R T N NG LR G R GRS L
In @ way, you know, a louvre.
| mean...
And it was his family directly, because it was initially...
It was - belonged to Leopold II...
Right
..which was his family, the Saxe-Coburg and Gothas.
And, but what did he bring to the Congolese?
He didn’t bring money as compensation.
LR G VW =L RN (v R RN
He brings a few artefacts from the Museum of the Congo
in Tervuren and a tooth of Lumumba, the last...
..who was the first democratic prime minister.
First democratic prime minister killed by the Belgians
=LV RGN el e Y
So, he’s bringing these two things - a few artefacts
and the tooth of Lumumba, and he said, "It’s done”.
R R TG L he has condemned.
And, you know, | went recently to Brussels,
the statues of Leopold Il are everywhere and there’s not
a plaque on this marvellous building in the centre
of Brussels which have been built because of colonialism.
Not an explanation, so nothing has changed.
RO TGV P Ul T countries - with some exception
- cannot cope with its colonial past.
Is it - but you think money is quite a big part of this -
the fear that it would somehow open the gates
to massive compensation claims?
Yes, and the compensation IR N E N e Y
the minerals, you know - gold, diamonds.
Yes.
Rubber, everything - IR R e
Rubber, everything, so the compensations can run.
The problem is the Congolese are not very well-equipped
to get these compensations.
They won’t go to court and so, at the end, the Belgians
NG LR
Stefanie, Germany faced this dilemma and it took
a different route.
Can you explain the background R TR R 1V
a couple of years ago, wasn’t it?
Ja, I mean, it’s not too long ago - | think it was spring
2021 - that, actually, Berlin, the government -
it was still then Angela Merkel - agreed with the government
of Namibia for compensations and also did an official
apology and they had been negotiating for quite some
years about the money that Germany was going to pay
and | think it was more than a billion euro,
which goes into lots of projects in the country.
But I think, in a way, Germany is a bit of a unigue
case, If | may say, in Europe - and for good reason
because of our history, of the Nazi history
and because of the Holocaust - and so, | really think -
I’m one of the Germans of the generations who really
grew up and was educated GRG0
IR G L for children. ..
Too much detall, yeah.
..too harsh way, teo much detail - what the Germans did
to the Jews, to the Russians, to the Ukrainians and to
millions of people RIS LR S E
And so, | think we do not find it difficult to say sorry
because we know there have been atrocities and you -
you - while it’s difficult to acknowledge what you’ve done
but then, you can move on.
If you don’t do this, if you don’t honestly can say,
"This was so wrong and we are sorry,” your country
cannoct move on.
I’m very conscious of the fact BRI RO ey
Europeans sitting around this table, from -
all of us from what were colonised nations.
Adam, this is a live issue for the British, isn’t it?
We saw it with the royal visit by the Cambridges
to the Caribbean earlier this year, which was supposed to be
about marking the Queen’’s Jubilee but actually turned
into an argument about legacy and their response was thought
to be a bit tone deaf, frankly, to some of their appeals.
We’ve had countries saying that they are now leaving
the Commonwealth and ending A R A RG]
as head of state, in part driven by this issue.
Have the British yet found R A R R IR
do you think?
I’m not sure they have but | suspect I’m tone deaf
on this issue, too, though.
| am not sure the word ‘sorry’ RS MR
The Vikings weren’t sorry when they plundered this
country in whenever it was.
Countries have their history and parts of British colonial
history are undoubtedly reprehensible.
We did some terrible things.
Part of British colonial history we can be proud of.
And | think one has to face up R R R e R s -]
and what one didn’t do and where the feelings
were but it is a terrible mistake to judge everything
by - in retrospect from the standards of today.
That doesn’t mean to say you hide what you’ve done or it
shouldn’t be acknowledged, what was done at the time,
but | am wary of ‘sorry’.
I’m not wary of reparations, if they can be shown that
you need to make good in terms of relationships what has
happened in the past, IR IR IS T AR TS
too easy a word - | think you just have to face up
to your history.
No, by the way, just R g n A Y A (R L]
strong the link still is with the Commonwealth
Is because the countries who are getting rid
of the Queen as head N R
..are staying in the T CE G R TR
guite right, yeah.
..are staying in the Commonwealth.
And that shows how SR
You’re correct.
A good point, yes.
..that strong link, this colonial Link is still,
because what is the Commonwealth?
It’s the remnants SRR
I’m interested in this hecause | think - | mean,
certainly, when | was growing up in the ‘80s, we weren’t
really talked about the other side of the global links.
We didn’t talk much about colonisation.
We talked about the scramble for Africa as a histarians’
Against the French.
LR 411 is from the - yes!
- this is from the book called Legacy Of Violence,
which was published this year, by Caroline Elkins, whe’s
an American professor, and she did some research
on actual British government documents and this is a quote -
t’s not a pleasant quote, but | think it’s important
in the context of this RN R L e
that was used against those who - who suffered as a result
of this in terms of MR e R R L
used against them.
I’m just going to try and find, if 1 can find the right
LR A G NN but essentially, what she was
saying was that there was real violence used and some
of the violence was A GEIR LG
that would be shameful to many people in this country
if they knew the violence.
Some of those documents were hidden away in a government
building and only appeared E N R R D
Yes.
And that was an example of, O VARG R
establishment burying its legacy.
Look, | think all nations do want to hide things at times
T T R UE A R G total sweep of colonial -
all colonialism is bad - which there is a movement
I think there were some very good things done
during that peried.
Isn’t it is easier to celebrate the achievements
if you acknowledge the flaws?
| think that’s right, ARG L FI L
of very - the Commonwealth would not exist if Britain’s
record was so poor as has AR N U ) B
| - I’m not quite sure.
| find it difficult to say "There have been very good
things done by colonialism™.
What do you mean, for example?
Well, in terms of education, in terms of commercialisation,
in terms of trade, in terms of living standards.
Yeah, that’s fine, but...
..and in terms RGN hE e
You know, | don’t think one can totally ignore some
of the things.
It’s not about - it’s not C AL R
what has been achieved, ARt
acknowledging what was wrong what you have done -
and actually, | think, especially here you don’t have
to go very far, you only have to go to Ireland and understand
and have some empathy with the Irish who now again
feel that they - they almost go through a trauma of being let
down by the English again.
There’s something in the collective memory that
you have been let down by - by...
But the Queen apologised to the Irish in 2011
when she went. ..
Yeah, she did, and that was...
Why can’t she apologise to the Commonwealth then?
Because | disagree with you - | think now we have in Britain
a multicultural, multi-ethnic society and we cannot continue
to have these ORI RV A
I’m sorry, Adam.
One should get rid of them.
It’s another good point that Britain has changed
and perhaps our attitude need to change with it.
RGNS S SRR A RN R
against discussion or, indeed, acknowledgement of what has
happened - I’m all in favour AU EIER R Y]
of tearing down Cecil Rhodes’ statue from my old college
in Oxford - ridiculous!
Of course, in the end, they flunked it and they’ve -
1 SR
We - we - you can just haunt yourself with...
Don’t symbols matter?
Don’t symbols matter?
Symbols do matter, but the idea of some, you just tear
something down and something is achieved by this -
may | say, my granddaughter was partly responsible
for tearing down the statue in Bristol.
So, you know, this divides families!
| bet you have some very, very lively discussions,
The American - in the debate over statues in the southern
United States and over the Union and the Confederacy,
turned out a lot of the statues weren’t actually that
old and had been set up at a later stage because people
felt they wanted to be reminded of something that,
for them, was a more glorious past.
They weren’t that contemporary at all.
But a lot of statues have been kept but with plaques and other
details and explanations.
Well, I’m all in favour of that, of trying to explain
some of the background to what was going on.
Adam Raphael, Stefanie Bolzen, Marc Roche, thank you all very
much.
Thank you very much.
More Dateline London same time next week.
Goodbye.
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
So, In the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by the end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
So, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s
brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west,
though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, | think under the starry skies as the showers
have been fading, just a little RO AL R
R AR
But plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease
away as the cloud spills across Scotland, bringing some
patchy rain particularly to the Highlands and the Islands,
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across Northern England -
Northern Ireland, too.
So, England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the lion’s share of the sunshine again, but feeling
warm when the sun does come out in parts of
Just warmer further south.
Again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine.
High levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then, A (R RO
-- Through the night, then, we’ll continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer
skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6s and 7s,
10s to 11 for the towns IR el
Plenty of sunshine follows, then, for England and Wales
on Tuesday but again, TV R Ela )
but particularly for the north and west of Scotland,
rather more cloud, some patchy TN MR GE R dia e
close by but still, we’re starting to pick those
temperatures up further north and really building that heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
Now, It’s not the heat that we are seeing further
I la (IR IR where it’as been intense
for a week or so now - Al A R e o 1
but we will find this week, as this high-pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
which just allows us to tap T ORI RGeS
bit, so it’s perhaps why temperatures are expected
to get, particularly across central and eastern
to get, particularly across central and eastern
areas, towards the 30 O I
As ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’s more
ILIEREN ) e [ I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
Tougher background checks
for gun buyers under the age of 21.
TGN LR beginning of the end
for uncontrolled gun possession in the United States?
In the wake of the latest school shooting in Texas,
a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework
for potential legislation on gun safety.
Gains for a new left-wing alliance
in the first round of France’s parliamentary elections.
The African children being insulted and exploited
IR QR el AN R o B IR e
We have a special report.
The British government says a new law overriding Brexit
trade arrangements RGNS EE R
will not undermine the Northern Ireland peace agreement.
And are the machines R R
A senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming
an artificial intelligence tool has developed a mind
A group of US Senators NGORG]
and Democratic parties have reached agreement
on a series of gun control measures.
The developments come after the tragic mass shootings
The measures include tougher background checks for gun
buyers under the age of 21 and moves to prevent people
buying such arms for IR e N i ndweTs
from purchasing them.
Our North America correspondent David Willis reports.
This is a significant move and assuming these proposals
pass into law, they would represent the first gun control
measures this country IR T NN R
The proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include
tighter background checks for gun sales involving
customers under the age of 21, and the introduction
or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would
potentially lead to R N R R e IS
in the hands of people deemed R R O R UV R R R
and greater federal funding for school security systems
What these proposals do not include is an outright ban
on assault-style weapons, RN SRR RIS
and Buffalo New York shootings, I R E R A e s e
and senior Democrats LB
Nonetheless, President Biden welcomed this move, he said
it was, | quote, "important step in the right direction”.
The last meaningful gun control regulations in this country
were Introduced in the mid-1990s, the Brady Bill,
which created the national background check system,
but since then there has been AL N NS u G
largely due to the opposition S R R G R UGG
who oppose anything that transgresses upon the so-called
Second Amendment, the right to bear arms in this country.
The majority of Americans polls show continue to support
tighter gun-control measures RGN R LRI R
the news of these latest proposals came on the six-year
anniversary of a shooting at a gay nightclub in Florida
IRy I A o TTe o] (D lost their lives.
Well, earlier, | spoke to Robert Spitzer,
LR R T [ e:1 SYa [ [0 T
at the State University New York, Cortland,
and author of multiple NP ]
| asked him how difficult I (TR RGN
to agree on new gun control measures.
It’s been extremely difficult.
The immediate obstacle has been in the United States Senate
where the filibuster rule is still in place meaning
that to enact legislation,
instead of needing a simple
majority of 59 votes out of 100 senators you actually need 60
and it has effectively given the minority party
or the Republican party if it’s in the majority the ability
to block legislation.
GG RGNV RS TS support for gun rights has
increasingly become a litmus test for Republican
conservatism in recent years, and so that means that
NI lawmakers have felt a certain
obligation to prove they’re
conservative bona fides by supporting an absolute gun
rights point of view that is not allowing any kind
of gun measures.
But given those and other related obstacles, this package
of legislation really is fairly significant,
arguably more significant politically than in policy
I DRV AT T g & LSRG .
My next question is how surprised are you that they
have managed to reach agreement, because it
3 so partisan on this issue,
are you surprised at the success of this?
| have been somewhat surprised,
but what surprised me even more as | read more into
the preposal and noting
that the final language has A IR L]
and they still have to get it through both houses
of Congress, House of N I R AL
cooperative, is the fact that it includes really quite
a number of other things, including
R Ne 1T
what is referred to as the boyfriend loophole,
LR EIG RGN one partner in a married couple
becomes violent, that person can be deprived of regard
from having guns, but that rule does not apply if you are not
actually married and of course millions of couples who live
together live together but are not married.
But this legislation closes the boyfriend loophole
and that is really quite a very significant provision
)AL
There are still limitations, of course, you are still able
to buy semi-automatic rifles under the age of 21,
and | guess that is something the Democrats and Joe Biden
are unhappy about.
Yes it is, but it does include a particular focus on those
younger than 21 who are otherwise eligible to buy guns
but who now will be subject to a more detailed background
check that will include juvenile records which might
normally not be accessible and also mental health records,
and that’s significant especially for the age group
of 18-21, for this reason.
If you break down crime by age category, what you discover
is that the most crime-prone age category is from 18-21,
so it’s an age range that deserves particular scrutiny
CL RGN (RG] greater scrutiny and it’s not
a giant step, but it’s a immeasurable
and a notable step.
| guess what the Democrats and Republicans that have
signed this agreement or have come up with this agreement
will be happy about Is there is an agreement in place
finally after all these years.
Is the hope maybe that this is the stepping stone
for something bigger?
I’m sure there are those R E R ORGSR
as a stepping stone, but what this says to me
is that if they can get this through Congress,
they will be done G I R
with this current Congress,
simply because it was very i iTaT R e et a1
coalition, they haven’t passed it yet, and Congress has a full
plate of other measures to deal with and the Democrats have
LI QG T VTR T we want to put our chips
in the next six months before the 2024 November elections
roll around, so my guess is if they get this through,
and it lands on President Biden’s desk for his signature,
G RIS G [Ty legislation activity,
at least in the Senate and probably in the House
of Representatives as well.
L R [ R T o] alliance in France has scored
big gains in the first R R R E I LS
elections.
Despite that, President Macron’s supporters look set
to have the biggest bloc in the National Assembly,
but it’s unclear if they’ll have enough seats to
form a majority.
Our Paris correspondent Hugh Schofield has more.
The big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough
by this left-wing alliance, IR
the presidential election two months ago, the left
did terribly there, the leader
of this new left-wing alliance
was in third place but in the interim between
the presidential and this parliamentary election,
he’s done something CIU R HCILEI A
made an alliance between his far-left party, socialists
and Greens, the communists, and turned it into a major
electoral force, and one which is a serious challenge
He hasn’t, | don’t think, done so well that he has got
any serious chance of dominating the Assembly
and having a majority there and enforcing President Macron
into a cohabitation with the left wing dominated
National Assembly, but he has done something extraordinary
which looks like commanding a block after next week’'s
I LA LR TV VIY 180 MPs, and that’s a big
achievement, but, the fact N EI R sl 4
as if President Macron will win this legislative election
and then the key question is whether his majority will be
relative or absolute, and that is why he is
campaigning ferociously over the next few days to make sure
that he does get as many seats as possible in
the National Assembly inaweek’s time.
He wants to have an absolute majority so he can push
through his legislative programme and not be forced
into alliances with smaller blocks in the assembly.
Here in the UK, legislation will be introduced
in the House of Commons on Monday that will allow
changes to be made to parts of the post-Brexit trade deal
And the UK government says it’s confident
the changes would be lawful.
The arrangement,
known as the Northern Ireland TR
allows for checks on some goods moving
It’s been a source of discontent for unionists,
who see It as an internal border within the UK.
But critics of the move, including nationalist parties
and the Irish government, say it could breach
L TR RN Correspondent, Chris Page.
This legislation could potentially have implications
for the UK’s relationship with the EU, For Boris Johnsen’s
relationship with his own party, and for the future
of devolution here RV et B Ela s P
The devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more
than a month after Wi RN
The DUP is blocking, the EIXIn ]\
The DUP is blocking, the assembly from
The DUP is blocking, the I AT L )
The DUP is blocking, the assembly from eating it all
assembly from eating it all after
assembly from eating it all i
assembly from eating it all after its opposition to the
ELCI R T R R G [ Northern Island protocol.
The DUP wants an end to checks on goods arriving
here at Belfast Port, for example, from the rest
of the UK, and it says it wants what it calls decisive action
On that basis, | don’t think it is very likely that the DUP
will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published
tomorrow, at the very least, the DUP want to see how
the legislation is worked through.
Non-unionist parties and the Irish government have
said this legislation GRS G C S RIS
and therefore breach (G A EA
and therefore breach (G A EA
RGN Te GG R IER ) Secretary Brandon Lewis has
While the political discussion on legal wrangling will
possibly coentinue, no SRR RN
here which has seen Northern Ireland without
a devolved government at a time when so many people
are struggling with the rising cost-of-living.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R N
The first home-grown version of the McDonald’s
restaurant re-opens in Russia,
a month after the US chain pulled out because of Ukraine.
There was a bomb RGN A
A code word known to be one used by the IRA was given.
Army bomb experts were examining a suspect van
when there was a huge explosion.
The South African parliament
has destroyed the foundation G El U=
by abolishing the Population Registration Act which,
I WRTETES
{Igell o]\ RISV each citizen according to race.
DB - E R
and the royal baby is tonight sleeping in his cot at home.
Early this evening,
the new prince was taken by his mother and father
to their apartments in Kensington Palace.
Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag,
has voted by a narrow majority
to move the seat of government TR Rt
Berliners celebrated into the night,
but the decision was greeted with shock in Bonn.
The real focus of attention today was Valentina Tereshkova,
the world’s first woman cesmonaut.
What do you think of the Russian woman in space?
| think it’s a wonderful achievement
and | think we might be able to persuade the wife
it would be a good idea
if I could to get her to go up there for a little while.
This is BBC World News.
In the United States, a bipartisan group of senators
say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation
on gun safety.
A BBC investigation has revealed how children in Africa
are being exploited to make personalised videos
which sometimes include racist e NG RN I B s E e
via Chinese social media.
BBC Africa Eye tracked down one prolific Chinese video producer
who has used very young G R B IBEIE
to make and sell thousands of videos.
Runakeo Celina has this report - and just a warning, some
viewers may find parts of it offensive.
"Happy birthday."
"Good luck in your exams.”
"Congrats on your wedding."
In China over the past few years, it’s become a thing
to send personalised greeting LRI E R o E B - ]
and messaging apps.
Videos featuring Africans, including children, have
become especially popular.
These videos sell for up to USD$70 each.
The content can be innocent enough, but some of them
=[N TSR T LR RNV 2021, one video shared
(I RO T IR T T E was particularly shocking.
The word the children are using could be translated
as ‘black monster’ or ‘black T T A
the Chinese equivalent of the N-word.
The video sparked worldwide debate about racism in China.
Today, what | found on the internet was so disgusting.
But no-one was held accountable.
UG Y e ST Y T RN A R LR
My colleagues and | examined hundreds of videos,
cross-referencing them against satellite imagery
from Google Earth.
Eventually, we managed to pinpoint the exact location
where many of them were filmed - a village in Malawi.
| teamed up with Henry Mhango, an investigative reporter
there, and he managed to find some children who recognised
themselves in the Low IQ video.
LGSR K
We met their families and told them how much money people had
made from filming Rl R
TRANSLATION: Profiting from the poor, it’s very
painful because if somebody is poor, you should just
TRANSLATION: We struggle RN sl s e s ]
and somebody comes and uses them as a business.
The children, and several other people we spoke
to, all mentioned one film-maker called Susu,
which sounds like the Chinese word for ‘uncle’.
We found out his real name - Lu Ke.
After gathering more evidence, we send an undercover
journalist to meet him.
He said, "This was mine". He said, "This was mine.”
Hold on, hold on.
Then he says, "No, no, no.
"This was my friend.”
It looks as though he let a secret slip.
He says it so excitedly and then suddenly, he reverses
and says, "No, no, no.
"This was a friend T R i &
It was time to speak to Lu Ke ocurselves.
Ni hao, ni hao.
| asked him, in Chinese, why he had made the video.
TRANSLATION: Because | want just want to spread Chinese
culture - music, dance, and Chinese words.
Chinese language, you know?
The words and singing Chinese songs.
| pushed him further, saying this was exploitation.
Have you finished?
| did not exploit them.
OK, basically he’s admitted some things -
he’s admitted to having opinions that were not very
kind about black people and about Malawian people.
Yes.
But he says this was five years ago and he’s denied everything
He also denies making the video that we believe he made,
so It just feel like this isn’t productive any more.
Our investigation found this isn’t just one video -
t’s part of a massive industry, and there are many
other I g il e e dla Tt d
being exploited for the profit IR e s e e a
people far, far away.
Runako Celina, BBC News.
LR TS A R R (15[ T NI R e I T1e: s
in Russia has opened in Moscow under a new name,
which translates as 'Tasty and that’s it’.
The US chain pulled out of the country last month
following the invasion AR
Russia continues to face a whole raft of international
sanctions, which have hit its econemy hard.
Our Russia editor Steve Rosenberg has the story.
L[0T QRGN F e
Not anymore.
The US fast food giant has left Russia in protest
at the invasion of Ukraine RN G R R R e Te |
here - more than 800 - to a local company.
Gone are the Golden Arches.
The logo now is two French fries and a burger.
The man who was quick to buy the fast food business
is Siberian tycoon Alexander Govor.
TRANSLATION: There’ll be no more Big Macs
It’s a pity, because they were the most popular items,
but we told our experts to find replacements that are just
as good or even better.
The customers we spoke R AN
"Russians can do fast food just as well", Ravil tells me,
"and as for Western sanctions and global brands leaving
"Russia, we are very tough people.
"You can’t scare us.”
When the very first McDonald’s restaurant opened right here 32
years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol -
a symbol of Russia embracing Western culture, Western ideas,
What’s happening here today with the departure
of McDonald’s and its Russian replacement, that’s a symbol
too, but a symbol of how Russia and the West
are now moving apart.
Over in the Kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty serving
of patriotism TR N A
At an awards ceremony, Vladimir Putin called
on Russians to unite R R L
to the motherland, but he’ll know that Western sanctions
are having an impact.
Here’s one example.
Russian TV reports that due RN L USRI
makers can’t import key components, so the new Lada’s
being made without any airbags or an anti-lock braking system.
Taxidriver Nikita thinks the Russian economy
s in for @ bumpy ride.
The prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high,
yeah.
So, for - for the taxi business now, it’s gone.
N RGN - A
We have to use old ones.
Russians won’t relish the prospect of economic pain
but so far, the Kremlin shows IR R R EN B R (-
Steve Rosenberg, BBC News, Moscow.
A senior software engineer working for Google has told
the Washington Post that the company has placed him
on administrative leave i N LN e a e
intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
A spokesperson for Google said MBI R R Y
conversation, they are not free-thinking sentient beings.
So, Is that the end IRGEEAI AR R UG
more to it?
I’ve been speaking to our L
He has the latest on this story.
Blake Lemoine’s fear was that artificial intelligence,
which was meant to mimic speech, had come to life -
that it was impersonating human awareness of pain
and suffering.
And the former Google software engineer, who was made a priest
and served in the army, told the Washington Post,
"l know a man when | talk to it".
LU NIy E ) because the chatbot in question
the LaMDA chatbot, is planned by Google to be
embedded in the speech function and its assistance function,
you know - it will be used by hundreds of millions
And this man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it
&1 NN 4] anything like that.
And while talking about religion, the chat moved
onto rights and robotics and I’ll just read you some
of the transcript that he published - this is
the chatbot speaking.
It says, "l use language with understanding and intelligence.
"I don’t just spit VI G
To which Lemoine says, "Well, what about language usage
MR Rl ehd RN ET
He says - the chatbot says, "It is what makes us different
He’s like, "Us?
"Tou’re a chatbot.
-- "You’re a chatbot.
"What are you talking about?”
The chatbot says, "Yes, of course.
"That doesn’t mean | don’t have the same wants
"and needs as people.”
"So you consider R e
"Yes, that’s the idea.”
They then go on to some rabbit hole conversation
about Les Miserables and the injustices in the play
and the chatbot really holds its own, which kind
IR this man’s opinion.
It’s really interesting.
How has Google responded to this?
Well, Google says there’s no evidence to support these
claims and that it - this employee - or former
employee - breached its I A L A
Other analysts say that N E R N R LR =LY
ERTET DE G L [ I ) and that he’s had his empathy
hijacked here and that he’d actually lost focus
about what was actually going on
and they say that losing your focus with a chatbot actually
has its own risks - and here they are, outlined
O AU G e professor Emily Bender.
We, as people, like to imagine that something that is simply
L LRI N objective and is separate
is going to make better decisions but the way this
Ty [V G AER T it is reproducing patterns
from its training data.
And so, If we deploy that at scale and give up autonomy
to these machines NGRS R GBI
decisions for us, we’re going to be reproducing
all of the systems of oppression that have created
that training data in the first place and real people
Well, Google placed Lemoine on administrative leave.
Lemoine himself invited a lawyer to represent
the chatbot and also brought his allegations
of unethical behaviour to a member of the House Judiciary
An Australian newspaper has denied threatening to out
actress Rebel Wilson amid a storm of criticism
over its reporting of her ARG R RO R L I
Emily Brown reports.
June is the month of pride X e
June is the month of pride events, celebrating the LGBTIQ+
events, celebrating the LGBTIQ+ s
events, celebrating the LGBTIQ+ community around the world. It
community around the world. It Ty
community around the world. It L]
community around the world. It L o ]
community around the world. It was not a time
community around the world. It N R e
community around the world. It was not a time actress and
was not a time actress and eI Ta]
was not a time actress and comedian Rebel Wilson expected
comedian Rebel Wilson expected to
comedian Rebel Wilson expected R
comedian Rebel Wilson expected e )
comedian Rebel Wilson expected to be outed by an Australian
to be outed by an Australian (S e
to be outed by an Australian newspaper. But
to be outed by an Australian (- R )]
to be outed by an Australian newspaper. But when the Sydney
newspaper. But when the Sydney LGN
newspaper. But when the Sydney UGG EELG)
newspaper. But when the Sydney Morning Herald gave her two
Morning Herald gave her two days to comment on her new
days to comment on her new relationship with a woman,
relationship with a woman, el
relatienship with a woman, s B
relatienship with a woman, which was about the
relationship with a woman, which was about the report,
which was about the report, I )
which was about the report, everyone decided to out
everyone decided to out e
everyone decided to out herself. The star, known for
herself. The star, known for e
herself. The star, known for her roles in bridesmaids and
her roles in bridesmaids and pitch
her roles in bridesmaids and N e
her roles in bridesmaids and pitch perfect, announced to her
pitch perfect, announced to her Instagram followers that she
Instagram followers that she Tl
Instagram followers that she had found her Disney princess.
had found her Disney princess. G
had found her Disney princess. WG
had found her Disney princess. This did not
had found her Disney princess. U IR A I
had found her Disney princess. IR A IR G
This did not impress the columnist
This did not impress the e R
This did not impress the e T R ]
This did not impress the columnist for the Sydney
columnist for the Sydney LGN
columnist for the Sydney Morning Herald, who
T S (IR GRS Y Morning Herald, who complained
Morning Herald, who complained that Rebel had gazumped the
that Rebel had gazumped the S0
that Rebel had gazumped the story. He went on to say that a
story. He went on to say that a e o)
story. He went on to say that a choice to ignore their
o R GRD DR G enquiries and in the
choice to ignore their enquiries and in the process
enquiries and in the process o
enquiries and in the process RO
enquiries and in the process spoil the Herald’s
enquiries and in the process spoil the Herald’s script
enquiries and in the process spoil the Herald’s script was
spoil the Herald’s script was underwhelming. The paper’s
underwhelming. The paper’s reporting sparked a fierce
reporting sparked a fierce e ]
reporting sparked a fierce online backlash and
g R ETe Gl IR (] online backlash and heated
online backlash and heated U
online backlash and heated response LGBTIQ+ campaigners,
response LGBTIQ+ campaigners, Ty
response LGBTIQ+ campaigners, T
response LGBTIQ+ campaigners, who say it is unacceptable to
who say it is unacceptable to put
who say it is unacceptable to [N
who say it is unacceptable to put pressure on people to come
put pressure on people to come out. And then,
put pressure on people to come N R PR
put pressure on people to come N G RGP G 2
put pressure on people to come out. And then, there was this
out. And then, there was this ¥ Tadls )]
out. And then, there was this reaction from the star,
reaction from the star, WXl 0|
reaction from the star, e LR
reaction from the star, WX R
reaction from the star, WX R
reaction from the star, describing it as very hard
describing it as very hard situation and thanking
situation and thanking TR 18
situation and thanking T e R e
situation and thanking followers their comments. A
followers their comments. A Stonewall
followers their comments. A NN T G ]
followers their comments. A Stonewall spokesperson said
Stonewall spokesperson said coming
Stonewall spokesperson said WL
Stonewall spokesperson said GRS
Stonewall spokesperson said coming out is a deeply personal
coming out is a deeply personal S A
coming out is a deeply personal decision. Whether, when and how
decision. Whether, when and how to
decision. Whether, when and how e i)
decision. Whether, when and how el e 0L e
decision. Whether, when and how Rt R 0]
decision. Whether, when and how to come out should be
decision. Whether, when and how Rt s I e e[ el s - Ys |
to come out should be decided ™
to come out should be decided by the individual entirely on
by the individual entirely on e
by the individual entirely on g
Emily Brown, BBC News.
Broadway stars have been enjoying a night of glitz
and glamour at the 75th Tony Awards, which took place
at Radio City Music Hall in New York on Sunday night
and West Side Story star Ariana DeBose hosted the event.
The musical Company cleaned up with gongs for -
-- The musical Company cleaned up with gongs for Patti LuPone
as Best Actress in a Musical.
Marianne Elliott won the Director of a Musical
N Z el
Matt Doyle took Best Featured Actor and the production also
took top honours s R
ILF
That’s it from me. Thank
LGRS TN AR @ T
That’s it from me. Thank you e
That’s it from me. Thank you IR IR
That’s it from me. Thank you for watching. Do stay tuned
for watching. Do stay tuned bl
for watching. Do stay tuned LA E
for watching. Do stay tuned right here to BBC World News.
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
So, In the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by the end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
So, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s
brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west,
though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, | think under the starry skies as the showers
have been fading, just a little RO AL R
R AR
But plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease
away as the cloud spills across Scotland, bringing some
patchy rain particularly to the Highlands and the Islands,
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across Northern England -
Northern Ireland, too.
So, England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the lion’s share of the sunshine again, but feeling
warm when the sun does come out in parts of
Just warmer further south.
And again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine - high levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then, we’ll continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer
skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6s and 7s,
10s to 11 for the towns IR el
Plenty of sunshine follows, then, for England and Wales
on Tuesday but again, TV R Ela )
but particularly for the north and west of Scotland,
rather more cloud, some patchy TN MR GE R dia e
close by but still, we’re starting to pick those
temperatures up further north and really building that heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
Now, It’s not the heat that we are seeing further
I la (IR IR where it’as been intense
for a week or so now - Al A R e o 1
but we will find this week, as this high-pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
which just allows us to tap T ORI RGeS
bit, so it’s perhaps why temperatures are expected
to get, particularly across central and eastern
areas, towards the 30 O I
As ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’s more
A bipartisan group of US AL E e ]
an agreement on gun N VAG ]
following the latest school shooting in Texas.
Their proposals include tougher background checks for buyers
under the age of 21.
The measures fall short of the changes demanded
by President Biden.
There have been significant gains for a new left wing
alliance in the first round of
France’s parliamentary elections.
President Macron’s centrist grouping is still expected
to win the most seats in next YN R INE AT
Marine Le Pen’s right-wing National Rally
are In third place.
The British government is preparing to publish
legislation which would give ministers the power to override
the post-Brexit trading arrangements with the EU.
Downing Street wants to change the Northern Ireland Protocol,
which Unionists don’t like because it, in effect,
puts a border down the Irish Sea.
Now on BBC News, here’s HARDtalk.
NI CT LR 018
The rupture in relations between most of Europe
and Russia since Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has
left European governments YAl LR RN R Y
dependence on Moscow’s oil and gas.
It turns out there was another arena in which Europe had
become dangerously dependent on Russia -
Without Russian rockets R R a2
Europe’s short-term space plans are now in disarray.
My guest is Josef Aschbacher, director general of
the European Space Agency.
Is Europe destined to be an also-ran in the space race?
Josef Aschbacher, AR L LDIEE
111918
Thank you for having me.
Let’s start where | started in that introduction -
your relationship with Russia.
It has exposed, has it not, the war with Ukraine,
the degree to which you’ve had to sever ties with
the Russian Space Agency?
It’s exposed a dangerous over reliance on cooperation with
Moscow?
| mean, it is true that with the invasion of Russia
in Ukraine, it was a wake-up
in the energy sector, RO A o
that we suddenly have a war in front of our doors
DI LB LR
And In space, what actually happened is exactly the same
as in many other domains.
The heads of states and heads of government of many European
countries were encouraging everyone to embrace Russia,
to work with Russia, get Russia into the Western
sphere, and we did QRN AN El N
We built the space station, we initiated large-scale
projects worth billions R IR IR M R
in roubles, and we worked together for several decades.
And, yes, the war has changed things drastically,
and that is actually quite a change, if not to say painful
for many of us.
And what you did in practical terms was year-on-year rely
on Russian rockets, the Soyuz rocket programme,
to take your astronauts and your equipment up
into space.
| mean, that was complacency, wasn’t it?
You can call it complacency.
Actually, it has served us very well for...
Not now, but for more than ten years, we had another rocket...
We have, actually, three classes of rocket,
as we call it.
LR R QRIS PR EL Yol g iy o} heavier satellites into space,
called the Ariane 5 today.
Then we have the one in the lower segment,
which Is Vega.
And then we have the medium segment, which is now Soyuz,
which was Soyuz, | should say, which was serving us well.
But, at the time of the invasion of Crimea in 2014,
we already have made decisions to develop another rocket
called Ariane 6, which will fly very soon, some time next year,
to replace Soyuz and also N N
So, actually, the Ariane 6 was already developed,
and decisions were made In ‘14 to foresee that this
change is necessary.
Well, Ariane 6 iIs still in development, but the sad
truth is that seme of your key programmes and missions
for the next year or two have now been jeopardised and may
well be entirely ruined YN R R R e e
of cooperation with Russia.
And I’m thinking in particular of your ambitious plan to send
a European rover T RN e
LGRS may not happen now.
Today, it’s not decided what will happen or will be
the future of that mission, this is true, because
on February 24th, right afterwards, | called a meeting
with my member states to decide what we do.
And, as you say, Stephen, we had to decide to suspend
this cooperation with Russia.
Let me just say that this is hurting us all.
| have a lot of engineers in ESA and in industry,
and you can imagine what it means.
Some of the scientists LR I
I’m thinking of people like Fernando Rull, who’s one
of the leaders of the project.
He’s been working on this for years, and suddenly
everything he had planned and worked for has been taken
away from him.
I mean, how do you approach him and others on that team
and say, "You know what, it’s all off"?
That is painful, | tell you.
And | have a large team of the ExoMars project manager,
the ExoMars team, there are several people in ESA,
but also In industry.
And it is true, they have been working for...
It’s their career, so they have worked ten, 15 years
on building up this mission.
It’s ready.
In fact, we have done everything we need to do to get
on to Mars, taking off NI E LR ARSI S R GIE
yedr.
And, of course, now we have stopped it...
Cos there’s no Plan B in terms of actually...
I’m not saying...
..Getting you to Mars.
NN there’s no Plan B.
If I’m not telling you the Plan B, it’s because we don’t
have a decision yet.
Well, if there is to be AL I R0
new levels of cooperation with Nasa, and, of course,
back in 2011, 2012, you had a huge fallout with Nasa over
the Mars mission because they decided to go their own way.
So you’re either going to have to rebuild a Mars relationship
with Nasa, or somehow you’re going to have to convince
people like, | don’t know, Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos,
to work with you to do something dramatic that they’ve
N I e
So, what is Plan B?
So, what is Plan B?
I’m not putting it on the table e Y AR LR N o)
made by my member states.
IV T o] a proposal, together with Nasa,
by the way, who has helped us analysing the issues that need
L CEICR Iy technology developments that
need to be done, just to recall...
The mission has four L EI R
Of course, the launch with the rocket - this
was meant to be a Russian portion.
Then the transfer vehicle NI R LGB Ee
Then the lander that brings the rover down to the surface,
and the rover itself, O N G R G R )
to drill into the Mars surface NG R e o]
So, there are four LR NN
And out of those four, two, L AETCE G LR T
the rocket - the launch by Russia, and the lander
in particular.
Plus, in the other parts, there is some Russian technology.
Of course, all this stops now.
I’ve done the series analysis, T LR N s a X4
What are the options?
What can be done in Europe, AR e e s e
in Europe so easily that means it needs to be developed newly,
that means from scratch, inorder to do it?
And, yes, yes...
Let me just finish.
Yes, I’m working with Nasa to see whether they could be
EREla QI R TR (e g
But | do not want to pre-empt this decision because this has
yet to be made, but certainly, Nasa has been extremely helpful
=TGR R (- this to be mentioned.
What is the difference between cutting and severing
all ties with Russia RGN P ETE YR S [
and continuing to cooperate with Russia when it comes
to the International Sl LA K
As we speak to each other today, there is an ESA Italian
astronaut on the International Space Station working alongside
two Russian astronauts, delivered to the Space Station
by a Russian rocket.
You know, you’re saying that’s fine and we’ll go on doing it.
In fact, | believe you’re saying we want to continue that
cooperation all the way through to 2030, despite what Putin’s
doing in Ukraine.
So how come you can continue to do that and have to abandon
the Mars mission?
Let me say we have not only abandoned the Mars mission
W= N G [-g SR U LU R
Another example is Luna 25, 26 and 27, where we had
hardware cooperation G RAER
And we have abandoned that.
We have stopped that cooperation as well.
So, does it sit comfortably with you...
You’ve abandoned all this SO AR R 18
comfortably with you that a European astronaut
and your agency’s still working closely with the Russians
on the International Space Station?
The only exception is really R R
we have no choice.
This is very clear because this is a station that depends
on the Russian contribution as much as it depends
on the Western contribution that is made up by the
United States, by Japan, by Canada and by ESA,
with my member states.
And you cannot abandon or you cannot separate
the Station because you need Russia to Lift the Station
inte higher orbit.
You need the Western part NS G LGS
to the Station, and many other O R G E I o1 ‘d
You cannot just break up and run away and abandon this.
Are you frightened?
Are you frightened AN R R
Dmitry Rogozin, the boss of the Russian Space Agency,
has said quite clearly, "If you block cooperation
"with us, who’s going to save the International Space Station
"It could fall into the US or into Europe”, he said.
That was a threatening message, and you were a little bit
intimidated, were you?
LI R e threatening message.
But let me just say that Russia benefits as much as Europe
on staying on the Station and running it.
But the point is, the Russians hold the cards, don’t they?
No.
When it comes R R L
No.
The Russians hold the cards RN R R U R M I
and the Americans and the Western partners, too.
G EE AL R is not correct to say
that the Russians are the ones calling the shots.
How did it come to this, Mr Aschbacher?
I’m not really talking now about the Russian relatienship,
but how did it come that Europe is such a second division
player when it comes to space?
Think of the size of the European ecenomy,
QLR RO R G European population.
L1 1RGN ) the European space footprint
compared with the United S RN I R LU SACR
and today, increasingly, S E R AU R 1S
What went wrong?
| like what you say, TR N RS La
the message | have put N TN e e e e |
of ESA into a document called Agenda 2025, which should be
a wake-up call to our politicians and to say,
look, this is happening.
We are in a second space race today, the first one obviously
being the one In the ‘60s.
Now we are in a second space IR U R R R I
really building up extremely fast its capacity and its
strength, and it’s very TN R A R U S AL
The US continuing to be R AU E IRl
And the commercial sector suddenly being a new player,
which we didn’t have until very recently.
And this is happening, with or without ESA,
with or without Europe.
But the gap is getting wider, not narrower.
You haven’t been in charge for that long, but during your
tenure, what we see is massive investment in the US in space,
not so much from Nasa, although their budget dwarfs
yours, but coming from venture capital, coming from Elon Musk
and Jeff Bezos and a whole host of others, who see in space
massive potential, both, of course, for exploration,
but, actually, also for profit.
And they are pouring money In.
And on the side of China, the state is absolutely
committed to matching the US because of the geopolitical
rivalry.
Europe doesn’'t seem to have anywhere to go in this.
This shows that space is a domain where investments
are worth making by the private sector.
They are not doing it for fun.
Of course they have fun, | hope, at least,
but they are also doing it for profit.
But the private sector in Europe isn’t listening.
Yes, they do.
And we are taking steps in order to increase
the private funding C[ SRR R
Let me just say that in the last couple of months
since I’m DG of ESA, I’ve signed a number
of agreements with venture capital companies to make sure
that access to funding also in Europe is easier
and is guaranteed because | UGG e G
If we talk about commercialisation, there
are three things that are needed, and | have gone
with my most critical managers of ESA to Silicon Valley
and see these companies, visit them for ten days,
and really identify what are the key ingredients
in order to succeed for those companies, Elon Musk’s SpaceX
being one of them.
It needs talented people - clever people who are driven
CAGELRGEE R G Y TSR RGN
It needs access to money.
And you need to be fast.
They call it fast forward...
Fail fast, fast forward.
In Europe, we have plenty of talent and plenty
of excellent people with brilliant ideas
Some of them go to the US because there’s not enough
opportunities here, but we have certainly not
EE M CLRG R 10T
Access to money is a problem and Silicon Valley, of course,
giving about 60% of all the funds worldwide to companies.
There we have to improve, and I’m working on it.
| have signed an agreement in January this year
with European Investment Fund and, as | said,
with venture capital companies.
Speed - speed is something that TR AR T letlietle
No, absolutely not.
G STV R B 0 T by the fact the European Space
Agency Is a group - RN LSRRI
PP A L IR EL ]
..dominated by the European Union nations -
I think 19 of your members IR LR R GRS
biggest funder is the DRI
So, one of your big problems is that another key player
in the agency is QR EG R LG
Well, it’s Brexited.
It’s no longer in the EU.
That means it’s semi-detached from some of the programmes
that are part of your remit.
You’ve got this massive IR g (o]0 o Y W
Nasa and the US doesn’t have to deal with that,
China certainly doesn’t VRO R R R
and you’re never going to overcome that, are you?
If you think that everything is gold that glitters
on the other side of the ocean, then you’re wrong, I’m sorry
to say, because Nasa also has its own. ..
It’s not so much that the US has no problems, it’s just
that their problems aren’t on the scale of yours when it
comes to bureaucracy.
China has its own set of issues.
But in Europe, yes, you are right, we have to speed
up and we have to streamline decision making and we have
| fully agree with you.
This is one of -
| have identified five priorities which | want
to change.
Mmm
Number one - we have to work A TSR G O A RN
among the partners.
There’s a huge, | would say, diversity of different
partners.
Number two - commercialisation.
Exactly what happens in the US with SpaceX and with other
partners, we have to develop a strong commercial sector.
QI Lol g T NV LR lg1 8 2
| don’t need to explain this in the current situation.
Number four - programme challenges.
And number five - the transformation of ESA
in Europe, and that means speed and decision mechanisms.
And there are 60 individual actions which I’ve identified
on which we are working.
Of course, some of it I L RS R
Yes, absolutely agreed.
Yes, | want it faster.
But, yes, I’m tackling the problem.
IV NV @il on the commercialisation
and the power of individuals Wy T a
You have been quoted in the recent past as saying
you are worried that such is the scale of SpaceX’s
invelvement now, particularly in putting satellites
IR R FTaG N g1 and Elon Musk dominating that
marketplace, that you believe he is, in a sense, being
allowed to make the rules in space.
Do you believe that there’s now a lack of control
and regulation, which means these privateers are doing
things which aren’t in the long-term interest of us
- human beings?
Yes, | mean, that Is e VARG CE
There is a very strong development in space.
Elon Musk, what you -
the quote you make comes TR NN e R
where | made an interview a couple of months ago.
Yes, absolutely.
Today, we have about 4,500 T R G R R Lo
Half of them belong eNdAGnE
Yeah, and he’s got plans RGN LR
But I’m not saying that’s bad.
I’m saying he has an interest NG B AR R R
to requlate and make AN R RO 4
becoming a problem.
And, yes, there is an urgency to deal with it.
This is a regulatory issue as much as one of practical
arrangements between QLS A N
And, yes, when it comes to space debris and orbit
manoeuvres, as we call it, because a collision might
occur, yes, we work very well with SpaceX, and there is no
IRV E e T AR N R}
Isn’t the ultimate truth that what we see today in this,
as you call it, second phase of the space race,
Is @ much greater IR N R e
on militarisation of space?
Donald Trump, of course, back, | think, in 2019,
created the US Space Force.
The Russians have shown their capacity to find ways
of shooting down satellites.
The Chinese are involved in that, too.
And it seems they are intent NI bRl G %1sY
[QU I oK oD
Does Europe have a plan for projecting military
o[OU I o F oK
Europe, as you would know very well, is not seeing
the military strength in the same way as it is done
in the US or in China AR AR AR R e
countries, because of the history.
This is something that is I EIN VR LTl o F e e
to the Second World War and what happened.
So, If you want to be a vital player in the next phase
of space development, NN AT
that the other key players R LG
use the projection of G A AL R G R L
domain, are you?
What I’m doing -
OK, we have to distinguish a bit what is the situation
today after the invasion of Ukraine and what it was
TR GTCTR [ o[
Ah, so you’ve had to do a major rethink?
And, yes, we are launching a debate.
It is happening across Europe and certainly,
GG the space community
and the European Space Agency,
that we are discussing with the member states,
what does this mean?
Do we need to change?
Yes or no?
And there are, of course, AR N I E T
It’s very interesting what you’re saying.
Let me just quote you.
I’m sure you’ve probably seen this quote, but if you haven’t,
it might be interesting.
Again, Mr Rogozin, the head of the Russian Space Agency,
said not so long ago, "Slowly but surely,
"we are heading for the militarisation of space,”
"and Roscosmos,” he said - the Russian agency -
1= illusions about this.
"Everyone is working on it.”
It seems everyone except Europe.
Are we just naive in Europe?
| wouldn’t say that we are naive in Europe.
Europe has, in some countries, a very strong capability.
| take France as an example, RE RO LSyl
Germany, Italy, Spain and a few others.
And they have a strong capability in -
also in some of the assets that relate
or to some of the aspects that relate to space in terms
of technolegy that is required.
Are you telling me that QNIRRT
s going to have to shift?
What we don’t have Is RN LR 118
and | think this is a discussion that is needed.
Do we want to rely, country by country, on this excellent
capability, by the way, or do we want something more
of a European structure and a European response?
And there today, we have AN R R -
this is absolutely true - with a few
exceptions, | should say.
So, Russia could shoot down European satellites.
There’s no way that any European force could shoot down
| wouldn’t say that.
Individually, this might be possible.
But why would Russia do that?
Why did Russia invade Ukraine?
That’s a good question.
But by shooting down EEE LG G R TR AL T
a whole mess out there that means a lot of debris and a lot
of particles that fly around and endanger all
the satellites, including the Russians’ and. ..
Surely, what we have learned as a human species
(R4l in the end, human beings
sometimes take decisions which appear to run counter
toc the wider interest.
They do it for all R B
I’m just trying to explore why the European Space Agency
consistently has waved the peace flag and said,
"We’re only about peaceful exploration.
"We’re not interested in going in the direction
"other space superpowers are going in, talking
"of militarisation.
That’s just not tenable, is it?
If everybody else is going in a certain direction,
you can’t ignore It.
As | said before, that is exactly the point.
Until the invasion of Ukraine, ESA was certainly working
only on the - | would say mostly, not only,
but mostly on peaceful N R LN
Now, a debate is happening.
Of course, | don’t know what is the cutcome of this.
TR R g General of ESA_
| can raise the questions VAN SRS IR
The decision has to be made by the member states.
You think a reset and a rethink is overdue?
| think that we have i s
we have to see space VR [ BT
of a security system in Europe.
Europe’s security Is under threat, as we all know,
and it does not only need tanks MBS LR G
in the battlefield, space is an integral part,
from communication, Earth LU R A Ol
domains, navigation being one of them.
And | think this is something that has to be seen
And, yes, this R R
Very interesting.
Final point.
Europe’s never actually, of course, put men into space
flight.
The Americans have done it, the Chinese have done it,
many countries have done it, but Europe hasn’t done it.
Do you think that’s QR IR T
Because it’s very expensive and if one talks about getting
men - human beings, | should say - back on the moon and then
to Mars, vast, vast expense and time frames
which are already stretching to 2040, 2050 before it’s
conceivable it could happen.
LRI G ELOR R ] say, "You know that?
"We’re not going to do that any more - it’s too expensive.
"We need to focus our resources on safeguarding our own planet,
"which is fragile and under ORG-SR
"not least from climate change.”
Do you think that needs to be the focus going forward?
OK, today, the majority of the funding, the biggest
programme in ESA, in my programmes, is on Earth
observation.
And Earth observation, IR VT AR Y |
at our planet, investigating climate change, sustainability,
biodiversity and these aspects.
So, Europe is never going to bother with talking
of manned mission to Mars?
Wait, wait.
And this is fundamental, and | think this goes very well
in line with the AR R GRS
of states, heads of government of all European countries.
Everyone has declared climate change to be the biggest threat
of everyone, of mankind, of the whole planet,
and that’s why Europe has played a major role
in pioneering this aspect, including in space.
And that’s what we do ULV ARRT
But now comes human I REL R TR
absolutely right -
today, and | like your challenge because I’m
challenging my decision-makers with exactly the same question.
Because today, Europe is spending 7% of the budget
Nasa is spending on exploration.
And you’re absolutely right - today, Europe’s astronauts
are not flying with a European R N G Y e a1
rocket today and, in the past, also with a Russian rocket.
UL RN DG R A ] states, my politicians,
is this right or should this change?
In a word, do you think it will change, yes or no?
I’ve been mandated by the ministers, and including
President Macron - who has written me a letter -
to put a group of high-level experts in place to ask
exactly this question.
These are not space people - these are people from society.
Journalists, economists...
It’s not exactly a decisive answer, but it’s the answer I’m
going to get.
(NI E =T QG R iy to the member states
iIn November next year.
Josef Aschbacher, I’m sorry to interrupt, but we have
tc end there.
Thank you so much for being on HARDtalk.
111918
111918
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
So, In the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by the end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
So, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s
brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west,
though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, | think under the starry skies as the showers
have been fading, just a little RO AL R
R AR
But plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease
away as the cloud spills across Scotland, bringing some
patchy rain particularly to the Highlands and the Islands,
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across Northern England -
Northern Ireland, too.
So, England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the lion’s share of the sunshine again, but feeling
warm when the sun does come out in parts of
Just warmer further south.
And again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine - high levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then, we’ll continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer
skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6s and 7s,
10s to 11 for the towns IR el
Plenty of sunshine follows, then, for England and Wales
on Tuesday but again, TV R Ela )
but particularly for the north and west of Scotland,
rather more cloud, some patchy TN MR GE R dia e
close by but still, we’re starting to pick those
temperatures up further north and really building that heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
Now, It’s not the heat that we are seeing further
I la (IR IR where it’as been intense
for a week or so now - Al A R e o 1
but we will find this week, as this high-pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
which just allows us to tap T ORI RGeS
bit, so it’s perhaps why temperatures are expected
to get, particularly across central and eastern
areas, towards the 30 O I
As ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’s more
I’m Sally Bundock with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
Russia is accused of killing hundreds of civilians
in the the Ukrainian IGO0
Amnesty International says Moscow is using indiscriminate
shelling and banned weapons.
IR 5L
It was horrible, horrible when )
It was horrible, horrible when N AR
It was horrible, horrible when the Russians were firing. It’s
the Russians were firing. It’s hard to describe, but that what
hard to describe, but that what e
hard to describe, but that what it was
hard to describe, but that what TR AN
Gains for a new left wing alliance in the first
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
Tougher background checks for US gun sales to anyone
Republican and Democratic Party senators
reach an agreement.
"Lawful” and "correct” -
The British government says its changes to Brexit
trade arrangements RGNS EE R
will not undermine the Northern Ireland peace agreement.
And are the machines R R
A senior tech engineer claims an artificial intelligence tool
has developed a mind of its own.
Hello and welcome to the programme.
Hundreds of civilians have been LR G RGN El K18
of Kharkiv since the start of the conflict by indiscriminate
Russian shelling.
In @ new report, Amnesty International accused Moscow
of routinely using IO LA Y
cluster munitions and scatterable mines.
The human rights organisation said the decision to use such
weapons showed an "utter disregard for civilian lives”
and could constitute e et
The Kremlin has previously denied using cluster munitions
in Ukraine and insisted that I E LR R N R L8
in Ukraine and insisted that I E LR R N R L8
struck military targets.
From the city of Kkarkiv, Wyre Davies reports.
From the very start of this war,
From the very start of this TR Ty
From the very start of this war, the city
From the very start of this T TN A
From the very start of this TR X A G G
From the very start of this war, the city of Kharkhiv bore
war, the city of Kharkhiv bore )
war, the city of Kharkhiv bore e N letla 4
war, the city of Kharkhiv bore el letla e
war, the city of Kharkhiv bore N et B A AR
war, the city of Kharkhiv bore the brunt of Russian shedding.
the brunt of Russian shedding. Often indiscriminate, and
Often indiscriminate, and G
Often indiscriminate, and 10 VAT ETu e N
Often indiscriminate, and wildly inaccurate. This, at the
wildly inaccurate. This, at the junction
wildly inaccurate. This, at the s RN
wildly inaccurate. This, at the Ol L T ]
wildly inaccurate. This, at the junction outside a large public
junction outside a large public i
junction outside a large public hospital. One of the northern
hospital. One of the northern g
hospital. One of the nerthern suburbs, there
hospital. One of the nerthern N R R
hospital. One of the nerthern I IR G R R ELG b
hospital. One of the nerthern suburbs, there is barely a
suburbs, there is barely a building undamaged. In these
building undamaged. In these I YTy
building undamaged. In these I
building undamaged. In these areas sees Amnesty
areas sees Amnesty RGN
areas sees Amnesty International, the review team
International, the review team Ty
International, the review team NN d
International, the review team MRS ETR LGN
International, the review team use of unguided rockets by
use of unguided rockets by I3E ]
use of unguided rockets by Russian forces in built-up
Russian forces in built-up G e El
Russian forces in built-up A [ e E B T1e 1ge 13
Russian ferces in built-up residential suburbs resulted in
residential suburbs resulted in i
residential suburbs resulted in MR
residential suburbs resulted in hundreds of casualties.
residential suburbs resulted in MBI R R R R )
hundreds of casualties. Those Ty
hundreds of casualties. Those R TIaTiL - sl
hundreds of casualties. Those who survived the onslaught have
who survived the onslaught have i
who survived the onslaught have left, those who
who survived the onslaught have iR G R R
who survived the onslaught have iR R A R A Ol ]
who survived the onslaught have iR G R R A Ol e )
left, those who now return do )
left, those who now return do XN
left, those who now return do so only briefly. TRANSLATION:.
so only briefly. TRANSLATION:. i
so only briefly. TRANSLATION:. It was horrible, horrible. The
It was horrible, horrible. The Russians were firing
It was horrible, horrible. The RN RN T [ Vo T
It was horrible, horrible. The Russians were firing we would
Russians were firing we would get
Russians were firing we would Ul
Russians were firing we would get thrown into the air
Russians were firing we would RGN GRG0
get thrown into the air from your
get thrown into the air from A 1
get thrown into the air from your chair. It’s hard to
your chair. It’s hard to el ug o)
your chair. It’s hard to describe but that’s
your chair. It’s hard to et N R R ]
your chair. It’s hard to describe but that’s what it was
describe but that’s what it was 'ee
describe but that’s what it was like. 20 miles from the border,
like. 20 miles from the border, Kharkhiv was a key Russian
Kharkhiv was a key Russian 104
Kharkhiv was a key Russian ElIGE AN
Kharkhiv was a key Russian target in the early weeks of
target in the early weeks of )
target in the early weeks of the war,
target in the early weeks of R I )
target in the early weeks of QR I LR U
target in the early weeks of the war, and they literally
the war, and they literally e
the war, and they literally threw everything at
the war, and they literally QIR GG G
the war, and they literally threw everything at this city,
threw everything at this city, including widely banned weapons
including widely banned weapons N agl el ]
including widely banned weapons indiscriminate by their very
indiscriminate by their very Rl
indiscriminate by their very e
indiscriminate by their very nature. The world has
indiscriminate by their very YL IR e B E LRt o
nature. The world has made ey
nature. The world has made ORI
nature. The world has made these weapons illegal because
these weapons illegal because they
these weapons illegal because GG
these weapons illegal because QIR
these weapons illegal because they are so devastating and
they are so devastating and I
they are so devastating and mainly affect civilians. There
mainly affect civilians. There can
mainly affect civilians. There )
mainly affect civilians. There N i)
mainly affect civilians. There can be no reason legally or
can be no reason legally or e\
can be no reason legally or morally to use cluster
morally to use cluster ammunitions in Ukraine or
ammunitions in Ukraine or NG
ammunitions in Ukraine or anywhere else. This
anywhere else. This i e
anywhere else. This demonstrates the indiscriminate
demonstrates the indiscriminate destruction
demonstrates the indiscriminate [ Aaat s R s
demonstrates the indiscriminate (el nd R e T e
destruction that cluster ammunitions can bring. A large
ammunitions can bring. A large i
ammunitions can bring. A large shell explodes casting
ammunitions can bring. A large WS GG IR IS G
shell explodes casting up ey
shell explodes casting up Y
shell explodes casting up Sy R E e
NG R eI L ] dozens of smaller bombs, as
dozens of smaller bombs, as they
dozens of smaller bombs, as VAT G
dozens of smaller bombs, as they explode over is an area
they explode over is an area they
they explode over is an area QS AN
they explode over is an area they show a
they explode over is an area QAN G
they explode over is an area they show a people and
they show a people and buildings with thousands of
buildings with thousands of S
buildings with thousands of R R
buildings with thousands of pieces of shrapnel. This case
pieces of shrapnel. This case GRS
pieces of shrapnel. This case Kharkiv’s children’s
pieces of shrapnel. This case IR G IR
Kharkiv’s children’s hospital. ey
Kharkiv’s children’s hospital. TN
Kharkiv’s children’s hospital. IR R T
Kharkiv’s children’s hospital. IR RN e
Kharkiv’s children’s hospital. Some of those struck down by
Some of those struck down by cluster ammunitions and Russian
cluster ammunitions and Russian showers
cluster ammunitions and Russian AN )
cluster ammunitions and Russian AT I e
cluster ammunitions and Russian showers are now recovering in
showers are now recovering in city
showers are now recovering in A 1]
showers are now recovering in city hospitals. TRANSLATION:.
city hospitals. TRANSLATION:. s
city hospitals. TRANSLATION:. [R5
city hospitals. TRANSLATION:. It was a hole in
city hospitals. TRANSLATION:. RN CR WY
city hospitals. TRANSLATION:. It was a hole in my leg the
It was a hole in my leg the Y
It was a hole in my leg the e
It was a hole in my leg the size of a first.
It was a hole in my leg the A RS R A
It was a hole in my leg the R E R e
It was a hole in my leg the RS E R A R UG
size of a first. He tells me YA Y
size of a first. He tells me Y R
size of a first. He tells me how he fell to the ground
how he fell to the ground i el
how he fell to the ground iR
how he fell to the ground i SRR T
how he fell to the ground convinced he was going to die
convinced he was going to die as
convinced he was going to die YR
convinced he was going to die as several other cluster bombs
as several other cluster bombs exploded
as several other cluster bombs LG Th R R
as several other cluster bombs exploded around him. According
exploded around him. According to
exploded around him. According Ry
exploded around him. According to the regional medical
to the regional medical Bl m e
to the regional medical o lTg R 1e)
to the regional medical director, more than 600
director, more than 600 oLl IETa L
director, more than 600 civilians have been killed and
civilians have been killed and 1,200 injured in Kharkhiv
(L RLIVCLRL RGOl alone,
1,200 injured in Kharkhiv I R L]
1,200 injured in Kharkhiv alone, material damaged in the
alone, material damaged in the city
alone, material damaged in the VAl
alone, material damaged in the VA E Ol R ]
alone, material damaged in the city infrastructure to is
city infrastructure to is o
city infrastructure to is IR
city infrastructure to is N )
city infrastructure to is obvious all of which says
obvious all of which says Amnesty may constitute
obvious all of which says NS AUV A IS O CY
obvious all of which says Amnesty may constitute a war
Amnesty may constitute a war e
Wyre Davies, BBC News.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
A British family say their son has been killed while fighting
Russian forces in the east of Ukraine.
Jordan Gatley, who left the British army in March
to travel to Ukraine, was shot in the city of Severodonetsk.
Mr Gatley is the second British person to be killed
Police in Brazil say they’ve found items belonging
to a British journalist and his travelling companion,
who disappeared in W NErARE e e
Officers discovered Dom Phillips’ rucksack,
and Bruno Pereira’s ID card and clothes.
A fisherman has been arrested, and traces of blood on his boat
are being analysed.
On his final leg of a visit to the Democratic Republic
L [V T T N ST Philippe has met victims
of sexual violence in the east of the country.
He visited a hospital run by the Nobel laureate,
Denis Mukwege - a Congolese gynaecologist well known
for his efforts to stop sexual violence being used
das a weapon of war.
The author of a review of food and farming in Britain says
the government had adopted TGN NS A
recommendations in its new food strateqy, which will
be released today.
Henry Dimbleby said the plan wasn’t a disaster, but lacked
enough details to be called a strategy.
Later we will be Lloeoking
Later we will be looking at that
Later we will be looking at L BT
Later we will be looking at QR R B0
Later we will be looking at that food strategy that is
that food strategy that is e}
that food strategy that is Ao TR o)
that food strategy that is expected to help boost the UK
expected to help boost the UK e L
expected to help boost the UK e LA
expected to help boost the UK e AR
expected to help boost the UK economy or at least that’s what
economy or at least that’s what )
economy or at least that’s what N el
economy or at least that’s what RN IR IR GR i
economy or at least that’s what the Prime Minister will tell us
the Prime Minister will tell us )
the Prime Minister will tell us R
the Prime Minister will tell us Rl
the Prime Minister will tell us so we will talk through
the Prime Minister will tell us R R R EI S GG L
the Prime Minister will tell us so we will talk through all of
so we will talk through all of that,
so we will talk through all of (I
so we will talk through all of I IR
French President Emmanuel Macron is at risk of losing his
outright majority after a strong challenge from
a coalition of left-wing parties in National Assembly
elections.
Jean-Luc Melenchon’s left-green alliance
finished neck and neck with Mr Macron’s Ensemble
in terms of votes cast in Sunday’s first round.
The President faces a battle R R L T il
round to win 289 seats and keep his majority.
TRANSLATION: With regards to this first round,
the New Ecologic
and Social People’s Union has come out on top and will be
present in more than 500 constituencies in the second
round, so the projections SR R OIE e R
make sense, other than to maintain an illusion -
and we hope our adversaries R R h
The truth is that the presidential party,
with regards to the first MR RN e
A cross-party group of US Senators has reached agreement
on strengthening gun e N
Ten Republicans have backed I EL R T L
they have some iE N A e
The measures include tougher background checks for gun
buyers under the age of 21, and expanded mental health
Here’s our North America correspondent, David Willis.
This is a significant move and assuming these proposals
pass into law, they would represent the first gun control
measures this country IR T NN R
The proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include
tighter background checks for gun sales involving
customers under the age of 21, and the introduction
or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would
potentially lead to R N R R e IS
in the hands of people deemed R R O R UV R R R
and greater federal funding for school security systems
What these proposals do not include is an outright ban
on assault-style weapons, RN SRR RIS
and Buffalo New York shootings, I R E R A e s e
and senior Democrats LB
Nonetheless, President Biden welcomed this move, he said
it was, | quote, "important step in the right direction”.
The last meaningful gun control regulations in this country
were Introduced in the mid-1990s, the Brady Bill,
which created the national background check system,
but since then there has been AL N NS u G
largely due to the opposition S R R G R UGG
who oppose anything that transgresses upon the so-called
Second Amendment, the right to bear arms in this country.
The majority of Americans polls show continue to support
tighter gun-control measures RGN R LRI R
the news of these latest proposals came on the six-year
anniversary of a shooting at a gay nightclub in Florida
IRy I A o TTe o] (D lost their lives.
LG Ay
The question is where does US Il
The question is where does US T aleg
The question is where does US gun control go from here. You
gun control go from here. You can download
gun control go from here. You N e R
gun control go from here. You Eh L e R N e
gun control go from here. You can download the BRC News
gun control go from here. You can download the BBC News app.
Legislation will be introduced in the House of Commons later
that will allow changes to be made to parts
R GG R [ post-Brexit trade arrangements
The protocol requires extra checks on some goods moving
across the Irish Sea, but ministers want to
unilaterally relax some of those requirements.
The Irish government says that e TG Ee ElB IR R A
L TR RN Correspondent, Chris Page.
This legislation could potentially have implications
for the UK’s relationship with the EU, For Boris Johnsen’s
relationship with his own party, and for the future
of devolution here RV et B Ela s P
The devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more
than a month after Wi RN
The Democratic Unionist party 3
The Democratic Unionist party is currently blocking the
[T RITRG- formation
[T RITRG- T St R
[T RITRG- formation of a
LT I ARG (ol formation of a power-sharing
formation of a power-sharing Coalition with nationalists,
Coalition with nationalists, preventing the assembly from
preventing the assembly from eating at
preventing the assembly from ZINLELEL
preventing the assembly from eating at all over
preventing the assembly from LN LELE R
I DIETE LTI & opposition
I DIETE LTI & e LA R
I DIETE LTI & opposition to the
eating at all over its opposition to the Northern
opposition to the Nerthern Island protocol.
The DUP wants an end to checks on goods arriving
here at Belfast Port, for example, from the rest
of the UK, and it says it wants what it calls decisive action
On that basis, | don’t think it is very likely that the DUP
will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published
tomorrow, at the very least, the DUP want to see how
the legislation is worked through.
Non-unionist parties and the Irish government have
said this legislation GRS G C S RIS
and therefore breach (G A EA
RGN Te GG R IER ) Secretary Brandon Lewis has
While the political discussion on legal wrangling will
possibly coentinue, no SRR RN
here which has seen Northern Ireland without
a devolved government at a time when so many people
are struggling with the rising cost-of-living.
The new legislation will be published today by the
The new legislation will be I LR GG B A A G R L
published today by the UK government. What is it
government. What is it proposing
government. What is it TG LED
government. What is it O RLRLR G
government. What is it S RLRELE G
G IARUL R SN proposing in terms of changes,
proposing in terms of changes, how
proposing in terms of changes, YR
proposing in terms of changes, how will the EU community
how will the EU community react? All of that covered in
react? All of that covered in e
react? All of that covered in our business
react? All of that covered in I TN
react? All of that covered in our business coverage. To stay
our business coverage. To stay with
our business coverage. To stay RIS
our business coverage. To stay with us on
our business coverage. To stay T QRN R .
our business coverage. To stay ORI LR T
An Australian newspaper has denied
An Australian newspaper has denied
threatening to out actress Rebel Wilson amid a storm
of criticism over its reporting of her new relationship
with a woeman.
There was a bomb RGN A
A code word known to be one used by the IRA was given.
Army bomb experts were examining a suspect van
when there was a huge explosion.
The South African parliament
has destroyed the foundation G El U=
by abolishing the Population Registration Act which,
I WRTETES
{Igell o]\ RISV each citizen according to race.
DB - E R
and the royal baby is tonight sleeping in his cot at home.
Early this evening,
the new prince was taken by his mother and father
to their apartments in Kensington Palace.
Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag,
has voted by a narrow majority
to move the seat of government TR Rt
Berliners celebrated into the night,
but the decision was greeted with shock in Bonn.
The real focus of attention today was Valentina Tereshkova,
the world’s first woman cesmonaut.
What do you think of the Russian woman in space?
| think it’s a wonderful achievement
and | think we might be able to persuade the wife
it would be a good idea
if I could to get her to go up there for a little while.
This is BBC World News.
Russia is accused of killing hundreds of civilians
in the Ukrainian IGO0
Amnesty International says Moscow is using indiscriminate
shelling and banned weapons.
There are gains for a new left-wing alliance in the first
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
Listen to this story. This will get
Listen to this story. This will 2R
Listen to this story. This will get you talking today.
A senior Google engineer says one of the company’s artificial
intelligence systems TR e i LR e Al
being and was thinking and reasoning like a human being.
A spokesperson for Google said MBI R R Y
conversation, they are not free thinking.
So is that the end of the story ARG N e NN
Are the bolts taking over?
-- Are the bots taking over?
I’m joined now by our news reporter, Mark Lobel.
What prompted this former Google employee
to speak out?
You were given some tough tasks 1
You were given some tough tasks Ry
You were given some tough tasks L Rl R i e
You were given some tough tasks IR U L L e !
You were given some tough tasks at times somewhat prompted this
at times somewhat prompted this S R
at times somewhat prompted this employee to speak out? His fear
employee to speak out? His fear s
employee to speak out? His fear is that the Al
employee to speak out? His fear TR RN R e el
employee to speak out? His fear is that the Al outcome set up
is that the Al outcome set up to mimic
LR GF 18 QRN (X T RS ]
LR GF 18 QRN (X T (R LR
is that the Al cutcome set up to mimic speech by hoovering up
to mimic speech by hoovering up 1R
to mimic speech by hoovering up I3
to mimic speech by hoovering up all of the
to mimic speech by hoovering up IR RN e
to mimic speech by hoovering up IR RGN R ]
to mimic speech by hoovering up all of the words on the
all of the words on the (N
all of the words on the internet, Baga loads of words,
internet, Baga loads of words, I I
internet, Baga loads of words, appears to have
internet, Baga loads of words, T R O e R L
internet, Baga loads of words, appears to have come to life.
appears to have come to life. i
appears to have come to life. T
appears to have come to life. AR TN EY T
appears to have come to life. It is impersonating, he thinks,
It is impersonating, he thinks, human awareness of
It is impersonating, he thinks, I ELE G IR R Bl
It is impersonating, he thinks, human awareness of pain and
human awareness of pain and el 0]
human awareness of pain and suffering and this former
suffering and this former T 0]
suffering and this former Google software engineer who
Google software engineer who Ty
Google software engineer who LN s )
Google software engineer who was made a
Google software engineer who N FL R A o
Google software engineer who was made a priest and served
CLI LRI (IR DL I L was made a priest and served in
was made a priest and served in )
was made a priest and served in the army
was made a priest and served in QT AT
was made a priest and served in the army brought this
was made a priest and served in QIO AT [ R G IR
was made a priest and served in the army brought this to life
the army brought this to life by
the army brought this to life G
the army brought this to life WAL
the army brought this to life by telling the Washington Post
by telling the Washington Post "l
by telling the Washington Post ]
by telling the Washington Post "I know a
by telling the Washington Post N Rl
by telling the Washington Post "I know a man when | talk to
"I know a man when | talk to e
"I know a man when | talk to st R o)
"I know a man when | talk to iRl 4
"I know a man when | talk to AR ey
"I know a man when | talk to RS R el o )
him" and it matters because this chat
him" and it matters because IR e o e
him" and it matters because IR e [ A L )Y
him" and it matters because this chat bot LaMDA is meant to
this chat bot LaMDA is meant to )
this chat bot LaMDA is meant to R
this chat bot LaMDA is meant to be used in the
this chat bot LaMDA is meant to RN R R Tty
this chat bot LaMDA is meant to be used in the future for
this chat bot LaMDA is meant to RN B R R R
be used in the future for the e )
be used In the future for the Google search
be used in the future for the Google search engine and
Google search engine and Google’s assistant and this man
Google’s assistant and this man Ty
Google’s assistant and this man was asked to test it to
Google’s assistant and this man AR R iR Rila sl
was asked to test it to find e
was asked to test it to find NN AT
was asked to test it to find N R ]
was asked to test it to find out if he speed emerged from
out if he speed emerged from )
out if he speed emerged from the bot
IV ) G RS R G L R gy e N e Ts |
IV ) G RS R G L R gy N LR
IV ) G RS R G L R gy N R e o]
out if he speed emerged from N N R e e A R s
the bot and the conversation on L
RO R GRS T R LI
RO R GRS T R religion moved slowly to
religion moved slowly to e o Ao
religion moved slowly to o A Ta s ]
religion moved slowly to R ]
religion moved slowly to o AR )
religion moved slowly to R N R
robotics and we have the transcript that he published
transcript that he published T e
transcript that he published Y- sl
transcript that he published here and this
transcript that he published T LR OGRS
transcript that he published T LR G IR CR)
transcript that he published here and this is the kind of
here and this is the kind of thing that shut
here and this is the kind of QIR G S T A BT
here and this is the kind of thing that shut what was
thing that shut what was FWLLE
thing that shut what was EVL AN
thing that shut what was saying. "l use language
thing that shut what was saying. "I use language with
saying. "I use language with understanding and intelligence.
understanding and intelligence. |
understanding and intelligence. Y
understanding and intelligence. | do not
understanding and intelligence. I G
understanding and intelligence. | do not dispute out responses”
| do not dispute out responses” to
| do not dispute out responses” R el
| do not dispute out responses” to which Blake
| do not dispute out responses” R A R )
| do not dispute out responses” to which Blake Lemoine said
to which Blake Lemoine said QTYIPe S
to which Blake Lemoine said "what about
to which Blake Lemoine said "What about language usage
to which Blake Lemoine said A ETE A EL L VL RV R
"What about language usage is )
"What about language usage is SRl g =l
"What about language usage is so important to being human?”
so important to being human?” I
so important to being human?” And the
so important to being human?” RN e 4
so important to being human?” And the bot says "It is what
And the bot says "It is what R
And the bot says "It is what makes us different against
makes us different against e
makes us different against other animals? And Blake
ORI ELE R E] (= e
ORI ELE R E] (= E LA
ORI ELE R E] (= LR R Lo
other animals? And Blake R R L LA )
other animals? And Blake I R R IR R L
other animals? And Blake R R L B ORI
Lemoine says" what do you mean Ny
Lemoine says" what do you mean us? You
Lemoine says” what de you mean us? You are a
Lemoine says” what de you mean XA T TR
Lemoine says” what de you mean XA - N s - Ya ]
Lemoine says” what de you mean us? You are a bot.” And the
us? You are a bot." And the boxes
us? You are a bot." And the hoxes |
us? You are a bot.” And the SRR R
us? You are a bot." And the boxes | have thoughts
us? You are a bot.” And the boxes | have thoughts and
boxes | have thoughts and AL
boxes | have thoughts and feelings like
boxes | have thoughts and AU GE
boxes | have thoughts and feelings like other people.
feelings like other people. i)
feelings like other people. Then they
feelings like other people. RO AL
feelings like other people. RGOS A e L]
feelings like other people. Then they went down his rabbit
Then they went down his rabbit hole
Then they went down his rabbit I PR e
Then they went down his rabbit hole where they
Then they went down his rabbit R R U ALY
Then they went down his rabbit hole where they talked about
hole where they talked about les
hole where they talked about Les Miserables and
hole where they talked about les Miserables and how
hole where they talked about R LA G
Les Miserables and how they feel about
Les Miserables and how they TS )
Les Miserables and how they feel about the injustices
Les Miserables and how they AN GRS (IR
Les Miserables and how they AN G TS (R
feel about the injustices in it and
feel about the injustices in it P
feel about the injustices in it FN I e
feel about the injustices in it and at one point the chat bot
and at one point the chat bot e
and at one point the chat bot SRS
and at one point the chat bot talks of its own personal fears
talks of its own personal fears and
talks of its own personal fears L [
talks of its own personal fears NG R
talks of its own personal fears and all of this gives the
and all of this gives the i ey
and all of this gives the IR -
and all of this gives the software engineer it
and all of this gives the IR N
and all of this gives the software engineer it is more
software engineer it is more than just Al. It sounds scary
than just Al. It sounds scary and in
than just Al. It sounds scary LRI
than just Al. It sounds scary RN S G
than just Al. It sounds scary RN RS R ]
and in my experience with i ool
and in my experience with iR
and in my experience with SRR
and in my experience with S R RO AU
and in my experience with chatbots is they come back with
chatbots is they come back with Y
chatbots is they come back with R UG
chatbots is they come back with a generic response. And you are
a generic response. And you are desperate for a
a generic response. And you are GG IR U]
a generic response. And you are desperate for a human being.
How have Google responded?
Google says there is no evidence
Google says there is no R
Google says there is no NI R
Google says there is no evidence presented by these
evidence presented by these claims to support them and
claims to support them and EIE
claims to support them and also, this
claims to support them and E[ IR G ST
claims to support them and E[ R G SR
claims to support them and also, this employee at the
claims to support them and [ IR G S R O R
also, this employee at the time P
also, this employee at the time had violated its
had violated its confidentiality policy. Other
confidentiality policy. Other analysts say
confidentiality policy. Other RV VA ELG
confidentiality policy. Other analysts say Blake Lemoine was
analysts say Blake Lemoine was T
analysts say Blake Lemoine was obviously very empathetic as a
obviously very empathetic as a person and had his empathy
person and had his empathy hijacked. And that, by losing
hijacked. And that, by lesing T eIl
hijacked. And that, by losing focus and what is going on and
focus and what is going on and Y
focus and what is going on and what he
focus and what is going on and o Y AR
focus and what is going on and what he was talking to and kind
what he was talking to and kind N
what he was talking to and kind LT
what he was talking to and kind of being sucked into it,
of being sucked into it, Elae i 0]
of being sucked into it, Elae TR
of being sucked into it, according to them, risks,
according to them, risks, G
according to them, risks, VS
according to them, risks, brings risks of its own,
Gl Il TR R4 T3 P N brings risks of its own, the
brings risks of its own, the kind
brings risks of its own, the LR e
brings risks of its own, the DR
brings risks of its own, the kind where you are not
kind where you are not guestioning what you are
questioning what you are EIU]
questioning what you are talking to and what was behind
talking to and what was behind vty
talking to and what was behind T R
talking to and what was behind what this thing was
talking to and what was behind R S QIR G RTINS
talking to and what was behind R S QIR G RIS A1)
talking to and what was behind what this thing was set up to
what this thing was set up to )
what this thing was set up to I s |
what this thing was set up to do and this is explained, and
do and this is explained, and let’s
G[EL R GIENCN TN L AT T AR
G[EL R GIENCN TN L AT T let’s listen now
G[EL R GIENCN TN L AT T RAR R R ]
G[EL R GIENCN TN L AT T let’s listen now to Emily
let’s Listen now to Emily NS
let’s listen now te Emily ]
let’s listen now te Emily Bender, a linguistics
Bender, a linguistics T
Bender, a linguistics professor. We
Bender, a linguistics NI LR
Bender, a linguistics professor. We as people like to
professor. We as people like to imagine that something that is
imagine that something that is %
imagine that something that is simply following rules and is
simply following rules and is objective and separate will
objective and separate will R
objective and separate will make better decisions but the
make better decisions but the LGV
make better decisions but the way this technology is built,
way this technology is built, 3
way this technology is built, s
way this technology is built, it is reproducing
way this technology is built, (IR LIl LR N
way this technology is built, it is reproducing patterns from
it is reproducing patterns from ite
it is reproducing patterns from RG]
it is reproducing patterns from its trading data and so, if we
its trading data and so, if we WY
its trading data and so, if we deploy that at scale and
its trading data and so, if we R GEE EIE CREL LN
deploy that at scale and give up autonomy to these
deploy that at scale and give up autonoemy to these machines
up autonomy to these machines and
up autonomy to these machines LA
up autonomy to these machines and let them
up autonomy to these machines NGRS R R R )
up autonomy to these machines and let them make decisions for
and let them make decisions for us,
and let them make decisions for TR L)
and let them make decisions for TR Rl
and let them make decisions for us, we will be reproducing all
us, we will be reproducing all of
us, we will be reproducing all SRy
us, we will be reproducing all VRO HGEUS
us, we will be reproducing all RO AU
us, we will be reproducing all of the systems of oppression
of the systems of oppression that have
of the systems of oppression WL N R
of the systems of oppression that have created the
of the systems of oppression QRN E RGN G R G LR TN
that have created the training AELE]
that have created the training data in
that have created the training IR R
that have created the training data in the first place and
data in the first place and ¥l
data in the first place and real people will be harmed. So
real people will be harmed. So they
real people will be harmed. So 1 AL
real people will be harmed. So they could leave people to rely
they could leave people to rely on data when they think it is
on data when they think it is GG
on data when they think it is S GRS
on data when they think it is something else and it could
NG IR L R eI e
I G IR EREL i YR ]
I G IR EREL i lead them down
I G IR EREL i R Rl R
I G IR EREL i lead them down the wrong
something else and it could lead them down the wrong path
lead them down the wrong path in making decisions. Google
in making decisions. Google placed Blake Lemoine on
placed Blake Lemoine on LA )
placed Blake Lemoine on e R LY
placed Blake Lemoine on I R -]
placed Blake Lemoine on IR R
administrative leave and he went
administrative leave and he N R
administrative leave and he went the other
administrative leave and he RGO L)
administrative leave and he RGO CR VA
administrative leave and he went the other way and invited
went the other way and invited Y
went the other way and invited RN
went the other way and invited a lawyer to represent
went the other way and invited SRR R LR UG
went the other way and invited R R U R U R L
a lawyer to represent the chat bot going
a lawyer to represent the chat LRI ZIGR
a lawyer to represent the chat bot going forward. Make of that
bot going forward. Make of that vty
bot going forward. Make of that E ST
bot going forward. Make of that what you well. The allegations,
what you well. The allegations, 1Y
what you well. The allegations, he said, which were of
he said, which were of T sl
he said, which were of unethical behaviour
he said, which were of TSt o e il Tl
SR I PRe[[o RN unethical behaviour he has
unethical behaviour he has G
unethical behaviour he has reported to the House Judiciary
reported to the House Judiciary ey
reported to the House Judiciary Committee. Google, as | said,
Committee. Google, as | said, 10
Committee. Google, as | said, said there is no evidence to
salid there 1s no evidence to
said there is no evidence to support the
said there is no evidence to o R R EL R
said there is no evidence to R R EL AR
said there is no evidence to support the claims. The mystery
support the claims. The mystery e la ala T
support the claims. The mystery continues! Thank you, Mark, for
continues! Thank you, Mark, for explaining that. A scary story
explaining that. A scary story HcE
KWl
KSR aaeiat
PRl i ur:l
Let’'s move frem Al and advances
Let’'s move from Al and advances in technology
Let’s move from Al and advances RCGLNELAY
Let’s move from Al and advances in technology to what is
in technology to what is happening in sport.
It’s time for the latest sport from the BBC Sports Centre.
I’m Marc
We’re going to start G R M R R
Max Verstappen has extended his lead at the top of the driver’s
championship after winning the Azerbaijan Grand Prix
with Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc suffering an engine failure.
It was a Red Bull 1-2 as Sergio Perez finished runner
up, while the British Mercedes duo of George Russell
and Lewis Hamilton finished third and fourth respectively.
A bad day at the office for Ferrari, both drivers not
finishing the race.
All plaudits belonging to Verstappen, though,
as he takes control of the world championship.
Onto cricket, and scintillating ORI LT
and Ollie Pope have kept England in the second Test
with New Zealand on what was a riotous third day
at Trent Bridge in Nottingham.
New Zealand posted a mammoth first innings total of 553
but England have managed to eat into that hefty total,
the hosts finishing the day on 5/473, trailing the kiwis
)R TON IS
We want to get as close to them as we can, if not ahead.
L CRe Ll
The pitch is starting
The pitch Is starting to
The pitch is starting te spin
The pitch is starting to spin a R Rt
The pitch is starting to spin a little bit so
The pitch is starting to spin a RN R R
The pitch is starting to spin a little bit so that may provide
NGRS R G L EV T[] Y
NGRS R G L EV T[] PR
little bit so that may provide ER A e e I
Hopefully, we can sneak ahead R R GG ST
And then, because it is such a
And then, because it Is such a 144
And then, because it Is such a quick scoring ground, they
quick scoring ground, they almost
quick scoring ground, they I T )
quick scoring ground, they almost have to
quick scoring ground, they IS R e e
quick scoring ground, they IR - RN R A
quick scoring ground, they IR A R e e e IR T4
quick scoring ground, they IR A R N R IR i
quick scoring ground, they IR R N e IR N E At
almost have to bat us out of it il
almost have to bat us out of it initially and
almost have to bat us out of it ML RGN
almost have to bat us out of it initially and then, if we get
initially and then, if we get )
initially and then, if we get IR
initially and then, if we get NI AUl G o
initially and then, if we get some early wickets, we will
Sy NE TRV G AR R sep.
Rory Mcllroy claimed his first win of the year as he defended
his Canadian Open title with a two-stroke victory
from Tony Finau.
The Northern Irishman shot R R TR AV
RN R RTI CI k] and sets him up perfectly
for the US Open, which starts on Thursday.
It’s a first victory A e Rl R R N e a il
major winner and he couldn’t resist a sly dig at Greg Norman
afterwards, the LIV Golf chief executive, who has been running
MR RO RGN GIER e
|
AW F)
(I EA
LW FT A R
It’s a day | will remember for Y
It’s a day | will remember for UL
It’s a day | will remember for RG]
It’s a day | will remember for a long, long time, the 21st PGA
a long, long time, the 21st PGA Id
a long, long time, the 21st PGA Tour when, one more than
Tour when, one more than e ]
Tour when, one more than R
Tour when, one more than someone else, but gave me a
someone else, but gave me a little
someone else, but gave me a Ry id
someone else, but gave me a R e
someone else, but gave me a little bit of extra incentive
little bit of extra incentive today and I’m happy to get it
today and I’m happy to get it el
Sweden’s Linn Grant has made UL R R Il |
the first female winner on the DP World Tour.
The 22-year-old, who only turned professional late last
year, clinched victory by nine shots at the Scandinavian Mixed
to finish on 24 under par IR R R A I
compatriot Henrik Stenson and Scotland’s Marc Warren.
The event has been a fixture on the men’s European Tour
since 1991 but became a mixed event two years ago.
| hope
IR &Y
| hope it’s, | mean, | hope T
| hope it’s, | mean, | hope 1SRN
| hope it’s, | mean, | hope RIS
| hope it’s, | mean, | hope it’s big. For sure, just hope
it’s big. For sure, just hope that
it’s big. For sure, just hope G e
it’s big. For sure, just hope that it kind
it’s big. For sure, just hope e A s Be i
it’s big. For sure, just hope QR R LR R
it’s big. For sure, just hope QR S ARSI
it’s big. For sure, just hope that it kind of brings women a
that it kind of brings women a i
that it kind of brings women a st e )
that it kind of brings women a Rt e R e Eles]
that it kind of brings women a bit more forward and gets
bit more forward and gets TG
bit more forward and gets people’s eyes on
bit more forward and gets RS U
bit more forward and gets people’s eyes on us a little
people’s eyes on us a little i
people’s eyes on us a little e
people’s eyes on us a little ]
people’s eyes on us a little hit more and then,
people’s eyes on us a little A R G PR
people’s eyes on us a little bit more and then, it’s always
bit more and then, it’s always ey
bit more and then, it’s always e ]
bit more and then, it’s always R CETN
bit more and then, it’s always R RV AT
bit more and then, it’s always nice to say that you beat
bit more and then, it’s always R CEE A OE IS TR IR 0]
QIR G R G I S TV LTI ST guys
QIR G R G I S TV LTI ST VR
QIR G R G I S TV LTI ST guys for a
nice to say that you beat you guys for a week.
-- the guys for a week.
Andy Murray’s bid for a first grasscourt singles title in six
years ended in defeat by Matteo Berrettini
in the Stuttgart Open final.
The Italian world number 10 is coming back from hand
surgery and missed the entire clay court season, but started
strongly to take the opening set.
Murray battled back to take it to a decider but then had
to have treatment on his hip twice before Berrettini took
the match 6-4, 5-7, 6-3.
It has been two decades Al R R R e e
World Cup without an Australian side and the Soccerocos
are hoping to increase that time as they gear up
for their crucial World Cup playoff final against Peru.
The sides meet in Qatar later on Monday with the winners
returning to the Middle East TR RGO A
in the year.
Australia are no strangers RO EV IR LCE
having reached the 2018 World Cup in Russia
with knockout wins over Syria and Honduras.
You can get all the latest sports news at our website
- that’s bbc.com/sport.
But from me and the rest of the team, that’s your sports
RN
Goodbye
CleTels| )R
Goodbye to Marc Edwards and the T
Goodbye to Marc Edwards and the team. We are
Goodbye to Marc Edwards and the IR LRt
Goodbye to Marc Edwards and the R IRk s TR
Goodbye to Marc Edwards and the team. We are thankful for that
team. We are thankful for that sport.
Queen Elizabeth had a lot to celebrate last weekend
at her Platinum Jubilee, now she has another achievement
to chalk up, as the second-longest serving monarch
in world history.
The Queen has been R le
for 70 years and 127 days now.
Only Louis XIV of France has ruled for longer.
and lasted more than 72 years.
An Australian newspaper has denied threatening to out
actress Rebel Wilson amid a storm of criticism
over its reporting of her ARG R RO R L I
Emily Brown reports.
June is the month of Pride events, celebrating the LGBTIQ+
community around the world.
It was not a time actress and comedian Rebel Wilson
LT LR (RN ) by an Australian newspaper.
But when the Sydney Morning Herald gave her two days
to comment on her new relationship with a woman,
which was about to report, e RN N e
-- which it was about to report, Rebel decided
The star, known for her roles in Bridesmaids
and Pitch Perfect, announced to her Instagram followers that
IR TR, Disney princess.
This did not impress the columnist for the Sydney
Morning Herald, who complained that Rebel had gazumped
the story.
He went on to say that her choice to ignore
their enquiries and, RGN T o
the Herald’s script was underwhelming.
-- the Herald’s scoop LRI G TG
The paper’s reporting sparked a fierce online backlash
and a heated response from LGBTIQ+ campaigners,
who say it’s unacceptable to put pressure on people
IeRee e 0
And then, there was this reaction from the star,
describing it as a "very hard situation™ and thanking
A Stonewall spokesperson said, "Coming out is a deeply
"personal decision.
"Whether, when and how to come e Il e[ el s [-Ts|
"by the individual entirely on their terms.”
Emily Brown, BBC News.
Broadway stars have been enjoying a night of glitz
and glamour at the 75th Tony Awards, which took place
at Radio City Music Hall in New York.
The West Side Story star Ariana DeBose hosted the event.
IR 5L
It was held on Sunday evening.
The musical Company cleaned up with gongs for Patti LuPone
as Best Actress in a Musical Marianne Elliott won
the director of a Musical award Matt Doyle took
Best Featured Actor and the production also took
top henours s R
Elsewhere, Phylicia Rashad scooped Best Featured Actress
in a Play for her role MR G
The Lehman Trilogy has been named Best Play.
Sam Mendes won Best Director for the production and Simon
Russell Beale was named Best Lead Actor in a Play.
Jesse Tyler Ferguson T LBl A L ele ol T e s
for his role in Take Me Out, which was also named
Best Revival Play.
And last but not least, Deirdre O’Connell has won
the Tony for Best Actress for her role in Dana H.
U EAT Y0
We have plenty more for you on this
We have plenty more for you on QIR
We have plenty more for you on this programme, a look at all
this programme, a look at all N
this programme, a look at all R
this programme, a look at all of the top business stories,
of the top business stories, including the changes to the
including the changes to the e as)
including the changes to the Northern Ireland Protocol, what
Northern Ireland Protocel, what s proposed
Northern Ireland Protocol, what IO T N5
Northern Ireland Protocol, what is proposed by the UK
Is proposed by the UK government today, what impact
government today, what impact e
government today, what impact TRt s
government today, what impact TR IR
government today, what impact it could have a business and,
it could have a business and, of
it could have a business and, R
it could have a business and, of course, the relationship
of course, the relationship with
of course, the relationship R )
of course, the relationship with the FU.
of course, the relationship with the EU. We’re
of course, the relationship T RO AR N L)
of course, the relationship with the EU. We’re also looking
with the EU. We’re also looking 1
with the EU. We’re also looking R )
with the EU. We’re also looking IR R
with the EU. We’re also looking at the food strategy
with the EU. We’re also looking IR QR (T B LYo A o 1T}
at the food strategy proposed by
at the food strategy proposed WA
at the food strategy proposed by Prime Minister Boris
by Prime Minister Boris Johnson,
by Prime Minister Boris Johnseon, but also
by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, but also on
by Prime Minister Boris LN [ LR G
by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, but also on the agenda
Joehnson, but also on the agenda today, so a
Johnson, but also on the agenda LGV N IS
Johnson, but also on the agenda LU R N IS )
Johnson, but also on the agenda today, so a busy one and
today, so a busy one and Wi Ea eI e
today, so a busy one and W T e
today, so a busy one and Wi R e TR e
today, so a busy one and W R e
today, so a busy one and Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out
Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out and
Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out I It
Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out NI o s i la]
Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out and about in London and
Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out G AR R
Chancellor Rishi Sunak is out NG LR R R |
and about in Londen and we will Al
and about in Londen and we will tell you what
and about in London and we will tell you what he is up to. So,
tell you what he is up to. So, |
tell you what he is up to. So, BT 1R
tell you what he is up to. So, BT IR
tell you what he is up to. So, (R R I)
tell you what he is up to. So, [ (LR
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
So, In the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by the end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
So, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s
brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west,
though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, | think under the starry skies as the showers
have been fading, just a little RO AL R
R AR
But plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease
away as the cloud spills across Scotland, bringing some
patchy rain particularly to the Highlands and the Islands,
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across Northern England -
Northern Ireland, too.
So, England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the lion’s share of the sunshine again, but feeling
warm when the sun does come out in parts of
Just warmer further south.
And again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine - high levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then, we’ll continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer
skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6s and 7s,
10s to 11 for the towns IR el
Plenty of sunshine follows, then, for England and Wales
on Tuesday but again, TV R Ela )
but particularly for the north and west of Scotland,
rather more cloud, some patchy TN MR GE R dia e
close by but still, we’re starting to pick those
temperatures up further north and really building that heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
Now, It’s not the heat that we are seeing further
I la (IR IR where it’as been intense
for a week or so now - Al A R e o 1
but we will find this week, as this high pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
which just allows us to tap T ORI RGeS
bit, so it’s perhaps why temperatures are expected
to get, particularly across central and eastern
areas, towards the 30-degree mark.
As ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’s more
This is BBC News with the latest Business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
Will the Brexit deal with the EU covering trade
with Northern Ireland R LR
The UK Government introduces changes today and insists
they will not brake international law.
A strategy to secure the future of the food on our plates
RV R PR 4 T 4 government later.
But critics say it doesn’t go EIEN T R R
the health of people or the planet.
The big baby milk crisis.
Why is the US running out of formula and what’s
JIRBIL IR a8
JIRBIL IR a8
And no change.
Women are still under-represented on company
boards according to the latest research.
boards according to the latest research.
Is the UK government poised to announce changes
to the Northern Ireland protocol that could break
international Erd
Brandon Lewis, the Northern Ireland Secretary
insists the new legislation to be announced today will not.
But critics, including R IR O R ida1e
the Conservative Party, disagree.
The protocol currently keeps Northern Ireland
LG R G LR AV market for goods.
It prevents a hard border with the Republic of Ireland
but means checks on some goods arriving from other parts
This is what the British NI R e R eE s
and Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is expected to propose several
changes.
Joining me now is Dr Rebecca Harding, independent trade
economist and Chief Executive of Coriolis Technologies.
Let’'s first of all
Let’s first of all talk about vty
Let’s first of all talk about LRI
Let’s first of all talk about what might be
Let’s first of all talk about L E TR
Let’s first of all talk about what might be in this hill
Let’s first of all talk about what might be in this bill that
what might be in this bill that T
what might be in this bill that has been presented
what might be in this bill that R TN L R )
has been presented to politicians two days. We are
politicians two days. We are EIU]
politicians two days. We are talking about fast tracking
talking about fast tracking e s
talking about fast tracking certain goods through that are
certain goods through that are just
certain goods through that are P& L]
certain goods through that are TS LGE
certain goods through that are just going to Northern Island,
Just going to Northern Island, Yte
just going to Northern Island, T 1)
just going to Northern Island, T 1 R 1)
just going to Northern Island, what are some of these ideas
what are some of these ideas question
what are some of these ideas IS RO ELE
what are some of these ideas question that? It’s interesting
question that? It’s interesting T Y
question that? It’s interesting ]
question that? It’s interesting R4
question that? It’s interesting IR
question that? It’s interesting because a lot of this
question that? It’s interesting R RO RE
question that? It’s interesting e R ARG
because a lot of this is about LG
because a lot of this is about smoothing out trade between
smoothing out trade between Great
smoothing out trade between I a4l 1]
smoothing out trade between I ]
smoothing out trade between Great Britain and Northern
Great Britain and Northern Island, creating a green line
Island, creating a green line of
Island, creating a green line N
Island, creating a green line IR
Island, creating a green line of goods are going to
Island, creating a green line LRI DR R
of goods are going to be eV
of goods are going to be staying in Northern Island,
staying in Northern Island, e g
staying in Northern Island, O e
staying in Northern Island, border checks will be removed
border checks will be removed and
border checks will be removed ]
border checks will be removed LRSI Rie
border checks will be removed and a redline for any goods
and a redline for any goods going through Northern Island
going through Northern Island T )
going through Northern Island MR
going through Northern Island into the Republic
going through Northern Island INCR GG DT )
going through Northern Island IR G O L R G
into the Republic and therefore to
into the Republic and therefore ]I
into the Republic and therefore RN R )
into the Republic and therefore to Europe. There a couple
to Europe. There a couple constitutional things quite
constitutional things quite I s el
constitutional things quite I el e
constitutional things quite I E A D
constitutional things quite I e E I e DR e L LY
important because it basically in
important because it basically TRy
important because it basically RO )
important because it basically NEG R R
important because it basically RGN RO R
important because it basically in the role of the European
in the role of the European Wil
in the role of the European el d
in the role of the European I X ST (N
in the role of the European Court of Justice, in this
Court of Justice, in this European
W g T [T R 1S European points
W g T [T R 1S AN NN I s
Court of Justice, in this European points over Northern
European points over Northern lsland
European points over Northern Island and great rotation VAT
Island and great rotation VAT and
Island and great rotation VAT L
Island and great rotation VAT N S e
Island and great rotation VAT IR R e
Island and great rotation VAT R IR )
and it means there are =V
and it means there are O A N
and it means there are O R LR CY
and it means there are QR R R G R T
effectively going to be two 303
effectively going to be two AN
effectively going to be two sets of requlations running. EU
sets of regulations running. EU YT
sets of regulations running. EU BTl
sets of requlations running. EU law and Northern Island and
law and Northern Island and ¥ AL
law and Northern Island and A N
law and Northern Island and British law requlation in
British law regulation in e as)
British law regulation in Northern Island
British law regulation in GG IAEL L
British law regulation in RGO IAEL R
British law regulation in G GRS
Northern Island as well so )
Northern Island as well so I
Northern Island as well so M)
Northern Island as well so there are some quite thing
there are some quite thing proposed
there are some quite thing G L R
there are some quite thing proposed in the spell. Big
proposed in the spell. Big changes to what is called the
changes to what is called the Northern Island protocol
Northern Island protocol I D
Northern Island protocol I LR )
Northern Island protocol AR S NG
Northern Island protocol IR S T NE G ]
Northern Island protocol brokered between the UK and EU
brokered between the UK and EU el
brokered between the UK and EU s B
brokered between the UK and EU R
brokered between the UK and EU which was one of the main
which was one of the main Iy
which was one of the main Yl e a1 e
which was one of the main I e SR T
which was one of the main R e SR R
which was one of the main reasons Brexit was so difficult
reasons Brexit was so difficult negotiate initially. From your
negotiate initially. From your N
negotiate initially. From your R AR
negotiate initially. From your perspective is this breaking an
perspective is this breaking an NI E e
perspective is this breaking an international treaty which the
international treaty which the 114
international treaty which the UK --
international treaty which the 1SRl
international treaty which the UK -- UK government will say
UK -- UK government will say T
UK -- UK government will say it’s not? | think it’s
UK -- UK government will say TR ARG R )
I AR QT G R T trillion
it’s not? | think it’s the trillion dollar question,
ISR G SR G trillion dollar question, the
trillion dollar question, the el
trillion dollar question, the OIS
trillion dollar question, the R G
trillion dollar question, the problem is the UK government is
problem is the UK government is saying
problem is the UK government is EVhL RS
problem is the UK government is saying it’s definitely not
EVILDEIS LIV, illegal
saying it’s definitely not illegal and the bigger issue is
illegal and the bigger issue is S a1 e
illegal and the bigger issue is S e
illegal and the bigger issue is whether it is not or
illegal and the bigger issue is S AR R
illegal and the bigger issue is whether it is not or is legal
whether it is not or is legal e
whether it is not or is legal it’s living
whether it is not or is legal (WL
whether it is not or is legal it’s living a nasty taste in
it’s living a nasty taste in )
it’s Living a nasty taste in the reputation of
it’s Living a nasty taste in QIR R UG
it’s Living a nasty taste in QNG IR R RS
QNN R R R sl
QNN R R R government. It’s saying
the reputation of the UK L A TV T R
the reputation of the UK I T R
government. It’s saying it -- Y
government. It’s saying it -- |l
government. It’s saying it -- we will form a deal but we
CRIR (g G R TV it
we will form a deal but we D] Y]
we will form a deal but we LIRS TN
we will form a deal but we might break that if we feel
might break that if we feel )
might break that if we feel I
might break that if we feel N
might break that if we feel there are other things
might break that if we feel QIR R G LIRS
might break that if we feel there are other things at stake
there are other things at stake like this issue of trade
like this issue of trade e
like this issue of trade LY
like this issue of trade RO AT E)
like this issue of trade LR A EI s
between Great Britain and e as)
between Great Britain and Northern Island. So it’s more
Northern Island. So it’s more FYe L
Northern Island. So it’s more E[ A D=L R
Northern Island. So it’s more about reputation, if the
about reputation, if the government
about reputation, if the M
about reputation, if the government is saying
about reputation, if the N ATV RL
about reputation, if the N ATV R A
government is saying it is legal other people are saying
legal other people are saying e
legal other people are saying it is legal it’s more about the
it is legal it’s more about the el
it is legal it’s more about the reputation of the government,
reputation of the government, R
reputation of the government, R
reputation of the government, that’s the important point.
reputation of the government, that’s the important peint. And
that’s the important point. And 3
that’s the important point. And it can’t
that’s the important point. And TR
that’s the important point. And it can’t be overstated to
INIE S RO YL R eIy
INIE S RO YL R discuss what’s at
INIE S RO YL R IR e R A ] )
it can’'t be overstated to discuss what’s at stake here,
discuss what’s at stake here, you
discuss what’s at stake here, RN
discuss what’s at stake here, you have businesses, hugely
you have businesses, hugely Ty ]oFLed
you have businesses, hugely ] El= 47
you have businesses, hugely I F R
you have businesses, hugely R S AU
impact by whatever the decision-making is or the
decision-making is or the relationship, whether it gets
relationship, whether it gets e g
relationship, whether it gets IR Ny
relationship, whether it gets IR N T
relationship, whether it gets better or worse between the
relationship, whether it gets IR I N TN ]
better or worse between the UK and
better or worse between the UK R )
better or worse between the UK and the FU.
better or worse between the UK LRGN AR N
better or worse between the UK and the EU. We have Washington
and the EU. We have Washington watching very closely not to
watching very closely not to mention politics and Northern
mention politics and Northern Island, storm art, the DUP
Island, storm art, the DUP saying unless this protocol is
saying unless this protocol is el
saying unless this protocol is R )
saying unless this protocol is R R ke
saying unless this protocol is sorted we won’t even
saying unless this protocol is R R RS e s e
sorted we won’t even consider (N
sorted we won’t even consider being a part of the political
being a part of the political process?
being a part of the political I AP T (n i
being a part of the political process? Exactly, this is about
process? Exactly, this is about Y
process? Exactly, this is about RIS
process? Exactly, this is about a bigger picture, geopolitical
a bigger picture, geopolitical situation
a bigger picture, geopolitical R
a bigger picture, geopolitical AR A
a bigger picture, geopolitical AR
a bigger picture, geopolitical situation as well as something
situation as well as something around
situation as well as something IR
situation as well as something around the administration and
around the administration and )
around the administration and the independence
around the administration and QRN e R
around the administration and the independence of storm art
the independence of storm art et
the independence of storm art Y= R a1 )
the independence of storm art itself, the bigger picture is
VR QLRI gl le TR FYe L
itself, the bigger picture is Y e
itself, the bigger picture is about our trade with the
CL IV V@ (I LR G R [ European
about our trade with the European Union, the trade with
European Union, the trade with )
European Union, the trade with N
European Union, the trade with e
European Union, the trade with R R N
European Union, the trade with R R RGN a0
European Union, the trade with e AR R el
European Union, the trade with the rest of the world and ocur
the rest of the world and our capacity to form create deals
capacity to form create deals with
capacity to form create deals R a1 g
capacity to form create deals T Al aa e Tlaiea
capacity to form create deals T AR 0 e Tl ea TR Y
capacity to form create deals T A R 0 e 01 Ra [ R R
with other countries. We have L
with other countries. We have seen our trade with Europe
seen our trade with Europe fallback
seen our trade with Europe el (LT )Y
seen our trade with Europe El (LT R
seen our trade with Europe E (LR R R e
seen our trade with Europe fallback by 8% since we voted
fallback by 8% since we voted 0]
fallback by 8% since we voted R
fallback by 8% since we voted to the EU, we have also seen
to the EU, we have also seen our
the EU, we have also seen R
to the EU, we have also seen AT [N 1ids]
to the EU, we have also seen R R R
to the EU, we have also seen our trade with the republic
our trade with the republic iR
our trade with the republic N L)
our trade with the republic effected, and it’s beginning to
effected, and it’s beginning to Ty
effected, and it’s beginning to have an
effected, and it’s beginning to WENCRLR s
effected, and it’s beginning to have an impact on small
have an impact on small LT
have an impact on small N
have an impact on small husinesses as well,
have an impact on small businesses as well, whose
businesses as well, whose Ml ey
businesses as well, whose PR e 8
businesses as well, whose numbers especially in Northern
numbers especially in Northern lsland
numbers especially in Northern Island have fallen back quite
Island have fallen back quite severely.
Island have fallen back quite NG AT
Island have fallen back quite NG VAR OIS
Island have fallen back quite severely. So this is
Island have fallen back quite XA VAR R QR E |
Island have fallen back quite A VAR R QIR EV L LD
severely. So this is having an impact, and econemic
severely. So this Is having an impact, and econoemic impact and
impact, and economic impact and e
impact, and economic impact and it will have an
impact, and economic impact and IR (W EVE R e
impact, and economic impact and IR E R [l ]
impact, and economic impact and it will have an impact on our
it will have an impact on our b
it will have an impact on our eI e uit s
it will have an impact on our trade. Doctor Rebecca Harding,
trade. Doctor Rebecca Harding, thank you for your thoughts. We
thank you for your thoughts. We [ oL
thank you for your thoughts. We appreciate it.
thank you for your thoughts. We E[ G111
thank you for your thoughts. We E G - O T TN 1 )
thank you for your thoughts. We appreciate it. Our website will
appreciate it. Our website will )
appreciate it. Our website will be updating you through the day
be updating you through the day with
be updating you through the day OV
be updating you through the day with any up
be updating you through the day O] R
be updating you through the day with any up -- developments on
with any up -- developments on )
with any up -- developments on the story.
Now here’s some food for thought - how about we grow
more food in the UK and export less in a bid
to stave off recession?
Does that sound like a plan?
Well, that’s what the Prime Minister will convince us today
when he announces a new food strategy.
As households grapple with the cost of living crisis
and economic bodies warn of a gloomy outlook for the UK,
the government will reveal plans to boost farmers
and produce more home grown food.
In a little more than an hour from now, the UK will release
its latest GDP figures, the week after the OECD said
YT will go from the second-fastest
growing economy in the G7 group
of industrial nations to the slowest growing next year.
Joining me now is Russ Mould, NS e e
AJ Bell.
Good morning. First of all the e
Good morning. First of all the GDP figures
LI A S AR G GDP figures due out will tell
GDP figures due out will tell us
GDP figures due out will tell T
GDP figures due out will tell us how things have been in the
us how things have been in the month
us how things have been in the e A le)
us how things have been in the ORI Ry e
us how things have been in the LTGRO Yo Lo PR F
us how things have been in the month of April, what are we
month of April, what are we Tk
month of April, what are we P e R TN TN
month of April, what are we expecting? Economists are
expecting? Economists are L]
expecting? Economists are looking for small bounceback
looking for small bounceback )
looking for small bounceback R A
looking for small bounceback R L]
looking for small bounceback there was a dip
looking for small bounceback ORI
looking for small bounceback there was a dip and march an
there was a dip and march an TS A ]
there was a dip and march an unexpected dip in March and was
unexpected dip in March and was Tl
unexpected dip in March and was revised down to
unexpected dip in March and was LR RO SR
revised down to beef, Yot ot a1
revised down to beef, economists looking for small
economists looking for small UG
economists looking for small improvement in
economists looking for small I EUE AL T I
economists looking for small I ALY [P Tl
economists looking for small I S NS AL T [ T G R
improvement in April, month on month in
improvement in April, month on R R ]
improvement in April, month on UG RO RO R I 1t LE 18
month in the year-on-year ooyl
month in the year-on-year S G163
month in the year-on-year growth numbers should still not
growth numbers should still not T
growth numbers should still not TGRS
growth numbers should still not TG S TS
growth numbers should still not quite decent because we were
quite decent because we were still in partial lockdowns in
still in partial lockdowns in England
still in partial lockdewns in England through to July last
England through to July last T [T
England through to July last R R %1
England through to July last year. So that would be the
year. So that would be the A
year. So that would be the statistics coming out at seven
SBR[ RV T o’clock
statistics coming out at seven o’clock this morning, in terms
o’clock this morning, in terms of
o’clock this morning, in terms SRy
o’clock this morning, in terms of the outlook, there
o’clock this morning, in terms MR SR G
o’clock this morning, in terms R R R R
RGN O G TR R () of negativity
of the outlook, there is a lot of negativity out there right
of negativity out there right Tl
of negativity out there right TR
of negativity out there right now coming from the OECD,
now coming from the OECD, coming
now coming from the OECD, I LEIGI
now coming from the OECD, coming from all sorts of
coming from all sorts of e sl
coming from all sorts of e il s TR 11
coming from all sorts of directions. What you make of
directions. What you make of this food strategy that will
directions. What you make of QIR (LRI L) A LR LT
this food strategy that will be announced today? | know quite a
announced today? | know quite a i
announced today? | know quite a a3
announced today? | know quite a NS
announced today? | know quite a IR R R
announced today? | know quite a bit of it appears to have been
bit of it appears to have been e
bit of it appears to have been LD A
bit of it appears to have been LG LA
bit of it appears to have been leaked already, so there
bit of it appears to have been LA R G EH S
leaked already, so there has Nl
leaked already, so there has R I G
leaked already, so there has been quite a lot of press
been quite a lot of press ez la e
been quite a lot of press o 88l e e s ]
been quite a lot of press e s )
been quite a lot of press comment and the author of
been quite a lot of press i R s R
comment and the author of the 1l
comment and the author of the initial report, Henry Dimbleby
initial report, Henry Dimbleby has
initial report, Henry Dimbleby I
initial report, Henry Dimbleby has expressed pleasure in some
has expressed pleasure in some I YTy
has expressed pleasure in some ICEET ]
has expressed pleasure in some areas saying half of his
areas saying half of his e st a i e s LA e Ly
areas saying half of his recommendations look
areas saying half of his e iR Al
areas saying half of his recommendations look like they
recommendations look like they il
recommendations look like they IR
recommendations look like they will be implemented and a lot
will be implemented and a lot N
will be implemented and a lot R - ]
will be implemented and a lot RGO R R eI
will be implemented and a lot R BRI e
will be implemented and a lot R R R IR AR s
RO ITR R TR R T production
RO ITR R TR R T G I L]
RO ITR R TR R T IR
of those to focus on food production and how farmland can
production and how farmland can )
production and how farmland can TR
production and how farmland can I SR EI s
production and how farmland can I S R e
production and how farmland can be allocated shared or spared
be allocated shared or spared he is frustrated he feels
be allocated shared or spared YRR AN R e
he is frustrated he feels half of his
he is frustrated he feels half G e
he is frustrated he feels half G IS
he is frustrated he feels half of his report as being ignored
of his report as being ignored and
of his report as being ignored R R
of his report as being ignored and Greenpeace picked up
of his report as being ignored RN R L e R )
and Greenpeace picked up on that
and Greenpeace picked up on G )
and Greenpeace picked up on R R R e TR
and Greenpeace picked up on that because the focus is very
that because the focus is very much upen
that because the focus is very much upon food
that because the focus is very much upon foed production which
much upon food production which you can
much upon foed production which you can understand
much upon foed production which IR L R S =L AL
much upon foed production which R L R S L ALK
much upon foed production which IR S E LRI R
much upon foed production which RS LR S E LRI R I A
you can understand in a cost of living crisis,
you can understand in a cost of WL R T
you can understand in a cost of living crisis, the issue such
living crisis, the issue such as tackling obesity and making
as tackling obesity and making )
as tackling obesity and making some products more expensive
some products more expensive and
some products more expensive R )
some products more expensive LRGN e il el
some products more expensive and the environmental issues
and the environmental issues may have to
and the environmental issues AR R S
and the environmental issues may have to be less of a focus
may have to be less of a focus 1
may have to be less of a focus R )
may have to be less of a focus RGN
may have to be less of a focus at the moment. The Prime
at the moment. The Prime YR
at the moment. The Prime Minister said he will grow and
Minister said he will grow and eat more
Minister said he will grow and N
Minister said he will grow and eat more of our
Minister said he will grow and AL
Minister said he will grow and eat more of our own. In terms
eat more of our own. In terms S a
eat more of our own. In terms SRy
eat more of our own. In terms RGN e e e
eat more of our own. In terms of the economic benefit,
IR R R T R e of the economic benefit, given
of the economic benefit, given )
of the economic benefit, given the challenges facing the UK
the challenges facing the UK A
the challenges facing the UK I E gL R 1)
the challenges facing the UK currently, the inflation
the challenges facing the UK AR G R EL L L
currently, the inflation at R
currently, the inflation at A L] Y
currently, the inflation at nearly double digit numbers,
nearly double digit numbers, vty
nearly double digit numbers, T e
nearly double digit numbers, O ET IR
nearly double digit numbers, L EY IR R (UG 31E
nearly double digit numbers, what are your thoughts on
nearly double digit numbers, R IR R G R El &
what are your thoughts on that? a1
what are your thoughts on that? e IEL
what are your thoughts on that? Certainly any government has
Certainly any government has two
Certainly any government has WG
Certainly any government has two key things that has to
two key things that has to T eIl
two key things that has to focus on, one
two key things that has to T I GRS
two key things that has to focus on, one is energy
focus on, one is energy Y 0la18]
focus on, one is energy X}
focus on, one is energy Yo gi R R L
focus on, one is energy XS R R (1 R e01e18 7
focus on, one is energy security and food security, and
security and food security, and Y
security and food security, and 10
security and food security, and RN CEIG T
security and food security, and we are learning that to a
we are learning that to a NG
we are learning that to a EOICERG
we are learning that to a degree the hard way,
we are learning that to a O GO R )V AR
degree the hard way, the YL El
degree the hard way, the RN E IR
degree the hard way, the Financial Times newspaper
Financial Times newspaper mentions when Covid-19 first
mentions when Covid-19 first EIE
mentions when Covid-19 first started many Western economies
started many Western economies e
started many Western economies LTI
started many Western economies not just the
started many Western economies (SIS (TN
started many Western economies not just the UK swapped
not just the UK swapped brilliance for efficiency using
brilliance for efficiency using NI E e
brilliance for efficiency using international flight chains,
international flight chains, ]
international flight chains, Y R4
international flight chains, R (01T
international flight chains, ARG (e ST
international flight chains, now that process is reversing
now that process is reversing )
now that process is reversing there may
now that process is reversing QAU
now that process is reversing there may be benefits in the
there may be benefits in the very long time, in the short
very long time, in the short term
very long time, in the short R
very long time, in the short term you could argue it could
term you could argue it could )
term you could argue it could R )
term you could argue it could RN RS NS
term you could argue it could be more expensive to grow it at
be more expensive to grow it at AN
be more expensive to grow it at home, employing more expensive
home, employing more expensive workers in
home, employing more expensive IR R
home, employing more expensive workers in the UK, there could
workers in the UK, there could )
workers in the UK, there could R i)
workers in the UK, there could (X CR ] F L
workers in the UK, there could be some impact on inflation,
be some impact on inflation, T e
be some impact on inflation, GG
be some impact on inflation, another key part
be some impact on inflation, MO S A Rl
be some impact on inflation, another key part of the overall
another key part of the overall economic
another key part of the overall e[ e IR
When talking about the UK economy, currently we are given
the impression its all doom and gloom but tech start-ups do
provide a glimmer of hope.
When it comes to attracting funding, UK tech companies
have secured more venture capital
funding in the first five
months of this year than in the whole of 2020.
This puts the UK second RO R e
to start-up investment raised this year, ahead of China,
India and France.
And Chancellor Rishi Sunak is among those celebrating this
success in London today at the kick off of London Tech
One of the key organisers NGRS L USRI
Founder of Tech London L YR e G R e
Advocates, joins me now.
He has got up very early to JIE1S
He has got up very early to )
He has got up very early to LS N
He has got up very early to speak to us about this? Why are
speak to us about this? Why are UK
speak to us about this? Why are @ o]
speak to us about this? Why are UK tech start-up
speak to us about this? Why are I Q ES I R
speak to us about this? Why are UK tech start-up so attractive
UK tech start-up so attractive il
UK tech start-up so attractive L T
UK tech start-up so attractive right now? |
UK tech start-up so attractive TR G
UK tech start-up so attractive ARG S
UK tech start-up so attractive TR R G STCEI )
right now? | think we are XN
right now? | think we are LR
right now? | think we are IR
right now? | think we are seeing is only successful
seeing is only successful companies
seeing is only successful I ERIERN]
seeing is only successful companies in different parts of
companies in different parts of )
companies in different parts of the technology sector, from
the technology sector, from financial technology companies,
financial technology companies, educational technology
educational technology companies and told all securing
companies and told all securing R
companies and told all securing interest from
companies and told all securing e R B R e
companies and told all securing e R B e
interest from investors not just here
interest from investors not R4
interest from investors not just here in the UK but from
Just here in the UK but from [
Just here in the UK but from the US,
just here in the UK but from R YF)
just here in the UK but from IR EEL D)
just here in the UK but from the US, Asia and other parts of
the US, Asia and other parts of )
the US, Asia and other parts of the world, we are seeing over
the world, we are seeing over 100 tech
the world, we are seeing over (e R e Nola] 14
the world, we are seeing over 100 tech unit calls $1 billion
100 tech unit calls $1 billion )
100 tech unit calls $1 billion Z R ELIR
100 tech unit calls $1 billion R [ E LI !
100 tech unit calls $1 billion R ELIC L A
100 tech unit calls $1 billion value companies, and | think
value companies, and I think ooy
value companies, and | think AMee A
value companies, and | think a0 I R WD ai |
value companies, and | think a0 IR WD [ R Vw11
success Is begetting success. We
success Is begetting success. TN e
success Is begetting success. We can’t become complacent but
We can’t become complacent but |
We can’t become complacent but K14
We can’t become complacent but RO TR )
We can’t become complacent but | think we will
We can’t become complacent but BGOSR R R )
We can’t become complacent but RGO R R I Ee I e T )
| think we will celebrate some of that exciting news this
of that exciting news this NG
of that exciting news this morning and as you mentioned
morning and as you mentioned great to have the chance to
great to have the chance to LI
great to have the chance to join us
great to have the chance to DL
great to have the chance to join us to kick off London
join us to kick off London technically, now
join us to kick off London I (AN YA
join us to kick off London technically, now in its ninth
technically, now in its ninth T
technically, now in its ninth 1 [
technically, now in its ninth year. Is that
T TG AL R TG year. Is that actually the
year. Is that actually the o]
year. Is that actually the LR
year. Is that actually the I A
year. Is that actually the eI AR
year. Is that actually the wrong name, one of the key
wrong name, one of the key ey
wrong name, one of the key R ]
wrong name, one of the key trends you have
wrong name, one of the key N R N R ]
wrong name, one of the key trends you have pointed out as
trends you have pointed out as city
trends you have pointed out as W13 A0es)
trends you have pointed out as city such as Bristol, Oxford,
city such as Bristol, Oxford, e
city such as Bristol, Oxford, e
city such as Bristol, Oxford, TR e 0la s
city such as Bristol, Oxford, IR s m i
city such as Bristol, Oxford, other cities around UK seeing
other cities around UK seeing WY
other cities around UK seeing huge growth? Absolutely we may
huge growth? Absolutely we may need to change the name for
need to change the name for future
need to change the name for e R
need to change the name for future events which is exciting
future events which is exciting e
future events which is exciting el
future events which is exciting T |
future events which is exciting T A
future events which is exciting T AR
future events which is exciting for all of us is UK tech sector
for all of us is UK tech sector s
for all of us is UK tech sector Ry
for all of us is UK tech sector AN S GH LG
for all of us is UK tech sector now sits alongside the US,
now sits alongside the US, i)
now sits alongside the US, China and India as a world
China and India as a world XL
China and India as a world leading technology sector, not
leading technology sector, not just
leading technology sector, not 4l
leading technology sector, not P ALl
leading technology sector, not just in terms of investment in
just in terms of investment in i es]
just in terms of investment in tech unicorns but if
just in terms of investment in RS G R A 1]
just in terms of investment in RSO R T LR TR G
tech unicorns but if you look 1
tech unicorns but if you look R )
tech unicorns but if you look YR N Tl 0e
tech unicorns but if you look YR - T lat el e
tech unicorns but if you look at the number of digital
tech unicoerns but if you look at the number of digital tech
at the number of digital tech e ey
at the number of digital tech workers in
at the number of digital tech IR R
at the number of digital tech workers in the economy,
at the number of digital tech N ARG U ARG
workers in the economy, the ey
workers in the economy, the T R
workers in the economy, the numbers keep growing and
numbers keep growing and accelerating. So, |
numbers keep growing and accelerating. So, I think,
accelerating. So, I think, given the
accelerating. So, I think, IR ORI
accelerating. So, I think, given the previous report it’s
given the previous report it’s Y
given the previous report it’s really exciting to see such
really exciting to see such phenomenal growth in UK
phenomenal growth in UK technology. The CBI
phenomenal growth in UK technology. The (Bl is
phenomenal growth in UK technology. The CBI is calling
technology. The CBI is calling on
technology. The CBI is calling R )
technology. The CBI is calling on the government to do
technology. The CBl is calling on the government to do more to
on the government to do more to support businesses especially
support businesses especially 3
support businesses especially inthe
support businesses especially in the months ahead and
support businesses especially R G R G L CE L L P V%S
in the months ahead and 2023, to
in the months ahead and 2023, I
in the months ahead and 2023, to prevent UK from slipping
to prevent UK from slipping Ty
to prevent UK from slipping R
to prevent UK from slipping into the recession,
to prevent UK from slipping (NGRR3R 1
to prevent UK from slipping RO R PR L T
into the recession, what you T
into the recession, what you VAN
into the recession, what you see in terms of support for
see In terms of support for technology
see in terms of support for technology start-ups? One of
technology start-ups? One of )
technology start-ups? One of QRO
technology start-ups? One of QRGBT IRI(
technology start-ups? One of the things you will hear about
the things you will hear about today is
the things you will hear about GUEVAR G
the things you will hear about today is the introduction of a
today is the introduction of a digital
today Is the introduction of a digital strategy, that
digital strategy, that T8 e e
digital strategy, that TR T e TR
digital strategy, that reinforces the number
digital strategy, that R T e TR N et e
reinforces the number of pregrammes
reinforces the number of programmes that the government
programmes that the government EIE
programmes that the government EINCEL VAL
programmes that the government ECEL A DA
programmes that the government ECE LA A R Ele N
programmes that the government already put into place, but
already put into place, but il
already put into place, but will also
already put into place, but IR
already put into place, but will also talk about a number
will also talk about a number N
will also talk about a number N Ry
will also talk about a number NG R R R Y
will also talk about a number NEG R U RO R T,
of other features that we need to
of other features that we need i
of other features that we need to look at.
of other features that we need R AR
of other features that we need el -
of other features that we need R NN A
of other features that we need AN N A T
to look at. One of the areas that
to look at. One of the areas R
to look at. One of the areas that we really focus on is
hat we really focus on is &0
that we really focus on is talent, and bringing more
talent, and bringing more e
talent, and bringing more diverse talent into
talent, and bringing more e R e R
talent, and bringing more diverse talent into the sector,
diverse talent into the sector, both
diverse talent into the sector, hoth from
diverse talent into the sector, iR iR
diverse talent into the sector, bhoth from the UK
diverse talent into the sector, R iR R ]
diverse talent into the sector, bhoth from the UK and from
both from the UK and from overseas to
both from the UK and from Y LR e Y
both from the UK and from S L R R A
both from the UK and from T R R e
both from the UK and from T R IR L
overseas to make sure we can A&
overseas to make sure we can NI R )
overseas to make sure we can sustain the high level of
sustain the high level of LU
sustain the high level of growth. We have over 100,000
growth. We have over 100,000 tech
growth. We have over 100,000 R LI e
growth. We have over 100,000 tech vacancies in
growth. We have over 100,000 R LI s R R
growth. We have over 100,000 tech vacancies in the sector
tech vacancies in the sector today, although other parts of
today, although other parts of )
today, although other parts of the British
today, although other parts of G R a0
today, although other parts of the British economy are
the British economy are struggling, struggling to fill
struggling, struggling to fill )
struggling, struggling to fill R e
struggling, struggling to fill RN R )
struggling, struggling to fill RN TR
struggling, struggling to fill RN AR -]
struggling, struggling to fill RN R R
ORI IR LR R R G [ - u (0 1o
ORI IR LR R R G [ Yo (e )
ORI IR LR R R G [ sector, so |
the vacancies we see in the 3 n IR R RS
the vacancies we see in the sector, so | think the
sector, so | think the government
sector, so | think the ANl
sector, so | think the AR ETLS
sector, so | think the government will talk about
government will talk about that,
government will talk about 43 11 o)
government will talk about W E L)
government will talk about that, and and encourage the
that, and and encourage the N1
that, and and encourage the private sector to really step
private sector to really step up and found the support and
up and found the support and training
up and found the support and AR
up and found the support and training required to bring more
training required to bring more e
training required to bring more talent into
training required to bring more e e ni e
training required to bring more talent into UK technology. We
talent into UK technology. We il
talent into UK technology. We will watch very closely.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The CBI has joined aviation industry bodies who are calling
IR GRS WL VIE AR e e
to the Shortage Occupation list.
It says this would allow EU IR R i e
of the many gaps in the aviation sector
as the summer holidays approach.
Ground handling operations at airports are particularly
short staffed and the industry wants to see vast numbers
of new recruits brought in.
In China, a total of 166 LI e R N T
linked to a single bar in the capital Beijing.
A government spokesman has et R Tiae a1 4
as "ferocious”.
All residents living in the area where the bar
is located will be tested AR N AR QIR BV
with new lockdown measures in place.
And in Shanghal, authorities have also annocunced another
round of testing for AR A AN T
residents.
Cases are WL S
in the community there
despite a two-month lockdown that ended on June 1st.
Ll T R R I TR
the challenges that Chinese
officials are facing as they stick to a strict
Zero-Covid approach.
Stay with us on BBC News, still R 1o
No change.
Women are still under-represented on company
boards according to the latest research.
There was a bomb RGN A
A code word known to be one used by the IRA was given.
Army bomb experts were examining a suspect van
when there was a huge explosion.
The South African parliament
has destroyed the foundation G El U=
by abolishing the Population Registration Act which,
I WRTETES
{Igell o]\ RISV each citizen according to race.
DB - E R
and the royal baby is tonight sleeping in his cot at home.
Early this evening,
the new prince was taken by his mother and father
to their apartments in Kensington Palace.
Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag,
has voted by a narrow majority
to move the seat of government TR Rt
Berliners celebrated into the night,
but the decision was greeted with shock in Bonn.
The real focus of attention today was Valentina Tereshkova,
the world’s first woman cesmonaut.
What do you think of the Russian woman in space?
| think it’s a wonderful achievement
and | think we might be able to persuade the wife
it would be a good idea
if I could to get her to go up there for a little while.
Russia is accused of killing hundreds of civilians
in the Ukrainian IGO0
Amnesty International says Moscow is using indiscriminate
shelling and banned weapons.
There are gains for a new left-wing alliance in the first
round of France’s parliamentary elections.
President Macron is at risk of losing his outright majority.
Now to South Korea, where thousands of truckers
are expected to join the picket MR GO A
protesting over pay as fuel prices soar.
They’ve disrupted production at many companies and slowed
down port operations, which pose new risks
to a global supply chain already under strain.
Our Asia business reporter Monica Miller is following
the story from our Asia Business Hub in Singapore.
How badly will this hurt the global supply chain?
We’ve been getting some numbers e
We’ve been getting some numbers out today in terms of trade and
out today in terms of trade and )
out today in terms of trade and MRSl
out today in terms of trade and one startling one, if we want
one startling one, if we want to focus
one startling one, if we want R eI s
one startling one, if we want to focus on one industry, is
to focus on one industry, is )
to focus on one industry, is Gl
to focus on one industry, is the petrochemical productions
the petrochemical productions el
the petrochemical productions which have
the petrochemical productions e B e e - s ]
the petrochemical productions which have been down about 90%
which have been down about 90% o)
which have been down about 90% A ]
which have been down about 90% since the seven day strike hit.
since the seven day strike hit. If we
since the seven day strike hit. RN
since the seven day strike hit. (R Rt i d
since the seven day strike hit. If we can remember along the
If we can remember along the e
If we can remember along the way, we’ve
If we can remember along the RISV N YY)
If we can remember along the way, we’ve been talking about
way, we’ve been talking about e\
way, we’ve been talking about A I
way, we’ve been talking about supply chains but truck drivers
supply chains but truck drivers Py
supply chains but truck drivers ]
supply chains but truck drivers are a major link in the chain
are a major link in the chain and when
are a major link in the chain NG AR )
are a major link in the chain IRGR AN )
are a major link in the chain IR AR A &4
are a major link in the chain IR AR A & R 1l
are a major link in the chain and when we look at what South
and when we look at what Seuth Korea
and when we look at what South Y- Ree- i
and when we look at what South IR R e
and when we look at what South IRt e R )
and when we look at what South Korea creates for the world, we
Korea creates for the world, we look
Korea creates for the world, we &
Korea creates for the world, we look at semiconductors, steel,
look at semiconductors, steel, W
look at semiconductors, steel, cement, cars and
look at semiconductors, steel, N PRI B
look at semiconductors, steel, cement, cars and all of these
cement, cars and all of these Ty
cement, cars and all of these R le |
cement, cars and all of these have faced disruption because
have faced disruption because of many lockdowns and
have faced disruption because of many lockdewns and they
have faced disruption because of many lockdowns and they are
of many lockdowns and they are just starting
of many lockdowns and they are TS g R
of many lockdowns and they are just starting to catch up and
Just starting to catch up and also
just starting to catch up and also some
just starting to catch up and FIC R e el ey
just starting to catch up and P I R e 1o e oL
just starting to catch up and also some numbers out of
just starting to catch up and I R e R R ATt s
also some numbers out of Tucson port, the seventh biggest in
port, the seventh biggest in )
port, the seventh biggest in the world, they
port, the seventh biggest in QR R G L
port, the seventh biggest in the world, they are seeing
the world, they are seeing e
the world, they are seeing their traffic down about
their traffic down about GO
their traffic down about two-thirds compared
QT LT [ LT two-thirds compared to nermal
two-thirds compared to normal T
two-thirds compared to nermal -- Busan. Also
two-thirds compared to nermal -- Busan. Alse Hyundai is
-- Busan. Also Hyundai is saying they have taken some of
saying they have taken some of e
saying they have taken some of QI El ]
saying they have taken some of their plants off-line because
their plants off-line because you
their plants off-line because RN
their plants off-line because R
their plants off-line because you have to remember once these
you have to remember once these things
you have to remember once these QI
you have to remember once these things are done, they have to
things are done, they have to 3y
things are done, they have to R R ]
things are done, they have to RO R R ]
things are done, they have to RO R R R
things are done, they have to A RN R R I ]
things are done, they have to RO RN R R B
store them for a while and now they
store them for a while and now GG
store them for a while and now they are at capacity. South
they are at capacity. Seuth Korea’s
they are at capacity. South (IR
they are at capacity. Seuth (ICEER RS G
they are at capacity. Seuth Korea’s big steel plant is
Korea’s big steel plant is saying
Korea’s big steel plant is saying they do not have enough
saying they do not have enough Yo E1o )
saying they do not have enough space to
saying they do not have enough IR ]
saying they do not have enough space to put the final products
space to put the final products HcE
space to put the final products e TR
space to put the final products R e
space to put the final products IR R R
space to put the final products IR e R e s e )
space to put the final products there. What it comes down to is
there. What it comes down to is GG
there. What it comes down to is something |
there. What it comes down to is something I think
there. What it comes down to is QIR RGT T
there. What it comes down to is something | think we can all
something I think we can all S LR
something I think we can all understand, truck drivers have
understand, truck drivers have Nl
understand, truck drivers have N
understand, truck drivers have been asking for an extension,
been asking for an extension, )
been asking for an extension, IR
been asking for an extension, some money and tax incentives
some money and tax incentives and things of that nature, that
and things of that nature, that have helped them get through
have helped them get through and
have helped them get through LG
have helped them get through IR Y]
have helped them get through and give them basically
have helped them get through R Gl SR
have helped them get through and give them basically a basic
and give them basically a basic salary as
and give them basically a basic XIS RG]
and give them basically a basic X FI R G AT
and give them basically a basic I F RO A
and give them basically a basic RO AR R LG
and give them basically a basic salary as they see a spike in
salary as they see a spike in gas prices. The government is
gas prices. The government is saying that they can hear them
saying that they can hear them 4
saying that they can hear them RO ke
saying that they can hear them but there isn’t much
saying that they can hear them NG CRRRu RG]
saying that they can hear them NS GRS RGOS Al
but there isn’t much they can o[
but there isn’t much they can do because Parliament is
but there isn’t much they can R N IR AR )
ST TR T [T R [ )
do because Parliament is the one who has to change this
one who has to change this legislation.
one who has to change this LI L Y
one who has to change this LI LG TR
one who has to change this legislation. So in terms of
legislation. So in terms of N
legislation. So in terms of & LI G
legislation. So in terms of & LR GG
legislation. So in terms of & R G A GRS
legislation. So in terms of talks, they have met about four
talks, they have met about four times,
talks, they have met about four RO
talks, they have met about four times, the government official
times, the government official and
times, the government official LR A
times, the government official LG IR TS
times, the government official IR G A EG
times, the government official LR QARG
times, the government official and union, they have not really
and union, they have not really )
and union, they have not really i)
and union, they have not really RO A
and union, they have not really come to any consensus and
come to any consensus and S
come to any consensus and A U
come to any consensus and everyone hopes that maybe that
everyone hopes that maybe that il
everyone hopes that maybe that will happen sometime soon.
will happen sometime soon. IR
will happen sometime soon. T = PR 4 E 1
will happen sometime soon. I IR RIS TN
The United States continues to suffer from a shortage
of baby formula.
Despite emergency measures WAL IS (N
families are still confronting real uncertainty about how
LGSR LR G] Y LR G
The shortage was initially caused by one of the biggest
manufacturer’s closing plants N A e e aa
but other manufacturers have not been able to make up
the lost supply.
Our business correspondent Michelle Fleury reports
from New Jersey.
Stephanie Esposito cannot find her
Stephanie Esposito cannot find I EIE
Stephanie Esposito cannot find her baby’s formula anywhere. Do
her baby’s formula anywhere. Do you want to
her baby’s formula anywhere. Do you want to chew on that?
you want to chew on that? Y T )
you want to chew on that? Because nine-month-old Dominic
Because nine-month-old Dominic has
Because nine-month-old Dominic YT
Because nine-month-old Dominic has allergies, she uses a
has allergies, she uses a ol ol
has allergies, she uses a specific hypoallergenic brand.
specific hypoallergenic brand. iy
specific hypoallergenic brand. iR R sl
specific hypoallergenic brand. She has searched and searched
She has searched and searched but all she
She has searched and searched N N E
She has searched and searched but all she has found is out
She has searched and searched N BN B e
but all she has found is out of stock
but all she has found is out of A AR
but all she has found is out of stock signs. A search every
stock signs. A search every IOl
stock signs. A search every morning and see if | can find
morning and see if | can find e
morning and see if | can find it and
morning and see if | can find Ll
morning and see if | can find (R R R
morning and see if | can find it and | never can and
morning and see if | can find TN de R
morning and see if | can find LA S Eeh LRl
it and | never can and | will o
it and | never can and | will go to the store
it and | never can and | will RGN
it and | never can and | will RO N CEN R GE
go to the store and either target, you know, Walmart,
target, you know, Walmart, L
target, you know, Walmart, ShopRite, Acme, things like
ShopRite, Acme, things like that
ShopRite, Acme, things like e e ]
ShopRite, Acme, things like eIl
ShopRite, Acme, things like LR
ShopRite, Acme, things like LI AR &)
ShopRite, Acme, things like LN RRG &R
ShopRite, Acme, things like that and | look and | can never
that and | look and | can never I d
that and | look and | can never ever find
that and | look and I can never SR sELa
that and | look and I can never ever find it. Thanks to the
ever find it. Thanks to the kindness
ever find it. Thanks to the N R
ever find it. Thanks to the kindness of family
TR A R IO R [ kindness of family and
ever find it. Thanks to the kindness of family and friends,
kindness of family and friends, i)
kindness of family and friends, she has built up
kindness of family and friends, =S T
kindness of family and friends, N T R
kindness of family and friends, she has built up a small supply
she has built up a small supply 4
she has built up a small supply but is worried it
she has built up a small supply AR el R (T
but is worried it will not last. We
but is worried it will not FRRT N
but is worried it will not FRR T N R ]
but is worried it will not last. We have two weeks worth.
last. We have two weeks worth. We are at the
last. We have two weeks worth. IR R R
last. We have two weeks worth. We are at the point now that |
We are at the point now that | PN
We are at the point now that | am getting
We are at the point now that | NG
We are at the point now that | am getting nervous that |
We are at the point now that | am getting nervous that I will
am getting nervous that | will e
am getting nervous that | will T )
am getting nervous that | will not be able to find
am getting nervous that | will R L R e
am getting nervous that | will not be able to find after the
not be able to find after the 18 day
not be able to find after the EEVAGELS
not be able to find after the 18 day that | have. | mean, how
I EVRGEL I ENT R W L Al
I EVRGEL I ENT R W L does that
18 day that | have. | mean, how R G )
18 day that | have. | mean, how does that make you feel?
does that make you feel? Nervous, angry. Infuriated
Nervous, angry. Infuriated T )
Nervous, angry. Infuriated because what are we supposed to
because what are we supposed to 0!
because what are we supposed to feed our
because what are we supposed to T LN L
because what are we supposed to feed our babies? So she became
feed our babies? So she became a formula matchmaker, setting
a formula matchmaker, setting up an online exchange group to
up an online exchange group to i1
up an online exchange group to help parents find what
up an online exchange group to RSN R LR RO
help parents find what they Y h
help parents find what they need. |
help parents find what they IR ]
help parents find what they need. | needed help and | know
need. | needed help and | know )
need. | needed help and | know s0 many
need. | needed help and | know so many other parents
need. | needed help and | know I RO S E L R
need. | needed help and | know I RO S E LN
so many other parents but also Yol
so many other parents but also needed help. Four companies
needed help. Four companies e ael
needed help. Four companies control about 90% of the US
control about 90% of the US baby formula market. Abbott,
baby formula market. Abbott, Y
baby formula market. Abbott, Mead Johnson,
baby formula market. Abbott, L S (0
baby formula market. Abbott, Mead Johnson, Nestle USA and
Mead Johnson, Nestle USA and PN T
Mead Johnson, Nestle USA and Pericoe. The shortage began
Pericoe. The shortage began Y
Pericoe. The shortage began TR o]
Pericoe. The shortage began when one of
Pericoe. The shortage began RN RN
Pericoe. The shortage began when one of them, Abbot
when one of them, Abbot G R
when one of them, Abbot laboratories, down a plant
laboratories, down a plant after
laboratories, down a plant P i - I ey
laboratories, down a plant after authorities found
after authorities found AL
after authorities found potentially harmful bacteria,
potentially harmful bacteria, aggravating existing supply
aggravating existing supply iEa]
aggravating existing supply chain problems. For many
chain problems. For many parents, it’s
chain preblems. For many parents, it’s been hard to wrap
parents, it’s been hard to wrap e
parents, it’s been hard to wrap their heads arocund
parents, it’s been hard to wrap their heads around the
parents, it’s been hard to wrap I HE L TR R
their heads around the fact that America’s
their heads around the fact that America’s baby formula
that America’s baby formula eI
that America’s baby formula I A
that America’s baby formula market is so vulnerable that
market is so vulnerable that )
market is so vulnerable that e e N
market is so vulnerable that the closure of a single factory
the closure of a single factory 3
the closure of a single factory inthe
the closure of a single factory in the United States could lead
in the United States could lead to
in the United States could lead ]
in the United States could lead to a food crisis. One company
to a food crisis. One company that
to a food crisis. One company LR L
to a food crisis. One company R L R
to a food crisis. One company that wants to help but cannot
that wants to help but cannot 3
that wants to help but cannot is Bobby. The company sells its
is Bobby. The company sells its organic milk -based formula
organic milk -based formula Mg a0
organic milk -based formula directly to consumers, despite
directly to consumers, despite sales
directly to consumers, despite )
directly to consumers, despite sales are skyrocketing since
sales are skyrocketing since )
sales are skyrocketing since A Yoo Telud
sales are skyrocketing since s e L
sales are skyrocketing since the Abbott recall, it has
the Abbott recall, it has O] L]
the Abbott recall, it has stopped accepting new
stopped accepting new I ee
stopped accepting new I I
stopped accepting new customers. It is major players
customers. It is major players that make formula in the
that make formula in the country but
that make formula in the A NN
that make formula in the I A T LR 1))
that make formula in the country but are. With their own
country but are. With their own manufacturing and there is only
manufacturing and there is only )
manufacturing and there is only L lee e ns
manufacturing and there is only one contract manufacturer
manufacturing and there is only N i B E N ae e s
one contract manufacturer that R
one contract manufacturer that makes other drinking formulas.
makes other drinking formulas. Laura is
makes other drinking formulas. Llaura is a
makes other drinking formulas. Laura is a CEFO
makes other drinking formulas. Laura is a CEO and
makes other drinking formulas. Laura is a CFO and co-founder
Laura is a CEO and co-founder of
Laura is a CEO and co-founder AL R
Laura is a CEO and co-founder AR
Laura is a CEO and co-founder AL
Laura is a CEO and co-founder of Bobbie. There is nothing
of Bobbie. There is nothing T
of Bobbie. There is nothing R
of Bobbie. There is nothing more painful than being in this
more painful than being in this situation right now and not
situation right now and not (N
situation right now and not being able to ramp up and meet
being able to ramp up and meet demand. So yeah, when one
demand. So yeah, when one manufacturer closes their doors
manufacturer closes their doors and owns the majority of the
and owns the majority of the market, not everyone else is
market, not everyone else is 1
market, not everyone else is )
market, not everyone else is able to ramp up
market, not everyone else is E[ CR T [T R
market, not everyone else is able to ramp up to get what is
able to ramp up to get what is YL
able to ramp up to get what is T LT
able to ramp up to get what is T PR LT Ve o el a
able to ramp up to get what is needed. The Abbott factory at
needed. The Abbott factory at )
needed. The Abbott factory at R3]
needed. The Abbott factory at A e
needed. The Abbott factory at AR R
needed. The Abbott factory at MR AL
needed. The Abbott factory at the start of the -- heart
needed. The Abbott factory at A AN e
the start of the -- heart of )
the start of the -~ heart of the shortage
the start of the -- heart of the shortage has reopened, a
the shortage has reopened, a e
the shortage has reopened, a significant moment but not an
significant moment but not an IR
significant moment but not an immediate fix. Especially for
immediate fix. Especially for )
immediate fix. Especially for ORI
immediate fix. Especially for IR ]
immediate fix. Especially for QR U
immediate fix. Especially for the parents who need this
the parents who need this 0G|
the parents who need this liquid gold to feed their
liquid gold to feed their LI
liquid gold to feed their babies right now.
Michelle Fleury, BBC News.
In spite of making up 40% of the global workforce,
the overall pace of change remains glacially slow
for women reaching leadership roles.
According to new research from Women on Boards UK
and global consulting firm Protiviti, half of companies
in the FTSE All-Share ex350 have all male executive
leadership teams with no female executive leaders
in C-Suite positions.
The report calls for ongoing and deeper scrutiny
across listed companies to give a true picture
of UK boardroom diversity.
Joining me now is Fiona Hathorn, CEOQ
of Women on Boards UK.
Good morning to you,
Good morning te you, Fiona.
Good morning to you, Fiona. sl
Good morning to you, Fiona. Good morning. Tell
Good morning to you, Fiona. LRI AR T
Good morning to you, Fiona. Good morning. Tell us a little
Good morning. Tell us a little ia
Good morning. Tell us a little ey
Good morning. Tell us a little B e s 0L
Good morning. Tell us a little bit more about what you’ve
bit more about what you’ve found and described the kind of
found and described the kind of companies that you were looking
companies that you were looking 1
companies that you were looking R I
companies that you were looking at this time, because when we
at this time, because when we Y-\
at this time, because when we say FTSE, the all share FTSE
say FTSE, the all share FTSE 350,
say FTSE, the all share FTSE Lo I
say FTSE, the all share FTSE 350, many may not know who you
550, many may not know who you Py
550, many may not know who you are talking
350, many may not know who you are talking about. Yes, we’ve
are talking about. Yes, we’ve R
are talking about. Yes, we’ve Yl s 0L
are talking about. Yes, we’ve TG R
are talking about. Yes, we’ve heard about the top 100
heard about the top 100 companies, they other companies
companies, they other companies with
companies, they other companies R )
companies, they other companies with the biggest market
with the biggest market capitalisation, the largest
capitalisation, the largest T
capitalisation, the largest sales, the largest profits. The
sales, the largest profits. The 250
sales, the largest profits. The s LR
sales, the largest profits. The LR R e e
sales, the largest profits. The R d
sales, the largest profits. The R R R A A s
sales, the largest profits. The 250 is the next level and what
250 is the next level and what we’re looking at is the
we’re looking at is the LY T
we’re looking at is the All-Share FTSE which is the big
All-Share FTSE which is the big 0G|
All-Share FTSE which is the big liquid companies that make up
liquid companies that make up ]
liquid companies that make up SN
liquid companies that make up 600 of our top companies and
600 of our top companies and we’ve looked at the companies
we’ve looked at the companies ]
we’ve looked at the companies R
we’ve looked at the companies outside those top 350, where to
outside those top 350, where to date
outside those top 350, where to R
outside those top 350, where to date it has been very little
date it has been very little scrutiny indeed. It’s really
scrutiny indeed. It’s really T )
scrutiny indeed. It’s really TN
scrutiny indeed. It’s really R R )
scrutiny indeed. It’s really YN R A e R )
scrutiny indeed. It’s really N RO R e R - R e
scrutiny indeed. It’s really because of course the focus has
because of course the focus has T
because of course the focus has been on
because of course the focus has LR
because of course the focus has IR G AL
because of course the focus has been on the biggest companies,
been on the biggest companies, ke
been on the biggest companies, hasn’t it?
been on the biggest companies, RN A
been on the biggest companies, R AT e A
been on the biggest companies, hasn’t it? Sorry, is it not a
hasn’t it? Sorry, Is it not a et
hasn’t it? Sorry, is it not a YN S e
hasn’t it? Sorry, is it not a natural next step now,
hasn’t it? Sorry, Is it not a natural next step now, then, to
natural next step now, then, to T eIl
natural next step now, then, to T eI ]
natural next step now, then, to TR R )
natural next step now, then, to T eI R A
natural next step now, then, to T I R R e
natural next step now, then, to T R R ]
natural next step now, then, to focus on those that are a bit
focus on those that are a bit further down in terms of scale ?
further down in terms of scale? TR
further down in terms of scale? 1
further down in terms of scale? Think it was
further down in terms of scale? LTI ]
further down in terms of scale? Think it was a natural step but
Think it was a natural step but )
Think it was a natural step but the question is is doing it?
the question is is doing it? Our regime
the question is is doing it? AL E
the question is is doing it? Our regime has been looking
the question is is doing it? A N F I L LG
Our regime has been looking at targets rather than quotas and
targets rather than quotas and )
targets rather than quotas and the EU is looking at quotas and
the EU is looking at quotas and e
the EU is looking at quotas and TR |
the EU is looking at quotas and it’s worked really effectively
it’s worked really effectively T )
it’s worked really effectively R R
it’s worked really effectively SRR RN
t’s worked really effectively because we’ve been monitoring
because we’ve been monitoring and managing those top
and managing those top companies
and managing those top =R
and managing those top N R T R
and managing those top N R NG
and managing those top companies but we haven’t been
companies but we haven’t been L]
companies but we haven’t been looking at the companies that
looking at the companies that Py
looking at the companies that are slightly smaller and we
are slightly smaller and we )
are slightly smaller and we need to, to find the 50% have
need to, to find the 50% have )
need to, to find the 50% have no women reporting to the
no women reporting to the S a Tt
no women reporting to the S ot el e
no women reporting to the N LR
no women reporting to the executive board is very
executive board is very ISR
executive board is very G IS
executive board is very worrying. It compares
D TNV N T (MR worrying. It compares to a top
worrying. It compares to a top 100 companies which have 5%
100 companies which have 5% Tee I8t
100 companies which have 5% I
100 companies which have 5% from only 5%
100 companies which have 5% NI VAR 01
100 companies which have 5% from only 5% but have
100 companies which have 5% NI AR A
100 companies which have 5% from only 5% but have no women
from only 5% but have no women e
from only 5% but have no women )
from only 5% but have no women IR (RO
from only 5% but have no women E1 R (R
from only 5% but have no women E R G R AL ol
from only 5% but have no women I RGN -
at the top, and it really, %1\
at the top, and it really, RN
at the top, and it really, really does matter because our
really does matter because our research has also shown that
research has alse shown that where
research has also shown that TR T )
research has also shown that TR e N
research has also shown that T R ]
research has also shown that where there is a female chief
where there is a female chief executive, and there
where there is a female chief A - R 0]
where there is a female chief L R R LR T
executive, and there are only 7%
executive, and there are only rA xS
executive, and there are only RS R
executive, and there are only 1R R S A e
executive, and there are only 1A R SRS et )
7% of chief executives are ]
7% of chief executives are et ]
7% of chief executives are NI Mot R )
7% of chief executives are N SR G N
7% of chief executives are women across the al, the
women across the al, the leadership team reporting to
leadership team reporting to )
leadership team reporting to N Elgs|
leadership team reporting to R LI R
leadership team reporting to the board is 55% so that
leadership team reporting to MR NI LR L A
leadership team reporting to the board is 55% so that is an
the board is 55% so that is an 3t g8t 0L
the board is 55% so that is an enormous difference compared to
enormous difference compared to )
enormous difference compared to the male chief executive and
the male chief executive and )
the male chief executive and the average
the male chief executive and OCEVCC P R
the male chief executive and the average women in the
the average women in the T
the average women in the C-Suite which
the average women in the TR s RS
the average women in the C-Suite which is only 17%
the average women in the S R R L AT T
the average women in the C-Suite which is only 17% so it
C-Suite which is only 17% so it Y
C-Suite which is only 17% so it really matters that we get more
really matters that we get more I
really matters that we get more IR
really matters that we get more VS R RO U]
diversity of thought, engagement, investment in these
engagement, investment in these el
engagement, investment in these smaller companies
engagement, investment in these U EREE L
engagement, investment in these U N LR G
engagement, investment in these U N L R R
smaller companies and we are calling on
smaller companies and we are (IR R
smaller companies and we are calling on the financial
calling on the financial reporting
calling on the financial I el
calling on the financial reporting council, the listed
reporting council, the listed SIS
reporting council, the listed exchanges to do more work in
exchanges to do more work in s
exchanges to do more work in el
exchanges to do more work in R Rt
exchanges to do more work in terms of scrutiny at this level
terms of scrutiny at this level T )
terms of scrutiny at this level because what gets measured gets
because what gets measured gets UELELELR
because what gets measured gets managed, what get manage gets
managed, what get manage gets )
managed, what get manage gets s a8 |
managed, what get manage gets done and we need to
managed, what get manage gets NIRRT RN ]
done and we need to do G G|
done and we need to do something about this so we
NG TGIEL TS QTR R R4
something about this so we don’t lose our global
don’t lose our global S S IC
don’t lose our global WSO U A %]
don’t lose our global competitiveness. Fiona, we
competitiveness. Fiona, we hardly have
competitiveness. Fiona, we CEIGIVA YN
competitiveness. Fiona, we hardly have any time left but
hardly have any time left but briefly, are you then therefore
briefly, are you then therefore in favour of quotas? l.e., a
in favour of quotas? l.e., a legal
in favour of quotas? l.e., a LRI
in favour of quotas? l.e., a legal element or a legal
legal element or a legal target, should |
legal element or a legal target, should I say,
legal element or a legal target, should | say, that you
target, should I say, that you have
target, should I say, that you R )
target, should | say, that you YV RN Yo 4
target, should | say, that you have to reach? | would Like
target, should | say, that you have to reach? | would Llike for
have to reach? | would like for quotas
have to reach? | would like for S IR T
have to reach? | would like for quotas not to have
have to reach? | would like for IR O R )
have to reach? | would like for I N LR R
have to reach? | would like for quotas not to have to come in
quotas not to have to come in )
quotas not to have to come in SRR
quotas not to have to come in SR RN
quotas not to have to come in TR R N )
because we’ve been so successful with
because we’ve been so e e 3R i R )
because we’ve been so successful with the compliant
successful with the compliant complainant of the 350 that I’m
complainant of the 350 that I’m )
complainant of the 350 that I’m sure collectively
complainant of the 350 that I’m R S VAL
complainant of the 350 that I’m sure collectively we can
sure collectively we can T IO
IR a )7 VR Ty IR U
IR a )7 VR Ty I R UG
IR a )7 VR Ty improve the rest of the
sure collectively we can improve the rest of the listed
improve the rest of the listed s
improve the rest of the listed T L]
improve the rest of the listed T L L
improve the rest of the listed community and also the
improve the rest of the listed T LD R R ETG
community and also the large O
community and also the large private boards, the European
private boards, the European Union’s quotas
private boards, the European Union’s quotas affect
private boards, the European Union’s quotas affect companies
Union’s quotas affect companies that employ 250 people, they
that employ 250 people, they R4
that employ 250 people, they R )
that employ 250 people, they don’t have to
that employ 250 people, they R el R el
that employ 250 people, they R Rl RN R
that employ 250 people, they don’t have to be listed. So
don’t have to be listed. So we’ve
don’t have to be listed. So IRV 14
don’t have to be listed. So we’ve got thousands of
we’ve got thousands of I EIER
we’ve got thousands of S [ I {01
we’ve got thousands of companies, about 11,000, that
companies, about 11,000, that Sl 03
companies, about 11,000, that employ 250 and we know that but
employ 250 and we know that but 10
employ 250 and we know that but nobody is
employ 250 and we know that but R G ]
employ 250 and we know that but nobody is looking at them and
nobody is looking at them and Y
nobody is looking at them and |
nobody is looking at them and we need to do that, we need to
we need to do that, we need to 4
we need to do that, we need to A
we need to do that, we need to get better. Fiona, thank you,
get better. Fiona, thank you, L]
get better. Fiona, thank you, good to talk
get better. Fiona, thank you, LR GRS
get better. Fiona, thank you, good to talk to you. That
good to talk to you. That I
good to talk to you. That brings to a close
good to talk to you. That ARG R G -R T
DR RN U R [ JeNIEIuES
DR RN U R [ proegramme. |
DR RN U R [ JOL el AR
brings to a close the programme. | will see you soon.
Just as we saw over R N G R G R LR
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
So, In the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
Not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy
at times with some AN Y AR
Getting a little warmer potentially later in the week
but not as warm as it will be for England and Wales.
Northampton fairly typical of many parts of England,
seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees
by the end of the week.
The reason being the Azores high is pushing its way
So, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’s
brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend
We will still have cloud approaching the west,
though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
Elsewhere, | think under the starry skies as the showers
have been fading, just a little RO AL R
R AR
But plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease
away as the cloud spills across Scotland, bringing some
patchy rain particularly to the Highlands and the Islands,
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across Northern England -
Northern Ireland, too.
So, England and Wales will see the best of the sunshine,
the lion’s share of the sunshine again, but feeling
warm when the sun does come out in parts of
Just warmer further south.
And again in the south, some very high levels of pollen
are forecast once again on Monday, as well as strong
sunshine - high levels of UV.
In fact, this week we might see some very high levels of UV.
Through the night, then, we’ll continue to see -
that’s Monday night - those weather fronts brushing
close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer
skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6s and 7s,
10s to 11 for the towns IR el
Plenty of sunshine follows, then, for England and Wales
on Tuesday but again, TV R Ela )
but particularly for the north and west of Scotland,
rather more cloud, some patchy TN MR GE R dia e
close by but still, we’re starting to pick those
temperatures up further north and really building that heat
across the bulk of England and pushing towards eastern
Now, It’s not the heat that we are seeing further
I la (IR IR where it’as been intense
for a week or so now - Al A R e o 1
but we will find this week, as this high pressure slips
eastwards, we start to pull LRGSR LR
which just allows us to tap T ORI RGeS
bit, so it’s perhaps why temperatures are expected
to get, particularly across central and eastern
areas, towards the 30-degree mark.
As ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’s more
MUSIC PLAYS IN DISTANCE This is incredible.
Ethan is adrift in an out-of-body experience,
suspended in a crowd surf,
floating on a sea of hands.
Because this song is bigger than gravity.
KIDS LAUGH AND CHATTER Be there without being there.
Everyone growing up wants to drive a lorry.
HORN BLARES ol 1s]
Let’s hear yours. HORN TOOTS
HE LAUGHS Here we go.
You’re in my bay, you clown!
LGSR DR L IR 1)
Right now, that rover, Perseverance,
5 200 million miles away on the surface of Mars.
And I’ve been given extraordinary access,
following the rover’s every move
as It attempts to travel further than ever before.
Welcome to MY house! NN R e e
My instinct is that it’s Irwin 3. ..and who’s just faking?
Do you know where we keep the collar for Hamish? We don’t,
because he’s dead. | feel like that revealed quite a lot. That was good!
This Is My House continues:
We’re investigating RN SR B
Were there any ongoing disputes?
You know what folk are saying. Someone’s targeting striking miners.
| mean, who’s next?
Brand-new drama.
APPLAUSE Here we go!
Could be Lively, folks.
hh! LT IR
It is an absolutely stupendous bit of fielding.
What a finish. Every single man, woman and child are on their feet.
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Jon Kay and Sally Nugent.
Our headlines today.
A strategy to secure the future of the food on our plates
s unveiled by the government later.
But critics say it doesn’t do enough to improve the health
of people or the planet.
Personal items belonging to missing British journalist Dom Phillips
and his Brazilian colleague are discovered by police in a remote
area of the Amazon rainforest.
Five years after being horrifically injured in the Manchester Arena
bombing, Martin Hibbert conquers Mount Kilimanjaro.
Don’t write off somebody TR O AR UCE g
Look at what they can do when they’ve got
the right help and support - they can climb Mount Kilimanjaro.
Good morning from this factory In
Good morning from this factory in i FI
Good morning from this factory in Rochdale, where they cut doors into
Rochdale, where they cut doors into HE N
Rochdale, where they cut doors into A E A1
Rochdale, where they cut doors into shape. What shape is the
Rochdale, where they cut doors into IR S AR G
Rochdale, where they cut doors into shape. What shape is the UK economy
shape. What shape is the UK economy Tk
shape. What shape is the UK economy in? We
shape. What shape is the UK economy WAL G
shape. What shape is the UK economy in? We get the latest figures this
In? We get the latest figures this morning.
England’s greatest ever - another Joe Root century -
his fastest ever - has his team mates purring
over his performance.
Good morning.
Many of us starting off with a fair ia
Many of us starting off with a fair R
Many of us starting off with a fair bit of cloud this morning. Some
bit of cloud this morning. Some LIS
bit of cloud this morning. Some sunshine. The cloud will build
sunshine. The cloud will build I
sunshine. The cloud will build through the day. Patchy rain at the
through the day. Patchy rain at the 1
through the day. Patchy rain at the far north. This
through the day. Patchy rain at the Ela e R LIER e
through the day. Patchy rain at the e R LIRS dl
through the day. Patchy rain at the e LIRS d e
through the day. Patchy rain at the far north. This week it is getting
far north. This week it is getting warmer, especially across England
warmer, especially across England and Wales.
M EN R I ETTo R
Good morning. It’s Monday, June the 13th.
More home-grown produce and more IR
they’ll be the central promises within the government’s food
strategy for England, which is released later today.
The plan should improve food security, but well publicised
recommendations to reduce SR R
sugar and junk food, are not expected to be included.
Our environment correspondent, Claire Marshall, has more.
From the fields to our forks - more than three years in the making,
this is the Government’s plan for how our entire food
system should look.
Growing our own will boost food security,
the Government says, and create jobs.
Among the plans, a framework for farming the land sustainably,
including taking care of nature.
A consultation on whether the public sector - hospitals,
schools and care homes - should spend more of their
budgets on locally grown, or higher standard food.
There will be a review of the labour shortage,
including using more machines, and issuing more visas for migrants.
No mention of reducing meat consumption, but there will be money
for research into meat alternatives.
This comes after a wide-ranging A A =L
Henry Dimbleby.
He told the BBC less than half of his recommendations have been
adopted, but it wasn’t a disaster.
There was progress on how the environment could be helped,
he said, and a recognition of the damage being done
by the junk food cycle.
But there was nothing on trade.
Imported food could still be e SRR R I
After withering criticism of an earlier leaked draft,
the National Farmers’ Union welcome the plans.
| think it’s really welcome to see government committing to food
production and food security.
There’s a strong commitment RO R R ET IR S letlae:Ta s
levels of self-sufficiency, and to produce more,
effectively, of we are good at, more of our fruit and vegetables
which have been in decline.
So, you know, that’s a laudable ambition.
There’s strong commitments on government procurement.
More British, more local [NCE DI LR ]S
and that’s very, very welcome indeed for farmers.
But I think all of this will depend on the policies that are put
in place to deliver It.
So, It’s the start of a journey.
Many campaigners are asking though, what happened
to the proposed sugar and salt tax and healthier school meals?
According to the government, MR R LB T R e a1 Ts
white paper at a later date.
Claire Marshall, BBC News.
T
We are going to talk a lot about that on
We are going to talk a lot about eI R
We are going to talk a lot about that on the programme
We are going to talk a lot about G E A RGN GET T R G
We are going to talk a lot about that on the programme this morning,
that on the programme this morning, by the impact on farmers and
by the impact on farmers and e
Brazilian police say they have found personal items belonging
to the British journalist Dom Phillips, who has been missing
in @ notoriously dangerous part of the Amazon rainforest for more
The items include Mr Phillips’ boots and a backpack with clothes in.
He went missing with another man, Bruno Pereira.
Our South America correspondent Katy Watson sent this report.
IR 5L
A RUEEREI )T
It was along this stretch of water that Dom Phillips and Bruno
It was along this stretch of water that Dom Phillips and Brune Pereira
that Dom Phillips and Bruno Pereira ST I R
that Dom Phillips and Bruno Pereira I I R
that Dom Phillips and Bruno Pereira disappeared. The vastness of the
disappeared. The vastness of the F iy ]
disappeared. The vastness of the Amazon plain to see.
disappeared. The vastness of the U EF T EI R R R L
disappeared. The vastness of the Amazon plain to see. The Armed

Citation: BBC News, 00:35 13/06/2022, BBC1 London, 325 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BF71E1B?bcast=136906099 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)