and much of my friends.
And that was your co-presenter R PR A (m e F]
Derbyshire, talking to Mark while he was lLive
in @ hospital bed.
That’s quite amazing.
You know, he’s just one among thousands who’ve been injured
and, as you said, Laura, you know, millions who’ve left.
I would just like to say, S LR RGN
lots of Russians are having R R e
HEHAFE R U E
| mean, I’ve got a friend | spoke to at the end of last
week, and he was in a state T R el
He was pumped with adrenaline and he was like, "We left,
"l grabbed my wife, and my three kids under 12.”
"We ran for the airport, we got the last tickets,
we’re in Dubal.”
"It was like in the movies,™ he said.
Why, just because they thought this country is going down...
No, he’s a journalist, and journalism is effectively
now punishable by 15 years in jail, and nobody knows
the parameters any more.
Before, you knew what you could get away with and where,
but now It’s a guessing game.
So he made a dash for it, he was pumped with adrenaline.
When | spoke to him a few days IR OGN U A =L
in and he said to me, "Oh, my God, I’m a refugee.”
"What happened to my middle-class Moscow Life?”
"Like, it’s gone.”
Ahd he can’t get any of his money out.
He can’t use his Visa cards because of the sanctions.
So obviously they’re N ARG R LG LT S
you know, | keep thinking if Ukraine comes through this
with its independence intact, more or less, right?
It’s going to be a stronger country with a great sense
ETITLRE oo TV [go[ 1 because of this experience.
Obviously, it’s a tragedy, AR Eee s N oL
of It stronger.
Gabriel, talk to us about your R R RGO
because we’ve heard, haven’t we, a lot of concern
in the last couple of weeks about Ukraine’s nuclear sites,
and how safe they are In the current context,
in terms of their maintenance, R h R AT e
of one of them being being shelled, or at least buildings
close to it being shelled.
Tell us about that trip.
Well, so | went to Chernobyl, because it’s right
on the border with Belarus, and it’s pretty much exactly
CIR ORI A N if you wanted to send a column
of tanks down from the Belarusian border,
which is where the Russians have this build-up forces,
If you wanted to send a column of tanks down to to take Kyiv,
that would be the quickest route, you’d pretty much
go through Chernobyl.
And Belarus is close to Russia, with Lukashenko, an ally
of Putin, basically on his side, almost
like a puppet government, right?
Exactly, a puppet government.
So that’s why we went there, and it was extraordinary to see
this place that had been such a factor in the collapse
of the Soviet Union, right?
It was the fact that the nuclear reactor exploded
and that Moscow, that the Soviet government in Moscow
didn’t tell anyone about it for so long,
because they wanted to cover it up and thereby exposing
everyone to radiation, really, | think, woke people up in 1986
to the fact that their government didn’t have their
And so this is one of the major Ela e R AR
becoming an independent country in the first place,
and just being there in this place, which obviously
was abandoned afterwards, so it’s like a time capsule,
right?
You’re there in the middle of this little fairground,
a little Soviet fairground, with a frozen ferris wheel
and a bunch of frozen I 1
It’s like this was the Soviet Union mid-1980s, and it’s
remained that way.
And you really got this kind of strange premonition
about which way the world was heading.
I could not bring myself e eI
I Ni B A IR Y
LRI WLy A B LRI
IR T O Russia is heading back
to the Soviet past.
| mean, Putin today has been talking about effectively
nationalising the foreign businesses and their assets
that are ceasing R LR
So I never thought I would use these two words next to each
other in a sentence.
He’s talking about nationalising McDonald’s.
| mean, this is mental.
That is spooky on quite a lot of levels.
Gabriel, thank you so much, and thank you for joining
our podcasting family.
I’m so happy to be IRl
What am |, a cousin or a brother?
I’d go brother.
Bumped up to brother already!
| think we said Ukrainecast, we said sister podcast.
OK, I’ll take that.
It’s great to have you.
Well, now we can chat to Labour’s Lisa Nandy,
who’s the Shadow Secretary of State for Levelling Up.
And like Covid times, she’s joining us from
from our spare room.
Hi, Lisa!
Hello, good evening.
Can | say good evening?
When are we?
Well, it’s podcasting, SRR G -R
really, but a lot of people will be watching this
in the evening, so that’s OK.
Well, first of all, | mean, the big news today on the home
front is that the Home Office is radically changing the visa
scheme for Ukrainian people to come to the UK
and join family members.
They will not have to go to one of these processing centres
across Europe and get in a big queue.
From Tuesday, they’ll be able to do it all digitally.
| suppose you’re very pleased that that change has been made.
Yeah, absolutely relieved.
You know, the reports that we’ve been getting from people
who are being turned back at Calais are just appalling.
And to ask people who’ve fled Putin, who’ve been witnessing
bombing, shelling, who have young children, to travel
hundreds of miles in order to try and make an application,
Iit’s just unconscionable.
So this change that Priti Patel announced today, it’s
very, very welcome.
But it’s just so achingly slow and piecemeal,
when what we really T LB CR R & 1
as the extraordinary elssihiE e R A A
We’ve just been through a global pandemic.
We’ve just seen what this A IR R UG I R )
And these are not ordinary times, these are extraordinary
times, and we need to mobilise in extraordinary ways in order
to get help to people now.
PR A (A GG
I hear your critique about what you describe
as the Government being far too slow in the last few days.
But given what we now are hearing from the Government
in precise terms, how are you in a different place
from what they are advocating, other than your critique
about their slowness as you see it?
So the first thing is we’ve got to drop the onerous visa
requirements, because as well as being very,
very difficult for people who are applying for family
reunion, who are trying to come here through the family visa,
who still have to upload a whole series of documents
that often they don’t have, proving family connection,
proving their own identities and so on, it’s more
complicated when you get to the community sponsorship
scheme, because they have to go through that process before
they can even start the next stage of the process,
which is being matched with a sponsor.
But, Lisa, right now, are you suggesting dropping
G RGN o so people don’t have to show
anything, give any evidence apart from very basic security
checks or identity checks?
Is that what you’re saying?
Yeah, | mean, we’ve said RGNS ORGSR G
some of the bureaucracy, and people should be required
to provide biometric data, which the armed forces have
said they would stand ready and willing to help to try
=T RoTeIR g F 1 very, very quickly.
Basic identity checks.
We appreciate that some people won’t have documentation,
but given the sheer numbers of children that we’re talking
about, it is really, really important that we decument
who they are as they’re IR G R G LR 4y
and where they’re going.
Cos If you don’t do that, R N G
the years when | used to work with child refugees,
you will get child trafficking.
So, you know, dropping all checks and requirements,
absolutely not, because that TR AR e e
of the people IR GRLE
But we could cut some of the bureaucracy out right
now, and the Government has...
Privately, | think there are some Government ministers
who are more responsive to that.
| think Michael Gove is actually quite receptive
to that but doesn’t seem to have any influence
with the Home Office RG]
But that’s the first thing that we should do,
as well as sourcing Yt s Eld
There’s been no effort so far RO R IR R U R Sl
to source available Yt s Eld
So even if they do announce details of this community
spoensorship scheme, they’re TS A LR R[]
up and running very quickly.
It’s just simply not good enough, for me.
On that specific around accommodation, where could
they just find accommodation just like that?
I’m just thinking about the practicalities here.
Whilst clearly there’s a demand from lots of people for more
to be done, In practical terms, these things can take
time, can’t they?
Whether it be housing, thinking about schooling, for instance.
There’s huge questions here.
But, Chris, that’s precisely the point.
This is more complicated than previous cohorts
of refugees that we’ve seen.
You know, for example, one of the charities today
was telling me that because we’re expecting a lot
of older people, and you don’t tend to get a lot of older
refugees coming into the UK, for reasons that are fairly
obvious, there’ll be different health-care needs.
We’re not used to providing specialist refugee health
support in areas like MR R E I G
So on exactly that point...
If they don’t move now, QR Ll R R )
there for years and years on end, and that’s just simply
not good enough.
In terms of where you get the accommodation from,
the first thing they should do is set up a register
RIS QRN TR ETd of all of the people
who are coming forward, the members of the public
who are coming forward, who can offer accommodation
and may act as sponsors.
They could email local authorities.
They haven’t even picked up the phene to council leaders
to ask them what accommodation capacity they’ve got
in their own areas.
This has been going on for weeks now, and yet not a single
person in government has picked up the phene.
It’s just simply not LU
And, Lisa, would Labour basically say that people
should, you know, the taxpayer should just stump up however
much is required to look after these people?
I know that some people might think that’s an insensitive
question to ask, but, you know, obviously if people might come
here for the very long term, you’ve just talked about health
care needs, all kinds of things.
Sadly, Ukrainians will not be able to be sure when,
if ever, they might be able to go back to their country.
Should the taxpayer be willing IO S S RU D i
takes to look after people who make it here?
Look, | was listening to Nadhim Zahawi, the Education
Secretary, on Peston the other night, and he said we’ve got
He was talking about an uncapped number of people
coming in through the community I IS
| think the British public are way ahead
of politicians on this.
I think they know we’ve got to do our bit, and we’re not
I T A [ s
Two million people on the move, PRGN R I R Y]
applications have even been processed.
There are apparently 22,000 that are still in the system
that they haven’t even started on, and that’s before you even
look at people who don’t have family members here in the UK.
Lisa, thank you very much for giving us lots to think
about over the next couple of days - if this
anncuncement does come.
L= UL VRN RN great to have you.
Well, it’s interesting, Adam, IS R LR G
afternoon to think about, to discuss, to try to make
decisions about this sponsorship scheme -
what the speed of it should be, what the scale of it should be,
what the eligibility should be.
And, as Lisa was suggesting, | did a bit of digging around
today on the existing sponsorship scheme, and | think
it’s only taken about 500 or 600 people in the last five
years, and it is very onerous.
Lots of paperwork, safequarding checks, financial checks,
all sorts of things.
So | think there’s going to be huge pressure on the Government
from the opposition, LRI IR ARG R L
as well, to come up with something that is quicker,
bigger of scale, and many people might say bigger
But it’s none of this is straightforward.
Lovely to catch up with you all.
And that’s all for this SRR
Thank you for listening or watching, and we’ll be back
with another one very soon.
The last couple of days, the weather
really has been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly
across eastern parts of the UK.
But things are going to turn now -
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture
s a weather front, it’s approaching.
It means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching
western parts of the UK.
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland
and parts of England.
But generally speaking, it is a dry night and early
morning.
Very, very mild, 8-10 Celsius in many areas.
L LG [T 3 through the morning,
the rain becomes quite heavy G GO
of England, through Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach L R GO
southwestern Scotland, too, and through the afternoon,
| think many of us will have YL AR NI
Now through P I ST D
it’ll brighten up across Wales and southwestern parts of
England.
Sunshine and showers T R R s s EN
QG EE)E
There could be some thunderstorms,
too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it e R
IR NCE NIV L | think, through Friday
ERGRL R E A1
Now Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us -
this, once again, spells heavy rain initially
for western parts of the UK.
But in the southwest, as this low pressure increases,
you can see strong winds blowing
around it, and we could be talking
about gusts of 60-70mph around the Isles of Scilly
and the tip of Cornwall.
So really very blustery, even quite
stormy weather for a time here.
But elsewhere eastern parts of the country on Saturday -
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London -- fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, R R T
plenty of sunny spells occasionally
interrupted by some RN RN
brought in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be AN )
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
arcund 12 Celsius or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise
even as high as 17-18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
In southwestern parts of the UK.
So the southerly winds will bring
milder but changeable weather.
Welcome to BBC News - I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones.
Our top stories:
We witness life on the frontline for Ukrainian forces
- fighting to defend the country’s second largest
city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
If these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been
paying attention because this is the Russian attack playbook,
perfected over ten years of war in Syria.
The Ukrainian army head inte no IENE RN R G Ll AR
forces - they say their spirits are stronger than ever.
We are fighting on our land and protect our families,
so It doesn’t matter TR AT
We fight like lions and they will not win.
We fight like lions and they will not win.
LS and they will not win. satellite
L0 and they will not win. satellite images show the
3R
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy heading
Russian military convoy heading LI
Russian military convoy heading towards Kyiv have now dispersed
towards Kyiv have now dispersed with artillery deployed in
with artillery deployed in il
with artillery deployed in T
Exedus frem Sumy as humanitarian corridors
are set up to escape the fighting, we meet some
of the tens of thousands i A
And Roman Abramovich, the Russian owner of
Chelsea Football club, is among seven more oligarchs
sanctioned by the British government - the sale
R e club 1s now on hold.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS Y- e 0la s ]
Welcome to our viewers on PBS Y- e 0la s ]
the globe.
We start tonight with an exclusive report
from the city of Kharkiv, in the east of Ukraine.
The country’s second largest city -
after the capital Kyiv - has endured nightly Russian air
attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths
and hundreds of injuries.
Most of the city’s one and a half million residents
The Ukrainian forces fought back a Russian armoured column
in the early days of the invasion - and have been
fighting since to stop a further Russian advance.
Our correspondent Quentin Sommerville and camera
journalist Darren Conway are the first journalists to be
embedded with the Ukrainian ORGSR R G TSR]
-0
| should warn you their report contains graphic images
from the frontline that some R R LGS Ol IR
Head to the very eastern edge of Ukraine and a ghostly vision
RGN R E NGRS IR IR
The city of Kharkiv NG G EL R R LTS
In near total blackout, the police in the country’s
second-largest city take us on patrol.
The Russians aren’t 5T
Shelling happens every night.
This close to the Russian IS
there’'s another threat T R
No-one escapes scrutiny.
Alina, 76-years-old, A Bes 8 i B
In an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
RGBT IR has surprised Russia
We weave our way EERGERECHN
inte no man’s land, with the Ukrainian army.
Here is 21-year-old Yevgen Gromadsky.
Over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "The Russian
soldiers are standing about 900 meters
away from here.
You can hear right now that they’re
IS NIV 1 and we are firing back”.
It’s a grenade launcher, British.
But it’s more than just a grenade launcher -
it’s a quided missile.
Is it good against tanks?
1SRN R EYN ] T T
How are the Russians fighting?
They’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
LK RO I ARG SA R
SO
So, yeah, they have R R
here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles
and techniques.
But we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
So it doesn’t matter how QIR ARl
like lions and they won’t win.
This city of a million plus people has emptied out.
This civilian, R R ORI & IETe
lines, just didn’t make It.
We’ve actually come beyond the Ukrainian front
line, and we know R R e
at all the destruction IO G
and this whole area’s littered with dead Russian bodies.
These men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
There are two more over.
There are Chechen, they have 1Ds on them.
Their weapons have TR e
The Ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable
with this type R T A YT RE
is their territory, they’re defending their
city, their families.
But the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
They want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
And that might be where this battle,
this war, is won and lost.
In a war with Russia, the front line is everywhere.
This is what people have been fleeing in Kharkiv -
endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
AUTOMATED ALERT: Our administration
would like to inform you that a fire
This is what Russia does to cities,
it bombards them, it besieges them, it surrounds them.
It terrorizes entire populations.
And if these tactics are unfamiliar to you,
then you haven’t been paying attention, because this
is the Russian attack play book,
perfected in over ten years of war in Syria.
We know that Russia bombs hospitals.
So here at the city’s hospital number four,
they keep the wounded in hallways -
away from the windows.
Miss Valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
R REVCRE N for you", she says.
TRANSLATION: These stupid Russian shrapnel pieces
| will carry all my Llife.
But as long as my e a3 A (o
BB AR Ry -
And so too, will eight-year-old Dmitri, now that this has been
This is the war that Russia has fought before
and is fighting again.
VL RS G the rest of Ukraine’s
fate, but Kharkiv has already shown what’s coming next.
TRANSLATION: Defenders, we will ride together.
We will win this war and all our heroic people
will gather to rebuild our beloved Ukraine.
Quentin Sommerville, BBC News, Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine.
In Kyiv, Russian forces 8 R To k2 Na
towards the capital.
More than half the population of Kyiv has fled since
the invasion began.
The Mayor of the City e R LR e
Humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have
run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
Russian forces are said to have SR e e Y
up to the north-eastern edge of the city today.
Jeremy Bowen has sent this report from Kyiv.
When your world is turned upside down, there’s
separation, loss, confusion, and relief
at getting out alive.
Hundreds more have YN VEeIE |
from villages in the firing line
outside Kyiv in the last few days.
Taking bad memories RO A e Ry
Did you see any Russians?
Yes.
What were the Russians like, RGN AT LS R K
They were mute, mute.
They were mute.
No comments, no words, no.
And nothing.
They were mute.
They stayed like...
__stones.
Medics can help with the physical pain of wounds.
Kyiv’s hospitals are ready, expecting many more.
But what do you say to someone who needs the comfort of home?
When everything familiar has gone?
This minibus was from the children’s home,
many with special needs,
and carers who had spent two weeks in cellars trying
to keep them calm.
The police took videos to record who had escaped.
Then they checked their bags.
The fear of Russian infiltrators is strong.
Food is not in short supply, along with plenty of questions
what about the Russians will do next, and allegations
about what they are doing now.
The police commander
said they had had many phone calls
about violation of the rights of civilians and weapons,
Injuries and murders.
Appeals for information EL RGN
At another crossing point, hundreds more walking
out of the firing line.
And a priest who helped rescue them
from the Russian army.
There is nothing e BB EL |
So, there’s no reason RN R A e
We are not attack anybody, so we just made decision
to have different future, we want to have democracy,
so If Russians QAT S R G
Soviet Union, may God bless them,
but we ask them to do it within their borders.
L W R I TR
GInale s s [l a1dla - 1o B
Tanks are easy targets when they push forward,
bunched up, in broad daylight, but the Ukrainians are still
outnumbered and outgunned.
At strong points round the city,
Ukrainian troops are waiting.
They know the Russians are regrouping, and will try again.
Petrol bombs aren’t all they have got.
Nato has sent in thousands of modern
anti-tank weapons for whatever is coming down the road.
The Russians are about NG IR E G s s B
If they want to come RGN A
they will have to take this piece
of ground and push in.
If they are encircling Kyiv, they can probably stay more
or less where they are.
The men at this position have to assume that
an attack is coming.
For the soldiers who waited, the sky was bright,
and the forest still and lonely.
Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, Kyiv.
In the last couple AR R
president Vledomyr Zelensky RS L
Our news reporter, Mark Lobel R U G AN R 1
for us - talk us WG R F G LRI
He began by saying 100,000 TG
He began by saying 100,000 people had then evacuated over
people had then evacuated over )
people had then evacuated over AR
people had then evacuated over the last two days which is good
the last two days which is good news
the last two days which is good Tl
the last two days which is good news but then
the last two days which is good T R R e R etlga sl
the last two days which is good T R R R R
the last two days which is good T R N R R RO R )
news but then turned to the AL
news but then turned to the TN N
news but then turned to the TG R A
news but then turned to the besieged city of Mariupol in
besieged city of Mariupol in )
besieged city of Mariupol in R i)
besieged city of Mariupol in R A s ]
besieged city of Mariupol in WL NG T
besieged city of Mariupol in the south and said that
besieged city of Mariupol in NGO E LI Rd e ae d
the south and said that not even
the south and said that not TN e
the south and said that not N R AT 1R 0l sl
the south and said that not even essentials could get in
even essentials could get in T Y
even essentials could get in N A s
even essentials could get in I N ARG
even essentials could get in I N AR R e
T TR VIR T R L ORI attacking
T I TR R E T LGRS attacking humanitarian
because Russian tanks were attacking humanitarian corridor
attacking humanitarian corridor )
attacking humanitarian corridor e ls|
attacking humanitarian corridor N )
attacking humanitarian corridor NN R L
attacking humanitarian corridor N R ELR e
attacking humanitarian corridor N R LR e R s 0L
there and he was furious about that.
there and he was furious about Gy
there and he was furious about A N[ egle ]
there and he was furious about LN gl
there and he was furious about L N e R
that. He described it as outright terror from
outright terror from )
outright terror from N R Y
outright terror from experienced terrorists, that
experienced terrorists, that Ty
experienced terrorists, that LN ]
experienced terrorists, that N a
experienced terrorists, that was how he put it. One
was how he put it. One Ukrainian politician said
Ukrainian politician said i
Ukrainian politician said LI RUEN
Ukrainian politician said LI AU AR S
Ukrainian politician said hundreds may have died already
hundreds may have died already in Mariupol and another MP
in Mariupol and another MP based
in Mariupel and another MP based in
in Mariupel and another MP LR RG]
in Mariupel and another MP based in Mariupol whose
in Mariupol and another MP based in Mariupol whose parents
based in Mariupol whose parents Py
based in Mariupol whose parents are also
based in Mariupol whose parents N R e
based in Mariupol whose parents N R |
based in Mariupol whose parents are also there said that
are also there said that Russians are killing
G R IR g F 1 Russians are killing people for
Russians are killing people for fun. He
Russians are killing people for TR
Russians are killing people for fun. He said something else,
fun. He said something else, Reh
fun. He said something else, listen. There are 350,000
listen. There are350,000 350,000
listen. There are350,000 LETOM O [o T I TY e )
listen. There are350,000 350,000 people without any
550,000 people without any SNy
350,000 people without any SN R
350,000 people without any convoys of humanitarian aid,
convoys of humanitarian aid, water, food, medicine, and
water, food, medicine, and eIy
water, food, medicine, and I )
water, food, medicine, and bodies are laying on the
bodies are laying on the Rl o )
bodies are laying on the R LR E RS
bodies are laying on the streets. In mass graves
streets. In mass graves already.
streets. In mass graves ECE LA
streets. In mass graves already. And this is in a
already. And this is in a European
already. And this is in a Y LR l8’2
already. And this is in a European city that was
already. And this is ina European city that was totally
European city that was totally e
European city that was totally L 1R )
European city that was totally peaceful two weeks ago. Stark
peaceful two weeks ago. Stark words there. And
peaceful two weeks ago. Stark LR e LR
peaceful two weeks ago. Stark words there. And we have some
words there. And we have some ey
words there. And we have some TR Y
words there. And we have some new satellite images which are
new satellite images which are T
new satellite images which are quite interesting.
new satellite images which are guite interesting. Can
new satellite images which are quite interesting. Can you talk
guite interesting. Can you talk us
guite interesting. Can you talk RGN
quite interesting. Can you talk us through? You see troops in a
us through? You see troops in a forest
us through? You see troops in a TR )
us through? You see troops in a TR ]
us through? You see troops in a TR R )
us through? You see troops in a forest here and there you see
forest here and there you see (e 1e]e13
forest here and there you see O |
forest here and there you see troops and military vehicles in
troops and military vehicles in Y
troops and military vehicles in a town
troops and military vehicles in FR G T ls|
troops and military vehicles in a town and this
troops and military vehicles in R WENE RGO
troops and military vehicles in a town and this is of
a town and this is of significance because we have
significance because we have ]
significance because we have XN RN
significance because we have IR IR LR
significance because we have XN IR R %L
significance because we have IR TN E R )
significance because we have been focusing on that 40 mile
been focusing on that 40 mile SN
been focusing on that 40 mile convoy north-west of
been focusing on that 40 mile SIS A U A R S
been focusing on that 40 mile NS A R L R R S ARG
convoy north-west of Kyiv, the eI
convoy north-west of Kyiv, the capital, which has been stalled
capital, which has been stalled e
capital, which has been stalled for a while around
capital, which has been stalled TR I s R e
capital, which has been stalled for a while around the airport.
for a while around the airport. 1 {014
for a while around the airport. LI T
for a while around the airport. L e A
for a while around the airport. L A R
for a while around the airport. But now it looks Like there
for a while around the airport. But now it looks like there are
But now it looks like there are NEN O
But now it looks like there are manoeuvres, they are dispersing
manoeuvres, they are dispersing and redeploying and so those
and redeploying and so those iy
and redeploying and so those AR
and redeploying and so those A N ]
and redeploying and so those shots have been going further
shots have been going further Ty
shots have been going further into town closer to the airport
into town closer to the airport and
into town closer to the airport LR
into town closer to the airport and elsewhere, some have moved
and elsewhere, some have moved Y e ds]
and elsewhere, some have moved north to another
and elsewhere, some have moved R RO 181+ s
and elsewhere, some have moved north to another airport with
north to another airport with long-range missiles there.
north to another airport with NLRIER LR R I
long-range missiles there. It s
long-range missiles there. It AN NLR
long-range missiles there. It NS G LA I
long-range missiles there. It NS G IEIR G
s interesting, given the o[a 10
IS A A N R G MOl R
IS A A N R G ORI R )
s interesting, given the ORI RO R
s interesting, given the picture of the movement of the
picture of the movement of the Russian side is there. What is
Russian side Is there. What is )
Russian side Is there. What is G EL]
Russian side is there. What Is the plan when it
Russian side is there. What Is QR EL R LR e I
Russian side is there. What Is the plan when it comes to
the plan when it comes to Ukrainian forces? We saw
Ukrainian forces? We saw N e
Ukrainian forces? We saw another port of a convoy
another port of a convoy north-east
another port of a convoy T e ey I
another port of a convoy north-east of Kyiv recently
north-east of Kyiv recently I\
north-east of Kyiv recently IR IS
north-east of Kyiv recently partly destroyed, that was
partly destroyed, that was Ukrainian ministry,
partly destroyed, that was IS A GO
Ukrainian ministry, defence ministry releasing
Ukrainian ministry, defence IS A CEHE LR G
ministry releasing those pictures.
ministry releasing those TR
ministry releasing those pictures. We also saw Quentin
pictures. We also saw Quentin e Ta it el
pictures. We also saw Quentin Somerville’s report
pictures. We also saw Quentin Somerville’s report from the
Somerville’s report from the e d
Somerville’s report from the e d
Somerville’s report from the e A s
Somerville’s report from the front Line and he
Somerville’s report from the AR e
Somerville’s report from the front Line and he describes a
front line and he describes a Rt 4
front line and he describes a different type of battle, a
different type of battle, a el
different type of battle, a e
different type of battle, a oA s
different type of battle, a hottle of wills. And
different type of battle, a ORI L]
different type of battle, a RO A i R e - ]s
bottle of wills. And a former Al
bottle of wills. And a former retired commanding general of
retired commanding general of )
retired commanding general of QNG
retired commanding general of the Army in Europe watch that
the Army in Europe watch that (3ol ]gd
the Army in Europe watch that (Y a I
the Army in Europe watch that (L
the Army in Europe watch that (LD
the Army in Europe watch that report and he had this to say.
report and he had this to say. e
report and he had this to say. N e e
report and he had this to say. The human dimension is so much
The human dimension is so much e
The human dimension is so much more powerful and important
more powerful and important than the material or
than the material or technical part. This
than the material or technical (I AR N
than the material or technical part. This is why | think that
part. This is why | think that Ukraine is going to win in the
Ukraine is going to win in the LR
Ukraine is going to win in the LG
Ukraine is going to win in the QRIS
Ukraine is going to win in the QLS AR
Ukraine is going to win in the QLA R R
Ukraine is going to win in the end. They have time on their
end. They have time on their LN
end. They have time on their side, the logistical situation
side, the logistical situation 3
side, the logistical situation is getting better
side, the logistical situation LR )Y
side, the logistical situation is getting better by the day
is getting better by the day and
is getting better by the day R )
is getting better by the day RN A E
is getting better by the day R N A E R e )
is getting better by the day LRGN A R o ]
and the Russians have a manpower shortage, | think they
manpower shortage, | think they have
manpower shortage, | think they Nl
manpower shortage, I think they have an ammunition shortage
have an ammunition shortage il
have an ammunition shortage I E3I=1ad
have an ammunition shortage will start showing up soon.
will start showing up soon. LN
will start showing up soon. Hinting that the tide is
Hinting that the tide is turning.
Hinting that the tide Is turning. Another
Hinting that the tide is turning. Another unexpected
turning. Another unexpected development
turning. Another unexpected G A
turning. Another unexpected development on Russian state TV
development on Russian state TV e
development on Russian state TV TR
development on Russian state TV it was reported that on a
it was reported that on a debate
it was reported that on a [ R ]
it was reported that on a [ e e e )
it was reported that on a debate show some people were
debate show some people were VL
debate show some people were being critical of the war and
being critical of the war and likening
being critical of the war and NEHLLE
being critical of the war and likening it to Afghanistan but
likening it to Afghanistan but much worse, referring to the
much worse, referring to the i
much worse, referring to the Soviet Union ‘s humiliating
Soviet Union ‘s humiliating invasion
Soviet Union ‘s humiliating TV e s la]
Soviet Union ‘s humiliating invasion in 1989
Soviet Union ‘s humiliating LR LG I
Soviet Union ‘s humiliating invasion in 1989 there. So
invasion in 1989 there. So MG ND]
invasion in 1989 there. So interesting that that was let
interesting that that was let through. One
interesting that that was let QI L A FIN
interesting that that was let through. One last thing to pick
through. One last thing to pick up
through. One last thing to pick TRl
through. One last thing to pick R u N
through. One last thing to pick TR AU R TR
through. One last thing to pick up with you, the issue of
up with you, the issue of el
up with you, the issue of N RS
up with you, the issue of chemical weapons. What do we
chemical weapons. What do we know? Deeply concerning to the
know? Deeply concerning to the NI E e
know? Deeply concerning to the international community if
international community if Russia
international community if AR RI
international community if Russia uses chemical weapons
Russia uses chemical weapons and
Russia uses chemical weapons R )
Russia uses chemical weapons and the UK
Russia uses chemical weapons LRGN ah)
Russia uses chemical weapons LRGN AR
Russia uses chemical weapons LR EGh RGN
Russia uses chemical weapons IR G LR G R INE i)
Russia uses chemical weapons LRGN ORI R i Bl
and the UK in the US who have il
and the UK in the US who have GG
and the UK in the US who have NG L1
and the UK in the US who have often spoken about false flag
often spoken about false flag JEEIE
often spoken about false flag EE RN
often spoken about false flag TR E AN RG]
often spoken about false flag JEEI ARG R
often spoken about false flag operations in the past have
operations in the past have 10
operations in the past have said that they suspect chemical
said that they suspect chemical T
said that they suspect chemical N R UENE
said that they suspect chemical weapons may now
said that they suspect chemical R AL A
said that they suspect chemical weapons may now be being
weapons may now be being eI
weapons may now be being considered by the Russians. One
considered by the Russians. One el
considered by the Russians. One NI R I
considered by the Russians. One chemical weapons expert thinks
chemical weapons expert thinks e
chemical weapons expert thinks it is
chemical weapons expert thinks AATE
chemical weapons expert thinks AT CVAGE
chemical weapons expert thinks ISR AN
chemical weapons expert thinks (ARG AW
chemical weapons expert thinks I CA OGS R WT-R G ]
it is likely they will use them and
it is likely they will use them TR a1
it is likely they will use them and this is his explanation as
and this is his explanation as to why. People can hide among
to why. People can hide among )
to why. People can hide among the rubble, the Ukrainian
the rubble, the Ukrainian G E1sY
the rubble, the Ukrainian military can hide there, jump
military can hide there, jump e
military can hide there, jump 8|
military can hide there, jump out and kill
military can hide there, jump N R RN )
military can hide there, jump ML R OIR S Rk
out and kill vulnerable tanks. {04
out and kill vulnerable tanks. N
out and kill vulnerable tanks. TR
out and kill vulnerable tanks. RIS
out and kill vulnerable tanks. I R - R Gl 1
out and kill vulnerable tanks. But if you use chemical weapons
But if you use chemical weapons that
But if you use chemical weapons ey
But if you use chemical weapons that has not stopped by
that has not stopped by a0 )
that has not stopped by ey el
that has not stopped by e R El
that has not stopped by ety L
concrete walls. It seeks underground and kills people
underground and kills people underground. The Russians are
underground. The Russians are accusing
underground. The Russians are IR G
underground. The Russians are ElTS R G 0
underground. The Russians are accusing the Americans have
accusing the Americans have G
accusing the Americans have LI Tl
accusing the Americans have LI Rl R
biological activities inside IE
biological activities inside Ukraine and they called
biological activities inside EIMCE LRGSR (L]
Ukraine and they called a Y 0la18]
Ukraine and they called a Security Council meeting to
Security Council meeting to eIy
Security Council meeting to discuss it on Friday. President
discuss it on Friday. President I
discuss it on Friday. President Zelensky says you just have to
Zelensky says you just have to G
Zelensky says you just have to RS
Zelensky says you just have to know Russia’s plans to look at
know Russia’s plans to look at vty
know Russia’s plans to look at e k]
know Russia’s plans to look at e AR
know Russia’s plans to look at what Russia is accusing others
what Russia is accusing others N
what Russia is accusing others L
what Russia Is accusing others NN
what Russia Is accusing others of and he says
what Russia Is accusing others SN R R UG
what Russia Is accusing others of and he says there is
of and he says there Is E[ T AT
of and he says there Is E[ N T A Ve
IEN IR G LR absolutely ne such activity on
absolutely no such activity on his
absolutely ne such activity on his land. And we
absolutely ne such activity on A LR i
absolutely ne such activity on his land. And we will keep an
his land. And we will keep an eye
his land. And we will keep an RN
his land. And we will keep an eye out for
his land. And we will keep an ARG
his land. And we will keep an eye out for that meeting. Thank
eye out for that meeting. Thank (/N
eye out for that meeting. Thank you, but for coming down and
you, but for coming down and EIU]
you, but for coming down and EIUNLET
you, but for coming down and talking us through all those
talking us through all those T
talking us through all those issues. There
talking us through all those TR L
talking us through all those TN L e
talking us through all those issues. There is a lot to get
issues. There is a lot to get IR
issues. There is a lot to get through, thank you.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R iR YR
you how the sale of Chelsea football club is now on hold
after owner Roman Abramovich is sanctioned by the British
government.
The numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
This, the worst terrorist El el A R Rl
R IRl
In less than 24 hours then,
the Soviet Union lost an elderly, sick leader,
and replaced him with a dynamic figure
20 years his junior.
We heard these gunshots in the gym,
then he came out through a fire exit
and started firing at our huts.
God, we were all petrified.
James Earl Ray, aged 41, R R R
and due for parole ML R
travelled from Memphis jail to Nashville State Prison
in an eight-car convoy.
REPORTER: Paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
It feels fine, thank you.
What are you going to do now?
Is it going to change your life much, do you think?
| don’t know, really - KT N a T N Est R Sy
This is BBC News, AR R L s
We’re with Ukrainian forces on the frontline,
fighting to defend the country’s second largest
city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
More than 2 million people are said to have fled
the capital Kyiv, but others have arrived,
after escaping from the Russian soldiers moving ever closer
to the city.
Within Ukraine, humanitarian e lgas a3
Within Ukraine, humanitarian e ea R )
Within Ukraine, humanitarian corridors have been set up in
corridors have been set up in PN
corridors have been set up in L] e
corridors have been set up in an attempt to
corridors have been set up in L R T
corridors have been set up in LG R R T GG
corridors have been set up in LG R R T GG
an attempt to allow hundreds of thousands of civilians to
thousands of civilians to o)
thousands of civilians to escape the fighting.
NN [ N[ [ ] is from Sumy in the north-west
to Poltava, almost 200 kilometres away.
In the past three days EIG LR Lo TN Yo
that’s one in five of the population -
have left Sumy.
Our Eastern European correspondent Sarah Rainsford
has been meeting some of them.
Sleeping peacefully at last.
After 15 days of fear.
This Little boy arrived from Sumy last night.
To a city where I Nl st
and no fighter jets.
But the children here have brought their memories.
Daniel’s poem is about enemies and occupiers and longing
for peaceful skies.
SRR TR V] escaped Sumy squeezed
into a car with strangers when the shooting was stopped
for a few hours.
TRANSLATION: We walked over broken
glass, we saw the ruined build, the bombing, the roofs ripped
off, It was scary.
That is why we are fleeing, running as far as possible
from the shooting.
LLs 70T R R VLT G LRGN G
"It is so Russia doesn’t kill us,” Daniel pipes up.
He is eight years old.
Russia is trying to bomb his city inte submission.
Tens of thousands of civilians N R R U RS IO EL GO
but Ukraine’s soldiers are still resisting.
And behind the lines there is a giant support effort.
The school that is now housing evacuees is also feeding
hundreds of socldiers.
Teachers and residents EIINCOILGRLR
Now we are cooking TN e
so they can protect our homes, our children, our parents,
grandparents and our L ERT (A
Just two weeks’ ago that was a normal school
kitchen, but now all of this is being
prepared to feed Ukrainian soldiers, and people
displaced by the fighting.
The lady in charge told me she can’t
believe they are doing this, but it’s a massive collective
effort to provide the food and to make
This classroom is now home for a family from Kharkiv.
Safe, but stranded, with nowhere else to go.
Svetlana talks of the terrifying
sound of Russian fighter jets, but also of friends in Russia
itself, who tell her Ukraine provoked this war and whe claim
even now that no civilians are suffering.
"That really hurts”, Svetlana says.
Her niece’s world YR R R
It Is safe for now, but Katya’s learned it can be
Sarah Rainsford, BBC News.
The Russian owner of Chelsea football club,
Roman Abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve
been hit with sanctions by the UK government
because of their suspected close Links to President Putin.
The decision means that although Chelsea can still play
matches, the sale of the club XN AL R R A
from selling tickets, players, and any merchandise.
The mobile phone company three has said it is suspending
its sponsorship with the club.
The BBC’s Asad Ahmad gave this update from
Chelsea’s Stamford LGOI A
VR QTR I D R [V of interest in what’s happening
Just a week ago, Roman Abramovich, the owner
for nearly 20 years, said he was going to sell the club.
That caught a number of Chelsea fans by surprise,
they weren’t necessarily shocked, it is because of
events in Ukraine.
In the days that followed, a number of billionaires
stepped forward saying that they’d be interested in buying
the club, but then today the government slapped some
sanctions on Mr Roman Abramovich, which means he’s
not allowed to sell LR R
Other implications of those sanctions mean the club’s shop
has to remain closed RGN
You might say that’s not a big deal, the club shop
being closed, but it’s the significance of it -
that Mr Roman Abramovich T LR N ik
LCIURE RN DRI T made in that club shop.
So that has to remain closed until further notice.
As far as the team is concerned, as well,
travel costs for away games R ENLEEI LR R PION L o]
That sounds like a lot of money, but not when you have
to move a squad of players, backroom staff, physios
and managers, to away games, including to Lille
in France next week.
Lots of people will be wondering, what is happening
behind the scenes at the club AL R T
N Tl R G R R
We will find out soon enough.
In Australia, the Ukrainian community has been
demonstrating, calling for more international support to resist
MR RN EE R B &G
Halfway across the world there is worry for families
trapped in the conflict, and despair at the worsening
Phil Mercer has more OIS LA
CHANTING: Help Ukraine, help Ukraine!
Fear and rage on the streets of Australia’s higgest city.
Protesters want AR RN [ et e
to stop Russia’s attack on Ukraine.
Some say they could return home to help their families,
resist the occupation, despite warnings from
Australia’s Prime Minister not to go
and fight against Russia.
I can do much more being here and helping, but if necessary,
| have no reservations.
| will pick up a gun, R
My father is sitting with his rifle,
with his hunting rifle, at the window, waiting
for the invaders to come so he can shoot them.
My father is over 70 years old.
Ukraine is thousands of kilometres from Australia,
TGNy g B cut deep into the soul
of its expatriate community here.
It’s doing all it can to stand in solidarity with friends
and family members back home.
This rally here in Sydney is part
of a loud, global chorus of support.
L 1) condemnation of Putin’s
invasion by Russian demonstrators.
Ukrainian people IR g e
It’s a massive mistake.
We can see |t now.
\ IR LiR s R i I
It’s the 21st century.
St Andrews Ukrainian Catholic Church in Sydney has become
a beacon of prayer and pride.
For many in the congregation, being so far away from
relatives in the conflict NN I -
Messaging them every day via social
media, hearing from them, I’m waking up every morning
and the first thing I’m doing R R R R G B
happened over there.
It’s excruciating.
It’s been terribly hearthreaking.
| can’'t even begin to imagine what they are all going
through over there.
What little comfort they can find
has been through faith and raising
funds for humanitarian support RO IR &
or the millions that have fled to neighbouring countries.
Halfway across the world, the pain of war is felt among
the Ukrainian diaspora, but where there is despair,
Phil Mercer, BBC News.
The American actor, Jussie Smollett, has been
sentenced to 150 days in prison for staging a fake hate crime.
The star of the TV show, 'Empire’, claimed to be
the victim of a racist and homophobic attack
LRI Rl i)
Prosecutors said Smollett had paid two men to arrange
the attack, in order to raise his acting profile.
That is all frem
That is all from me, plenty e
That is all from me, plenty e
That is all from me, plenty more online. You can reach me
more online. You can reach me ]
more online. You can reach me R ekl
more online. You can reach me on social media. I’m
more online. You can reach me MRS E IR EI N R I
on social media. I’m Lewis Vaughan-Jones. This is BBC
Vaughan-Jones. This is BBC IS
Vaughan-Jones. This is BBC NI L TN
The last couple of days, the weather
really has been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly
across eastern parts of the UK.
But things are going to turn now -
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture
s a weather front, it’s approaching.
It means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching
western parts of the UK.
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland
and parts of England.
But generally speaking, it is a dry night and early
morning.
Very, very mild, 8-10 Celsius in many areas.
L LG [T 3 through the morning,
the rain becomes quite heavy G GO
of England, through Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach L R GO
southwestern Scotland, too, and through the afternoon,
| think many of us will have YL AR NI
Now through P I ST D
it’ll brighten up across Wales and southwestern parts of
England.
Sunshine and showers T R R s s EN
QG EE)E
There could be some thunderstorms,
too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it e R
IR NCE NIV L | think, through Friday
ERGRL R E A1
Now Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us -
this, once again, spells heavy rain initially
for western parts of the UK.
But in the southwest, as this low pressure increases,
you can see strong winds blowing
around it, and we could be talking
about gusts of 60-70mph around the Isles of Scilly
and the tip of Cornwall.
So really very blustery, even quite
stormy weather for a time here.
But elsewhere eastern parts of the country on Saturday -
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London -- fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, R R T
plenty of sunny spells occasionally
interrupted by some RN RN
brought in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be AN )
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
arcund 12 Celsius or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise
even as high as 17-18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
In southwestern parts of the UK.
So the southerly winds will bring
milder but changeable weather.
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
Ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second
largest city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
The city has endured nightly Russian air attacks
and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds
Qa3
Most of the city’s one and a half million residents
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery
redeployed In firing positions.
The convoy was last seen O A R S AN T
Y1gole]gd
The images show armoured units manoeuvring in and through
the surrounding towns AR R g
More than two million people are thought to have fled
the capital Kyiv - but others have arrived,
after escaping from the Russian soldiers moving closer
to the city.
Humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have
run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
Now on BBC News, The Travel Show.
This week on the Travel Show,
| look back at some of our top
I look back at some of our top g1
I look back at some of our top TR0
I look back at some of our top trips to Thailand.
Mike gets stuck in. | Mike gets stuck in. | am need )
Mike gets stuck in. | Mike gets stuck in. | am need VN
Mike gets stuck in. | Mike gets stuck in. | am need deep and sinking further.
Mike gets stuck in. | Mike gets stuck in. | am need LU R T
deep and sinking further. And &gl
deep and sinking further. And CIR N R e
deep and sinking further. And CI - hE ]
deep and sinking further. And Carmen tries a tech solution to
Carmen tries a tech solution to TN
Carmen tries a tech solution to T (L T M ]
Carmen tries a tech solution to pollution. I’m cleaning the
pollution. I’m cleaning the beach!
pollution. I’m cleaning the T I Y
pollution. I’m cleaning the IR UG )
pollution. I’m cleaning the beach! Hello and welcome to the
beach! Hello and welcome to the e
beach! Hello and welcome to the Travel Show
beach! Hello and welcome to the IEV R A )
beach! Hello and welcome to the Travel Show here in
beach! Hello and welcome to the I R T A - R 0 d
beach! Hello and welcome to the I R T A e AR e
Travel Show here in our home city
Travel Show here in our home WA
Travel Show here in our home i A A N
T
We are back and rummaging I
We are back and rummaging QIR
We are back and rummaging through the archives. We found
through the archives. We found )
through the archives. We found so much
through the archives. We found SR ]
through the archives. We found so much gold from different and
so much gold from different and ERE ]
so much gold from different and fascinating places around the
fascinating places around the e
fascinating places around the LI
fascinating places around the world. This week we
fascinating places around the NGRS e
fascinating places around the N NGIRLTR R R e
world. This week we focus on )
T VR e
SR - R - -1
tried and tested traveller favourite, Thailand. We kick
favourite, Thailand. We kick il
favourite, Thailand. We kick GGl R
favourite, Thailand. We kick GG A
favourite, Thailand. We kick off, literally, in Bangkok
off, literally, in Bangkok TV Y-y
off, literally, in Bangkok TV Y-
off, literally, in Bangkok where in 2017 we convinced
where in 2017 we convinced Henry to train like a champion
Henry to train like a champion and
Henry to train like a champion iR
Henry to train like a champion and try his hand at the
and try his hand at the country’'s
and try his hand at the country’s national sport. Muay
country’s national sport. Muay Thai
country’s national sport. Muay LGRS
country’s national sport. Muay Thai is said to have been
LRI R R RV Ty developed
LRI R R RV Ty L R
LRI R R RV Ty developed by Thai
Thai Is said to have been developed by Thai warriors
Thai Is said to have been developed by Thai warrioers on
developed by Thai warriors on )
developed by Thai warriers on MRS
developed by Thai warriers on N RS e
developed by Thai warriers on N RSB ER R
developed by Thai warriers on the battlefields of the 14th
the battlefields of the 14th 1A
the battlefields of the 14th oWJpl 0" 1 4
the battlefields of the 14th century. It became known as the
century. It became known as the art
century. It became known as the P e
century. It became known as the e
century. It became known as the art of eight limbs because
art of eight limbs because hands shins
art of eight limbs because LR R ey T
art of eight limbs because hands shins elbows and
art of eight limbs because R R N R
hands shins elbows and knees Py
hands shins elbows and knees Ik
hands shins elbows and knees I T
hands shins elbows and knees are all used as points of
G LT LR T L o welg 10 e
G LT LR T L o a il uo s
G LT LR T L o contact. It is really
SRV L contact. It is really quite
contact. It is really quite W
contact. It is really quite high octane. These fighters are
high octane. These fighters are E MGG
high octane. These fighters are absolutely astonishing,
absolutely astonishing, watching them
absolutely astonishing, N LRGN
absolutely astonishing, N TR Y T o e .
absolutely astonishing, watching them up close and
watching them up close and LT
watching them up close and eI = W0
watching them up close and personal but some smart Spark
personal but some smart Spark (Yol
personal but some smart Spark decided it
personal but some smart Spark (e R T
personal but some smart Spark e R ]
personal but some smart Spark decided it was a good thing for
decided it was a good thing for T
decided it was a good thing for IR
decided It was a good thing for RO s
decided It was a good thing for RO il s
decided It was a good thing for me to trade out first hand so
me to trade out first hand so e et lagey
me to trade out first hand so IR ]
me to trade out first hand so RN TG LE
me to trade out first hand so tomorrow morning | am heading
tomorrow morning | am heading over to a Muay Thai camp that
over to a Muay Thai camp that e
over to a Muay Thai camp that trains fighters from all over
trains fighters from all over Thailand. |
trains fighters from all over Thailand. I just hope
trains fighters from all over Thailand. | just hope that
trains fighters from all over Thailand. I just hope that |
Thailand. I just hope that | )
Thailand. I just hope that | NI RGN e ls|
Thailand. I just hope that | come out the other end not too
come out the other end not too TSI a )
come out the other end not too bruised and banged up.
come out the other end not too bruised and banged up. So | had
bruised and banged up. So | had LY
bruised and banged up. So | had N T
bruised and banged up. So | had 45 minutes to the north of
45 minutes to the north of Bangkok to a gym where some of
Bangkok to a gym where some of )
Bangkok to a gym where some of R A
Bangkok to a gym where some of the country’s top champions
the country’s top champions Ry
the country’s top champions live and
the country’s top champions R LRIl
the country’s top champions live and train. Tourists who
live and train. Tourists who e
live and train. Tourists who want to get
live and train. Tourists who N SRRl
live and train. Tourists who NSRRI
live and train. Tourists who want to get fit can stay at
want to get fit can stay at Il
want to get fit can stay at EIHE
want to get fit can stay at camps like this throughout
camps like this throughout Thailand but this place is
Thailand but this place is known
Thailand but this place is R
Thailand but this place is known as the
Thailand but this place is AR U R g A
known as the country’s IR
known as the country’s toughest. How has the
toughest. How has the S
toughest. How has the SO
toughest. How has the SN T
toughest. How has the experience been so far? Good
experience been so far? Good but
experience been so far? Good L
experience been so far? Good A
experience been so far? Good but it is tough. They are the
but it is tough. They are the A
but it is tough. They are the AT e )
but it is tough. They are the e -
but it is tough. They are the best. Back home | am training
best. Back home | am training two
best. Back home | am training e
best. Back home | am training ]
best. Back home | am training IR R N
best. Back home | am training R EV
best. Back home | am training two hours a day and that
best. Back home | am training R R E I RO L1
two hours a day and that are o] L I
two hours a day and that are supposed to
two hours a day and that are LR S
two hours a day and that are supposed to be the tough stuff
supposed to be the tough stuff e
supposed to be the tough stuff for a
supposed to be the tough stuff R I e
supposed to be the tough stuff for a professional. Overhear
for a professional. Overhear ]
for a professional. Overhear you train six or seven hours a
you train six or seven hours a day. These
you train six or seven hours a EV AR L Y [0
you train six or seven hours a day. These guys train twice a
day. These guys train twice a day every day to dig
1LY,
IWEEIG
They are determined to make me sweat even more.
They are determined to make me Ak e
They are determined to make me sweat even more. Talk about
sweat even more. Talk about balance.
AE LT N LR Lo 1] balance. You always think of
balance. You always think of EELI]
balance. You always think of leaning in to
balance. You always think of leaning into a
balance. You always think of leaning in to a punch but it
leaning in to a punch but it actually
leaning in to a punch but it Fla ok (VAL
leaning in to a punch but it actually in Muay Thai you have
actually in Muay Thai you have to
actually in Muay Thai you have Y)Y
actually in Muay Thai you have R VR ]
actually in Muay Thai you have to stay dead centre and keep
GRS E) LR R R LG your
GRS E) LR R R LG TR
to stay dead centre and keep your weight evenly distributed.
your weight evenly distributed. i
your weight evenly distributed. T
your weight evenly distributed. It is weird. It
your weight evenly distributed. (AR o
your weight evenly distributed. It is weird. It is Llike
your weight evenly distributed. It is weird. It is like raking
It is weird. It is like raking e
It is weird. It is Like raking I e TG
It is weird. It is Like raking habits. Children here start
habits. Children here start XTI
habits. Children here start learning from a very young age
learning from a very young age and
learning from a very young age LR e
learning from a very young age LR LRI
learning from a very young age and it takes years to master
and it takes years to master )
and it takes years to master R A
and it takes years to master R s A
and it takes years to master ORI e L]
and it takes years to master the practice. | am about to
the practice. | am about to step
the practice. | am about to SRl
the practice. | am about to step in the ring with Momo who
step in the ring with Momo who 3
step in the ring with Momo who )
step in the ring with Momo who is a top contender for
step in the ring with Momo who R RN U S IR T
is a top contender for Muay Thai in Japan. He looks
is a top contender for Muay Thai in Japan. He locks really
Thai in Japan. He looks really YL R
Thai in Japan. He looks really T 4
Thai in Japan. He looks really mean. Look at
Thai in Japan. He looks really TR e &
Thai in Japan. He looks really mean. Look at his ABs.
Thai in Japan. He looks really TN & T LR T
Thai in Japan. He looks really TN & LN LR L A
mean. Look at his ABs. That Is et G
mean. Look at his ABs. That is ridiculous! |
mean. Look at his ABs. That is et G AR R )
mean. Look at his ABs. That is ridiculous! | have a
mean. Look at his ABs. That is G GIAR N R E1e
mean. Look at his ABs. That Is ridiculous! | have a fair way
ridiculous! | have a fair way to
ridiculous! | have a fair way [
ridiculous! | have a fair way [T
) N
== STLERLOW| (AN N
STLEBLOWERS So | think |
WHISTLEBLOWERS So | think | il
WHISTLEBLOWERS So | think | IR
WHISTLEBLOWERS So | think | R E R ]
WHISTLEBLOWERS So | think | IR - R
WHISTLEBLOWERS So | think | will have to call it a day.
will have to call it a day. I
finely
HLEIAOL D
finely tuned athletes and | [SE)
finely tuned athletes and | YN E|
finely tuned athletes and | N N E R R
finely tuned athletes and | A iR R Al st a - Ta s
finely tuned athletes and | AN i E R Rt a T e s
have had the tiniest moment of training
have had the tiniest moment of eI
have had the tiniest moment of training here. It is amazing
training here. It is amazing that my time here is done. |
that my time here is done. | (0T
that my time here is done. | LT ERT
that my time here is done. | USRI
that my time here is done. | hope you enjoyed my agony. A
hope you enjoyed my agony. A great job there from Henry
great job there from Henry channelling his inner warrior.
channelling his inner warrior. Next, a local community
Next, a local community battling
Next, a local community EYNDEG
Next, a local community ENUGLR RTINS
Next, a local community battling to save its wildlife.
battling to save its wildlife. We
battling to save its wildlife. T
battling to save its wildlife. We sent Mike to the coast where
We sent Mike to the coast where e .
We sent Mike to the coast where converse -- have found an
converse -- have found an LEELIT
converse -- have found an ingenious though muddy solution
ingenious though muddy solution to an ongoing conservation
to an ongoing conservation challenge. Few international
challenge. Few international travellers
challenge. Few international e R e e
challenge. Few international e R TN N N s
challenge. Few international e R N Nt
travellers venture here but in a4
travellers venture here but in (I 1Y
travellers venture here but in S R U
travellers venture here but in recent years the amazing
recent years the amazing transformation
recent years the amazing G Re
recent years the amazing NN IR ]
recent years the amazing transformation of the ecosystem
transformation of the ecosystem T
transformation of the ecosystem has begun
transformation of the ecosystem (ELR LR ()
transformation of the ecosystem has begun to draw people like
has begun to draw people like e
has begun to draw people like R L
has begun to draw people like TR LR
has begun to draw people like AR R AL EL
has begun to draw people like me. While it may not be one
has begun to draw people like AR R E A CR R
me. While it may not be one of )
me. While it may not be one of the most
me. While it may not be one of R R ol
me. While it may not be one of the most beautiful ecosystems,
the most beautiful ecosystems, 3
the most beautiful ecosystems, s
the most beautiful ecosystems, it is actually full of life.
it is actually full of Life. )
it is actually full of life. There are snails, crabs,
There are snails, crabs, SN
There are snails, crabs, LG TG
There are snails, crabs, monkeys, birds, all kinds of
monkeys, birds, all kinds of wildlife here. As a monkey
wildlife here. As a monkey right
wildlife here. As a monkey Y
wildlife here. As a monkey right here with a crab in its
right here with a crab in its Sl
right here with a crab in its G IR G
right here with a crab in its UG IR G EL
right here with a crab in its UNGIR G EICE
right here with a crab in its mouth! This place is quite an
mouth! This place is quite an AN
mouth! This place is quite an SR L
mouth! This place is quite an experience. The shellfish
experience. The shellfish streams and crabs that thrive
streams and crabs that thrive 3
streams and crabs that thrive TRy
LR IR G FI R G ) S RO s ilee e airNe 4
LR IR G FI R G ) S RGO silce e i
streams and crabs that thrive in this environment will almost
in this environment will almost 1
in this environment will almost R )
in this environment will almost RGN G
in this environment will almost R N R
in this environment will almost at the rinks of collapse just a
at the rinks of collapse just a few
at the rinks of collapse just a T
at the rinks of collapse just a few decades ago because of the
few decades ago because of the eI 1a 1 4l
few decades ago because of the dramatic loss of one simple
dramatic loss of one simple iR
dramatic loss of one simple thing, mangroves. Industrial
thing, mangroves. Industrial il
thing, mangroves. Industrial shrimp farming left the
shrimp farming left the mangrove forest decimated and,
mangrove forest decimated and, with
mangrove forest decimated and, LR
mangrove forest decimated and, with it, a
mangrove forest decimated and, iGN R
mangrove forest decimated and, with it, a fragile ecosystem
with it, a fragile ecosystem that
with it, a fragile ecosystem G
with it, a fragile ecosystem that the villages depended on
that the villages depended on to
Survive.
But the local people began to fight
But the local people began to b e
But the local people began to fight back. They brought
fight back. They brought hundreds of people from nearby
hundreds of people from nearby I ELE
hundreds of people from nearby villages to replant the
villages to replant the mangroves and eventually there
mangroves and eventually there ey
mangroves and eventually there RN
mangroves and eventually there were going to pay off and
were going to pay off and caught the attention of
caught the attention of royalty.
When | knew | was going to be planting mangroves | brought
planting mangroves | brought hiking
planting mangroves | brought LGRS
planting mangroves | brought LG T {4
planting mangroves | brought hiking boot for waterproof and
hiking boot for waterproof and traction.
hiking boot for waterproof and ue il s A 0]
hiking boot for waterproof and traction. You wear these, a
traction. You wear these, a sl
traction. You wear these, a AR d
traction. You wear these, a L R RTE]
traction. You wear these, a fusion of yoga pants and a
fusion of yoga pants and a woman’s breasts year and | put
woman’s breasts year and | put ey
woman’s breasts year and | put Nl
woman’s breasts year and | put QR LR
woman’s breasts year and | put these on my feet and we go
these on my feet and we go R
these on my feet and we go AR AR E
these on my feet and we go almost waist deep in the mud
almost waist deep in the mud and
almost waist deep in the mud AR
almost waist deep in the mud R e
almost waist deep in the mud R AR A )
almost waist deep in the mud and that is how we plant
and that is how we plant mangroves. So, | am ready.
mangroves. So, | am ready. I
mangroves. So, | am ready. Three, two, one. This is... |
Three, two, one. This is... | PN
Three, two, one. This is... | il
Three, two, one. This is... | am need deep and still sinking
am need deep and still sinking e
am need deep and still sinking e
am need deep and still sinking TR T e Y
am need deep and still sinking e s el
am need deep and still sinking further. How does it work? One.
further. How does it work? One. |
further. How does it work? One. IR
further. How does it work? One. IR
further. How does it work? One. | have one. Dig
further. How does it work? One. (XL AL
further. How does it work? One. | have one. Dig a hole.
further. How does it work? One. (I EN RN DGR G- Y]
further. How does it work? One. | have one. Dig a hole. And you
| have one. Dig a hole. And you planted in, just like a normal
planted in, just like a normal -
planted in, just like a normal tree. OK. Over
planted in, just like a normal eI Y
planted in, just like a normal tree. OK. Over 32 years since
tree. OK. Over 32 years since )
tree. OK. Over 32 years since the replanting began, the
the replanting began, the mangrove forest has regained
mangrove forest has regained )
mangrove forest has regained one third of
mangrove forest has regained RGO R L
mangrove forest has regained one third of what was lost. OK.
one third of what was lost. OK. A
one third of what was lost. OK. IRl
one third of what was lost. OK. IR R4
one third of what was lost. OK. A fun fact about
one third of what was lost. OK. R TR a s e Tl s
one third of what was lost. OK. A fun fact about the mangrove
A fun fact about the mangrove -
A fun fact about the mangrove WL
A fun fact about the mangrove RIS
A fun fact about the mangrove tree. They are shaped this way
tree. They are shaped this way like a torpedo because when
like a torpedo because when they fall from the trees they
they fall from the trees they go
they fall from the trees they NS
they fall from the trees they T CR OIS
they fall from the trees they go like this and they are
go like this and they are o)
go like this and they are supposed to stick in the grant
supposed to stick in the grant N
supposed to stick in the grant N
supposed to stick in the grant themselves so they can
themselves so they can basically
themselves so they can WET] [T
themselves so they can basically plant themselves.
basically plant themselves. T
basically plant themselves. ISR )
basically plant themselves. ILECRER R
basically plant themselves. IR
basically plant themselves. There we go. A mangrove forest
There we go. A mangrove forest once
There we go. A mangrove forest e N4
There we go. A mangrove forest IR
There we go. A mangrove forest R L[
There we go. A mangrove forest once it gets bigger. High five!
once it gets bigger. High five! YR
once it gets bigger. High five! LI
once it gets bigger. High five! And, of course, there is more
And, of course, there is more than one play -- way to get
than one play -- way to get ANl
than one play -- way to get YL e
than one play -- way to get clean after a
than one play -- way to get NN IR
than one play -- way to get clean after a day exploring
clean after a day exploring mangroves. I’m told that years
mangroves. I’m told that years ago local kids found another
ago local kids found another )
ago local kids found another use of
ago local kids found another MR R )
ago local kids found another use of these hoards.
ago local kids found another NIRRT N L e
ago local kids found another NIRRT
VN QR EI R great to
use of these boards. It is great to give
VLN R QIR G E E RN ET I G
use of these boards. It is R RN G ELa
great to give something back Y
great to give something back R
great to give something back when you travel. But, hey, it
when you travel. But, hey, it 3
when you travel. But, hey, it T ]
when you travel. But, hey, it TN Nl e
when you travel. But, hey, it TR Nl
when you travel. But, hey, it NN R
when you travel. But, hey, it is even better if you can
when you travel. But, hey, it N U IR R LR NG
RN R I BTV T N Y
RN R I BTV T N PR ey
is even better if you can have a little fun along the way.
a little fun along the way. Mike getting good and messy
Mike getting good and messy )
Mike getting good and messy e
Mike getting good and messy R e
Mike getting good and messy MR
Mike getting good and messy there on the coast of Thailand.
there on the coast of Thailand. Yk
there on the coast of Thailand. A did
there on the coast of Thailand. R -]
there on the coast of Thailand. R e ]
there on the coast of Thailand. R A e R N )
there on the coast of Thailand. Won’t it be nice when we get to
Won’t it be nice when we get to have
Won’t it be nice when we get to LYYk el
Won’t it be nice when we get to have adventures like that
have adventures like that again? Followed, of course, by
again? Followed, of course, by )
again? Followed, of course, by R =lge]
again? Followed, of course, by e R e e
again? Followed, of course, by R U L P )
again? Followed, of course, by nice warm shower. Stay with us
nice warm shower. Stay with us because
nice warm shower. Stay with us R
nice warm shower. Stay with us Y N
nice warm shower. Stay with us AR N ey
nice warm shower. Stay with us because we have more great
because we have more great e
because we have more great memories coming up, including
memories coming up, including [1sY
memories coming up, including Henry learning survival skills
Henry learning survival skills Y
Henry learning survival skills TN
Henry learning survival skills LR
Henry learning survival skills when he gets lost in the Thai
when he gets lost in the Thai jungle. This,
when he gets lost in the Thal jungle. This, ladies and
jungle. This, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely
gentlemen, is extremely e -]
gentlemen, is extremely comfortable. And Roger looks
comfortable. And Roger looks e
comfortable. And Roger looks T 1]
comfortable. And Roger looks TR e
comfortable. And Roger looks for some inner calm during a
for some inner calm during a [NEi)
for some inner calm during a RN d
for some inner calm during a state of Buddhist Monastery.
state of Buddhist Monastery. G
state of Buddhist Monastery. IR
state of Buddhist Monastery. IR
state of Buddhist Monastery. This is a feast. It is only
This Is a feast. It is only once a
This Is a feast. It is only RV
This is a feast. It is only once a day but it is a good
once a day but it is a good feast
once a day but it is a good TN E )
once a day but it is a good R R A
once a day but it is a good feast to sew, stick with us for
feast to sew, stick with us for e
feast to sew, stick with us for O R
feast to sew, stick with us for O RN
feast to sew, stick with us for RN e ]
feast to sew, stick with us for RN R sl
feast to sew, stick with us for O RN AR
feast to sew, stick with us for that. Time now to head to the
that. Time now to head to the ETe e I
that. Time now to head to the famous sandy beaches of
famous sandy beaches of Thailand. It is a huge draw for
Thailand. It is a huge draw for tourists
Thailand. It is a huge draw for e a3 0L
Thailand. It is a huge draw for tourists but that does not
tourists but that does not always
tourists but that does not E[Z ]
tourists but that does not always been good news for the
always been good news for the il
always been good news for the environment. Back in 2019 we
environment. Back in 2019 we 3214
environment. Back in 2019 we sent Carmen to
environment. Back in 2019 we A RO R
environment. Back in 2019 we sent Carmen to the country
sent Carmen to the country UGN
sent Carmen to the country south, not to
sent Carmen to the country LGP RO R = 0n1]
sent Carmen to the country south, not to catch some ways
south, not to catch some ways 4
south, not to catch some ways but to
south, not to catch some ways NG
south, not to catch some ways (N YL
south, not to catch some ways but to join a cleanup mission.
but to join a cleanup mission. Cleaning up Thailand’s beaches
Cleaning up Thailand’s beaches T
Cleaning up Thailand’s beaches has become
Cleaning up Thailand’s beaches T e ]
Cleaning up Thailand’s beaches has become a priority for a
has become a priority for a PN AT g’e
has become a priority for a PN &
has become a priority for a network of volunteers. The
network of volunteers. The o[ e]0]e)
network of volunteers. The group operates
network of volunteers. The O A ELCRN
network of volunteers. The group operates in 25
network of volunteers. The IR R L P Y
group operates in 25 cities P g ]
group operates in 25 cities across the country. Cleaning
across the country. Cleaning )
across the country. Cleaning N e
across the country. Cleaning N R
across the country. Cleaning the beaches of trash and tiny
the beaches of trash and tiny e
the beaches of trash and tiny R
the beaches of trash and tiny pieces of cigarette seems a
pieces of cigarette seems a never-ending task.
pieces of cigarette seems a (IR E I 1T
pieces of cigarette seems a never-ending task. But the
never-ending task. But the trash
never-ending task. But the e Y
never-ending task. But the trash here could
never-ending task. But the MU e N TR s
never-ending task. But the IR e N TG R R e
never-ending task. But the trash here could soon have some
trash here could soon have some help. Why do we need a robot
help. Why do we need a robot ey
help. Why do we need a robot like this? Because there is too
like this? Because there is too much trash.
like this? Because there is too s R R LI
like this? Because there is too T R ARG T
like this? Because there is too much trash. This place, to so
much trash. This place, to so urll
much trash. This place, to so UEIACTIE S
much trash. This place, to so many tourists come to this
many tourists come to this beach
many tourists come to this T ]
many tourists come to this YL h
many tourists come to this IR R
many tourists come to this MR A o
many tourists come to this beach and if the beaches dirty
beach and if the beaches dirty Ry
beach and If the beaches dirty e R
beach and If the beaches dirty no-one likes to
beach and If the beaches dirty e RO R -
beach and If the beaches dirty no-one likes to come. So |
no-one likes to come. So | EIE
no-one likes to come. So | ARG
no-one likes to come. So | started this project. How does
started this project. How does 3
started this project. How does it actually work? The robot is
it actually work? The robot is GBI RN
it actually work? The robot Is digging in the sand about
it actually work? The robet is digging in the sand about five
digging in the sand about five e
digging in the sand about five centimetres deep, checking to
centimetres deep, checking to separate the sand out and move
separate the sand out and move )
separate the sand out and move the trash
separate the sand out and move RN
separate the sand out and move the trash back. And how much
the trash back. And how much STls o1 s)
the trash back. And how much rubbish do
the trash back. And how much (O R
the trash back. And how much rubbish do you actually
rubbish de you actually collect?
rubbish de you actually e Sy
rubbish de you actually e S R
rubbish de you actually e S RG]
rubbish de you actually collect? Before this in 80
collect? Before this in 80 e
collect? Before this in 80 metres about
collect? Before this in 80 e TR
collect? Before this in 80 metres about four kilograms of
metres about four kilograms of eIl
metres about four kilograms of U e
metres about four kilograms of trash. Four kilograms and 80
trash. Four kilograms and 80 metres?!
trash. Four kilograms and 80 R YAl
trash. Four kilograms and 80 R YaR ]
trash. Four kilograms and 80 metres?! | am dying to have a
metres?! | am dying to have a o
metres?! | am dying to have a go to control it. Of course. It
go to control it. Of course. It s an
go to control it. Of course. It LD
go to control it. Of course. It is an easy control. Forwards
TR I (T RN and
is an easy control. Forwards and backwards. Left and right.
and backwards. Left and right. I
and backwards. Left and right. LR GI
and backwards. Left and right. And this controls the speed.
And this controls the speed. I
And this controls the speed. And if
And this controls the speed. AT
And this controls the speed. LR RIETE RO
And this controls the speed. And if you push this down it is
And if you push this down it is digging the
And If you push this down it Is digging the sand. This is
digging the sand. This is great. | am cleaning the beach!
great. | am cleaning the beach! e
great. | am cleaning the beach! The doctor and
great. | am cleaning the beach! e e s
great. | am cleaning the beach! The doctor and his team are
The doctor and his team are ]
The doctor and his team are working on a second prototype
working on a second prototype to
working on a second prototype RS 1
working on a second prototype to separate the shells from the
to separate the shells from the eIl
to separate the shells from the eI
to separate the shells from the U R
to separate the shells from the LI RNt el e
to separate the shells from the LI RN s e
to separate the shells from the trash. At the moment that needs
trash. At the moment that needs to
trash. At the moment that needs R
trash. At the moment that needs N I e Ta )
trash. At the moment that needs R R0
trash. At the moment that needs R R A SR EL A
trash. At the moment that needs R R RS AL L ¢
trash. At the moment that needs G RS L
to be done by hand. It is L]
to be done by hand. It is satisfying to see so much
satisfying to see so much ST 11s ]
satisfying to see so much T T s R a1 )
satisfying to see so much iR e - s
satisfying to see so much iR R T
satisfying to see so much i R R
satisfying to see so much rubbish come in. There is a big
rubbish come in. There is a big T eIl
rubbish come in. There is a big eI )
rubbish come in. There is a big focus here on getting
rubbish come in. There is a big R IR R G
rubbish come in. There is a big focus here on getting the next
focus here on getting the next generation to think differently
generation to think differently Y0
generation to think differently YR ]
generation to think differently about how they
generation to think differently El A R AT
generation to think differently E A RS A U
about how they treat the country’'s
CL LN TR G SRR R [ country’'s beaches,
CL LN TR G SRR R [ country’s beaches, to
about how they treat the country’s beaches, to protect
country’s beaches, to protect this
country’s beaches, to protect TR R Lol
country’s beaches, to protect this beautiful landscape for
this beautiful landscape for )
this beautiful landscape for R e
this beautiful landscape for RN
this beautiful landscape for the future. Carmen doing her
the future. Carmen doing her i
the future. Carmen doing her e )
QR ORI N T bit there on
QR ORI N T R R
QR ORI N T bit there on the beach.
QR ORI N T R R RN e
QR ORI IL T RO N RO e i L [
bit there on the beach. Now,. )10
bit there on the beach. Now,. SR
bit there on the beach. Now,. Deep into the Travel Show
Deep into the Travel Show IR
Deep into the Travel Show archives, back to 2014 when we
archives, back to 2014 when we e
archives, back to 2014 when we shot a
archives, back to 2014 when we AR il
archives, back to 2014 when we shot a film with Henry, long
shot a film with Henry, long ST )
shot a film with Henry, long S N ey
shot a film with Henry, long before he became a Hollywood
before he became a Hollywood 3%
before he became a Hollywood star. We sent
before he became a Hollywood IR et
before he became a Hollywood star. We sent him to trek in
star. We sent him to trek in )
star. We sent him to trek in QEITLE G
star. We sent him to trek in the jungles near
star. We sent him to trek in GG SR G
the jungles near Bukit. Everything was going
LRV LIE LT . Everything was going just fine
Everything was going just fine until
Everything was going just fine s B
Everything was going just fine LY
Everything was going just fine until he got lost. This
until he got lost. This el d
until he got lost. This barefoot Explorer is survival
barefoot Explorer is survival expert David Williams. Four
expert David Williams. Four years
expert David Williams. Four I
expert David Williams. Four years he has
expert David Williams. Four I G
expert David Williams. Four years he has been teaching
years he has been teaching el
years he has been teaching trackers basic survival skills
trackers basic survival skills that could
trackers basic survival skills A e S M- la]
trackers basic survival skills L R R )
trackers basic survival skills LR R i e e
that could mean the difference between
that could mean the difference RN
that could mean the difference between life and
that could mean the difference T T NI N I
that could mean the difference between life and death. Dave, |
between life and death. Dave, | PN
between life and death. Dave, | iR
between life and death. Dave, | am lost and | need
between life and death. Dave, | S LR R e
between life and death. Dave, | am lost and | need your help.
am lost and | need your help. ey
am lost and | need your help. What is
am lost and | need your help. Y AR i)
am lost and | need your help. Y AR R ile3
am lost and | need your help. What is the first thing |
What is the first thing | should do?
What is the first thing | G YA
What is the first thing | should do? Relax. It’s not
What is the first thing | G XA A s R
should do? Relax. It’s not that big a deal, you cannot be that
big a deal, you cannot be that lost
big a deal, you cannot be that Rl
big a deal, you cannot be that R
big a deal, you cannot be that R
big a deal, you cannot be that lost. | have a mobile phone but
lost. | have a mobile phone but battery is low. One bar and not
battery is low. One bar and not St 1ile1]
battery is low. One bar and not much battery. We have one hour
much battery. We have one hour of
much battery. We have one hour WA
much battery. We have one hour of light and
much battery. We have one hour R LR
much battery. We have one hour of light and one bar,
of light and one bar, 1 would N
of light and one bar, 1 would Ny
of light and one bar, | would e R E e
of light and one bar, | would wait. The chance of getting
wait. The chance of getting rescued
wait. The chance of getting Yo s Bl 2
wait. The chance of getting e 1)
wait. The chance of getting (G R R 8 2
wait. The chance of getting rescued now are pretty slim.
rescued now are pretty slim. 3
rescued now are pretty slim. F Y- we:10l
LI TR TR A N KSR T o 0
LI TR TR A N E R (v S AR LN
LI TR TR A N Let’s accept our fate, enjoy
Let’s accept our fate, enjoy )
Let’s accept our fate, enjoy QA
Let’s accept our fate, enjoy the night. Let’s do
Let’s accept our fate, enjoy the night. Let’s do this
Let’s accept our fate, enjoy the night. Let’s do this and
the night. Let’s do this and then
the night. Let’s do this and then tomorrow
the night. Let’s do this and AR e ae A
the night. Let’s do this and N Ree e AR
the night. Let’s do this and then tomorrow we will figure
then tomorrow we will figure out,
then tomorrow we will figure L =)
then tomorrow we will figure out, we will
then tomorrow we will figure I PR R LRI
then tomorrow we will figure out, we will walk around a
out, we will walk around a Hair
out, we will walk around a little bit find two bars and
Little bit find two bars and Y
little bit find two bars and make the call. His most
make the call. His most Il i elid
make the call. His most [ e )
make the call. His most R RS
make the call. His most eI R R R
make the call. His most important tip is to keep
important tip is to keep hydrated. Without water, the
hydrated. Without water, the G
hydrated. Without water, the body and brain
hydrated. Without water, the R R )
hydrated. Without water, the body and brain to go into
body and brain to go into shutdown. And that is what we
shutdown. And that is what we )
shutdown. And that is what we need to
shutdown. And that is what we TR R a4
shutdown. And that is what we T R R a0
shutdown. And that is what we need to sort out first.
shutdown. And that is what we T R R e R Rl TR
shutdown. And that is what we T R R e R TR )
need to sort out first. We are hopefully going
need to sort out first. We are STV LRG
need to sort out first. We are hopefully going to find some
hopefully going to find some g
hopefully going to find some e d]
hopefully going to find some water in the bamboo. Bamboo
water in the bamboo. Bamboo TGS
water in the bamboo. Bamboo holds a lot
water in the bamboo. Bamboo IR 2
water in the bamboo. Bamboo N GER R R E L
water in the bamboo. Bamboo holds a lot of water, during
holds a lot of water, during )
holds a lot of water, during R 8E
holds a lot of water, during the dry season it
holds a lot of water, during ORI A S
holds a lot of water, during the dry season it has water
the dry season it has water inside
the dry season it has water TR A
the dry season it has water AL A G
the dry season it has water AL AR LR e e
the dry season it has water AL ARG e d
the dry season it has water AR R SR Y
inside it. This water is pure, Hair
inside it. This water Is pure, little bittersweet, and
inside it. This water Is pure, R R e L R e
Little bittersweet, and it A
Little bittersweet, and it tends to be good
little bittersweet, and it tends to be good temperature
tends to be good temperature "
tends to be good temperature -]
tends to be good temperature I
tends to be good temperature LRl
tends to be good temperature LR KT
tends to be good temperature wise. So | will take. .. I’m
wise. So | will take... I’m going to make myself a straw.
going to make myself a straw. 57
going to make myself a straw. S E 1G]
going to make myself a straw. They could be
going to make myself a straw. IS ACDOGE R G
going to make myself a straw. They could be this much water
They could be this much water 3
They could be this much water )
They could be this much water in here or this much water in
in here or this much water in N
in here or this much water in T |4
in here or this much water in A
in here or this much water in AT
in here or this much water in here. It is a bit
in here or this much water in T N A AR
in here or this much water in TN A RAE )
in here or this much water in N N AR R R )
here. It is a bit late in the dry season, so I’m going to
dry season, so I’m going to expect there to be
dry season, so I’m going to IR N R R R LGl
dry season, so I’m going to expect there to be water here.
expect there to be water here. We can
expect there to be water here. T T Rl s
expect there to be water here. We can cut up
expect there to be water here. XN A R
expect there to be water here. N R A R
expect there to be water here. e RN A SR L E
expect there to be water here. We can cut up in here. There we
We can cut up in here. There we go. Have a little taste. That
go. Have a little taste. That s
go. Have a little taste. That is good,
go. Have a little taste. That LN ARG T
go. Have a little taste. That O LLL ARG EIEE
go. Have a little taste. That is good, that is very
s good, that is very SEIRGR
s good, that is very refreshing. Dave originally
refreshing. Dave originally a1l
refreshing. Dave originally worked in the shipyards of
worked in the shipyards of Virginia. Can the work they are
Virginia. Can the work they are el
Virginia. Can the work they are IR0
Virginia. Can the work they are SR
Virginia. Can the work they are dried up he decided to head to
dried up he decided to head to Asia,
dried up he decided to head to LG
dried up he decided to head to Asia, his home ever
dried up he decided to head to TR R S I e
dried up he decided to head to Asia, his home ever since. --
Asia, his home ever since. -- Y
Asia, his home ever since. -- when the work. So how did you
when the work. So how did you 4
when the work. So how did you AR
when the work. So how did you RN R
when the work. So how did you get involved with all the
get involved with all the ANz
get involved with all the survival techniques? I’ve been
survival techniques? I’ve been Ty
survival techniques? I’ve been into wild animal plants
survival techniques? I’ve been R LGEL T EIN I EI L )
into wild animal plants and stuff
into wild animal plants and Rl
into wild animal plants and stuff all my life, |
into wild animal plants and SO AL TS
into wild animal plants and stuff all my life, | just find
stuff all my life, 1 just find 3
stuff all my life, 1 just find s
stuff all my life, | just find (IR IS |
stuff all my life, | just find it very interesting subject.
stuff all my life, I just find it very interesting subject. |
it very interesting subject. | Ryl
it very interesting subject. | HTNE T ¢
it very interesting subject. | lived back in America, if you
lived back in America, if you P
lived back in America, if you knew a dozen plants, basically
knew a dozen plants, basically in
knew a dozen plants, basically i
knew a dozen plants, basically TG
knew a dozen plants, basically AR GG
knew a dozen plants, basically in my home state, you
knew a dozen plants, basically AR LR VR
knew a dozen plants, basically in my home state, you had it
in my home state, you had it el
in my home state, you had it eI e
in my home state, you had it eI ARy
in my home state, you had it sorted. Here I’ve got a dozen
sorted. Here I’ve got a dozen plants in my
sorted. Here I’ve got a dozen EI A AR
sorted. Here I’ve got a dozen plants in my yard. With sunset
plants in my yard. With sunset TN
plants in my yard. With sunset fast approaching, | had to sort
fast approaching, | had to sort e
fast approaching, | had to sort R e
fast approaching, | had to sort N e
fast approaching, | had to sort out where | was going to sleep
out where | was going to sleep e
out where | was going to sleep TR
out where | was going to sleep for the night. Why is it so
for the night. Why is it so Tl s el
for the night. Why is it so s eI R R D1
for the night. Why is it so important to build a shelter.
important to build a shelter. At certain
important to build a shelter. I e IR
important to build a shelter. X e e IR )
important to build a shelter. e IR R LS
important to build a shelter. At certain times of year is a
At certain times of year is a little
At certain times of year is a R Rt
At certain times of year is a little bit cold, the ground is
little bit cold, the ground is G
little bit cold, the ground is LY
little bit cold, the ground is o I 11T
little bit cold, the ground is cold, it only has to be a
Little bit cold, the ground is cold, it only has to be a few
cold, it only has to be a few LGRS
cold, it only has to be a few degrees colder than your body
degrees colder than your body temperature to literally suck
temperature to literally suck )
temperature to literally suck G any
temperature to literally suck AN N
temperature to literally suck GG R N
temperature to literally suck U ER R BC T e01
temperature to literally suck the life out of you, but you
the life out of you, but you Py
the life out of you, but you are also getting off the ground
GG L R R QLR I to get
GG L R R QLR I G
are also getting off the ground RGN0
are also getting off the ground R RGN A ) ARG L
are also getting off the ground to get the creepy crawlies, the
to get the creepy crawlies, the things that are going to annoy
things that are going to annoy you
things that are going to annoy IR ES)
things that are going to annoy you keep you from sleeping. Go
you keep you from sleeping. Go around omitting
you keep you from sleeping. Go EICI LR B
you keep you from sleeping. Go around omitting as many
around omitting as many times as you
around omitting as many times LR TR=LN
around omitting as many times as you can, make it as tight as
as you can, make it as tight as you can. OK, we’ve got the
you can. OK, we’ve got the foundation going. Check this
foundation going. Check this out.
foundation going. Check this T -
foundation going. Check this out. Seems pretty stable. That
out. Seems pretty stable. That s
out. Seems pretty stable. That I8
out. Seems pretty stable. That is pretty good. Now where we
s pretty good. Now where we have to do
s pretty good. Now where we YU RN R
s pretty good. Now where we have to do is put some slits
have to do Is put some slits P g ]
have to do is put some slits across and we
have to do is put some slits et I R )
have to do is put some slits across and we are done.
G
Holding my breath, holding my e rm
Holding my breath, holding my breath. Och.
Holding my breath, holding my G- U
Holding my breath, holding my e G - L IR
Holding my breath, holding my breath. Och. Ah! That is
breath. Och. Ah! That Is I
breath. Ooh. Ah! That is reasonably comfortable. Hold
reasonably comfortable. Hold N
reasonably comfortable. Hold I
reasonably comfortable. Hold on, just shuffled down a bit.
on, just shuffled down a bit. il
on, just shuffled down a bit. (TR
on, just shuffled down a bit. VORI RTZ]
on, just shuffled down a bit. You might want to take the
You might want to take the )
You might want to take the i
You might want to take the knife off. And what
You might want to take the NN i - NR iR i
You might want to take the knife off. And what about a
knife off. And what about a pillow, a bit of a shoulder
pillow, a bit of a shoulder T x4
pillow, a bit of a shoulder XA Y
pillow, a bit of a shoulder YA YA
pillow, a bit of a shoulder XA YA LT
pillow, a bit of a shoulder rub? No? There we go! There’s
rub? No? There we go! There’s your pillow.
rub? No? There we go! There’s T (YA Y ]
rub? No? There we go! There’s your pillow. And that’s your
your pillow. And that’s your shoulder
your pillow. And that’s your IO N
your pillow. And that’s your shoulder rub, there you go.
shoulder rub, there you go. 1L
shoulder rub, there you go. This, ladies and gentlemen, is
This, ladies and gentlemen, is actually
This, ladies and gentlemen, is Ela G (A
This, ladies and gentlemen, is actually extremely comfortable.
actually extremely comfortable. Henry there getting some tips
Henry there getting some tips Tee I8t
Henry there getting some tips T st RO
Henry there getting some tips from Dave Williams, who is
from Dave Williams, who is still
from Dave Williams, who Is a4
from Dave Williams, who Is R e
from Dave Williams, who Is still out there hacking through
still out there hacking through )
still out there hacking through the undergrowth and teaching
the undergrowth and teaching ANz
the undergrowth and teaching Nz IR 4G
the undergrowth and teaching survival skills. Well, to
survival skills. wWell, to ]
survival skills. Well, to IR
survival skills. Well, to MG RO
survival skills. Well, to MGG R G
survival skills. Well, to TR R AR
survival skills. Well, to finish the show this week, it
finish the show this week, It 3
finish the show this week, It TRy
finish the show this week, it TR R
finish the show this week, it is time to something
finish the show this week, it I3 0 R RG]
finish the show this week, it is time to something a little
LU GRS G TR )
s time to something a little more relaxing, and even
more relaxing, and even W AT IR TN
more relaxing, and even consciousness-raising. Across
consciousness-raising. Across )
consciousness-raising. Across the world, Thailand is known
the world, Thailand is known e
the world, Thailand is known e
the world, Thailand is known TR sl
the world, Thailand is known Tl R
the world, Thailand is known TR A GBI
for its hundreds of Buddhist monasteries, where monks and
monasteries, where monks and Ty
monasteries, where monks and (IR |
monasteries, where monks and nuns spend their lives and
nuns spend their lives and ]l
nuns spend their lives and simplicity, contemplation and
simplicity, contemplation and meditation.
simplicity, contemplation and R a4
simplicity, contemplation and meditation. Back in
simplicity, contemplation and DG F LA
simplicity, contemplation and meditation. Back in 2014, we
meditation. Back in 2014, we 3214
meditation. Back in 2014, we sent Rajan to get a taste of
sent Rajan to get a taste of that lifestyle, for a day, at
that lifestyle, for a day, at s
that lifestyle, for a day, at AR
that lifestyle, for a day, at LR il
that lifestyle, for a day, at least. The first duty of the
LR MG ARyl e
LR MG ARyl AV
LR MG ARyl new day is
least. The first duty of the new day is collecting alms,
new day is collecting alms, el
new day is collecting alms, third from the local community.
third from the local community. )
third from the local community. s
third from the local community. I ]
third from the local community. IS N s Tt g
third from the local community. There is a number of
third from the local community. IS R T A
There is a number of routes Tee I8t
There is a number of routes from this monastery, and the
from this monastery, and the monks divided into small groups
monks divided into small groups and go
monks divided into small groups LR
monks divided into small groups and go out to each route. As
and go out to each route. As M)
and go out to each route. As M IR e 1]
and go out to each route. As I’m soon to find out, this is
I’m soen te find out, this is s
I’m soen te find out, this is S R
I’m soen te find out, this is not the only
I’m soon to find out, this Is not the only source of
not the only source of sustenance for the monks. There
sustenance for the monks. There you
sustenance for the monks. There IR LR
sustenance for the monks. There TR AR T
sustenance for the monks. There you go. This is a feast. It is
you go. This is a feast. It is i\
you go. This is a feast. It is R
you go. This is a feast. It is -]
you go. This is a feast. It is only once a day,
you go. This is a feast. It is AR Gy A 0L
you go. This is a feast. It is AR ) A VL1 o
you go. This is a feast. It is only once a day, but it is
you go. This is a feast. It is only once a day, but itisa
only once a day, but itis a L]
only once a day, but itis a good feast. Next on the
only once a day, butitis a good feast. Next on the agenda
good feast. Next on the agenda s
good feast. Next on the agenda is one
good feast. Next on the agenda is ohe of
good feast. Next on the agenda XNER 1
good feast. Next on the agenda is one of my daily duties. You
s one of my daily duties. You iyl
s one of my daily duties. You b
s one of my daily duties. You might have noticed that the
might have noticed that the EIe
might have noticed that the I
might have noticed that the task of sweeping up is given,
task of sweeping up Is given, really,
task of sweeping up Is given, (A
task of sweeping up is given, [ (AR R
task of sweeping up is given, really, to the most enlightened
really, to the most enlightened el
really, to the most enlightened T NEG
really, to the most enlightened person here in the monastery.
person here in the monastery. e
person here in the monastery. L EIERT
person here in the monastery. ILEERT AN
person here in the monastery. That’s why I’m doing it. And
That’s why I’m doing it. And after
That’s why I’m doing it. And R4
That’s why I’m doing it. And I d L A
That’s why I’m doing it. And after that is complete, a
after that is complete, a i o]
after that is complete, a iE R
after that is complete, a iE e R
after that is complete, a i R R ]
after that is complete, a chance to meet some of the
chance to meet some of the I
chance to meet some of the foreign monks as they finish
foreign monks as they finish s
foreign monks as they finish TN
foreign monks as they finish TG
foreign monks as they finish their jobs. Some, it
their jobs. Some, it transpires, have had rather
transpires, have had rather colourful previous lives. |
colourful previous lives. | Ll
colourful previous lives. | TR )
colourful previous lives. | used to be
colourful previous lives. | T LR ]
colourful previous lives. | used to be a photographer.
colourful previous lives. | TG R R LI I A (1
used to be a photographer. You Ll
used to be a photographer. You used to be
used to be a photographer. You T LR ]
used to be a photographer. You NG RN RG]
used to be a photographer. You used to be a photographer? Yes,
used to be a photographer? Yes, |
used to be a photographer? Yes, i
used to be a photographer? Yes, B LR
used to be a photographer? Yes, RV LR G i R
used to be a photographer? Yes, | travelled the world, enjoyed
| travelled the world, enjoyed myself... What kind
| travelled the world, enjoyed AR ET A
myself... What kind of e 01X
myself... What kind of MO I
myself... What kind of pictures? Fashion. Really?
pictures? Fashion. Really? ‘(XN
pictures? Fashion. Really? NCELUPR E )
pictures? Fashion. Really? Yeah, fashion magazines, that
Yeah, fashion magazines, that sl
Yeah, fashion magazines, that s
Yeah, fashion magazines, that kind of thing. And successful?
kind of thing. And successful? o
kind of thing. And successful? N
kind of thing. And successful? ORI I R
kind of thing. And successful? Oh, yes, quite. Successful
Oh, yes, quite. Successful LN
Oh, yes, quite. Successful LR
Oh, yes, quite. Successful enough. Turns out
Oh, yes, quite. Successful QLR TG R T & T
Oh, yes, quite. Successful enough. Turns out that Michael
enough. Turns out that Michael Ty
enough. Turns out that Michael was also the manager of the
was also the manager of the g
was also the manager of the R EIIIE]
was also the manager of the R RUEII IR a1 d
was also the manager of the model Claudia Schiffer for
model Claudia Schiffer for )
model Claudia Schiffer for three years. He was then a monk
three years. He was then a monk e
three years. He was then a monk for a short period
three years. He was then a monk R L U R
three years. He was then a monk R U R P
three years. He was then a monk for a short peried in 2001 and
for a short period in 2001 and Sl
IR L[ AL PO L SRR )
IR L[ AL PO L SRR R ]ids]
IR L[ AL PO L returned to the faith a year
returned to the faith a year and
returned to the faith a year ]
returned to the faith a year LI
returned to the faith a year and a half ago, and this time,
and a half ago, and this time, 1Y
and a half ago, and this time, he says it is
CLIREI VR AL R G Ry R RV AER ]S
CLIREI VR AL R G Ry R he says it is for good. Mostly
he says it is for good. Mostly 1)
he says it is for good. Mostly my family thinks | should have
my family thinks | should have Y
my family thinks | should have a family, 1 should make
my family thinks | should have a family, | should make lots of
a family, | should make lots of money,
a family, | should make lots of LA
a family, | should make lots of money, no possessions anymore,
money, no possessions anymore, no
money, No possessions anymore, no health
money, ne possessions anymore, no health insurance, nothing at
no health insurance, nothing at IR
no health insurance, nothing at C{ TG
no health insurance, nothing at all. Nothing in
no health insurance, nothing at C{ I TSGR R T
no health insurance, nothing at all. Nothing in the bank?
all. Nothing in the bank? Nothing
all. Nothing in the bank? N GILGRE
all. Nothing in the bank? Nothing in the bank. No
all. Nothing in the bank? NG GRLR G E L O LR {38
Nothing in the bank. No safety T
Nothing in the bank. No safety net. The
Nothing in the bank. No safety AR LT
Nothing in the bank. No safety RN R
Nothing in the bank. No safety NI R
Nothing in the bank. No safety net. The one that is quite
net. The one that is quite simple, you train yourselves
simple, you train yourselves daily,
simple, you train yourselves E AN
simple, you train yourselves daily, seven, eight, nine
daily, seven, eight, nine TN
daily, seven, eight, nine hours, meditation, and when you
hours, meditation, and when you Py
hours, meditation, and when you are able
hours, meditation, and when you I R
hours, meditation, and when you N Rl
hours, meditation, and when you are able to still your mind
are able to still your mind T e a1
are able to still your mind becomes peaceful.
are able to still your mind e R e SR G
becomes peaceful. This M
becomes peaceful. This experience has
becomes peaceful. This AR R [ O (A
becomes peaceful. This experience has actually... It
experience has actually... It s
experience has actually... It is much better than
experience has actually... It TR e R SR
experience has actually... It is much better than all the
(R DRI R G IR G [ uhE
(R DRI R G IR G [ money |
(RN ISR G L LR G money | could have.
LR DRI CI R G TN [ money | could have. Michael has
money | could have. Michael has s
money | could have. Michael has not completely forsaken his old
not completely forsaken his old B
not completely forsaken his old RN
not completely forsaken his old KNI
not completely forsaken his old RN ssln
not completely forsaken his old RIS A [ TIs e Y
not completely forsaken his old life. He is still curious about
life. He is still curious about )
life. He is still curious about the English
life. He is still curious about G R NG U R
the English premiership football scores, Arsenal
football scores, Arsenal XYL
football scores, Arsenal especially, and then reveals
especially, and then reveals )
especially, and then reveals i e o e
especially, and then reveals A
especially, and then reveals the abbot is a
especially, and then reveals WL AR e 4
especially, and then reveals the abbot is a secret Lliveable
the abbot is a secret liveable IR
the abbot is a secret liveable fan. CHANTING. Months have to
fan. CHANTING. Months have to e )
fan. CHANTING. Months have to e Yrii
fan. CHANTING. Months have to e W2 IR d s
fan. CHANTING. Months have to observe 227 strict precepts or
observe 227 strict precepts or O
observe 227 strict precepts or TP
observe 227 strict precepts or (N (A
observe 227 strict precepts or rules, so really, my efforts
rules, so really, my efforts ey
rules, so really, my efforts were rather pathetic.
rules, so really, my efforts RGO L (o ]
rules, so really, my efforts were rather pathetic. In truth,
were rather pathetic. In truth, as
were rather pathetic. In truth, 1
were rather pathetic. In truth, LA
were rather pathetic. In truth, as | left, | realised | did
as | left, | realised I did gain
as | left, | realised | did gain something out of the
gain something out of the SN
gain something out of the SO ]
gain something out of the experience. In a
gain something out of the U LR (g
gain something out of the experience. In a short period |
experience. In a short period | appreciated the routine,
appreciated the routine, iy ls1 A
appreciated the routine, simplicity, and
appreciated the routine, Sl Ui AL R
appreciated the routine, simplicity, and the absence of
simplicity, and the absence of 0]
simplicity, and the absence of A
simplicity, and the absence of empty choices you frequently
empty choices you frequently Ty
empty choices you frequently VR ]
empty choices you frequently S RO R )
empty choices you frequently have to make in the outside
have to make in the outside i
have to make in the outside eI
have to make in the outside world. The point, though, is
world. The point, though, is R
world. The point, though, is I
world. The point, though, Is I AT
world. The point, though, Is most of us that world.
world. The point, though, is most of us that world. Rajan
most of us that world. Rajan taking some time to find
taking some time to find i
taking some time to find R A E e 4
taking some time to find himself back in 2014. That is
himself back in 2014. That is 1R
himself back in 2014. That is IR )
himself back in 2014. That is IR N R
himself back in 2014. That is IR N e Rl R e
himself back in 2014. That is IR N e R R e e
himself back in 2014. That is IR N e R R e R
all we have time for on this week
all we have time for on this Y e Y
all we have time for on this week because my programme.
week because my programme. Wullih
week because my programme. LG
week because my programme. LG
week because my programme. Coming up next week, Rajan is
Coming up next week, Rajan is PN
Coming up next week, Rajan is ERRELGR
Coming up next week, Rajan is an island, to celebrate the
an island, to celebrate the AN
an island, to celebrate the centenary of one of the
centenary of one of the country’s
centenary of one of the T (g R[]
centenary of one of the S AR E IS
centenary of one of the country’s most famous and
centenary of one of the W AR I T R
country’s most famous and most AT
country’s most famous and most notoriously difficult novels.
notoriously difficult novels. I
notoriously difficult novels. And finding out just how you
And finding out just how you )
And finding out just how you move an
And finding out just how you Ry
And finding out just how you LRI
And finding out just how you NI E R
And finding out just how you N RN I E I R IR
move an entire library of very Gl
move an entire library of very GG |
move an entire library of very old and very fragile books.
old and very fragile books. Look
old and very fragile books. L &1 4
old and very fragile books. Look at this!
old and very fragile books. e GRS
old and very fragile books. Look at this! The ceiling is
Look at this! The ceiling is Nee LI R
Look at this! The ceiling is incredible. And it goes on
I IR ORI RN incredible. And it goes on and
incredible. And it goes on and ]
incredible. And it goes on and R
incredible. And it goes on and on for a
incredible. And it goes on and DRI ITE
incredible. And it goes on and IR TR LI
incredible. And it goes on and on for a long, long way. This
on for a long, long way. This must
on for a long, long way. This IR
on for a long, long way. This R 14
on for a long, long way. This must be at least
on for a long, long way. This TR A1)
on for a long, long way. This must be at least 60 metres
on for a long, long way. This TR A R ORI ee s
must be at least 60 metres or TG GILGR
must be at least 60 metres or something. If you would like to
something. If you would like to catch up
something. If you would like to R ]
something. If you would like to catch up on more of our recent
catch up on more of our recent Pl el
catch up on more of our recent adventures you can find
catch up on more of our recent OB IR LR
catch up on more of our recent adventures you can find us on
adventures you can find us on BBC
adventures you can find us on L E
C[ATI IR TR T R I VT T FI YR Y
C[ATI IR TR T R I VT BBC iPlayer. We are in social
BBC iPlayer. We are in social media, too. Just search for BBC
media, too. Just search for BBC travel show
media, too. Just search for BBC e R R ]
media, too. Just search for BBC eV R R D ) 4
media, too. Just search for BBC travel show on Facebook and
travel show on Facebook and IO
travel show on Facebook and ground and you will find us
ground and you will find us HcE
ground and you will find us il
ground and you will find us there. Until next time, see you
there. Until next time, see you i
The last couple of days, the weather
really has been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly
across eastern parts of the UK.
But things are going to turn now -
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture
s a weather front, it’s approaching.
It means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching
western parts of the UK.
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland
and parts of England.
But generally speaking, it is a dry night and early
morning.
Very, very mild, 8-10 Celsius in many areas.
L LG [T 3 through the morning,
the rain becomes quite heavy G GO
of England, through Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach L R GO
southwestern Scotland, too, and through the afternoon,
| think many of us will have YL AR NI
Now through P I ST D
it’ll brighten up across Wales and southwestern parts of
England.
Sunshine and showers T R R s s EN
QG EE)E
There could be some thunderstorms,
too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it e R
IR NCE NIV L | think, through Friday
ERGRL R E A1
Now Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us -
this, once again, spells heavy rain initially
for western parts of the UK.
But in the southwest, as this low pressure increases,
you can see strong winds blowing
around it, and we could be talking
about gusts of 60-70mph around the Isles of Scilly
and the tip of Cornwall.
So really very blustery, even quite
stormy weather for a time here.
But elsewhere eastern parts of the country on Saturday -
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London -- fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, R R T
plenty of sunny spells occasionally
interrupted by some RN RN
brought in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be AN )
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
arcund 12 Celsius or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise
even as high as 17-18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
In southwestern parts of the UK.
So the southerly winds will bring
milder but changeable weather.
Welcome to BBC News - I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones -
Our top stories -
We witness life on the front line for Ukrainian forces -
fighting to defend the country’s second largest
city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
If these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been
paying attention, because this is the Russian attack playbook,
perfected over ten years of war in Syria.
The Ukrainian army head inte no MR L PR Ll LU E
forces - they say their spirits are stronger than ever.
We are fighting on our land and protect our families,
so It doesn’t matter TR AT
We fight like lions and they will not win.
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery
deployed In firing positions.
Exodus from Sumy - Y IR e e sl aals [t 1o
are set up to escape the fighting, we meet some
of the tens of thousands i A
And Roman Abramovich, the Russian owner of
Chelsea Football Club, is among seven more oligarchs
sanctioned by the British government - the sale
R e club 1s now on hold.
We start tonight with an exclusive report
from the city of Kharkiv, in the east of Ukraine.
The country’s second largest city, after the capital,
Kyiv, has endured nightly Russian air attacks,
and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds
Qa3
Most of the city’s 1.5 million residents have fled.
The Ukrainian forces fought back a Russian armoured column
in the early days SRU I R
Our correspondent Quentin Sommerville and camera
journalist Darren Conway are the first journalists to be
embedded with the Ukranian army, as they continue to fight
the Russian advance.
| should warn you, their report contains graphic images
from the front line that some R R LGS Ol IR
Head to the very eastern edge of Ukraine, and a ghostly
vision of the country’s fate unfolds before you.
The city of Kharkiv NG G EL R R LTS
In near total blackout, the police in the country’s
second-largest city take us on patrol.
The Russians aren’t 5T
Shelling happens every night.
This close to the Russian border, there’s another threat
T -
No-one escapes scrutiny.
Alina, 76-years-old, A Bes 8 i B
In an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
But this young nation has surprised Russia and the world
We weave our way past the fallen, into no man’s land,
with the Ukrainian army.
Here is 21-year-old Yevgen Gromadsky.
Over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "The Russian
soldiers are standing about 900 meters away from here.
You can hear right now that they’re firing on our positions
and we are firing back™.
It’s a grenade launcher, British.
But it’s more than just a grenade launcher -
it’s a quided missile.
Is it good against tanks?
1SRN R EYN ] T T
How are the Russians fighting?
They’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
LK RO I ARG SA R
SO
So, yeah, they have a lot of people here, a lot of tanks,
a lot of their vehicles and technigues.
But we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
So it doesn’t matter how they fight, we fight like lions
and they won’t win.
This city of a million plus people has emptied out.
This civilian, so close to Ukrainian lines, just
We’ve actually come beyond the Ukrainian front
line, and we know that because look at all the destruction
around here, and this whole N R e R I B Ts|
These men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
There are two more over.
They are Chechen, and they have 1Ds on them.
Their weapons have TR e
The Ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable
with this type of fight because this is their territory,
they’re defending their city, their families.
But the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
They want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
And that might be where this battle, this war,
In a war with Russia, the front line is everywhere.
This is what people have been fleeing in Kharkiv -
endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
This is what Russia does to cities, it bombards them,
I IR I it surrounds them.
1 Tggvlgri 1Y entires populations.
And if these tactics are unfamiliar to you,
then you haven’t been paying attention, because this
s the Russian attack play book, perfected in over ten
years of war in Syria.
We know that Russia bombs hospitals.
So here at the city’s hospital number four,
they keep the wounded in hallways - away
Miss Valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
R REVCRE N for you", she says.
TRANSLATION: These stupid Russian shrapnel pieces
| will carry all my Llife.
But as long as my heart still beats, | will still
And so too, will eight-year-old Dmitri, now that this has been
This is the war that Russia has fought before
and is fighting again.
We don’t know the rest of Ukraine’s fate, but Kharkiv
has already shown L E R Il Y
TRANSLATION: Defenders, we will ride together.
We will win this war and all our heroic people
will gather to rebuild our beloved Ukraine.
Quentin Sommerville, BBC News, Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine.
In Kyiv, Russian forces 8 R To k2 Na
towards the capital.
More than half the population has fled since the invasion
began.
The Mayor of the city e R LR e
Humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have
run out of food, and are still living without water or gas.
Russian forces are said to have SR e e Y
up to the north-eastern LRI Gl
Jeremy Bowen has sent this report from Kyiv.
When your world is turned upside down, there’s
separation, loss, confusion, and relief at getting out
alive.
Hundreds more have been evacuated from villages
in the firing line outside Kyiv in the last few days.
Taking bad memories RO A e Ry
Did you see any Russians?
Yes.
What were the Russians like, RGN AT LS R K
They were mute, mute.
They were mute.
No comments, nc words, no...
And nothing.
They were mute.
They stayed like...
__stones.
Medics can help with the physical pain of wounds.
Kyiv’s hospitals are ready, expecting many more.
But what do you say to someone who needs the comfort of home,
LRIl ) familiar has gone?
This minibus was from the children’s home,
many with special needs, and carers who had spent two
weeks in cellars, trying to keep them calm.
The police took videos to record who had escaped.
Then they checked their bags.
The fear of Russian infiltrators is strong.
Food is not in short supply, along with plenty of questions
about what the Russians will do next, and allegations
about what they are doing now.
The police commander said they had had many phone calls
about violations of the rights of civilians, and weapons,
Injuries and murders.
Appeals for information EL RGN
At another crossing point, hundreds more walking out
of the firing line.
And a priest who helped rescue them from the Russian army.
There is nothing which is related to God in the actions.
So, there’s no reason RN R A e
We are not attack anybody, so we just made decision
to have different future, we want to have democracy,
so If Russians, they want ORI AL I R
may God bless them, R GG RN s
T IR G e -1
Ten miles east of Kyliv, Russia’s tactical blunders
IR
Tanks are easy targets when they push forward,
bunched up, in broad daylight, but the Ukrainians are still
outnumbered and outgunned.
At strong points around the city, Ukrainian
troops are waiting.
They know the Russians are regrouping, and will try again.
Petrol bombs aren’t all they have got.
Nato has sent in thousands of modern anti-tank weapons
IR RN RPNy down the road.
The Russians are about NG IR E G s s B
If they want to come into the city, they will have
to take this piece of ground and push in.
If they are encircling Kyiv, they can probably stay more
or less where they are.
The men at this position have to assume that
an attack is coming.
For the soldiers who waited, the sky was bright,
and the forest still and lonely.
Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, Kyiv.
In the last few hours, Ukraine’s president
Vlodmyr Zelensky has been speaking - our news
reporter, Mark Lobel gave an update on what Mr Zelensky
sald including how many people had managed to escape
through the humanitarian e lgds
This is why | think Ukraine
This is why I think Ukraine il
This is why | think Ukraine (KN
This is why | think Ukraine will win on
This is why | think Ukraine IR R R 8
This is why | think Ukraine will win on their end.
This is why | think Ukraine (R R R G T AR TS,
will win on their end. They have
will win on their end. They EV Rl
will win on their end. They have time on
will win on their end. They Y Rl e )
will win on their end. They have time on the logistical
have time on the logistical situation
have time on the logistical AR R
have time on the logistical situation is getting better by
situation is getting better by )
situation is getting better by the day. Russia
situation is getting better by G EV AU E R
situation is getting better by VAL U EREE
situation is getting better by the day. Russia is a manpower
the day. Russia is a manpower I EI
the day. Russia is a manpower shortage and ammunition
shortage and ammunition I EI
shortage and ammunition shortage that will
shortage and ammunition e LR EI A (RS ETe s
shortage that will start R
shortage that will start RG]
shortage that will start showing up soon. Hinting that
showing up soon. Hinting that )
showing up soon. Hinting that R
showing up soon. Hinting that WL
showing up soon. Hinting that QR R TG
showing up soon. Hinting that the tide is turning. Another
the tide is turning. Another development
the tide is turning. Another G RS
the tide is turning. Another development was reported on a
development was reported on a R )
development was reported on a [ R ]
development was reported on a debate show that someone being
debate show that someone being agisre1l
debate show that someone being gl 182
debate show that someone being gl R R R EIR
debate show that someone being critical of the war, likening
critical of the war, likening e
critical of the war, likening it to Afghanistan but much
it to Afghanistan but much e
it to Afghanistan but much Y-S YN
it to Afghanistan but much I R
it to Afghanistan but much worse. Referring to the
worse. Referring to the humiliating invasion. One last
humiliating invasion. One last iR
humiliating invasion. One last thing, the issue of chemical
thing, the issue of chemical T
thing, the issue of chemical weapons. What do we know
weapons. What do we know 4y
weapons. What do we know crazily deeply concerning for
crazily deeply concerning for )
crazily deeply concerning for ARG aEl
crazily deeply concerning for the international community.
the international community. e
the international community. 1A ]
the international community. The Russian use of chemical
The Russian use of chemical e
The Russian use of chemical W AL I
The Russian use of chemical O R L LU
The Russian use of chemical worker weapons and the UK and
worker weapons and the UK and 1S
worker weapons and the UK and TR
worker weapons and the UK and US have often
worker weapons and the UK and TR T iR
worker weapons and the UK and US have often talked about
US have often talked about B
US have often talked about false flag operations in the
false flag operations in the past and have said they suspect
past and have said they suspect el
past and have said they suspect NI R I
past and have said they suspect N R RV
past and have said they suspect N R NGV A
chemical weapens may be A e |
chemical weapens may be W R
chemical weapens may be considered by the
chemical weapons may be considered by the Russians and
considered by the Russians and )
considered by the Russians and one chemical weapons expert
one chemical weapons expert ey
one chemical weapons expert thinks that it is likely that
thinks that it is likely that Y
thinks that it is likely that NI
thinks that it is likely that we use them
thinks that it is likely that IR I ]
thinks that it is likely that AN R G R
thinks that it is likely that AN RO R R
thinks that it is likely that we use them and this is his
we use them and this is his explanation
we use them and this is his S LIS
we use them and this is his S EN TR
we use them and this is his explanation as to why they
explanation as to why they would
explanation as to why they LRI R
explanation as to why they would use them. People can hide
would use them. People can hide amongst
would use them. People can hide U E AT
would use them. People can hide amongst the rubble, Ukrainian
amongst the rubble, Ukrainian G E1sY
amongst the rubble, Ukrainian military can hide there, jump
military can hide there, jump e
military can hide there, jump NE e
military can hide there, jump out their anti-tank weapons and
out their anti-tank weapons and M1
out their anti-tank weapons and R
out their anti-tank weapons and kill the vulnerable attacks.
kill the vulnerable attacks. e
kill the vulnerable attacks. i
kill the vulnerable attacks. SN A
kill the vulnerable attacks. But if you use chemical
But if you use chemical N
But if you use chemical weapons, that
But if you use chemical LR R A
But if you use chemical weapons, that is not stopped by
weapons, that is not stopped by a0 )
weapons, that is not stopped by e R EI
weapons, that is not stopped by concrete walls and stuff, it
concrete walls and stuff, it 0
concrete walls and stuff, it IR [ o}
concrete walls and stuff, it seeps underground and kills
seeps underground and kills people
seeps underground and Kills (LI RGO IR
seeps underground and Kills people underground. The
people underground. The Russians are accusing the
Russians are accusing the LN T e Ta
Russians are accusing the Americans are biological
Americans are biological Y dLTiia-
Americans are biological YA i e e s [
Americans are biological LY dL i R A R A )
Americans are biological activities inside Ukraine and
activities inside Ukraine and they
activities inside Ukraine and QAN
activities inside Ukraine and they have called a UN Security
they have called a UN Security Council meeting to discuss that
Council meeting to discuss that ]
Council meeting to discuss that on Friday.
Council meeting to discuss that I E A
Council meeting to discuss that on Friday. President Zelensky
on Friday. President Zelensky Y- )"
on Friday. President Zelensky says that
on Friday. President Zelensky ARG E ]
on Friday. President Zelensky says that you know
on Friday. President Zelensky RO E AT QLU E R
says that you know Russia’s plans, you just look at what
plans, you just look at what they
plans, you just look at what G|
plans, you just look at what QIR [T R G116
plans, you just look at what QISR GRS
plans, you just look at what QI RO R R
they accusing others of any e
they accusing others of any scissors absolutely no such
scissors absolutely no such Elad\iv’E
scissors absolutely no such activity on his land.
Stay with us on BBC News - still to come:
we’ll tell you how the sale AN TR s Ra TR
on hold, after owner Roman Abramovich is sanctioned
by the British government.
The numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
This, the worst terrorist El el A R Rl
R IRl
In less than 24 hours then,
the Soviet Union lost an elderly, sick leader,
and replaced him with a dynamic figure
20 years his junior.
We heard these gunshots in the gym,
then he came out through a fire exit
and started firing at our huts.
God, we were all petrified.
James Earl Ray, aged 41, R R R
and due for parole ML R
travelled from Memphis jail to Nashville State Prison
in an eight-car convoy.
REPORTER: Paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
It feels fine, thank you.
What are you going to do now?
Is it going to change your life much, do you think?
This is BBC News, AR R L s
Ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second
largest city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
The city has endured L T
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv I R
with artillery deployed RRLE N
President Putin has claimed that Russia will emerge
stronger from international sanctions.
In a televised video conference Mr Putin said
Western governments were deceiving their own people
= VISE] T G 1,
solve its problems.
VI EIER-D (I Steve Rosenberg, is in Moscow.
(RGNS IR ) (] thinking on Vladimir Putin’s
part, because this tsunami of international sanctions
hitting Russia threatens to cripple the econemy here.
Now, today President Putin said, "We will adapt,
we will overcome, we will take measures,” he said,
against those foreign companies pulling out of Russia -
raising fears of nationalisation,
seizing of assets.
But is that really the solution to Russia’s problem right now?
The Russian oligarch, Vladimir Potanin, one
of the richest men in Russia, wrote today that those kind
of measures would put Russia back 100 years,
back to 1917, the time of the Russian Revolution.
Now, when Vladimir Putin came to power more than 20 years
ago, the one thing that he promised Russians
was sustainability, and for L L M R N ]
the image of Mr Stability, the only man in the country
capable of keeping Russia together.
But that stability is gone now.
It’s been shattered by President Putin’s decision
to send troops into a sovereign nation, into Ukraine,
for what he still calls R Y E W G SR LA
Ukraine and Russia have failed to agree on
Ukraine and Russia have failed D [CER ]
Ukraine and Russia have failed to agree on a ceasefire to help
to agree on a ceasefire to help people trapped in fighting to
people trapped in fighting to A
people trapped in fighting to escape. Both
people trapped in fighting to e GRS
people trapped in fighting to escape. Both sides indicated a
ST M T G EIL A DEL L willingness
escape. Both sides indicated a willingness to keep talking but
willingness to keep talking but )
willingness to keep talking but AR
willingness to keep talking but the Russian Foreign Minister
the Russian Foreign Minister RiET Y
the Russian Foreign Minister made no concessions. Facebook
made no concessions. Facebook parent company Meta is changing
parent company Meta is changing s
parent company Meta is changing rules on violent
parent company Meta is changing O R R N S e
parent company Meta is changing rules on violent speech because
rules on violent speech because of Ukraine. It
rules on violent speech because VRN TV
rules on violent speech because GRS Y T
rules on violent speech because of Ukraine. It says it has
of Ukraine. It says it has UL
of Ukraine. It says it has temporarily relaxed
of Ukraine. It says it has U EHIVAG CRCE R
of Ukraine. It says it has temporarily relaxed policies. A
temporarily relaxed policies. A post saying,
temporarily relaxed policies. A (LI EF VI T R {1
temporarily relaxed policies. A post saying, for example, death
post saying, for example, death to Russian invaders, it would
to Russian invaders, it would usually break rules, is now
usually break rules, is now L
usually break rules, is now R
usually break rules, is now allowed. The changes, Russia,
allowed. The changes, Russia, &)
allowed. The changes, Russia, N3N
allowed. The changes, Russia, Ukraine nearby countries.
The Russian owner of o -E R | KT )
Roman Abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve
been hit with sanctions by the UK government
because of their suspected close Links to President Putin.
The decision means that although Chelsea can still play
matches, the sale of the club XN AL R R A
from selling tickets, players, and any merchandise.
The mobile phone company Three has said it is suspending
its sponsorship with the club.
The BBC’s Asad Ahmad gave this update from
Chelsea’s Stamford LGOI A
VR QTR I D R [V of interest in what’s happening
Just a week ago, Roman Abramovich, the owner
for nearly 20 years, said he was going to sell the club.
That caught a number of Chelsea fans by surprise,
they weren’t necessarily shocked, it is because of
events in Ukraine.
In the days that followed, a number of billionaires
stepped forward saying that they’d be interested in buying
the club, but then today the government slapped some
sanctions on Mr Roman Abramovich, which means he’s
not allowed to sell LR R
Other implications of those sanctions mean the club’s shop
has to remain closed RGN
You might say that’s not a big deal, the club shop
being closed, but it’s the significance of it -
that Mr Roman Abramovich T LR N ik
LCIURE RN DRI T made in that club shop.
So that has to remain closed until further notice.
As far as the team is concerned, as well,
travel costs for away games R ENLEEI LR R PION L o]
That sounds like a lot of money, but not when you have
to move a squad of players, backroom staff, physios
and managers, to away games, including to Lille
in France next week.
Lots of people will be wondering, what is happening
behind the scenes at the club AL R T
N Tl R G R R
We will find out soon enough.
Lviv in the far west of Ukraine, has been spared
G LRNTEIE I T and if you go out onto
the streets, you might imagine that people are going
about their everyday business.
But the war is all-consuming and ordinary people are doing
what they can to help in O SRR U IR ey A
Reeta Chakrabati RN
(RUVACR- N RO I EL R T touched by the violence
But this semblance of normality is deceptive.
Look beyond it and you find many who have abandoned
their daily routines to join the fight against Russia.
Like Olesya.
SULEIC VRN B TR a clothes designer.
GG R R
But now it’s not IR iR 1
jackets she’s making, for the swelling ranks
of the country’s military.
It’s the first time in my life that
I’ve been doing this.
It’s totally different IO R RS L S
Why are you doing this?
Because our boys need this.
Because we don’t know what else we can do.
How do you feel about what Is happening to Ukraine?
We are feeling very angry, actually.
Yes.
1
It’s very hard feelings.
Very hard feelings and...
..we are trying to stop It.
You feel quite emotional?
Yes.
This is a city on edge, with people making moves
to protect what Is precious.
LT checkpoints manned
by people who last month R E A R
Like Oleks, a company executive.
| was sitting in a suit in a very comfortable office.
| had 50 people under supervision.
Are you frightened?
Here you are in quite a dangerous situation.
No, nobedy is frightened here.
| can easily get out TN IR
| can easily take my family from Ukraine.
This guy has come and given us cars for the army, free.
So the same | am doing.
| am also collecting the cars, SRR G UG
and delivering these EHR RO A
Every single citizen in Ukraine is trying
to do something for the army.
You see how the people IRl
That unity extends to I R G T A OE ]
Lviv has become a hub for Ukrainians
fleeing the viclence.
Lyana has opened her art centre for those displaced and has
been working night and day R R G
And what about you?
What’s the toll on you, emotionally and
psychologically?
| understand that | cannot control
G EREEL T NS IS
| decided to take some few ways | can help and one of them
XL DI in this art centre
=R G TE R TT o] [ e N e
The art here is now S AE
This reads, "Our own truth, power and will," expressing
perfectly the defiance of this city.
So this is the scene in Kyiv right now, where
the Ukrainian government says that not a single civilian
was able to leave the besieged city of Mariupol on Thursday,
accusing Russian forces of again violating a temporary
ceasefire to allow evacuations.
The Russian troops sit
The Russian treops sit north
The Russian troops sit north of )
The Russian troops sit north of R
The Russian troops sit north of GRS
The Russian troops sit north of the city. Stay with us on BBC
the city. Stay with us on BBC IS
The last couple of days, the weather
really has been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly
across eastern parts of the UK.
But things are going to turn now -
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture
s a weather front, it’s approaching.
It means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching
western parts of the UK.
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland
and parts of England.
But generally speaking, it is a dry night and early
morning.
Very, very mild, 8-10 Celsius in many areas.
L LG [T 3 through the morning,
the rain becomes quite heavy G GO
of England, through Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach L R GO
southwestern Scotland, too, and through the afternoon,
| think many of us will have YL AR NI
Now through P I ST D
it’ll brighten up across Wales and southwestern parts of
England.
Sunshine and showers T R R s s EN
QG EE)E
There could be some thunderstorms,
too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it e R
IR NCE NIV L | think, through Friday
ERGRL R E A1
Now Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us -
this, once again, spells heavy rain initially
for western parts of the UK.
But in the southwest, as this low pressure increases,
you can see strong winds blowing
around it, and we could be talking
about gusts of 60-70mph around the Isles of Scilly
and the tip of Cornwall.
So really very blustery, even quite
stormy weather for a time here.
But elsewhere eastern parts of the country on Saturday -
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London -- fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, R R T
plenty of sunny spells occasionally
interrupted by some RN RN
brought in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be AN )
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
arcund 12 Celsius or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise
even as high as 17-18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
In southwestern parts of the UK.
So the southerly winds will bring
milder but changeable weather.
ILIEREN ) e [ W LI
Ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second
largest city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
The city has endured nightly Russian air attacks
and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds
Qa3
Most of the city’s one and a half million residents
New satellite images show a large Russian military convoy
seen heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery
redeployed In firing positions.
The convoy was last seen northwest of the capital,
near Antonov Airport.
The images show armoured units manoeuvring in and through
the towns close to the airport.
More than two million people are thought to have fled
the capital Kyiv - but others have arrived,
after escaping from the Russian soldiers moving closer
to the city.
Humanitarian organisations have warned that many people
have run out of food and are still Living
without water or gas.
Panorama.
As anybody injured? Yes, loads! A bomb has gone off. On 22nd of
A bomb has gone off. On 22nd of May 2017, a bemb
A bomb has gone off. On 22nd of May 2017, a bomb exploded at an
May 2017, a bomb exploded at an Ariana Grande concert in
Ariana Grande concert in YT /A
Ariana Grande concert in Manchester. 22 people were
Manchester. 22 people were SN
Manchester. 22 people were murdered. Eight-year-old
murdered. Eight-year-old Saffie-Rose Roussos
murdered. Eight-year-old i T R R R L
murdered. Eight-year-old Saffie-Rose Roussos was the
Saffie-Rose Roussos was the T[4
Saffie-Rose Roussos was the youngest victim. She just had a
youngest victim. She just had a ¥ 1ed
youngest victim. She just had a heart of love.
youngest victim. She just had a Y la A )
youngest victim. She just had a heart of love. She just was
heart of love. She just was N T E L
heart of love. She just was enthusiastic about everything.
enthusiastic about everything. 3
enthusiastic about everything. Ry
enthusiastic about everything. Is the fifth
enthusiastic about everything. RO U CET 18
enthusiastic about everything. RO UL s Al
enthusiastic about everything. Is the fifth anniversary of the
Is the fifth anniversary of the attack
Is the fifth anniversary of the IS O
Is the fifth anniversary of the attack approaches, Saffie would
attack approaches, Saffie would ]
attack approaches, Saffie would T Ay
attack approaches, Saffie would T a Rk
attack approaches, Saffie would (A R E RIS
attack approaches, Saffie would now be 13 years old. Semetimes
now be 13 years old. Sometimes 1)
now be 13 years old. Sometimes WAL R
now be 13 years old. Sometimes ALY
now be 13 years old. Sometimes my mind will go, she has died,
my mind will go, she has died, and
my mind will go, she has died, LR A
my mind will go, she has died, R AR
my mind will go, she has died, LR AR
my mind will go, she has died, and it is like a house dropping
and it is like a house dropping on you. We
and it is like a house dropping BRI
and it is like a house dropping on you. We talk about her all
on you. We talk about her all )
on you. We talk about her all the time.
on you. We talk about her all R Y
on you. We talk about her all RN
on you. We talk about her all the time. She is in
on you. We talk about her all R AR e
on you. We talk about her all the time. She is in our hearts,
the time. She is in our hearts, )
the time. She is in our hearts, R LY & [N
the time. She is in our hearts, so she’s not going anywhere.
so0 she’s not going anywhere. LGS
so she’s not going anywhere. Tonight, Saffie’s parents
so she’s not going anywhere. LTI L R E I R G
Tonight, Saffie’s parents tell her.
Tonight, Saffie’s parents tell Y VY|
Tonight, Saffie’s parents tell Y VYR le
Tonight, Saffie’s parents tell TR VLR )
Tonight, Saffie’s parents tell T VYR R ile3 e
Tonight, Saffie’s parents tell her. Read for the first time.
her. Read for the first time. For us
her. Read for the first time. TSI
her. Read for the first time. For us as a family, we need to
For us as a family, we need to get to the
For us as a family, we need to ERCRUERIIGN
For us as a family, we need to R R OIGM]
For us as a family, we need to get to the truth. | want to
get to the truth. | want to PG
get to the truth. I want to TR e
get to the truth. I want to PGl A e s
get to the truth. I want to know whether it could
get to the truth. I want to T A R R GRS
get to the truth. I want to know whether it could have been
know whether it could have been TGN
know whether it could have been prevented. Find out what
prevented. Find out what happened to Saffie, and whether
happened to Saffie, and whether i)
happened to Saffie, and whether R 010l
happened to Saffie, and whether she could have survived. To
she could have survived. To i
she could have survived. To S I T G
Hello, this is Saffie, and welcome to
Hello, this is Saffie, and IR G
Hello, this is Saffie, and A
Hello, this is Saffie, and welcome to my car. This
Hello, this is Saffie, and IR N A IR LS
Hello, this is Saffie, and IR A IR L),
welcome to my car. This is my dad, this is my brother, this
dad, this is my brother, this s
dad, this is my brother, this XU
dad, this is my brother, this RN
dad, this is my brother, this is me, and this is
dad, this is my brother, this AL RGO RN 1Y
dad, this is my brother, this is me, and this is my mum.
dad, this is my brother, this AL RO AU
is me, and this is my mum. | just
is me, and this is my mum. | ML
is me, and this is my mum. | PR LCe R L]
Is me, and this is my mum. | just showed you my family.
That is her bag. Bless her. That was when yeah, when the
That was when yeah, when the T8
That was when yeah, when the nursery teachers came to CS
nursery teachers came to (S S
nursery teachers came to CS S EA s
nursery teachers came to CS before started reception, yeah.
before started reception, yeah. G
before started reception, yeah. IR
before started reception, yeah. This is the resource family.
This is the resource family. (Y01
This is the resource family. IR
This is the resource family. Mum Lisa, dad Andrew, mother
Mum Lisa, dad Andrew, mother Zander, and Saffie. -- the
Zander, and Saffie. -- the Roussos family. | don’t think
Roussos family. | don’t think iy
Roussos family. | don’t think Saffie ever sat
Roussos family. | don’t think il (.
Roussos family. | don’t think Saffie ever sat still. She
Saffie ever sat still. She would be singing and dancing
would be singing and dancing and jumping around. Very
and jumping around. Very G e G
and jumping around. Very energetic child. Very
energetic child. Very energetic. She loved music that
energetic. She loved music that i)
energetic. She loved music that R 010l
energetic. She loved music that AR Bt es )
energetic. She loved music that AR IR R
energetic. She loved music that she could move to an dance
energetic. She loved music that AR IGE e RN R
she could move to an dance to. Everything was Ariana Grande,
Everything was Ariana Grande, )
Everything was Ariana Grande, so when
Everything was Ariana Grande, RN )
Everything was Ariana Grande, RO NG
Everything was Ariana Grande, RN Y G
Everything was Ariana Grande, RN ORI T E
so when we knew she was LGN
so when we knew she was touring, she was coming to the
touring, she was coming to the 11
touring, she was coming to the 1O 4
touring, she was coming to the UK, Andrew said
touring, she was coming to the 1 OIS AT R =1
touring, she was coming to the UK, Andrew said what do you
UK, Andrew said what do you think about if
UK, Andrew said what do you i R Y
UK, Andrew said what do you think about if we get her some
think about if we get her some AT
think about if we get her some tickets for
think about if we get her some R e LY
think about if we get her some tickets for Christmas? She
tickets for Christmas? She couldn’t
tickets for Christmas? She GRS
tickets for Christmas? She GRS
tickets for Christmas? She couldn’t believe it. Could not
couldn’t believe it. Could not Y
couldn’t believe it. Could not IR
couldn’t believe it. Could not R PR 1o
couldn’t believe it. Could not believe it, that she is going
believe it, that she is going to
believe it, that she is going [
believe it, that she is going to go and
believe it, that she is going R R
believe it, that she is going R L RN YT
believe it, that she is going R L B R M F LR E L
to go and see Ariana Grande )
to go and see Ariana Grande come alive. On
to go and see Ariana Grande NI R )
to go and see Ariana Grande come alive. On the actual
come alive. On the actual Whhis
come alive. On the actual night, | set
come alive. On the actual MG AR
come alive. On the actual night, | set out her clothes, |
night, I set out her clothes, | got
night, I set out her clothes, | S
night, I set out her clothes, | got her an
night, | set out her clothes, | got her an Ariana Grande
got her an Ariana Grande T-shirt. | think she
got her an Ariana Grande T-shirt. I think she got
got her an Ariana Grande T-shirt. | think she got a
T-shirt. | think she got a little
T-shirt. | think she got a el N[ allat]
T-shirt. | think she got a R s [ R 4lad
T-shirt. | think she got a little denim skirt on
T-shirt. | think she got a RN s R e s Ta ]
T-shirt. | think she got a little denim skirt on and black
little denim skirt on and black leggings.
little denim skirt on and black CODIL IR
little denim skirt on and black leggings. She couldn’t
NG RN R g DT [l o] e S leggings. She couldn’t believe
leggings. She couldn’t believe T
leggings. She couldn’t believe it. So
leggings. She couldn’t believe (R ES AR
leggings. She couldn’t believe it. So excited, so happy. She
it. So excited, so happy. She just
it. So excited, so happy. She PGl
it. So excited, so happy. She TSR LR
it. So excited, so happy. She just wanted to get in the
Just wanted to get in the arena.
Manchester! Saffie!
When the concert was finishing just
When the concert was finishing PR
When the concert was finishing just before 10:30pm. | made
Just before 10:30pm. | made them
just before 10:30pm. | made Gl
just before 10:30pm. | made them all a sandwich, just in
them all a sandwich, just in Iy
them all a sandwich, just in case they were hungry, and
case they were hungry, and e ]
case they were hungry, and SO R)
case they were hungry, and drove up to Manchester. |
drove up to Manchester. | ELC
drove up to Manchester. | parked up there, waiting for
parked up there, waiting for them.
parked up there, waiting for |
parked up there, waiting for them. | think
parked up there, waiting for TR e
parked up there, waiting for them. | think it was about 28
them. I think it was about 28 Ty
them. | think it was about 28 minutes past
them. I think it was about 28 minutes past ten. We
them. | think it was about 28 minutes past ten. We started
minutes past ten. We started L
minutes past ten. We started LGN
minutes past ten. We started going up the steps onto the
going up the steps onto the SR
going up the steps onto the concourse, and | had got Saffie
concourse, and | had got Saffie 3
concourse, and | had got Saffie SN L]
concourse, and | had got Saffie 's hand with my left hand, but
's hand with my left hand, but i)
's hand with my left hand, but TR e
's hand with my left hand, but she was pulling me, she just
she was pulling me, she just wanted
she was pulling me, she just s R
she was pulling me, she just NGO R
she was pulling me, she just wanted to get out to her dad
wanted to get out to her dad and
wanted to get out to her dad L
wanted to get out to her dad and Zander and
wanted to get out to her dad LG RZEN L N R 0
wanted to get out to her dad and Zander and honestly tell
and Zander and honestly tell el
and Zander and honestly tell SRR a1
and Zander and honestly tell him what an amazing evening she
him what an amazing evening she Tl
him what an amazing evening she \ERE R
him what an amazing evening she had had, so she was pulling me.
had had, so she was pulling me. I
had had, so she was pulling me. LRGN
had had, so she was pulling me. And then, the next minute, |
And then, the next minute, | just remember hitting the
Just remember hitting the floor,
just remember hitting the floor, really, like, with a
floor, really, like, with a L
floor, really, like, with a really heavy
floor, really, like, with a IR VAR EL L
floor, really, like, with a G (AR E L S
floor, really, like, with a really heavy bank. -- bang
really heavy bank. -- bang HcE
really heavy bank. -- bang there. At
really heavy bank. -- bang O SR VRV
really heavy bank. -- bang O SR VRIS
really heavy bank. -- bang there. At 10:31pm as the
IR R VR [oly =R [ audience was living,
audience was living, 22-year-old Salman
GV 1Ly (R E R U o 8 22-year-old Salman Abedi
22-year-old Salman Abedi A sl
22-year-old Salman Abedi eI
22-year-old Salman Abedi detonated his home-made bomb.
detonated his home-made bomb. iy
detonated his home-made bomb. Saffie and Lisa
detonated his home-made bomb. iR Y
detonated his home-made bomb. Saffie and Lisa were just five
Saffie and Lisa were just five e
Saffie and Lisa were just five metres away.
Saffie and Lisa were just five NS
Saffie and Lisa were just five metres away. | just heard
UL T L TG
metres away. | just heard people and children run and
people and children run and eI B
people and children run and XA A DG G
people and children run and screaming. Hundreds of people
screaming. Hundreds of people hysterical. | saw these three
hysterical. | saw these three Ul
hysterical. | saw these three U )
hysterical. | saw these three women, and they were just
women, and they were just gL
women, and they were just crying, and | just said what’s
crying, and | just said what’s L
crying, and | just said what’s LI
crying, and | just said what’s going on? And they just said we
going on? And they just said we think
going on? And they just said we &}
going on? And they just said we think a bomb’s
going on? And they just said we think a homb’s gone off.
going on? And they just said we think a bomb’s gone off. |
going on? And they just said we think a homb’s gone off. | sort
think @ bomb’s gone off. | sort N
think @ bomb’s gone off. | sort i
think @ bomb’s gone off. | sort T 13
think @ bomb’s gone off. | sort of put my arm
think a bomb’s gone off. | sort of put my arm round Zander, and
of put my arm round Zander, and |
of put my arm round Zander, and G
of put my arm round Zander, and NG R e
of put my arm round Zander, and NG AL R
of put my arm round Zander, and G RGO
of put my arm round Zander, and NG AL RO R e
| knew that this is serious. il
| knew that this is serious. You never think
| knew that this is serious. TR a1 s
| knew that this is serious. LS ER L SLET e
You never think in your RSl
You never think in your lifetime you are going to be
lifetime you are going to be YL
lifetime you are going to be LI
lifetime you are going to be INCCL R G
lifetime you are going to be N CCL R S G LR
involved in something like G
involved in something like Il
involved in something like this. It is
involved in something like this It is a
involved in something like this. It is a surreal
involved in something Like this. It is a surreal moment to
this. It is a surreal moment to )
this. It is a surreal moment to (o}
this. It is a surreal moment to be in. | spoke to a police
be in. | spoke to a police Siile g
be in. | spoke to a police aile e )
be in. | spoke to a police il )
be in. | spoke to a police officer and are just that |
officer and are just that | am L]
officer and are just that | am G
officer and are just that | am looking my daughter, so they
looking my daughter, so they just said, have a look around.
Just said, have a look around. And
just said, have a look around. LY EHL (R
just said, have a look around. And basically, that’s what we
And basically, that’s what we did, we
And basically, that’s what we S [T
And basically, that’s what we did, we just went from person
did, we just went from person ]
did, we just went from person ]
did, we just went from person on the floor to
did, we just went from person ROER{ IR R
did, we just went from person on the floor to person on the
on the floor to person on the PP e
on the floor to person on the Porter person on
on the floor to person on the NI R U
on the floor to person on the Porter person on the floor. |
Porter person on the floor. | G
Porter person on the floor. | kept thinking, help us make
kept thinking, help us make L
kept thinking, help us make going to come
kept thinking, help us make RO R R I
kept thinking, help us make going to come soon, just wait,
going to come soon, just wait, i1
going to come soon, just wait, help us
going to come soon, just wait, NN LG
going to come soon, just wait, help us make going to come soon
help us make going to come soon -- help’s
help us make going to come soon -- help’s going
help us make going to come soon el RN IR ()
help us make going to come soon -- help’s going to come soon.
-~ help’s going to come soon. | felt
-~ help’s going to come soon. | AN
-~ help’s going to come soon. | NN
-~ help’s going to come soon. | felt Like it was
-~ help’s going to come soon. | T AN R AL
-~ help’s going to come soon. | AN R AT G)
-~ help’s going to come soon. | N A Z R G R i
felt like it was a long time S0y
felt Like it was a long time before some came over to me and
before some came over to me and they
before some came over to me and USR]
before some came over to me and SR
before some came over to me and they asked me my
before some came over to me and ORI C A UES
before some came over to me and they asked me my name. And
they asked me my name. And all |
they asked me my name. And all (0]
they asked me my name. And all | could say was
they asked me my name. And all (W GV ATE IE {
they asked me my name. And all | could say was Saffie. | just
I could say was Saffie. | just 10
I could say was Saffie. | just said Saffie. Because | wanted
said Saffie. Because | wanted them to find her.
Lisa was taken to hospital with R GICENEGIND]
Lisa was taken to hospital with R G G LRL T
life-threatening injuries. e
life-threatening injuries. Andrew finally tracked her down
Andrew finally tracked her down 1
Andrew finally tracked her down at 6:30am
Andrew finally tracked her down SR T 4s
Andrew finally tracked her down at 6:30am the next morning. So
at 6:30am the next morning. So |
at 6:30am the next morning. So IR0
at 6:30am the next morning. So | went into
at 6:30am the next morning. So (R Al R 4R
at 6:30am the next morning. So | went into ICU, and took a
| went into ICU, and took a look
| went into ICU, and took a &
| went into ICU, and took a AT
| went into ICU, and took a AL
| went into ICU, and took a look at Lisa, and |
| went into ICU, and took a look at Lisa, and I just walked
look at Lisa, and I just walked s Hate]
look at Lisa, and I just walked LI R
look at Lisa, and I just walked LR o]
look at Lisa, and I just walked hehind the bed and
look at Lisa, and I just walked behind the bed and just broke
behind the bed and just broke Ll
behind the bed and just broke R T
behind the bed and just broke down. They went through the
SUUL LR S GG R (G
SUUL LR S GG R G
SUUL LR S GG R possibilities of amputation of
possibilities of amputation of e
possibilities of amputation of AN
possibilities of amputation of RS
possibilities of amputation of her hand, her leg, being
her hand, her leg, being I V]
her hand, her leg, being paralysed from
her hand, her leg, being IR IR U
her hand, her leg, being paralysed from the leg down,
paralysed from the leg down, and
paralysed from the leg down, LR G|
paralysed from the leg down, and basically a 20% chance of
and basically a 20% chance of LN
and basically a 20% chance of surviving. Lisa was put into a
surviving. Lisa was put into a el
surviving. Lisa was put into a e i s e ]
surviving. Lisa was put into a coma. Andrew still
surviving. Lisa was put into a I Nl R IRk
surviving. Lisa was put into a coma. Andrew still didn’t know
coma. Andrew still didn’t know where Saffie was_
coma. Andrew still didn’t know where Saffie was. This was
where Saffie was. This was (]
where Saffie was. This was becoming a nightmare, and it is
becoming a nightmare, and it is unfolding to be real. One of
unfolding to be real. One of )
unfolding to be real. One of R e
unfolding to be real. One of I R
unfolding to be real. One of MR GRS
unfolding to be real. One of the nurses that was with
unfolding to be real. One of N G E R ELR i B
the nurses that was with us 10
the nurses that was with us said that this is
the nurses that was with us IR R G R ]
the nurses that was with us IR G R G RN [ i Y
said that this is a detective. |
said that this is a detective. I
said that this is a detective. LI
said that this is a detective. | said | need
said that this is a detective. IEFIGER T R )
said that this is a detective. | said | need to know when my
| said | need to know when my daughter is. |
| said | need to know when my daughter is. I think he
daughter is. | think he returned
daughter is. | think he TS I
daughter is. | think he returned at 12:30pm, and he
returned at 12:30pm, and he FIR
returned at 12:30pm, and he F VI T
returned at 12:30pm, and he X\ R !
returned at 12:30pm, and he says, he asked for a room, says
says, he asked for a room, says )
says, he asked for a room, says eI B )
says, he asked for a room, says come in. Make your way out the
come in. Make your way out the N
come in. Make your way out the room. And
come in. Make your way out the I - R
come in. Make your way out the O LR EIR Ze
come in. Make your way out the T NSRRI RG]
come in. Make your way out the I LR GEIR Z G R
room. And that walk to that ]
room. And that walk to that room is something no human
reom is something no human being
room is something no human being should take.
|
IRl
IR AN R R
It’s a cruel life that me and ¥
It’s a cruel life that me and Lisa are living. Your whole
Lisa are living. Your whole el
Lisa are living. Your whole G
Lisa are living. Your whole LTI
Lisa are living. Your whole world is just tumbling on the
world is just tumbling on the i
world is just tumbling on the G Il
world is just tumbling on the G P A
world is just tumbling on the floor, it is just falling. We
floor, it is just falling. We just know we’ve got to
Just know we’ve got to carry (N
just know we’ve got to carry on, particularly for Xander.
on, particularly for Xander. We’ve lost our daughter, he’s
We’ve lost our daughter, he’s his
We’ve lost our daughter, he’s YR e )
We’ve lost our daughter, he’s Al R
We’ve lost our daughter, he’s his little sister. They were
his little sister. They were A
his little sister. They were IR0
his little sister. They were very, very close. Lisa was in
very, very close. Lisa was in hospital
very, very close. Lisa was in (L&
very, very close. Lisa was in IR TR G
very, very close. Lisa was in hospital for three months.
hospital for three months. e
hospital for three months. I s
hospital for three months. Andrew and Xander
QIR (@ QIR T G DN Andrew and Xander stayed with
Andrew and Xander stayed with her.
Andrew and Xander stayed with Y
Andrew and Xander stayed with her. The family never went back
her. The family never went back to
her. The family never went back R e i)
her. The family never went back RN
her. The family never went back to their home in Lincolnshire.
Me and Lisa couldn’t face what Y
Me and Lisa couldn’t face what el
Me and Lisa couldn’t face what we had as a family. Once Lisa
we had as a family. Once Lisa left hospital,
we had as a family. Once Lisa i =]
we had as a family. Once Lisa left hospital, | said, why
left hospital, I said, why 1R
left hospital, | said, why R ]
left hospital, | said, why don’t we just move away? So we
don’'t we just move away? So we just
don’'t we just move away? So we 4=
don’t we just move away? So we just basically escaped, a bit
Just basically escaped, a bit S
just basically escaped, a bit [(CEROLLINL)
just basically escaped, a bit like running away.
just basically escaped, a bit (RO A L)
just basically escaped, a bit like running away. Living their
like running away. Living their Gl
like running away. Living their GER T
like running away. Living their old life behind,
like running away. Living their NGRGER EHLR G Y
like running away. Living their NGRGER EL AR G ES A U
like running away. Living their ORI AR G S AU R
old life behind, they moved to Y
old life behind, they moved to T L)
old life behind, they moved to L R
old life behind, they moved to Dorset, and in their new home,
Dorset, and in their new home, )
Dorset, and in their new home, e
Dorset, and in their new home, ]
Dorset, and in their new home, N s lge e at]
Dorset, and in their new home, R i st R d
Dorset, and in their new home, there is a bedroom for Saffie.
there is a bedroom for Saffie. Everything
there is a bedroom for Saffie. A7 GILGRL
there is a bedroom for Saffie. Everything in this room is what
Everything in this room is what i)
Everything in this room is what she knew,
Everything in this room is what G AR
Everything in this room is what RO R G E E Y|
Everything in this room is what she knew, that she’d seen, and
she knew, that she’d seen, and R
she knew, that she’d seen, and that’s what
she knew, that she’d seen, and MBI R T O Y
she knew, that she’d seen, and eI R W R TN e
she knew, that she’d seen, and that’s what we wanted. We
that’s what we wanted. We AR
that’s what we wanted. We SRR =11
that’s what we wanted. We didn’t want anything changing.
didn’t want anything changing. So
didn’t want anything changing. RO A
didn’t want anything changing. So this was originally in
So this was originally in Saffie’s
So this was originally in iR iR
So this was originally in TRl R
So this was originally in iR A LI
Saffie’s bedroom. There are )
Saffie’s bedroom. There are some photos, just some of when
some photos, just some of when i)
some photos, just some of when TR e
some photos, just some of when she was a baby.
some photos, just some of when R AL
some photos, just some of when she was a baby. My first curl,
she was a baby. My first curl, Y
she was a baby. My first curl, V&
she was a baby. My first curl, Y &R
she was a baby. My first curl, look at that. Macau darker hair
look at that. Macau darker hair LA
look at that. Macau darker hair was! Have you been able to
was! Have you been able to bring
was! Have you been able to R
was! Have you been able to LRI R )
was! Have you been able to bring yourself to open these
bring yourself to open these boxes much? No.
bring yourself to open these R kA T
bring yourself to open these hoxes much? No. The first, done
boxes much? No. The first, done that
boxes much? No. The first, done el E
boxes much? No. The first, done that one. Has
boxes much? No. The first, done eI FLE
boxes much? No. The first, done that one. Has it been
boxes much? No. The first, done LI LR R
boxes much? No. The first, done that one. Has it been too hard?
that one. Has it been too hard? iy
that one. Has it been too hard? i
that one. Has it been too hard? iR e R i)
that one. Has it been too hard? AT e R e e
that one. Has it been too hard? She is here with me. And
She is here with me. And they wouldn’t
She is here with me. And they s R )
She is here with me. And they wouldn’t have her anywhere
wouldn’t have her anywhere A
wouldn’t have her anywhere A
wouldn’t have her anywhere else. -- |
wouldn’t have her anywhere NIRRT G h R
wouldn’t have her anywhere AR G )
wouldn’t have her anywhere TR L E R
else. -- | wouldn’t have her. Two years ago,
else. -- | wouldn’t have her. IR R L ]
else. -- | wouldn’t have her. Two years ago, a public enquiry
Two years ago, a public enquiry began into the Manchester Arena
began into the Manchester Arena Al
began into the Manchester Arena attack, and
began into the Manchester Arena E A A R o]
began into the Manchester Arena G IRl
began into the Manchester Arena attack, and each of the 22
attack, and each of the 22 deaths. Listening to the
deaths. Listening to the A
deaths. Listening to the LA G
deaths. Listening to the T ARG LIRS
deaths. Listening to the enquiry, things went wrong, and
enquiry, things went wrong, and they shouldn’t
enquiry, things went wrong, and they shouldn’t have
enquiry, things went wrong, and they shouldn’t have gone
enquiry, things went wrong, and they shouldn’t have gone wrong.
they shouldn’t have gone wrong. | can understand
they shouldn’t have gone wrong. RN BIa iR ]
they shouldn’t have gone wrong. | can understand the sheer
| can understand the sheer I
| can understand the sheer NI
| can understand the sheer panic of that note. | withessed
panic of that note. | witnessed e
panic of that note. | witnessed IR
panic of that note. | withessed 1 A R
panic of that note. | withessed 1 R LG LA
panic of that note. | withessed it myself, you know? It
panic of that note. | withessed IR TG AL
panic of that note. | withessed I TR G
it myself, you know? It is an horrendous
it myself, you know? It is an R N
it myself, you know? It is an horrendous ordeal. | mean, what
horrendous ordeal. | mean, what el
horrendous ordeal. | mean, what oL R i)
horrendous ordeal. | mean, what et Rl
horrendous ordeal. | mean, what R R
horrendous ordeal. | mean, what drives me | suppose is knowing
drives me | suppose is knowing )
drives me | suppose is knowing the information. |
drives me | suppose is knowing RIS E A R s 4
drives me | suppose is knowing the information. | want to
the information. | want to aea ]
the information. | want to scrutinise everybody to the
scrutinise everybody to the Lilis
scrutinise everybody to the LI
scrutinise everybody to the point of getting to the truth.
point of getting to the truth. e
point of getting to the truth. The enquiry is asking recruit
The enquiry is asking recruit )
The enquiry is asking recruit e
The enquiry is asking recruit the attacks have been prevented
the attacks have been prevented |
the attacks have been prevented (0]
the attacks have been prevented | could any of the victims been
I could any of the victims been saved?
| could any of the victims been VLA S
| could any of the victims been VLA T )
| could any of the victims been saved? We are not looking for
saved? We are not looking for scapegoats. We are searching
scapegoats. We are searching e
scapegoats. We are searching TR Rasts R
scapegoats. We are searching TR RN
scapegoats. We are searching for the truth. Let’s always
for the truth. Let’'s always A ce
for the truth. Let’'s always remember as we consider
for the truth. Let’s always IR LR R TR
remember as we consider the evidence
remember as we consider the o R
remember as we consider the e R e e
remember as we consider the evidence that the person who is
evidence that the person who is Mg a0
evidence that the person who is directly responsible for this
directly responsible for this tragedy is Salman Abedi. Salman
tragedy is Salman Abedi. Salman I
tragedy is Salman Abedi. Salman Abedi was born and raised in
Abedi was born and raised in e Tids]
Abedi was born and raised In South Manchester. His
Abedi was born and raised in South Manchester. His parents
South Manchester. His parents YT
South Manchester. His parents TRl id
South Manchester. His parents had left Libya in the
had left Libya in the early 90s to
had left Libya in the early 90s e )
had left Libya in the early 90s U
had left Libya in the early 90s e
had left Libya in the early 90s to settle here. In 2014, he
to settle here. In 2014, he came
to settle here. In 2014, he R
to settle here. In 2014, he RO
to settle here. In 2014, he came to the attention
to settle here. In 2014, he R ar s a e e e
to settle here. In 2014, he ROl R AL LY
came to the attention of MI5. 5Py
came to the attention of MI5. He was 19 years old. Soon
He was 19 years old. Soon after, he travelled to war-torn
after, he travelled to war-torn Libya. Whilst he
after, he travelled to war-torn KSR E &R
after, he travelled to war-torn KSR G R R GG
after, he travelled to war-torn KSR G R R GG
Libya. Whilst he was there, his )
Libya. Whilst he was there, his eIy
Libya. Whilst he was there, his IR LR
Libya. Whilst he was there, his case was closed. Salman Abedi
case was closed. Salman Abedi made
case was closed. Salman Abedi Lo [ o]
case was closed. Salman Abedi made two further round trips to
made two further round trips to Libya, returning just days
Libya, returning just days )
Libya, returning just days R
Libya, returning just days before the bombing.
We can’t stop every attack, of
VNN 8 (T RTCT o l e
We can’t stop every attack, of e R
We can’t stop every attack, of course we can’t, but we can
course we can’t, but we can ()]
course we can’t, but we can stop the ones
course we can’t, but we can SO RIS
course we can’t, but we can stop the ones where it is just
stop the ones where it is just )
AGIRG LR EIRUL LI SRR so transparent
AGIRG LR EIRUL LI SRR RN E IR G
AGIRGEENGEIRUL LN SR so transparent where anybody
so transparent where anybody ]
so transparent where anybody can see
so transparent where anybody R R e
so transparent where anybody EN U AU
so transparent where anybody EN R AU S R L
so transparent where anybody EN IR AU LR
so transparent where anybody EN R AU L R
can see what they are up to. ey
can see what they are up to. R o)
can see what they are up to. Some evidence given by the
Some evidence given by the security services to
Some evidence given by the O A R UG
security services to the Y P Taa e e
security services to the Manchester Arena enquiry
security services to the Manchester Arena enguiry has
Manchester Arena enquiry has Nl
Manchester Arena enquiry has NG
Manchester Arena enquiry has been held in secret, due to
been held in secret, due to YL Ell
been held in secret, due to N gl A
been held in secret, due to national security. The family
national security. The family Y-\
national security. The family VA
national security. The family VR FI
national security. The family say it has made it hard to know
say It has made it hard to know if
say It has made it hard to know R Y]
say it has made it hard to know Rl Y e R o1 0s)
say it has made it hard to know Rl e R R Ry
say it has made it hard to know Rl e e G e e
say it has made it hard to know R e R G R R e )
if Moore could have been done to
if Moore could have been done I
if Moore could have been done R RO
if Moore could have been done ARG 0
TG LR T 8 AT T 0
TG LR T 8 Questions need to be
TG LT Questions need to be answered.
Questions need to be answered. why
Questions need to be answered. AN
Questions need to be answered. Why won’t they preferred, why
Why won’t they preferred, why ke
Why won’t they preferred, why won’t things change from 7-7,
won’t things change from 7-7, el
won’t things change from 7-7, which is going back many many
which is geing back many many RN
which is geing back many many years? Why
which is going back many many XA A )
which is going back many many years? Why do we keep losing
years? Why do we keep losing A
years? Why do we keep losing our loved ones? Andrew, good to
our loved ones? Andrew, good to e
our loved ones? Andrew, good to meet you. Thank you for having
meet you. Thank you for having e
meet you. Thank you for having me. |In
meet you. Thank you for having me. In 2017, Lord Anderson was
me. In 2017, Lord Anderson was I
me. In 2017, Lord Anderson was asked by the government to
asked by the government to i
asked by the government to TS R
asked by the government to review the handling of Salman
review the handling of Salman Y h
review the handling of Salman LIy
review the handling of Salman IR A
review the handling of Salman Abedi. He was given access
Abedi. He was given access Inside MI5. | personally have
Abedi. He was given access AR P SO ENEE
Inside MI5. | personally have a problem with our government and
problem with our government and MIS,
problem with our government and TSN
problem with our government and TR
problem with our government and MI5, in the handling of the OPD
MI5, in the handling of the OPD family prior to 2017, and the
family prior to 2017, and the opportunities missed -- Abedi.
opportunities missed -- Abedi. i
opportunities missed -- Abedi. [R5
opportunities missed -- Abedi. It was an
opportunities missed -- Abed.. It was an appalling atrocity,
It was an appalling atrocity, Y
It was an appalling atrocity, RS ]
It was an appalling atrocity, we spend £3 billion on
we spend £3 billion on counterterrorism a
we spend £3 billion on N AU D LS
we spend £3 billion on counterterrorism a year and
counterterrorism a year and that
counterterrorism a year and e 10
counterterrorism a year and that 90 didn’t work.
counterterrorism a year and MBI VIR e
that 90 didn’t work. MI5 admitted to me at least two
admitted to me at least two things they got wrong, and the
things they got wrong, and the e
things they got wrong, and the first thing was that when early
first thing was that when early e
first thing was that when early in 2017,
first thing was that when early [P{ VAR T3
first thing was that when early in 2017, they received
in 2017, they received intelligence, and they
intelligence, and they interpret it
intelligence, and they NG R F
intelligence, and they G I VAR
interpret it probably is G G|
interpret it probably is something to do with drugs
something to do with drugs organised crime and not
organised crime and not G G|
organised crime and not something to do with terrorism
something to do with terrorism N
something to do with terrorism e
something to do with terrorism or national security. The
or national security. The Yo sl
or national security. The second thing was that when
second thing was that when Salman Abedi came back from
Salman Abedi came back from Libya four days before the
Libya four days before the Al
Libya four days before the E o SR 113
Libya four days before the attack, they could have stopped
attack, they could have stopped TR
attack, they could have stopped T e
attack, they could have stopped TR G
attack, they could have stopped him, or they could have asked
him, or they could have asked )
him, or they could have asked the police to have stopped at
the police to have stopped at )
the police to have stopped at QRN 1ed
the police to have stopped at Gl
the police to have stopped at the airport and question him.
the airport and question him. I
the airport and question him. e
the airport and question him. (AN
the airport and question him. AN R
the airport and question him. If either of those things had
If either of those things had T
If either of those things had T
If either of those things had been different, they
If either of those things had G RO LG
If either of those things had been different, they are not
been different, they are not persuaded that the attack would
persuaded that the attack would have
persuaded that the attack would TR
persuaded that the attack would have been stopped, and although
have been stopped, and although i
have been stopped, and although N3]
have been stopped, and although N a %1
have been stopped, and although N e RO R R
have been stopped, and although | respect that view that as far
| respect that view that as far as
| respect that view that as far 1
| respect that view that as far I MR AL
| respect that view that as far as | was concerned, that was an
as | was concerned, that was an open
as | was concerned, that was an U O N
as | was concerned, that was an open question. After MIS closed
open question. After MI5 closed e
open question. After MI5 closed their investigation of Abedi in
their investigation of Abedi in 2014, he went on to visit Abdul
2014, he went on to visit Abdul Ralph Abdullah in prison,
2014, he went on to visit Abdul Ralph Abdullah in prisen, a man
Ralph Abdullah in prison, a man el
Ralph Abdullah in prison, a man i sl
Ralph Abdullah in prison, a man i R R e e
Ralph Abdullah in prison, a man it SRR R e T
convicted of terror offences. Despite this, Abedi
convicted of terror offences. R GG IR
convicted of terror offences. Despite this, Abedi was still
Despite this, Abedi was still s
Despite this, Abedi was still e A e el
Despite this, Abedi was still not considered a
Despite this, Abedi was still R AN R 4
Despite this, Abedi was still AN R &)
not considered a risk to YL Ell
not considered a risk to N gl A
not considered a risk to national security. When you go
national security. When you go to
national security. When you go )
national security. When you go el
national security. When you go to one of our
national security. When you go R R IS
national security. When you go to one of our prisons in this
to one of our prisons in this country, new
to one of our prisens in this S (A A
to one of our prisens in this country, new bits of
to one of our prisens in this S A A R R G
to one of our prisons in this country, new bits of the person
country, new bits of the person that he
country, new bits of the person AR
country, new bits of the person that he did, on
country, new bits of the person G A e P )
country, new bits of the person that he did, on a number of
that he did, on a number of occasions, plus making phone
occasions, plus making phone 5
occasions, plus making phone R )
occasions, plus making phone I RGO
occasions, plus making phone | (R RO
occasions, plus making phone (R RO IR T T R 1
calls to this person, that should
calls to this person, that AT TR )
calls to this person, that should have been a trigger for
should have been a trigger for YL
should have been a trigger for Y1
should have been a trigger for MI5. | think
should have been a trigger for ISR di s
should have been a trigger for MI5. | think it is perfectly
MI5. I think it is perfectly obvious to anybody that if a
obvious to anybody that if a known terrorist or
obvious to anybody that if a T R e AR A eI
obvious to anybody that if a known terrorist or extremist is
known terrorist or extremist is being visited in prison by
being visited in prison by e ]
being visited in prison by IR LT Gl
being visited in prison by someone younger and more
someone younger and more impressionable, it would make
impressionable, it would make sense to see what intelligence
sense to see what intelligence i
sense to see what intelligence e GE
sense to see what intelligence could be gleaned from that
could be gleaned from that et
could be gleaned from that A e R ]
could be gleaned from that encounter. When police
encounter. When police investigated Abdallah in 2014,
investigated Abdallah in 2014, they
investigated Abdallah in 2014, QN0
investigated Abdallah in 2014, OIS
investigated Abdallah in 2014, they seized his phone. It
they seized his phone. It e ]
they seized his phone. It contained 1300 messages
they seized his phone. It NIRRT LI LI T
they seized his phone. It contained 1300 messages he had
contained 1300 messages he had S
contained 1300 messages he had exchanged with a fellow
exchanged with a fellow e
exchanged with a fellow I e
exchanged with a fellow I W I AN
exchanged with a fellow IS YR E A
exchanged with a fellow IS YR VR LRSS |
extremist. Every day on every kneeling, | ask
extremist. Every day on every G T 4011
extremist. Every day on every kneeling, | ask my Lord for
kneeling, | ask my Lord for martyrdom. That is totally the
martyrdom. That is totally the e
martyrdom. That is totally the e
martyrdom. That is totally the sort of language or expect to
sort of language or expect to T
sort of language or expect to TRl
sort of language or expect to XXX IR
sort of language or expect to XXX IR
sort of language or expect to see coming out of extremist. 14
see coming out of extremist. 14 TN
see coming out of extremist. 14 L]
see coming out of extremist. 14 messages a day,
see coming out of extremist. 14 LN Y
see coming out of extremist. 14 messages a day, over 1000 in a
messages a day, over 1000 in a e il
messages a day, over 1000 in a TR
messages a day, over 1000 in a e GRLEE S
messages a day, over 1000 in a month. There is an intensity to
month. There is an intensity to that
month. There is an intensity to R e
month. There is an intensity to that conversation. Although
that conversation. Although police
that conversation. Although TR D]
that conversation. Although (LU =LY
that conversation. Although police had used the messages to
police had used the messages to =0
police had used the messages to help convicted Abdullah, they
help convicted Abdullah, they Tl
help convicted Abdullah, they YR 0l
help convicted Abdullah, they had told the enquiry they have
had told the enquiry they have g
had told the enquiry they have never identified his contact.
never identified his contact. i
never identified his contact. It was
never identified his contact. (R EEREIEn]
never identified his contact. It was Salman Abedi. You have
It was Salman Abedi. You have L)
It was Salman Abedi. You have N AE G
It was Salman Abedi. You have somebody here who is very
somebody here who is very I\
somebody here who Is very TSRS LT
somebody here who Is very busily espousing extremist
busily espousing extremist YN
busily espousing extremist TSP
busily espousing extremist views, is talking to
busily espousing extremist IR L LR GE]
busily espousing extremist views, is talking to a person
views, is talking to a person under investigation and
under investigation and LI R\ Ao
under investigation and L O A Ao - R (s
under investigation and subsequently convicted for a
subsequently convicted for a e e
subsequently convicted for a S R
subsequently convicted for a terrorist offence, but then
terrorist offence, but then )
terrorist offence, but then N E
terrorist offence, but then N )
terrorist offence, but then N R - el
terrorist offence, but then there has been no follow-up.
there has been no follow-up. T
there has been no follow-up. How did
there has been no follow-up. L IR T
there has been no follow-up. How did they get to a
How did they get to a situation, whereby the messages
situation, whereby the messages ey
situation, whereby the messages R 2
situation, whereby the messages were seen by police officers,
were seen by police officers, 4
were seen by police officers, S s ]
were seen by police officers, e
were seen by police officers, RN R sl
How did it get to a situation whereby the messages were seen
o) BTNy TN but no one followed up?
| don’t know what the workload was in the north-west at that
time, but | imagine it was very, very high.
However, the bit that | struggle with is, this is not
difficult intelligence to exploit.
And if we’re investigating S IR TG
we want to investigate their networks.
| find that inexplicable.
MI5 say they didn’t receive this intelligence
And it wasn’t until the year EH RO EE TN R G E
identified Abedi was COIGLRGERN IS
Lord Anderson’s 2017 report found gaps in the way
intelligence was shared between agencies.
ISR GRS da RGN LB R e e
organisations working together in an efficient way.
UGS R GEEI e qa R Gl ] that we made recommendations
about because it wasn’t working YR R A T
But in your opinion, do you think that should have
been in place, with the history that we’ve had up to 20177
Well, of course it would N R Ao
No, do you think it should have been?
| have to be careful because a High Court Judge,
Sir John Saunders...
Of course, absolutely, yeah.
..1s going to decide IR AR R e
should be apportioned.
That absolutely wasn’t my job.
It certainly wasn’t perfect prior to 2017 and it’s
I was looking for honesty through it all, really,
and | felt he was being as honest as he possibly could.
The only way to make things TR R R R
mistakes that need adressing.
Again, | keep hearing off everybody "lessons learnt” but,
you know, we shouldn’t lose eight-year-old children
to make that point.
The inquiry is also looking at how the emergency services
responded on the night.
Greater Manchester Police were running the inital joint
However, | would also like to acknowledge
and apologise for failings by Greater Manchester Police.
The inquiry has heard R R A el ][
breakdown in communication.
Failure to establish effective inter-service communications
was unacceptable and we apologise for this
T [\
Only three paramedics made it in to the blast zone,
and it was two hours before R s e
after the last casualty had been taken out.
The inquiry Is due to begin hearing evidence about Saffie,
so the Roussos family are returning to manchester.
Got your stuff packed, Xander, that you want to take?
Chargers, phones.
Dreading it.
Really don’t want to go.
It’s giving me sleepless nights, it’s made me anxious.
It’s a horrible, nervy feeling.
Going to court R R G
Going through my statement.
RGN SN [ RN emotionally draining but just
keep saying, "It’s for Saffie,” obviously, and I’ve got
Hi, Pete, Nicola.
[ (R IV
Very well.
Nice to see you both.
Nice to see you too.
After you give your evidence then we go straight to start
the evidence of the people that were there who tried to help.
Stating the obvious, this is very difficult
territory for you, I’m N R R 1
Evidence disclosed to the Roussos’ legal team raised
questions about whether Saffie R ERA e
the bombing.
At the very start the family’s understanding was that Saffie
W ELECT RS (I g 1)
TN aREL RN R (g an extended period after
she sustained these terrible injuries.
Over an hour.
And during that time she was conscious, she was able
to talk, she was able to ask questions.
After the bomb exploded there were fears of a second attack.
Because of the breakdown R e e A e e
the emergency services, arena workers and members
of the public were left to help the injured inside the foyer.
Paul Reid was selling posters that night.
It was smokey, and there was people running about
screaming, you know.
And | just stood there for probably a minute.
I think my brain was trying to take in what was going
on because there was people on the floor.
Yeah, it was chaos, basically.
And then | phoned the police.
I just kept on screaming to send everything and everybody
to the arena, to the foyer.
There’s been an explosion.
Paul saw Saffie and LR eR e
| told her not to worry, | asked her her name
and | told her not to worry and that more help was going
to come in a minute AL
As time went on, did you think, you know,
where are the ambulances?
They’re not here.
Was it beginning to worry you?
It was definitely beginning to worry that nobody was there.
There was nc medics or..
VP [ B
It was definitely worrying me.
PRI IR G IR T Paul helped carry Saffie
to the street on an advertising board.
Saffie was the first person to be taken to hospital
after an ambulance heading to the arena was flagged down.
Saffie’s main injuries were to her legs, particularly
And there was obviously a lot LG R T R
Injuries.
Unfortunately, MBI LR e el
Or, wasn’t corrected.
LU QRGN is allowed to continue,
eventually you run out of blood, and the body
The people around Saffie, many of them did their best
in appalling circumstances.
But the basic medical techniques that could
and should have been used weren’t.
At 11:40pm, more than an hour after the attack, Saffie
died in hospital.
Finding out exactly what happened is hard to take
because you don’t want anyone to suffer, never mind...
Do you know what | mean?
..your child.
It does make you very angry and gets you very upset to know
that that little girl did everything she could to keep
herself going and the system failed her.
And | want to get to A R Rl
Two sets of medical experts ENCESUL IR R G R L [11]5"2
One group said Saffie’s injuries were too severe
O RINeiN -]
The other said it’s possible she could’ve lived if she’d
received basic treatment.
We’re going to be left wondering, aren’t we,
and that worries me AR
That’s an inevitable consequence of the experts
being in disagreement G E YR
Obviously, | don’t know what the chair will make
of it eventually.
You may get a very clear conclusion from him one way
or the other, or it might be A e R e
It’s not like a criminal case where you get quilty
or not guilty.
L o RIS
Could she have survived?
If she could have survived then you then think about the care
she was given, RGN E A
So that just throws you into turmoil.
And | know that if she was given that chance
she would still be here, | really do.
Today, Andrew and Lisa will give their statements
to the inquiry.
As mum and dad for Saffie, (AT 111 X
volice.
And, you know, we believe certain aspects of that night
were catastrophically wrong so we’re here to make sure it’s
aired, for the judge to hear.
It is very important for us to do.
It is going to be a tough day.
As a human being, a father, N LA RGN
The response on that night was shameful and inadequate.
The response of the security services on this atrocity
should go down in history as one of the worst failures
And that’s what we should learn from this.
111918
| want to thank those that tried to help Saffie that night
and for being with her.
| also want to say to the professionals,
like the emergency services and MI5, that this inquiry
isn’t about protecting your job, your reputation
JRCIIE (g B
We understand the sheer panic and fear you were faced
with that night, but until you admit the failings,
IR R IR a positive change?
During the inquiry North West Ambulance Service said lessons
have been learned, but believe there were "no inadequacies”
in their response which SRR IR ]
Greater Manchester Police and Fire Services accepted
failings in their overall response on the night.
Counterterrorism Police and MI5 have both told the inquiry
QTR R G LR el ¢ TR S
The inquiry’s conclusions are expected to be published
later this year.
| just hope the whole process of this inquiry does what it’s
set out to do, what it’s meant to do.
| feel the need to keep pushing for a change,
to do the right thing.
Before leaving Manchester, the family visit the memorial
dedicated to the lives lost in the attack, to lay a time
capsule for Saffie.
To think someone, another mother, could go through
what I’ve gone through and still going through and will do
forever, Is just heartbreaking.
It’s just so sad.
Have you got the stuff for it?
What do you want to do?
She’s not here, mate.
we’ll never be who we were, we’ll never have what we had,
but Saffie is always with us.
And we’ll take her ORI
ILIEREN ) e [ our top stories:
We witness life on the frontline for Ukrainian forces,
fighting to defend the country’s second largest
city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
If these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been
paying attention because this is the Russian attack playbook,
perfected over ten years of war in Syria.
The Ukrainian army head inte no man’'s land towards
M IAF R
LSRG lIg1 ) are stronger than ever.
We are fighting on our land and protect our families,
so It doesn’t matter TR AT
We fight like lions and they will not win.
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery
deployed In firing positions.
Exodus from Sumy.
As humanitarian corridors are set up to escape
the fighting, we meet some RGN R R LT
And Roman Abramovich, the Russian owner of
Chelsea Football club, is among seven more oligarchs
sanctioned by the British government.
The sale of the club is now on hold.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS Y- e 0la s ]
Welcome to our viewers on PBS Y- e 0la s ]
the globe.
We start with an exclusive SR U Ro18
of Kharkiv, in the east of Ukraine.
The country’s second largest city, after the capital,
Kyiv, has endured nightly Russian air attacks
and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds
Qa3
Most of the city’s 1.5 million residents have fled.
The Ukrainian forces fought back a Russian armoured column
in the early days SRU I R
Our correspondent Quentin Sommerville and camera
journalist Darren Conway are the first journalists to be
embedded with the Ukranian army as they continue to fight
the Russian advance.
| should warn you their report contains graphic images
from the frontline that some R R LGS Ol IR
Head to the very eastern edge of Ukraine and a ghostly vision
RGN R E NGRS IR IR
The city of Kharkiv NG G EL R R LTS
In near total blackout, the police in the country’s
second-largest city take us on patrol.
The Russians aren’t 5T
Shelling happens every night.
This close to the Russian IS
there’'s another threat T R
No-one escapes scrutiny.
Alina, 76-years-old, A Bes 8 i B
In an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
RGBT IR has surprised Russia
We weave our way EERGERECHN
inte no man’s land, with the Ukrainian army.
Here is 21-year-old Yevgen Gromadsky.
Over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "The Russian
soldiers are standing about 900 meters
away from here.
You can hear right now that they’re
IS NIV 1 and we are firing back”.
It’s a grenade launcher, British.
But it’s more than just a grenade launcher -
it’s a quided missile.
Is it good against tanks?
1SRN R EYN ] T T
How are the Russians fighting?
They’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
LK RO I ARG SA R
SO
So, yeah, they have R R
here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles
and techniques.
But we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
So it doesn’t matter how QIR ARl
like lions and they won’t win.
This city of a million plus people has emptied out.
This civilian, R R ORI & IETe
lines, just didn’t make It.
We’ve actually come beyond the Ukrainian front
line, and we know R R e
at all the destruction IO G
and this whole area’s littered with dead Russian bodies.
These men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
There are two more over.
There are Chechen, they have 1Ds on them.
Their weapons have TR e
The Ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable
with this type R T A YT RE
is their territory, they’re defending their
city, their families.
But the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
They want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
And that might be where this battle,
this war, is won and lost.
In a war with Russia, the front line is everywhere.
This is what people have been fleeing in Kharkiv -
endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
- — a e
Our administration
would like to inform you that a fire
has started in the building.
For that reason, please go to the ground floor
and from there, leave the building.
This is what Russia does to cities,
it bombards them, it besieges them, it surrounds them.
It terrorizes entire populations.
And if these tactics are unfamiliar to you,
then you haven’t been paying attention, because this
is the Russian attack play book,
perfected in over ten years of war in Syria.
We know that Russia bombs hospitals.
So here at the city’s hospital number four,
they keep the wounded in hallways -
away from the windows.
Miss Valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
R REVCRE N for you", she says.
These stupid Russian shrapnel pieces
| will carry all my Llife.
But as long as my e a3 A (o
BB AR Ry -
And so too, will eight-year-old Dmitri, now that this has been
This is the war that Russia has fought before
and is fighting again.
VL RS G the rest of Ukraine’s
fate, but Kharkiv has already shown what’s coming next.
TRANSLATION: Defenders, we will ride together.
We will win this war and all our heroic people
will gather to rebuild our beloved Ukraine.
Quentin Sommerville, BBC News, Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine.
In Kyiv, Russian forces 8 R To k2 Na
towards the capital.
More than half the population has fled since the invasion
began.
The mayor of the city e R LR e
Humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have
run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
Russian forces are said to have SR e e Y
up to the north-eastern LRI Gl
Jeremy Bowen sent this S eI SIA
When your world is turned upside down, there’s
separation, loss, confusion, and relief
at getting out alive.
Hundreds more have YN VEeIE |
from villages in the firing line
outside Kyiv in the last few days.
Taking bad memories RO A e Ry
Did you see any Russians?
Yes.
What were the Russians like, RGN AT LS R K
They were mute, mute.
They were mute.
No comments, no words, no.
And nothing.
They were mute.
They stayed like...
__stones.
Medics can help with the physical pain of wounds.
Kyiv’s hospitals are ready, expecting many more.
But what do you say to someone who needs the comfort of home?
When everything familiar has gone?
This minibus was from the children’s home,
many with special needs,
and carers who had spent two weeks in cellars trying
to keep them calm.
The police took videos to record who had escaped.
Then they checked their bags.
The fear of Russian infiltrators is strong.
Food is not in short supply, along with plenty of questions
what about the Russians will do next, and allegations
about what they are doing now.
The police commander
said they had had many phone calls
about violation of the rights of civilians and weapons,
Injuries and murders.
Appeals for information EL RGN
At another crossing point, hundreds more walking
out of the firing line.
And a priest who helped rescue them
from the Russian army.
There is nothing e BB EL |
So, there’s no reason RN R A e
We are not attack anybody, so we just made decision
to have different future, we want to have democracy,
so If Russians QAT S R G
Soviet Union, may God bless them,
but we ask them to do it within their borders.
L W R I TR
GInale s s [l a1dla - 1o B
Tanks are easy targets when they push forward,
bunched up, in broad daylight, but the Ukrainians are still
outnumbered and outgunned.
At strong points round the city,
Ukrainian troops are waiting.
They know the Russians are regrouping, and will try again.
Petrol bombs aren’t all they have got.
Nato has sent in thousands of modern
anti-tank weapons for whatever is coming down the road.
The Russians are about NG IR E G s s B
If they want to come RGN A
they will have to take this piece
of ground and push in.
If they are encircling Kyiv, they can probably stay more
or less where they are.
The men at this position have to assume that
an attack is coming.
For the soldiers who waited, the sky was bright,
and the forest still and lonely.
Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, Kyiv.
In the last few hours, Ukraine’s president
Vlodmyr Zelensky has been speaking.
Our news reporter, Mark Lobel gave an update
on what Mr Zelensky said including how many people had
managed to escape through the humanitarian corridors.
He began by saying 100,000 people had been evacuated over
the last two days which is good T R R e R etlga sl
to the besieged city of Mariupol in the south
and said that not even essentials could get
in because Russian tanks were attacking a humanitarian
corridor there and he was furious about that.
He described it as "outright R N R
terrorists,” that was how he put it.
One Ukrainian politician said hundreds may have died already
in Mariupol and another politician based in Mariupol
whose parents are also there, said that Russians are killing
people for fun.
He said something else, listen.
There are 350,000 - 350,000 people without any
convoys of humanitarian aid, water, food, medicine,
and bodies are laying on the streets.
And mass graves already.
And this is in a European city that was totally peaceful
two weeks ago.
And we have some new satellite images which are quite
interesting.
Can you talk us through?
You see troops in a forest here and there you see troops
and military vehicles in a town and this is of significance
because we have been focusing on that 40 mile convoy
north-west of Kyiv, the capital, which has been
SEICTR (- RUL T ) around the airport.
But now it looks like there are manoeuvres,
they are dispersing and redeploying and so those
shots have been going further into town closer to the airport
and elsewhere, some have moved R RO 181+ s
with long-range missiles there.
ISR I A the picture of the movement
What is the plan when it comes to Ukrainian forces?
We saw another part of a convoy north-east of Kyiv recently
partly destroyed, that was the Ukrainian ministry,
defence ministry releasing those pictures.
We also saw Quentin Somerville’s report
from the front line PN [t R i e e
type of battle, P iR
And a former retired commanding general of the US Army
in Europe watched that report and he had this to say.
The human dimension is so much more powerful and important
than the material or technical part.
This is why | think that Ukraine is going to win
They have time on their side, the logistical situation
Ol R QR EV RN RO LU
have a manpower shortage, | think they have an ammunition
shortage will start showing up soon.
Hinting that the tide is turning.
Another unexpected development on Russian state TV
it was reported that on a debate show some people
were being critical of the war and likening it to Afghanistan
but much worse, referring to the Soviet Union’s
humiliating invasion in 1989 there.
So interesting that that was let through.
One last thing to pick RO TR GG
of chemical weapons.
Deeply concerning to the international community
if Russia uses chemical weapons LR G R GI ERTi E Y
often spoken about false flag operations in the past have
said that they suspect S R R VA G A G
SN[ LT by the Russians.
One chemical weapons SPGB AU EW,
they will use them and this is his explanation as to why.
People can hide among the rubble, the Ukrainian
military can hide there, jump ML R OIR S Rk
But if you use chemical weapons that has not stopped
by concrete walls.
It seeps underground and kills people underground.
The Russians are accusing the Americans of biological
Cla AN DG RV SE IR RN T they called a Security Council
meeting to discuss it on Friday.
President Zelensky says to know Russia’s plans you just have
ICRGT @ 1RV RIS TSR accusing others of and he says
there is absolutely no such activity on his land.
[LiE1L @0
Thank you to Mark for that update.
Stay with us on BBC World News.
we’ll tell you how residents of one city in the far west
of Ukraine - which has been JEIC RO LU NG T
s helping defend the country.
The numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
This, the worst terrorist El el A R Rl
R IRl
In less than 24 hours, then,
the Soviet Union lost an elderly, sick leader,
and replaced him with a dynamic figure
20 years his junior.
We heard these gunshots in the gym,
then he came out through a fire exit
and started firing at our huts.
God, we were all petrified.
James Earl Ray, aged 41, R R R
and due for parole ML R
travelled from Memphis jail to Nashville State Prison
in an eight-car convoy.
REPORTER: Paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
It feels fine, thank you.
What are you going to do now?
Is it going to change your life much, do you think?
| don’t know, really - KT N a T N Est R Sy
This is BBC World News.
Ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second
largest city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
The city has endured L T
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now R Gk Ll (s
deployed In firing positions.
President Putin has claimed that Russia will emerge
stronger from international sanctions.
In a televised video conference, Mr Putin said
Western governments were deceiving their own people
and Russia would calmly solve its problems.
Our Russia editor Steve Rosenberg is in Moscow.
(RGNS IR ) (] thinking on Vladimir Putin’s
part because this tsunami of international sanctions
hitting Russia threatens to cripple the econemy here.
Now, today, President Putin said, "We will adapt,
"we will overcome, we will take measures,” he said,
"against those foreign W PRI I (TG TR0
"of Russia - raising fears of nationalisation,
"seizing of assets”.
But is that really the solution to Russia’s problem right now?
The Russian oligarch Vladimir Potanin, one
of the richest men in Russia, wrote today that those kind
of measures would put Russia back 100 years,
back to 1917, the time of the Russian Revolution.
Now, when Vladimir Putin came to power more than 20 years
ago, the one thing that he promised Russians
was sustainability and for years after,
he cultivated the image of Mr Stability - the only man
in the country capable of keeping Russia together.
But that stability is gone now.
It’s been shattered by President Putin’s decision
to send troops into a sovereign nation, into Ukraine,
for what he still calls R Y E W G SR LA
[LiE1L @0
Thank you to Steve Rosenberg in [T e A
Let’s round up some of the other developments on Ukraine.
In the highest level of talks so far since the invasion
began, Ukraine and Russia have failed to agree on a ceasefire
to help people trapped by the fighting escape.
Both sides did indicate a willingness to continue
talking, but Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
made no concessions.
Facebook’s parent company Meta is changing its rules
on violent speech because of IR RE A E
The company says it has "temporarily" relaxed
LYo TN Tu[-1S
A post saying, for example, "death to the Russian invaders”
that would usually break its rules, is now allowed.
The changes cover Russia, Ukraine and nearby countries.
The Russian owner of o -E R | KT )
Roman Abramovich, is among another seven people
who’ve been hit with sanctions by the UK government
because of their suspected close Links to President Putin.
The decision means that although Chelsea can still play
matches, the sale of the club TR MR I B A el s
from selling tickets, players and any merchandise.
The mobile phone company Three has said it is suspending
its sponsorship with the club.
The BBC’s Asad Ahmad gave this update from
Chelsea’s Stamford LGOI A
VR QTR I D R [V of interest in what’s happening
Just a week ago, Roman Abramovich, the owner
for nearly 20 years, said he was going to sell the club.
That caught a number of Chelsea fans by surprise.
But they weren’t necessarily shocked -
IR AN LRI -]
In the days that followed, a number of billionaires
stepped forward, saying they’d be interested in buying
the club but then, today, the government slapped some
sanctions on Mr Roman Abramovich, which means he’s
not allowed to sell LR R
Other implications of those sanctions means that club’’s
shop has te remain closed RGN
Now, you might say that’s not a big deal, the club’s shop
being closed, but it’s the significance of it -
that Mr Roman Abramovich T LR N ik
IR RN DR Ry L in that club shop, so that has
to remain closed e R iTlads e e a -]
As far as the team is concerned as well, travel costs for away
games is being capped at £20,000.
Sounds like a lot of money - not when you have
to move a squad of players, backroom staff, physios
and the managers to away games, including to Lille
in France next week.
A lot of people will be wondering will what is
happening behind the scenes at the club
itself be affecting the players?
We will find out soon enough.
Lviv, in the far west of Ukraine, has been spared
the Russian assault and if you NN R GRS O
you might imagine that people are going about their everyday
RN
But the war is all-consuming and ordinary people are doing
what they can to help in O SRR U IR ey A
Reeta Chakrabati RN
-- Reeta Chakrabarti reports from Lviv.
(RUVACR- N RO I EL R T touched by the violence
of the war, but this semblance of normality is deceptive.
Look beyond it and you find many who have abandoned
their daily routines to join the fight against Russia.
Like Olesya.
Like Olesya.
She’s 32 and she is a clothes designer -
PGP CR E RS
But now, It’s not fashion but flak jackets she’s making,
for the swelling ranks of the country’s military.
It’s the first time in my life that I’ve been doing this.
It’s totally different IO R RS L S
Why are you doing this?
Because our boys need this.
Because we don’t know what else we can do.
How do you feel about what Is happening to Ukraine?
Oh, we are feeling very angry, actually.
Yes.
It’s very hard feelings.
Very hard feelings and...
..we are trying to stop It.
You feel quite emotional?
Yes.
Yes, yes.
This is a city on edge, with people making moves
to protect what Is precious.
There are now checkpoints manned by people who last menth
spent their days at a desk.
Like Oleks, a company executive.
| was sitting in a suit in a very comfortable office.
| had 50 people under supervision.
Are you frightened?
Here, you are in quite a dangerous situation.
No, nobedy is frightened here.
There is not - | can easily get out from Ukraine.
| can easily take my family from Ukraine.
This guy has come and given us cars for the army, free.
| see.
So the same, | am doing.
| am also collecting the cars, SRR G UG
and delivering these cars to army.
Everybody - every single citizen in Ukraine is trying
to do something for army.
You see how the people IRl
That unity extends to I R G T A OE ]
Lviv has become a hub for Ukrainians fleeing
Lyana has opened her art centre for those displaced and has
been working night and day R R G
And what about you?
What’s the toll on you, emotionally and
psychologically?
| understand that | cannot W WY T
| cannot help everyone.
| decided to take some few ways | can help and one of them
is staying alive in this art NN R L G
T e i e
The art here is now S AE
This reads, "Our own truth, power and will," expressing
perfectly the defiance of this city.
Reeta Chakrabarti, BBC News, Lviv.
So, this is the scene in Kyiv right now.
It Is eerily calm but we are
It is eerily calm but we are hearing that Russian forces are
hearing that Russian forces are L
hearing that Russian forces are going to be making a renewed
going to be making a renewed I
going to be making a renewed RIS
going to be making a renewed push towards the
going to be making a renewed TR EIC R U R A
going to be making a renewed push towards the city, having
push towards the city, having advanced about
push towards the city, having e I TRty
push towards the city, having T L R R A e
advanced about five kilometres N
advanced about five kilometres N N
advanced about five kilometres LR R
advanced about five kilometres LRI R O L
advanced about five kilometres or so in the past 24 hours,
or so in the past 24 hours, R
or so in the past 24 hours, that’s according
or so in the past 24 hours, G E TR G R
or so in the past 24 hours, that’s according to the United
that’s according to the United NEI
that’s according to the United e L
that’s according to the United States. That’s it. I’m
that’s according to the United N R R R
States. That’s it. I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones. This is
States. That’’s it. I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones. This is BBC
Vaughan Jones. This is BBC IS
Vaughan Jones. This is BBC NI L TN
The last couple of days, the weather
really has been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly
across eastern parts of the UK.
But things are going R iR A
The cloud you can see on the satellite picture
LR Tele ] R ITs ]
It means rain, wind, and, really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching
western parts of the UK.
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland
and parts of England.
But, generally speaking, it is a dry night and early
morning.
Very, very mild - 8-10 ST I
L LG [T 3 through the morning,
the rain becomes quite heavy MG R TR GG
of England, through Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach L R GO
south-western Scotland, too, and through the afternoon,
| think many of us will have YL AR NI
Now, through P I ST D
it’ll brighten up across Wales and south-western parts of
England.
Sunshine and showers here second half
QG EE)E
There could be some thunderstorms,
too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it e R
IR NCE NIV L | think, through Friday
ERGRL R E A1
Now, Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us.
This, once again, spells heavy rain initially
for western parts of the UK
but in the south-west, as this low pressure increases,
you can see strong winds blowing
around it - LR R G R R LU T
about gusts of 60-70mph around the Isles of Scilly
and the tip of Cornwall -
so really very blustery, even guite
stormy weather for a time here.
But elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on Saturday -
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, R R T
plenty of sunny spells occasionally
interrupted by some RN RN
brought in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be AN )
around through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
arcund 12 Celsius or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise
even as high as 17 or 18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
in south-western parts of the UK,
so the southerly winds will bring
milder but changeable weather.
It seeps underground and kills people underground.
It seeps underground and kills people underground.
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
Ukrainian forces are fighting to defend
the country’s second largest city Kharkiv
HCTIUHIEES A LT
The city has endured nightly Russian air attacks
and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds
Qa3
Most of the city’s one and a half million residents
New satellite images show a large Russian military convoy
seen heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery
redeployed In firing positions.
The convoy was last seen northwest of the capital,
near Antonov Airport.
The images show armoured units manoeuvring in and through
the towns close to the airport.
More than 2 million people are thought to have fled
QR T YV but others have arrived,
after escaping from the Russian soldiers moving closer
to the city.
Humanitarian organisations have warned that many people
have run out of food and are still Living
without water or gas.
Now on BBC News, Hardtalk with Zeinab Badawi.
Welcome to HARDtalk with me, Zeinab Badawi.
Europe’s dependence on Russian energy sits uneasily
OGN ] R EIALBRNAE LS
from such exports.
One EU leader has said Russian oil and gas is being bought
with the blood of the Ukrainian people.
My guest is the Prime Minister of Norway, Jonas Gahr Store.
Norway is one of the world’s biggest oil and gas exporters.
What can it do to help ease Europe off its addiction
to Russian energy supplies?
And can this be done quickly enough to starve the Kremlin
war machine of funds R R N R A e o Ta s
Ukrainians?
Jonas Gahr Store in Oslo, A e L LOES
Now, you’ve been Prime Minister of Norway since October.
You already have a war in Europe to contend with.
How worried are you that the war will intensify
and escalate?
Extremely worried.
This is drama unfolding in Europe.
It’s a war from the 19th century being fought in 2022,
with iPhones available to see the terrible realities
of what it does to civilians, what it does to men and women
Lol [/ PR VL ALl el N R R el
destructive potential of a military machine that has
been building up for over a year and then,
until it is unleashed on the neighbouring population.
It’s a dramatic setback for, | would say, civilisation
in Europe and an extraordinary wake-up call to what we all
have to face now.
Nathalie Tocci, who’s an adviser to Josep Borrell,
who’s the European Union’s foreign policy chief -
now | know Norway’s not a member of the European Union
- nevertheless, she says that this is not enly a war
in Europe, it’s a war against Europe.
LR [ [ R R 13 QNN R )
sn’t it
But it looks like, so far, Europe’s not stepping up.
| wouldn’t agree.
You know, | think Europe has been amazingly fast in adopting
and voting for sanctions, very comprehensive sanctions.
Before this war, people in Europe were saying that,
you know, Putin is pretty AR e
He has calculated that F T aa e R IR st e e M- e 1s
sustain the sanctions.
| think it’s hurting much more.
There has been UGG A eI =
Norway Is not a member RGN EERR LI R
but we are closely associated through the European Economic
Area and we have joined GO LR s I
alongside the European Union, N R i R ]
United Kingdom, coordinated G R GERI CR GL
contributions frem Japan, LD R e
R QIR W e IR -
It’s not militarily engaging in Ukraine.
| think it’s important to keep Nato out of a war in Ukraine.
U LR E T =1 kind of confrontation,
but we are responding in kind with humanitarian aid,
and now we are preparing to help and receive a large
number of refugees.
So | think Eurepe has come together pretty well.
You’ve given the three planks there - the sanctions,
the military assistance, and also the humanitarian
acceptance of refugees.
Let’s start with W iRl
So, the European Union has I RN R T LR G R s
and cut our gas imports OO ER A SRR
by the end of the year.
Not so much movement on oil.
So, | put it to you that Europe is really holding back
on the sanctions because it R =l RN Tlad
TR e
Well, you know, Europe is also responsible for having
functioning economies, and | think the decisions
they have taken on gas is not necessarily a sanction,
but it’s a strategic choice of being less dependent
(LR ) e e from Russia, which they see
Ll G ST TR LR vyl ) with another major undertaking
we all have to do, namely to speed up transition
to renewable energy.
So, from a climate change perspective, from a 2030
perspective, you know, fit for cutting emissions,
this may spur and accelerate investments in renewable
energy, and that is very important, and Norway
will make its contribution RO L
OK, I’ll come back to that in a moment, but | really must
PIHERVIGR G TN Y e B R R e R -t e
AR IR UL R LN the European Union is still
spending more than $1 billion a day on buying Russian energy,
oil and gas, and that is simply funding the Kremlin’s war
machine, and it’s being used to hammer the people of Ukraine.
That is the state NG A
You’re trying to fight Russian tanks with the banks,
as it were, and it’s just not going to be fast enough.
Well, you know, | think your equation - | don’t
buy your equation.
Europe has to still fuel its economy in one way
NaULEE G
They’re buying oll at the international market
and they are, through a dramatic hike in gas prices
and oil prices, hurting their economies, so they cannot
kind of take down their own economies and, at the same
time, resist what Russia is doing.
| think, you know, the signals here of quite comprehensive
sanctions, quite comprehensive aid, quite comprehensive
political unity in Europe will make its mark.
And you know, it may be easy for countries not dependent
on oil and gas to pass very harsh judgements on that.
| can understand that European governments also
have a responsibility to keep their economies going.
Russia is the world’s second biggest oil exporter
ENCIERE IR Norway’s about number seven.
You also are about number three R R R e
to gas exports.
Why don’t you pump more oil and supply Europe
with more gas?
Because we pump and supply at the maximum.
You know, Norway’s whole way of operating is that we do that
effectively and we extract our resources effectively
with the lowest possible emissions, and we will always
produce at the maximum.
So | reassured European leaders that Norway remains a reliable,
long-term supplier of gas.
We have, you know, done LRGN
There will be some additional gas coming from Norway in terms
of liquefied gas on ships, which will come on the market
GO R ORIl e
So that will be a 5% increase of what Norway can provide.
But Norway’s contribution will go beyond that on energy,
because doing this renewable transition that has to be done,
both to reach our climate goals and to make ourselves less
dependent on energy from Russia, we have to make
a big push on renewables.
So, you know, there is now a big undertaking in Europe
of expanding ocean wind, expanding solar energy,
expanding a lot of these energy e TR GUE R e RN
anyway, and now we can speed it up, and Norway,
LG R G TR T [ T R A TR L
part of that.
All right, so you’re looking at the fact that the high price
for fossil fuels is going to accelerate the drive to use
more renewable energy, green sources.
But you don’t know when that’s going to happen because we’re
already hearing European leaders saying, "Oh,
look, Italy’s looking at using more coal.”
The Germans are saying - Robert Habeck, the German
economics minister, says, "Europe may be forced to burn
more coal in the face of Russian aggression
and spiralling gas prices™.
It’s looking at perhaps reviving its nuclear power.
In the United Kingdom, the government is perhaps
LI AU D] the moratorium on fracking
IS EICR LS
So, this goes against what you’re saying, that
actually it’s going to drive more renewable energy.
You know, this transition towards renewables,
| would have wished to see that happen in a planned
and orderly fashion.
Now we have war on the Continent, and what you just
now say Is that, you know, Europe has to fuel its economy
LGN AL LR D that they may have to revert
te coal and maybe - | mean, | expect if there
Is nuclear, it has I e
What Norway can do is to say that our gas will come
It will be gas that is produced T ORI
And Norway’s also leading the way for what is called
EIG Tl IR LRI D[N which is something Europe has
O R R TRER Cl g1
We have to capture €02 and store it safely.
So, you know, this process, RGN R TN RN Y
is falling out, democracies IR R R iR i
replacements.
But the most important UG O[T R R RS LG T
the production of renewable energy, and then we have
a large potential and we all have to contribute.
OK, so the principles are very A IR T R E S TN RN I L]
Prime Minister, Jonas Gahr Store, but it’s the time frame
I’m talking about.
And so both when it comes to not buying Russian energy,
you know, the EU is now saying, look, we’re going to try
and wean ourselves off that by 2030.
That’s quite a while away.
The International Energy Agency has now said the question
of whether to delay the planned retirement of European nuclear
plants is a delicate issue which may merit debate
and the bloc could increase coal-fired power generation.
So | put it to you that in the short and medium term,
we’re not going to achieve these goals that you’re setting
because of the war, correct?
Well, only partly, YT RNl &
you cannot achieve major build-up of ocean wind
in a few months.
You know, you need planning for that, but you can
German government intends to build wind power on 2%
hut it can be accelerated.
The European Union is planning TR LR N AL
and gas, that’’s part of the European planning,
will probably not be done in the very short term,
but pretty short term.
So when decisions because of R LR RN R
te do this replacement of Russian gas at a faster rate
than they would have done otherwise, of course,
it will take some time, Al dehElae e
That’s the point, it will take some time and the war
s going on at a much, SRR
People are being killed and wounded as we speak,
and the measures which Europe ERN LR R s
to squeeze the Kremlin of finance is going in slow
moticn.
And, you know, Volodymyr Zelensky, President of Ukraine,
says, "Please don’t buy Russian oil, support us.”
But that’s the point | was making to you right
from the beginning.
This is a test of European resolve and Europe is failing.
But you know, to be honest, if Europe were to stop buying
oil and gas from Russia, it will not stop the war
machine fighting in Ukraine, regretfully.
But Europe is financing the war machine, isn’t it?
It’s actually financing R EIaE
| mean, look at the Russian e R
You know, it’s an economy taking a major, major blow.
What we have to do is to support Ukraine,
and Norway has made a landmark decision of now providing
military equipment to the resistance of the Ukrainian
people, something we have not dene in the past.
There is humanitarian aid coming in, there is financial
pressure put on Russia, and there has to be support
and messages to Ukraine that we will help rebuild
Ukraine once this war is over and |, you know,
we still have to hope that it’s not a war that Russia
IS going to win.
But let me just be clear, | think making this assumption
that if there was no L LRSI EL S
it would be over at the battlefield, unfortunately,
that is not the case with this president in Moscow.
All right, we’re seeing energy prices go through the roof -
you know, oil is at around $140 a barrel, 14-year high -
and this is greatly expanding your revenues in Norway.
ATV IR EL T 1) with five million people.
Your oil fund, your sovereign wealth fund is about,
what, 1.3 trillion?
You’re going to be getting a lot more money now
as a result of all this.
Can you spend all that money on helping Ukraine?
| mean, we will take our responsibility for Ukraine.
Just to inform you, MR
We put this - this money comes into our sovereign wealth fund.
| would have wished to have seen half of those prices.
It’s not something Norway is calling for, having these
high prices, so, yes, they will maybe increase
revenues on that side.
On the other side, this fund is reduced in its value
from the stock exchange, which is where it has placed
most of its money.
But, yes, Norway has already made important financial
contributions to the humanitarian aid, and we will
step up that.
We will do that in cooperation with the United Nations,
with the leading humanitarian organisations and with
European partners.
We are very conscious about our responsibility
and our opportunity both to lead on the energy
transition and also to follow up a tradition we have
LI RO L DR you know, forward leaning
on humanitarian aid.
OK, on humanitarian aid, how many refugees are
you going to take?
Because so far, | believe you’ve only taken a few
You look at countries like Poland - ebviously,
admittedly in the neighbourhood, near Ukraine -
Are you going to be stepping up your efforts on taking
refugees and allowing them to work for three years,
as the European Union is going to allow them?
We have taken a decision, alongside the European Union,
to give collective protection to Ukrainians, so we will not
make individual cases but, you know, as a Ukrainian,
you can come to Norway.
We are not neighbouring Ukraine -
we are 1,500 kilometres TN IR
| have welcomed the Polish Prime Minister here in Oslo two
days ago, reassuring him that, you know, people who come
to Poland, they can travel on to other European
countries, including Norway.
And there are already refugees - primarily young women,
mothers, families I LRGE N TTZ)
I have visited them and we stand ready to receive them.
It does not make sense to put a figure on that
because this crisis is unfolding,
but | believe the Nordic countries, Scandinavian
countries and the European countries will stand
by to support the bordering countries of Ukraine.
LGl
You’ve also said that Norway is providing
Ukrainians with some military equipment -
anti-tank weapons, protective vests, helmets
and so on - but | want to put to you what Fabrice Pothier,
a former head of policy at Nato who has served under
the current Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg,
and he says he’s disappointed and that Nato
needs to engage more.
He says, "Not getting involved is not the way
"Nato needs to get engaged more Ela N A R G e[ 11
"on the ground, but through more pressure on Putin’s war
M iEIe - T
I don’t want to go through the arguments
of the no-fly zone - | know that Jens Stoltenberg
has said no intentions of moving into Ukraine
either on the ground ARG o o e 0]
shouldn’t Nate be doing more?
You know, | think Nato’s primary responsibility
Is to secure the security of 30 Nato states.
We have the Article 5 R el A
L IR I RN is really about.
So, we are reassuring Nato members.
Norway is sending troops to Lithuania.
We are supporting, with part of our navy,
to support the security of the military alliance.
When it comes to Ukraine, | believe it is not primarily
Nato,but it is Nato countries bordering countries that
have to step up,
and God knows, Poland, Romania, N LN LY
contributed by receiving these refugees in a way
which is extremely impressive and then, European
countries and like Norway, we are contributing
with humanitarian aid and also with military equipment,
which | believe is necessary and called for when a
neighbouring country in Europe is being attacked,
{1 T e R N {1 -]
But, | mean, Fabrice Pothier says, "If civilian casualties
"continue to mount, there will be pressure on Western
"leaders to do something.
"This can be avoided by being much more engaged now."
So, do you think there should be greater engagement to put
pressure on President Putin?
Perhaps patrol the Baltic Sea and try and cut him
off that way?
There’s got to be something more that’s got to be done.
Well, but, you know, this adviser coming out of Nato
service, he Is not very precise what he is calling for.
We are patrolling N LT
We are air patrolling MR R
Norway is bordering Russia.
(VLRENCR VR (RN E 6 and eyes in the north.
We have our planes out flying to control and monitor peace
and lower tension in our areas, so we are taking that
T3] 112
But, you know, | really think if we think concretely
about it, engaging Nato inside Ukraine, unleashing war
between Nato and Russia, that is not responsible,
that’s not going to help Ukraine,
and | believe it will be irresponsible to move
LRGEL Al R R 18]
that is a pretty common view by European and Allied leaders.
All right, you say that Norway is the eyes and ears of Nato
in the north and certainly, Norway is one of five Nato
countries, along with the Baltic republics
and Poland, to share P e R R AR
You also have a nearly 200km-long border,
as well as a maritime boundary that extends almost
to the North Pole,
so do you want extra R E A
We want to maintain stability, predictability and long-term
presence of cooperation Gl
We have no foreign bases in Norway.
We have no stationed nuclear arms in Norway.
We have a mantra which says, "High north, low tension".
We don’t exercise militarily close up to the Russian border.
We have a cooperation, you know, neighbour-to-neighbour
with Russia, dealing T R IR s - R R
We have fishery protection, fishery management to do
DG
And Norway’s defence and security is based on two
pillars.
One, our own defence, which is strong in navy and air
capacity, and our Nato membership.
So it is really the combination of having allies who train
with us and know how it is to operate in Norway
and Norway’s own ability to manage a neighbourhood.
You know, crises up RGO U IR R GG
in the north.
They come from other sides, so tension in Ukraine spreads
It’s our responsibility to see IR E R R AR
not get out of control e R A R i RN e TeTgs 18
and about 100km from one of the world’s largest nuclear
arsenals, so it takes (LU
predictability to manage this.
Sure.
And every two years, R GRS e
in northern Norway, and they’re going to begin this month,
the biggest since the end of the Cold War.
| wanted to put to you what Professor Rasmus Bertelsen
from the University of Tromso in Norway says.
He says, "Conducting such a big WG E A R R En)
"Norway now in light RNt 1aale | LA S Ao s
"In Eastern Europe AEOE R A
So, despite all this, you still believe that
you should engage in dialogue with Russia.
| have to say Russia has e R IR R
exercises, but it’s not attending this time round.
But you think that’s a good principle, to maintain this
open dialogue, as it were, with Russia?
You know, there’s not much dialogue with Russia.
| was foreign minister for seven years of Norway,
and | negotiated with Russia N et ta e e miTa Y
Those were very detailed negotiations and led to a very
modern treaty securing peace LR AR R e N
then we had dialegue.
That was another window of opportunity around 2010.
Today, what’s happening in Ukraine?
There is Little dialogue.
LI N E TR [T this one has been planned
for many years.
It has been announced, I N
and Russia has been R SRR e
So, this has basically nothing RGBT R I
in Ukraine, but it is an IR R RN T
of Nato operating and training under winter conditions.
And If you want winter conditions, you get them
if you go to the north and Norway.
OK, we’re seeing some shifting sands amongst your
Nordic neighbours.
Both Sweden and Finland, talk now of them joining Nato.
They’re not members, U
And Finland, the government there says it’s having
a political debate.
The Swedish Prime Minister, Magdalena Andersson,
has said, "Look, we don’t really want to join" and so on.
But look, do you think that there is now a bit
of momentum towards Finland and Sweden joining Nato?
And would you welcome that?
Well, Sweden and Finland are our closest neighbours,
you know, geographically we are very close and also
historically and culturally.
And my answer to this is the following -
| have every confidence ROEE ARG
governments of Sweden and Finland to make that judgement.
It’s one of the very key judgements countries
have to make.
Finland and Sweden are Nato’s closest partners outside Nato.
And here in the Nordic region, we have intensified ocur
security cooperation and also military cooperation
with common exercises, I TR I A aa e Ty
procurement, and | wish R N N A
We can do that under today’s circumstances.
And then, for Norway’s security, it is important
to say that Sweden and Finland, as advanced modern states,
should have the complete freedom to make their choice.
All right, well, | quess you might be saying that.
Very briefly now, how do you think this is all
going to end?
You started this interview saying this is a fight
about European values.
Do you think authoritarianism or those European values
of civilisation, as you put it, are going to prevail?
| think European civilisation is going to prevail.
Authoritarian rule based on military power, now
what we see is a dictatorship, is not part of the European
heritage we have to safequard and take forward.
| don’t believe that this s a government of the future.
It’s not what people want.
People are turning away from this.
People want freedom, people want human rights,
people want democracy.
And that is the biggest RIS
towards Russia, Is that they have turned
towards these values.
And this is what | believe is the core thing of this
tragic war, is that Russia RN Ryl &1
to stop this political drift towards freedom and democracy.
So we have to really stand by our own values,
protect them, support Ukraine to the very potential
of what we can do, look beyond and see what we can do
to help rebuild Ukraine e RGN a
Jonas Gahr Store, Prime Minister of Norway,
thank you very much indeed for coming on HARDtalk.
The last couple of days, the weather really has
been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us - particularly
across eastern parts of the UK -
but things are going R iR A
The cloud you can see on the satellite picture
LR Tele ] R ITs ]
It means rain, wind and, really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland and parts
of England but, generally speaking, it is a dry night
and early morning.
Very, very mild - 8-10 ST I
Then quickly through the morning, the rain becomes
quite heavy in south-western parts of England, through
Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach Wales and eventually south-western
Scotland, too, and through the afternoon, | think
many of us will have L Al NI
Now, through the afternoon or so, it’ll brighten up
across Wales and south-western parts of England.
Sunshine and showers here second half of the day.
There could be some QTG I PR L R e R T R )
of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it across A R AR I
bag, I think, through Friday and into Friday night.
Now, Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us.
This, once again, spells heavy rain initially for western
[El IR GGl ] the south-west, as this low
pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it
- and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around
the Isles of Scilly and the tip of Cornwall, so really very
blustery, even quite stormy S R e
But elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on Saturday -
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, but there will be plenty of sunny spells
occasionally interrupted by some heavy showers brought
in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be some sunshine around
through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
around 12 degrees or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even
as high as 17 or 18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
in south-western parts of the UK, so the southerly
winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
headlines for viewers in the UK NG e TR R e 1d s
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed
with artillery deployed RRGE N
Moscow requests a meeting of the UN Security Council
after claiming, without evidence, that the US
is developing chemical RN
It is something the Ukrainian e
It is something the Ukrainian leader denies. What else have
leader denies. What else have you
leader denies. What else have TR )
leader denies. What else have TR R IR
leader denies. What else have R LR R
leader denies. What else have you prepare for us? Where were
you prepare for us? Where were your strike with their chemical
your strike with their chemical weapons? At
your strike with their chemical XA YR 1)
your strike with their chemical weapons? At the maternity
weapons? At the maternity hospital
weapons? At the maternity (L%
weapons? At the maternity hospital at Mariupol or another
hospital at Mariupol or another (]
hospital at Mariupol or another (1N
hospital at Mariupol or another A E LY
hospital at Mariupol or another hospital in Kyiv awe at
hospital at Mariupol or another RS G R I )
hospital in Kyiv awe at the Children’s
hospital in Kyiv awe at the Children’s Hospital?
We witness life on the frontline for Ukrainian
forces, fighting to defend the country’s second largest
city Kharkiv from Russia’s relentless assault.
If these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been
paying attention because this is the Russian attack playbook,
perfected over ten years of war in Syria.
Wounded Ukrainian civilians I SRR OEE E
R S =1 Kharkiv, away from the windows
to avoid any future attacks.
TRANSLATION: These stupid Russian scars | will carry
all my life but as VAL
beats | will still HTELRGANR
Roman Abramovich, the Russian owner of
Chelsea Football club,
is among seven more oligarchs sanctioned
by the British government.
The sale of the club is now on hold.
And how a teddy bear, donated by an eight-year-old
boy in England, has found a new home in Poland,
with a girl who fled the war in Ukraine.
Hello and welcome to the programme.
Satellite images of a Russian military convoy
near Kyiv appear to show it redeploying to nearby areas,
potentially signalling a renewed push towards
the Ukrainian capital.
The images suggest that AN R R U R A
which was last seen north-west of the nearby Antonov Airport,
have moved into positions in surrounding towns.
US officials also believe that Russian forces have moved five
kilometres closer to Kyiv RGN LA N
Nl 110208
Remember that stalled Russian SN
Remember that stalled Russian convoy heading to the capital?
convoy heading to the capital? s
convoy heading to the capital? o
convoy heading to the capital? IR
convoy heading to the capital? TR TR0 T o[V
convoy heading to the capital? It is now seemingly on
It is now seemingly on NEN O )
It is now seemingly on N S R
It is now seemingly on manoeuvres, seen here in a
manoceuvres, seen here in a forest
manoeuvres, seen here in a T |
manoeuvres, seen here in a T s ls]
manoeuvres, seen here in a forest and in town. In what may
forest and in town. In what may [y
forest and in town. In what may ]
forest and in town. In what may be a renewed push, could it be
be a renewed push, could it be readying for action? Further
readying for action? Further LI
readying for action? Further east, a separate
readying for action? Further MR EIC LSS
east, a separate Russian T )
east, a separate Russian e e s sl
east, a separate Russian L a s (s a e
east, a separate Russian advance did not get a warm
advance did not get a warm welcome,
advance did not get a warm A R
advance did not get a warm welcome, under attack from the
welcome, under attack from the Ukrainian military. It
welcome, under attack from the NSEIMEL NG A
Ukrainian military. It is Ukraine’s resistance, even
Ukrainian military. It is Ukraine’'s resistance, even in
Ukraine’s resistance, even In heavily
VACIEERCH R E AR N A N ]
VACIEERCH R E AR heavily perceived cities
VACIEERCH R E AR N A N e R R LG
heavily perceived cities like Mariupol, that many fear will
Mariupol, that many fear will e
Mariupol, that many fear will lead to Russia resorting to
lead to Russia resorting to el
lead to Russia resorting to NI R I
lead to Russia resorting to N RS R
lead to Russia resorting to N R LR R
lead to Russia resorting to N R T R O R L )0 G
chemical weapons to win. People can
chemical weapons to win. People R
chemical weapons to win. People can hide amongst the rubble,
can hide amongst the rubble, )
can hide amongst the rubble, R IETs]
can hide amongst the rubble, the Ukrainian military can hide
the Ukrainian military can hide there,
the Ukrainian military can hide ]
the Ukrainian military can hide there, and have their anti-tank
there, and have their anti-tank T
there, and have their anti-tank weapons and
there, and have their anti-tank LR (R G
there, and have their anti-tank LR R G R U E G G
weapons and kill the venerable tanks. But if you use chemical
tanks. But if you use chemical N
tanks. But if you use chemical weapons, that
tanks. But if you use chemical LR R A
tanks. But if you use chemical weapons, that is not stopped by
weapons, that is not stopped by a0 )
weapons, that is not stopped by e R EI
weapons, that is not stopped by concrete walls and stuff, it
concrete walls and stuff, it 0
concrete walls and stuff, it IR [ o}
concrete walls and stuff, it seeps underground and kills
seeps underground and kills people
seeps underground and Kills (LI RGO IR
seeps underground and Kills people underground. More
seeps underground and kills people underground. More people
people underground. More people leave
people underground. More people R e
people underground. More people R e
people underground. More people R R
people underground. More people G TR
people underground. More people G LR ol
leave their homes as fears of even nasty
leave their homes as fears of ARV e
leave their homes as fears of ARV o R
even nasty attacks Grove. ]
even nasty attacks Grove. Russia accuses America of
Russia accuses America of hiological
Russia accuses America of biological activities in
biological activities in I
biological activities in Ukraine, unproven claims aired
Ukraine, unproven claims aired 1
Ukraine, unproven claims aired R )
Ukraine, unproven claims aired RG]
Ukraine, unproven claims aired CI R QRN VIR 14
Ukraine, unproven claims aired at the UN Security Council
at the UN Security Council meeting on Friday. America says
meeting on Friday. America says )
meeting on Friday. America says s Ne 1
meeting on Friday. America says Nl )
meeting on Friday. America says the claims are laughable and
the claims are laughable and I [Na 14
the claims are laughable and President Zelensky
the claims are laughable and Y I L CHE R
President Zelensky agrees. TRANSLATION:
President Zelensky agrees. TSI B S
President Zelensky agrees. TRANSLATION: This makes me
TRANSLATION: This makes me %1\
TRANSLATION: This makes me really worried. Because we have
really worried. Because we have T
really worried. Because we have U LG
really worried. Because we have been repeatedly convinced, if
been repeatedly convinced, if you want to
been repeatedly convinced, If you want to know Russia’s
you want to know Russia’s plans, look at what it accuses
plans, look at what it accuses S
plans, look at what it accuses JULIERT LR
plans, look at what it accuses LR IR T
plans, look at what it accuses others of doing. What else have
others of doing. What else have you
others of doing. What else have TR R
others of doing. What else have you prepared for us?
others of doing. What else have T I R A I
others of doing. What else have you prepared for us? Where will
you prepared for us? Where will you
you prepared for us? Where will IR UL
you prepared for us? Where will you strike with your chemical
you strike with your chemical weapons? At
you strike with your chemical XA YR 1)
you strike with your chemical weapons? At the maternity
weapons? At the maternity hospital
weapons? At the maternity (L%
weapons? At the maternity hospital at Mariupol? At the
hospital at Mariupol? At the 2 Tlees]
hospital at Mariupol? At the i tlse L
hospital at Mariupol? At the church at Kharkiv?
hospital at Mariupol? At the e A Gl aaeld
hospital at Mariupol? At the T A G a1
hospital at Mariupol? At the T A G R
church at Kharkiv? Or at the Children’s
church at Kharkiv? Or at the Children’s Hospital?
church at Kharkiv? Or at the Children’s Hospital? Pessimism
Children’s Hospital? Pessimism )
Children’s Hospital? Pessimism IR ig a1l
Children’s Hospital? Pessimism also from EU leaders who
also from EU leaders who el
also from EU leaders who e LR
also from EU leaders who discussed the war of Vladimir
discussed the war of Vladimir Putin
discussed the war of Vladimir I
discussed the war of Vladimir R ]
discussed the war of Vladimir MR R e
discussed the war of Vladimir Putin at a former palace in
Putin at a former palace in N1 P
Putin at a former palace in Versailles and
Putin at a former palace in NI P s i e Ts |
Putin at a former palace in I PR i e R
Versailles and offered Ukraine e
Versailles and offered Ukraine more words and
Versailles and offered Ukraine e R LN R G e
Versailles and offered Ukraine more words and material support
more words and material support e
more words and material support )
more words and material support T
more words and material support but no sign they will rush EU
but no sign they will rush EU UL
but no sign they will rush EU membership through, condemning
membership through, condemning Russia for having brought war
Russia for having brought war back to Europe.
Mark Lobel, BBC News.
Now to an exclusive report from the frontline
of the battle for Ukraine’s second biggest city Kharkiv.
It has endured nightly Russian air attacks and suffered dozens
of civilian deaths and MGG XA
Most of the city’s 1.5 million residents have fled.
The Ukrainian forces fought back a Russian armoured column
in the early days of the invasion
and have been fighting since to stop
a further Russian advance.
Quentin Sommerville and camera journalist
Darren Conway are the first journalists to be embedded
with the Ukranian army as they fight the Russian advance.
| should warn you their report contains graphic images
from the frontline that some R R LGS Ol IR
Head to the very eastern edge of Ukraine and a ghostly vision
RGN R E NGRS IR IR
The city of Kharkiv NG G EL R R LTS
In near total blackout, the police in the country’s
second-largest city take us on patrol.
The Russians aren’t 5T
Shelling happens every night.
This close to the Russian IS
there’'s another threat T R
No-one escapes scrutiny.
Alina, 76-years-old, A Bes 8 i B
In an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
RGBT IR has surprised Russia
We weave our way EERGERECHN
inte no man’s land, with the Ukrainian army.
Here is 21-year-old Yevgen Gromadsky.
Over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "The Russian
soldiers are standing about 900 metres
away from here.
You can hear right now that they’re
IS NIV 1 LR IR R Eld
It’s a grenade launcher, British.
But it’s more than just a grenade launcher -
it’s a quided missile.
Is it good against tanks?
1SRN R EYN ] T T
How are the Russians fighting?
They’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
LK RO I ARG SA R
SO
So, yeah, they have R R
here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles
and techniques.
But we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
So it doesn’t matter how QIR ARl
like lions and they won’t win.
This city of a million plus people has emptied out.
This civilian, R R ORI & IETe
lines, just didn’t make It.
We’ve actually come beyond the Ukrainian front
line, and we know R R e
at all the destruction IO G
and this whole area’s littered with dead Russian bodies.
These men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
There are two more over.
There are Chechen, they have 1Ds on them.
Their weapons have TR e
The Ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable
with this type R T A YT RE
is their territory, they’re defending their
city, their families.
But the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
They want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
And that might be where this battle,
this war, is won and lost.
In a war with Russia, the front line is everywhere.
This is what people have been fleeing in Kharkiv -
endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
- — a e
Our administration
would like to inform you that a fire
has started in the building.
For that reason, please go to the ground floor
and from there, leave the building.
This is what Russia does to cities,
it bombards them, it besieges them, it surrounds them.
It terrorizes entire populations.
And if these tactics are unfamiliar to you,
then you haven’t been paying attention, because this
is the Russian attack play book,
perfected in over ten years of war in Syria.
We know that Russia bombs hospitals.
So here at the city’s hospital number four,
they keep the wounded in hallways -
away from the windows.
Miss Valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
R REVCRE N for you", she says.
These stupid Russian shrapnel pieces
| will carry all my Llife.
But as long as my e a3 A (o
BB AR Ry -
And so too, will eight-year-old Dmitri, now that this has been
This is the war that Russia has fought before
and is fighting again.
VL RS G the rest of Ukraine’s
fate, but Kharkiv has already shown what’s coming next.
TRANSLATION: Defenders, we will ride together.
We will win this war and all our heroic people
will gather to rebuild our beloved Ukraine.
Quentin Sommerville, BBC News, Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine.
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
Airline industry experts have expressed fears
that ground-to-air missiles sent to Ukraine could end up
in the wrong hands.
Safety analysts say they could end up on the black market
and be bought by militant groups.
The British Starstreak missile is just one system
being offered to Kyiv to help troops there defend
against Russian attacks.
The International Atomic Energy Agency says
the Ukrainian authorities have confirmed they’ve lost
all communications with the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
On Wednesday, Ukraine said all external power supplies had
been cut to the site, which was seized by Russian
forces two weeks ago.
Chernobyl is no longer a working power station,
but it still requires constant management.
Meta, the parent W E I R R Io e oL
and Instagram, says it’s changing its rules on violent
speech in several countries, including Russia,
b1 Ny the Ukraine invasion.
The company says it’s temporarily made allowances
for violent speech that would usually break its rules.
The US Senate has voted to approve almost
LRI LRI R Ukraine as part of a huge
spending bill proposed by the Biden administration.
The aid is intended to give support to Ukraine’s military,
= lo T el edY oL humanitarian assistance.
More than two million refugees have left Ukraine
and the majority have made their way to Poland
where NGOs and Humanitarian Agency personnel are waiting
te make sure they have warm TR P B I L
IR )T
With so much chaos at the Ukrainian frontier,
border guards, police and volunteers are also keeping
an eye on who’s offering the refugees transportation
from and checking the drivers to prevent people traffickers
from taking advantage of the situation.
Mike Noyes Is Humanitarian Director
at Action Aid, close to the Poland-Ukraine border,
and he jeins me now.
It seems utterly incomprehensible that people
incomprehensible that people would
incomprehensible that people R4
incomprehensible that people would seek to
incomprehensible that people I GRS S R 1l
incomprehensible that people would seek to exploit the
would seek to exploit the situation. Is
would seek to exploit the R T R )
would seek to exploit the R R LR N il [ e
situation. Is there evidence that people traffickers are
that people traffickers are aYihl]
that people traffickers are R Y lfe
that people traffickers are trying to pick people up at the
trying to pick people up at the border? Good
trying to pick people up at the G A T L R TG G
trying to pick people up at the border? Good morning. It
trying to pick people up at the G AT LR G R T
border? Good morning. It is Tl
border? Good morning. It is hard to
border? Good morning. It is FIGEOEE Y
border? Good morning. It is hard to save there is
border? Good morning. It is RO R R e ]
hard to save there is evidence. ey
hard to save there is evidence. What we know
hard to save there is evidence. Y R N e L
hard to save there is evidence. What we know at action
hard to save there is evidence. T R N e I - T nsl 1]
hard to save there is evidence. T R N i I s
What we know at action aid and as humanitarians is that in
as humanitarians is that in ey
as humanitarians is that in R lee T e
as humanitarians is that in R le e TR e R e
as humanitarians is that in I Relte RNl R e N
as humanitarians is that in these circumstances there is a
these circumstances there is a A
these circumstances there is a IR0
these circumstances there is a very, very big risk of people
very, very big risk of people aYihl]
very, very big risk of people R
very, very big risk of people trying to take
very, very big risk of people IR R E LGN E D
very, very big risk of people trying to take advantage of
trying to take advantage of that
trying to take advantage of G e ]
trying to take advantage of that chaos and situation and
that chaes and situation and )
that chaos and situation and the vulnerability and in this
the vulnerability and in this situation what
the vulnerability and in this R R )
the vulnerability and in this R R R )
the vulnerability and in this I AE IR E RN T RS-
the vulnerability and in this situation what we are seeing on
situation what we are seeing on )
situation what we are seeing on the border
situation what we are seeing on R
situation what we are seeing on N R )
situation what we are seeing on R R A% |
situation what we are seeing on the border as we stand and
the border as we stand and watch people coming across from
watch people coming across from &)
watch people coming across from Ukraine is
watch people coming across from NI EAEIN
watch people coming across from Ukraine is many families,
Ukraine is many families, YY)
Ukraine is many families, headed by
Ukraine is many families, LR A UG
Ukraine is many families, ORI U R G
Ukraine is many families, headed by women, the men as we
headed by women, the men as we know
headed by women, the men as we )
headed by women, the men as we GRS &I
headed by women, the men as we know are staying behind to
know are staying behind to support
know are staying behind to RO
know are staying behind to support the defence of their
support the defence of their country,
support the defence of their 03 (g A TT
support the defence of their country, but we are
support the defence of their S P R R )
support the defence of their country, but we are also seeing
country, but we are also seeing N
country, but we are also seeing o
country, but we are also seeing AR
country, but we are also seeing lots of young single women
lots of young single women coming
lots of young single women LTI
lots of young single women LR (N
lots of young single women coming across, and they are
coming across, and they are i
coming across, and they are iR
WL [ETa (R R 71 ripe for exploitation and
ripe for exploitation and LR LY
ripe for exploitation and TR LR
ripe for exploitation and IR R )
ripe for exploitation and abuse. While we have no
abuse. While we have no e laalge il Tel
abuse. While we have no T RG]
abuse. While we have no T R L R
confirmed reports of trafficking yet, everything
trafficking yet, everything IS
trafficking yet, everything points to the fact there
trafficking yet, everything R RO R UGS
points to the fact there is high wrath - at risk and
high wrath - at risk and a8
high wrath - at risk and opportunity if steps
high wrath - at risk and O AR LG
high wrath - at risk and opportunity if steps are not
opportunity if steps are not made prevent it.
opportunity if steps are not LR GG o 1
opportunity if steps are not made prevent it. This is
opportunity if steps are not LRGN
opportunity if steps are not LRG0 o RS
made prevent it. This is why we Py
made prevent it. This is why we are working with local partners
are working with local partners 3
are working with local partners in Poland to see if we can
are working with local partners N EN L R R R R LR )]
in Poland to see if we can stop that.
in Poland to see if we can stop R A
in Poland to see if we can stop that. Is anything countries can
that. Is anything countries can )
that. Is anything countries can do to
that. Is anything countries can LR ORI 0]
that. Is anything countries can do to stop this risk? The big
do to stop this risk? The big thing to
do to stop this risk? The big QRGN
do to stop this risk? The big QIR CEEVAL
do to stop this risk? The big thing to say in that regard
do to stop this risk? The big QIR R ALR G S GO ELO R
thing to say in that regard is perhaps too, you
thing to say in that regard is U R TG A
perhaps too, you know, W]
perhaps too, you know, discourage people who do not
discourage people who do not PGl A AL
discourage people who do not QAT E S G
discourage people who do not QA S GG
discourage people who do not know what they are doing from
know what they are doing from L]
know what they are doing from MR
know what they are doing from IR ]
know what they are doing from offering to help from just
offering to help from just coming
offering to help from just IR
offering to help from just coming over. One of the
coming over. One of the challenges our team has faced
challenges our team has faced with Polish
challenges our team has faced T R R Tl i E i 14 Ts]
challenges our team has faced with Polish humanitarian action
with Polish humanitarian action 3
with Polish humanitarian action R
with Polish humanitarian action RTIR
with Polish humanitarian action is you get people turning up
is you get people turning up and
is you get people turning up LN
is you get people turning up and saying I’ve come from
and saying I’ve come from LI
and saying I’ve come from Belgium and how can | help?
Belgium and how can | help? 3
Belgium and how can | help? It’s astonishing that people
It’s astonishing that people have
It’s astonishing that people (E\TE
It’s astonishing that people EY R R EY
It’s astonishing that people have got that and commitment to
have got that and commitment to come and see what
have got that and commitment to RN R R LR
have got that and commitment to come and see what they can
have got that and commitment to SN R R U R U A= e
come and see what they can do but
come and see what they can do L
come and see what they can do I -
come and see what they can do but it means that
come and see what they can do NI R E s
come and see what they can do NI R R e N ]
but it means that the Polish YNl da e el
but it means that the Polish YN da o AR L oL ]
but it means that the Polish authorities would not have much
authorities would not have much 3
authorities would not have much inthe
authorities would not have much in the way of knowing who
authorities would not have much RO RS GU LR R 1Y
in the way of knowing who they ey
in the way of knowing who they were and how
in the way of knowing who they NI L AU
in the way of knowing who they were and how they could help
LR MUR QIR TG R and
LR MUR QIR TG R L
LR MUR QIR TG R RO
were and how they could help R RO A GG
were and how they could help and if they were indeed someone
and if they were indeed someone Ty
and If they were indeed someone who should
and If they were indeed someone T AT R
and If they were indeed someone T A SRR s Ts|
and If they were indeed someone who should be watched more
who should be watched more closely. On that point
who should be watched more closely. On that peint about
closely. On that point about L]
closely. On that point about good intentions not necessarily
good intentions not necessarily G
good intentions not necessarily yielding the right results,
yielding the right results, you’ve had a particular problem
you’ve had a particular problem around
you’ve had a particular problem IR
you’ve had a particular problem around the kind
you’ve had a particular problem Y B R s B d
you’ve had a particular problem around the kind of things that
around the kind of things that have been donated.
around the kind of things that TN h el
around the kind of things that have been donated. Tell me more
have been donated. Tell me more FYe L
have been donated. Tell me more I
have been donated. Tell me more N -
have been donated. Tell me more R LR )
have been donated. Tell me more E[ L - RN T
have been donated. Tell me more about that. As we say, we are
about that. As we say, we are ]
about that. As we say, we are working with Polish
working with Polish humanitarian action,
working with Polish T EL I - Tl i P e 101
humanitarian action, our partners, and
humanitarian action, our L O L AL
humanitarian action, our partners, and in their little
partners, and in their little I
partners, and in their Little campsite here on the border
campsite here on the border vty
campsite here on the border G SY
campsite here on the border what they have, they have a
what they have, they have a very
what they have, they have a IVEIEL
what they have, they have a AN EL R Y
what they have, they have a AN R I |
what they have, they have a very small tent and they have
very small tent and they have lots
very small tent and they have sl
very small tent and they have (PR s
very small tent and they have R R
very small tent and they have LGRS A5
very small tent and they have LI SR LR
lots and lots of baby food, N
lots and lots of baby feod, lots and
lots and lots of baby feod, LR
lots and lots of baby feod, N RERG CR
lots and lots of baby feod, N RLR R R e
RN R N TR (T N NLR RO R e
lots and lots of other items Sl
lots and lots of other items donated by people. They
RN R E G TN donated by people. They spend
donated by people. They spend YT
donated by people. They spend T E]o VA T
donated by people. They spend probably more time sorting
probably more time sorting e
probably more time sorting their donations to get the
their donations to get the right
their donations to get the AN
their donations to get the right ones and
their donations to get the [ AN R G
their donations to get the right ones and they want to
right ones and they want to then going to go and buy the
then going to go and buy the right
then going to go and buy the AN
then going to go and buy the right ones in the first place.
right ones in the first place. 0
right ones in the first place. RN
right ones in the first place. Of course, the generosity of
Of course, the generosity of people
Of course, the generosity of o R ]
Of course, the generosity of people cannot be
ol N Tl el underestimated,
Lol N Tl [vi o1 underestimated, the willingness
underestimated, the willingness of
underestimated, the willingness IR G
underestimated, the willingness of people to help in these very
of people to help in these very slailatlid
of people to help in these very il Tl las i Ta T
of people to help in these very il R laa TRt Ta n e a a1
difficult circumstances cannot 1y
difficult circumstances cannot be underestimated
difficult circumstances cannot I e A E sl 0t
difficult circumstances cannot R G sl St
difficult circumstances cannot R G s B N A 0l d
be underestimated but if our ]
be underestimated but if our Polish partners and Action Aid
Polish partners and Action Aid s
Polish partners and Action Aid is working
Polish partners and Actien Aid is working with them to make
is working with them to make )
is working with them to make RO
is working with them to make sure they have the money to do
sure they have the money to do this rather than relying on the
this rather than relying on the b
this rather than relying on the Ll [
this rather than relying on the goodwill of donations, what our
goodwill of donations, what our X1l
goodwill of donations, what our team needs are two or three
team needs are two or three e il
team needs are two or three more 20 metre tents, fuel for
more 20 metre tents, fuel for )
more 20 metre tents, fuel for G NG
more 20 metre tents, fuel for GG PR
more 20 metre tents, fuel for QN I PR - B (1
the generators, fuel for OV
the generators, fuel for ORIl
the generators, fuel for SO I G
the generators, fuel for NI - I G e
the generators, fuel for stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for
stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for )
stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for Rl
stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for the team that
stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for R R R
stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for the team that are coming down
the team that are coming down Tee I8t
the team that are coming down from Warsaw.
the team that are coming down TR B AL
the team that are coming down TR L AL
the team that are coming down TR L ARG
the team that are coming down from Warsaw. Those are the sort
from Warsaw. Those are the sort of things that people can put
of things that people can put ]
of things that people can put on a
of things that people can put MR -1
of things that people can put on a consent for themselves.
on a consent for themselves. T4
on a consent for themselves. Thank you for talking to us.
Stay with us on BBC News.
we’ll tell you why QIR CL VAT
has made a special journey to a Ukrainian girl in Poland.
The numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
This, the worst terrorist El el A R Rl
R IRl
In less than 24 hours, then,
the Soviet Union lost an elderly, sick leader
and replaced him with a dynamic figure
20 years his junior.
We heard these gunshots in the gym,
then he came out through a fire exit
and started firing at our huts
and, God, we were all petrified.
James Earl Ray, aged 41, R R R
and due for parole ML R
travelled from Memphis jail to Nashville State Prison
in an eight-car convoy.
REPORTER: Paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
It feels fine, thank you.
What are you going to do now?
Is it going to change your life much, do you think?
| don’t know, really - KT N a T N Est R Sy
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now R Gk Ll (s
deployed In firing positions.
Moscow requests a meeting of the UN Security Council
after claiming, without evidence, that the US
is developing chemical weapons in Ukraine -
something the Ukrainian L
The Russian owner of o -E R | KT )
Roman Abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve
been hit with sanctions by the UK government
because of their suspected close Links to President Putin.
The decision means that although Chelsea can still play
matches, the sale of the club XN AL R R A
from selling tickets, players, and any merchandise.
Russia has steadily hit back at western sanctions
by imposing export bans on more than 200 products.
-- Russia has steadily hit back R R ade
Economist Tyler Goodspeed from the Hoover Institution
at Stanford University, joins me now from Stanford in
Do you think the sanctions are (=N
Do you think the sanctions are having any effect? It’s good to
having any effect? It’s good to )
having any effect? It’s good to R il
having any effect? It’s good to TR GBI
having any effect? It’s good to be with you, Ben. Yes, | think
be with you, Ben. Yes, | think they
be with you, Ben. Yes, | think GG
be with you, Ben. Yes, | think they are having an effect and
they are having an effect and Y
they are having an effect and 10
they are having an effect and we are probably going to
we are probably going to ey
we are probably going to e )
we are probably going to observe the Russian economy
observe the Russian economy el
observe the Russian economy contracted by almost 10-15%
contracted by almost 10-15% this
contracted by almost 10-15% QIR
contracted by almost 10-15% this year, more than double the
this year, more than double the magnitude of
O IERYLE T TR G RN G R [ magnitude of the contraction
magnitude of the contraction during
magnitude of the contraction RO
magnitude of the contraction during the 1998 Russian
during the 1998 Russian financial crisis. In terms of
financial crisis. In terms of WO
financial crisis. In terms of OIS EL
financial crisis. In terms of ordinary Russians, | think
financial crisis. In terms of OIS AT E L R G G
ordinary Russians, | think they Py
ordinary Russians, | think they are properly experiencing this
are properly experiencing this 3
are properly experiencing this inthe
are properly experiencing this RGN an1]
are properly experiencing this R a1 E
are properly experiencing this IR R aa il asiles]
are properly experiencing this in the form of much higher
in the form of much higher inflation, the rouble has
inflation, the rouble has collapsed in value which means
collapsed in value which means much
collapsed in value which means n I
collapsed in value which means much higher inflation and to
much higher inflation and to fight
much higher inflation and to IR
much higher inflation and to fight the inflationary problem
fight the inflationary problem but also
fight the inflationary problem [N R
fight the inflationary problem but alse to prevent
fight the inflationary problem LI R R G RO
fight the inflationary problem but also to prevent the flight
but also to prevent the flight of capital,
but also to prevent the flight ]l IR TS
but also to prevent the flight of capital, the Russian central
of capital, the Russian central bank
of capital, the Russian central i3
of capital, the Russian central el S LR |
of capital, the Russian central NS LR E R
of capital, the Russian central bank has had to resort to
bank has had to resort to massively raising interest
massively raising interest i1
massively raising interest rates which is really going to
rates which is really going to ed
rates which is really going to hurt the
rates which is really going to e N A s
rates which is really going to hurt the Russian economy.
hurt the Russian economy. Russia has responded, |
Russia has responded, | LN
Russia has responded, | o -]
VAL I ELR T LT | suppose, in a more muted
suppose, in a more muted Er ]
suppose, in a more muted fashion to
suppose, in a more muted IR R
suppose, in a more muted fashion to the sanctions that
fashion to the sanctions that e
fashion to the sanctions that it could potentially have done.
it could potentially have done. i
it could potentially have done. It is introduced
it could potentially have done. (RN e T R )
it could potentially have done. It is introduced these export
It is introduced these export N
It is Iintroduced these export E R
It is Iintroduced these export bands but crucially, it is not
bands but crucially, it is not MR
bands but crucially, it is not limited to the supply of gas to
limited to the supply of gas to AN
limited to the supply of gas to Europe, it
limited to the supply of gas to TN IS
limited to the supply of gas to Europe, it has not put export
Europe, it has not put export N
Europe, it has not put export LR
Europe, it has not put export FUL AN
Europe, it has not put export bands on key commodities like
bands on key commodities like e =]
bands on key commodities like nickel and aluminium. What
nickel and aluminium. What do you make of Russia’s move so
you make of Russia’s move so 1
you make of Russia’s move so Il
you make of Russia’s move so far and do
you make of Russia’s move so EIEL LR LR
you make of Russia’s move so far and do you think they
you make of Russia’s move so EIE LR LR R UL G A 01
far and do you think they could potentially go further? As you
potentially go further? As you G
potentially go further? As you note, Russia is a huge presence
note, Russia is a huge presence in
note, Russia is a huge presence TRy
note, Russia is a huge presence in the global commodities
in the global commodities markets, they are about one
markets, they are about one tenth
markets, they are about one T
markets, they are about one R R)
markets, they are about one tenth of the global supply of
tenth of the global supply of aluminium and copper, about one
aluminium and copper, about one Y
aluminium and copper, about one R
aluminium and copper, about one iR ]
aluminium and copper, about one fifth of the global supply of
fifth of the global supply of [E NeY
fifth of the global supply of battery grade nickel. Russia
battery grade nickel. Russia T3
battery grade nickel. Russia LR EIeR
battery grade nickel. Russia needs dollars. They need Euros.
needs dollars. They need Euros. Because for
needs dollars. They need Euros. IR IR
needs dollars. They need Euros. Because for any Russian
Because for any Russian Il
Because for any Russian [ I
Because for any Russian importer to import goods and
importer to import goods and a3
importer to import goods and services into Russia,
importer to import goods and RN LA R G
importer to import goods and RN IO G 5 A
services into Russia, they need to first
services into Russia, they need ORI
services into Russia, they need to first get dollars and get
to first get dollars and get I35 13
to first get dollars and get TN ]
to first get dollars and get Euros and get Stirling.
Euros and get Stirling. Ordinarily, | would be
AVGIRN G L S Ordinarily, | would be able to
Ordinarily, | would be able to o
Ordinarily, | would be able to go to
Ordinarily, | would be able to L ReROEd
Ordinarily, | would be able to go to their bank and the
Ordinarily, | would be able to RO G EU LRGN E T
go to their bank and the bank could go to the Russian central
could go to the Russian central bank and get those dollars or
bank and get those dollars or T
bank and get those dollars or Furocs or
bank and get those dollars or Euros or Stirling but now, they
Euros or Stirling but now, they have
Euros or Stirling but now, they YU R e - sl
Euros or Stirling but now, they R s R
Euros or Stirling but now, they Y R s R A ]
have sanctioned the Russian e |
have sanctioned the Russian i W e e
have sanctioned the Russian e e N e &
have sanctioned the Russian central bank and we have denied
central bank and we have denied them
central bank and we have denied NI e
central bank and we have denied NI R 0]
central bank and we have denied NI e RO R )
central bank and we have denied them access to the foreign
them access to the foreign exchange reserves so Russia is
exchange reserves so Russia is VL)
exchange reserves so Russia Is EEICRE
exchange reserves so Russia Is desperate for dollars, euro,
desperate for dollars, euro, SN
desperate for dollars, euro, Y LG
desperate for dollars, euro, sterling, other foreign
sterling, other foreign exchange, so | think they will
exchange, so | think they will 1y
exchange, so | think they will be very
exchange, so | think they will AT A a1
exchange, so | think they will be very reluctant to impose
be very reluctant to impose g
be very reluctant to impose cutter sanctions or
be very reluctant to impose R R IR e
cutter sanctions or expert controls
cutter sanctions or expert o ange s
cutter sanctions or expert e R e e i)
cutter sanctions or expert controls on some of these
controls on some of these commodity exports on which they
commodity exports on which they o\
commodity exports on which they rely heavily for hard currency
rely heavily for hard currency earnings. There’s also been a
earnings. There’s also been a threat
earnings. There’s also been a I R LI
earnings. There’s also been a threat towards Western
threat towards Western companies that have pulled out
companies that have pulled out of
companies that have pulled out Sl
companies that have pulled out of Russia. Dmitry Medvedev, the
of Russia. Dmitry Medvedev, the e
of Russia. Dmitry Medvedeyv, the T et A ]
of Russia. Dmitry Medvedeyv, the former Russian President, said
former Russian President, said s
former Russian President, said T
former Russian President, said NI o]
former Russian President, said their assets in Russia
former Russian President, said M BN A E R 0 |
former Russian President, said their assets in Russia could be
their assets in Russia could be R G- R
their assets in Russia could be nationalised, seized from them.
nationalised, seized frem them. M)
nationalised, seized frem them. MR
nationalised, seized frem them. Do you think
nationalised, seized from them. Do you think it is realistic
Do you think it is realistic and what
Do you think it is realistic N R s [ ]
Do you think it is realistic IR e el
Do you think it is realistic and what does it do in terms of
and what does it do in terms of )
and what does it do in terms of R3] i
and what does it do in terms of the stability of
and what does it do in terms of R A R T E RS
the stability of Russia’s XN
the stability of Russia’s e VN
the stability of Russia’s economy and the effects it has
economy and the effects it has T
economy and the effects it has more broadly? Sorry, it’s a
more broadly? Sorry, it’s a Hair
more broadly? Sorry, it’s a little bit vague what exactly
little bit vague what exactly )
little bit vague what exactly the form
little bit vague what exactly R gt R
little bit vague what exactly R e B A 1
G R g N ] nationalisation
the form of this nationalisation would be, there
nationalisation would be, there has
nationalisation would be, there IR T )
nationalisation would be, there IR TN R e
nationalisation would be, there IR T NN R E i
nationalisation would be, there IR T HE LN R NG E IR e
has been some talk that for N A
has been some talk that for entities in Russia
has been some talk that for N TR AR
has been some talk that for entities in Russia that have
entities in Russia that have T
entities in Russia that have more than 25% foreign
more than 25% foreign OISR
more than 25% foreign W TR {13
more than 25% foreign ownership, they may
more than 25% foreign S TR S F VAL
ownership, they may be UL
ownership, they may be temporarily acquired by the
temporarily acquired by the I
temporarily acquired by the RN E O]
temporarily acquired by the state and then auctioned
temporarily acquired by the AN G i h
temporarily acquired by the state and then auctioned off. |
state and then auctioned off. | think
state and then auctioned off. | R e ls|
state and then auctioned off. | GG R
state and then auctioned off. | GG N E R
state and then auctioned off. | think the end of the day, what
think the end of the day, what 3
think the end of the day, what TRy
think the end of the day, what T LR )
think the end of the day, what T RO
think the end of the day, what TR G S ]
think the end of the day, what RO N e
think the end of the day, what T RO AN e e
it means as there is a risk for Western companies operating in
Western companies operating in [ ITAE]
Western companies operating in AR e
Western companies operating in AR i By
Western companies operating in AR E e e ]
Western companies operating in Russia or have now left, that
Russia or have now left, that they will be a lot of stranded
they will be a lot of stranded I Y
they will be a lot of stranded assets because even
they will be a lot of stranded I R e R LBt
they will be a lot of stranded assets because even if Western
assets because even If Western companies
assets because even if Western NG
assets because even if Western companies are compensated
assets because even If Western companies are compensated for
companies are compensated for )
companies are compensated for G OISR
companies are compensated for GO NG
companies are compensated for G DS AUE
the acquisition by the IIIE
the acquisition by the Russians, takeover by the
Russians, takeover by the AR s ]
Russians, takeover by the Russian state,
Russians, takeover by the NS Cl R 1
Russian state, that W L]
Russian state, that W L Rl
Russian state, that compensation will almost
compensation will almost a1\
compensation will almost eV
compensation will almost certainly be in the form of
certainly be in the form of I
certainly be in the form of roubles so
certainly be in the form of L R4
certainly be in the form of L RN
certainly be in the form of LR R R
certainly be in the form of L R R A (T
roubles so it will still be very difficult to get those,
very difficult to get those, that capital out.
very difficult to get those, GEIR DI R
Tyler Goodspeed.
[LiE1L @0
Il @ TR
Thank you so much.
The plight of Ukraine’s refugees has inspired many
people across the UK to send food, clothes and toys to those
forced to flee their country.
Alison Freeman has been following the story of one
shipment of aid frem the north of England, which included
a very special item donated by an eight-year-old boy.
| found a teddy and | said | il
| found a teddy and | said | IS
| found a teddy and | said | IR G )
| found a teddy and | said | will give this to one of the
will give this to one of the il e e
will give this to one of the children in
will give this to one of the IR RRAE)
will give this to one of the I R A
will give this to one of the GG R RO
will give this to one of the children in Ukraine so they are
children in Ukraine so they are el
children in Ukraine so they are not frightened. Will’s Teddy
not frightened. Will’s Teddy Ty
not frightened. Will’s Teddy )
not frightened. Will’s Teddy TN
not frightened. Will’s Teddy NN R M)
not frightened. Will’s Teddy was one of many donations of
was one of many donations of L
was one of many donations of age the
was one of many donations of RGNV
was one of many donations of age the travel hundreds of
age the travel hundreds of T
age the travel hundreds of miles from Berryhill
age the travel hundreds of LRI Eas Wl ]
age the travel hundreds of miles from Berryhill in County
miles from Berryhill in County Durham to Poland to help those
Durham to Poland to help those fleeing the war in Ukraine. We
fleeing the war in Ukraine. We [SE)
fleeing the war in Ukraine. We RV
fleeing the war in Ukraine. We EY -1 )
fleeing the war in Ukraine. We U R
fleeing the war in Ukraine. We have all of these nappies.
fleeing the war in Ukraine. We N CE R R GO A G
have all of these nappies. Yes. Iy
have all of these nappies. Yes. Endless amounts.
have all of these nappies. Yes. s LR a1 e e R R
have all of these nappies. Yes. Endless amounts. We’ve got...
Endless amounts. We’ve got... Stephen Holmes, who runs a
Stephen Holmes, who runs a cleaning firm was one of the
cleaning firm was one of the X1l
cleaning firm was one of the team who drove there
cleaning firm was one of the CEIR e R
cleaning firm was one of the team who drove there at the
team who drove there at the weekend
team who drove there at the AN e
team who drove there at the weekend after he put out an
weekend after he put out an EJ L
weekend after he put out an E L 8 id
weekend after he put out an appeal for donations.
weekend after he put out an appeal for denations. The
weekend after he put out an appeal for donations. The van
appeal for donations. The van 3
appeal for donations. The van X
appeal for donations. The van is full to
appeal for donations. The van TR RO R )
appeal for donations. The van is full to the brim. With
appeal for donations. The van TR ECR G N a1
s full to the brim. With as St 1ile1]
s full to the brim. With as much stuff as
s full to the brim. With as e BT TR )
s full to the brim. With as N BT A TR e 0l sl
s full to the brim. With as much stuff as we could get in.
much stuff as we could get in. As a parent,
much stuff as we could get in. YT )
much stuff as we could get in. NI R
much stuff as we could get in. As a parent, he was moved when
As a parent, he was moved when 1Y
As a parent, he was moved when R
As a parent, he was moved when T R
As a parent, he was moved when TR G R 1
As a parent, he was moved when T AU R Uy A
As a parent, he was moved when T RO CR G U A R 1
CEEVRA QN RN SR R VR Unaccompanied children
he saw the reality of war. Unaccompanied children being
Unaccompanied children being driven from the
Unaccompanied children being Sl R R A
Unaccompanied children being Sl R R R A e e el e
driven from the Ukraine border to
driven from the Ukraine border TV
driven from the Ukraine border to safety in a small town in
to safety in a small town in NG
to safety in a small town in south-west Poland. What was it
south-west Poland. What was it like when you
south-west Poland. What was it LR LR
south-west Poland. What was it like when you saw the children?
like when you saw the children? T
like when you saw the children? TSI
like when you saw the children? IR
like when you saw the children? How did you feel? Very
How did you feel? Very AR
How did you feel? Very emotional. As soon as
How did you feel? Very e TR
How did you feel? Very emotional. As soon as | got
emotional. As soon as | got there,
emotional. As soon as | got e
emotional. As soon as | got T R R
emotional. As soon as | got there, | was getting choked up.
there, | was getting choked up. Buses
there, | was getting choked up. I R )
there, | was getting choked up. TR N -]
there, | was getting choked up. Buses have been pulling up with
Buses have been pulling up with )
Buses have been pulling up with the children on it. Most of
the children on it. Most of them have not even rocked up
them have not even rocked up with
them have not even rocked up AT
them have not even rocked up with a bag, they have the
with a bag, they have the -
with a bag, they have the s
with a bag, they have the AT R s
with a bag, they have the A TR R e r e 4
with a bag, they have the clothes on their back and maybe
clothes on their back and maybe Y
clothes on their back and maybe PR ELaT Y
clothes on their back and maybe a relative written
clothes on their back and maybe R LA R e N R
clothes on their back and maybe FRC A Rt N R i o
a relative written on the hand. e
a relative written on the hand. N EIE
a relative written on the hand. IR G R
a relative written on the hand. R I R GRS
a relative written on the hand. The parents are not going
LR EIC I [l T )
LR EIC I [l IR )
LR EIC I [l I R
The parents are not going because the more parents, the
because the more parents, the T
because the more parents, the fewer children.
because the more parents, the TRl I T e ]
because the more parents, the fewer children. How do you feel
fewer children. How do you feel P
fewer children. How do you feel EL LT ST
fewer children. How do you feel EL N AL IR LY
fewer children. How do you feel about your Teddy being out
about your Teddy being out )
about your Teddy being out there now? Good. Stephen gave
there now? Good. Stephen gave Will’s Teddy to
there now? Good. Stephen gave KR LR G
there now? Good. Stephen gave Will’s Teddy to a little girl
Will’s Teddy to a little girl Ty
Will’s Teddy to a little girl -l e |
Will’s Teddy to a little girl who arrived on
Will’s Teddy to a little girl e ]
Will’s Teddy to a little girl who arrived on a coach
Will’s Teddy to a little girl e R L o R 1hds
Will’s Teddy to a little girl who arrived on a coach with 100
who arrived on a coach with 100 e
who arrived on a coach with 100 other children. When | gave it
other children. When | gave it to her,
other children. When | gave it R 1 1)
other children. When | gave it to her, she had
other children. When | gave it PR R )
other children. When | gave it to her, she had the biggest
to her, she had the biggest smile
to her, she had the biggest N
to her, she had the biggest R s
to her, she had the biggest AN SRzl
to her, she had the biggest smile on her face. Little girl
smile on her face. Little girl came
smile on her face. Little girl =t e ls|
smile on her face. Little girl came and on my knee and in my
came and on my knee and in my heart
came and on my knee and in my Y e T4
came and on my knee and in my heart sunk and
came and on my knee and in my N et el Ba e e
came and on my knee and in my e s R a2
came and on my knee and in my heart sunk and none of them
heart sunk and none of them 10
heart sunk and none of them said anything, it was miles
said anything, it was miles T )
said anything, it was miles (TR
said anything, it was miles (TGS A I hl e
because they couldn’t T % ]
because they couldn’t BRI
because they couldn’t understand us and
I TR G TN MR R
because they couldn’t TR R R Tk
understand us and we couldn’t T % ]
understand us and we couldn’t understand them so no words
understand them so no words ey
understand them so no words A RTIN
understand them so no words were said, it was smiles and
were said, it was smiles and putting
were said, It was smiles and putting stickers on each
were said, it was smiles and putting stickers on each other
putting stickers on each other and
putting stickers on each other R )
putting stickers on each other IR e )
putting stickers on each other IR e R ]
putting stickers on each other INGEG R R AT
putting stickers on each other and the one who sat on
putting stickers on each other LRGN LRI G
putting stickers on each other and the one who sat on my knee,
and the one who sat on my knee, |
and the one who sat on my knee, IR LT s o)
and the one who sat on my knee, | wanted to give it to her. It
| wanted to give it to her. It Ty
| wanted to give it to her. It LRI
| wanted to give it to her. It IR GG
| wanted to give it to her. It LR G R
| wanted to give it to her. It was seeing his own mum getting
was seeing his own mum getting donations ready to
was seeing his own mum getting LR R A O )
was seeing his own mum getting donations ready to give to
donations ready to give to Stephen that gave will
donations ready to give to Stephen that gave Will the
donations ready to give to S MR GFIEV RV R GERGEE
Stephen that gave Will the idea to
Stephen that gave Will the idea NI
Stephen that gave Will the idea RN
Stephen that gave Will the idea to pass on his Teddy. | saw her
to pass on his Teddy. | saw her packaging stuff up
to pass on his Teddy. | saw her (EEL LB AT L
to pass on his Teddy. | saw her packaging stuff up and | asked
packaging stuff up and | asked e
packaging stuff up and | asked RN
packaging stuff up and | asked HRAN L
packaging stuff up and | asked SR EN LG
packaging stuff up and | asked her why and she said there
packaging stuff up and | asked HRAD RN RN R GRS
packaging stuff up and | asked her why and she said there is a
her why and she said there is a war
her why and she said there is a TN
her why and she said there is a war going on
her why and she said there is a IR LR LR
her why and she said there is a war going on in Ukraine. Why
war going on in Ukraine. Why Gl
war going on in Ukraine. Why did you want to give your teddy
did you want to give your teddy to
did you want to give your teddy ]
did you want to give your teddy RN R ]
did you want to give your teddy R B
did you want to give your teddy RN R N E R ]
did you want to give your teddy to someone who had to leave
to someone who had to leave e
to someone who had to leave e e e - e
to someone who had to leave their home in Ukraine? It
to someone who had to leave M HE R XA R T
to someone who had to leave their home in Ukraine? It was a
their home in Ukraine? It was a sl
their home in Ukraine? It was a kind thing to do. It would not
kind thing to do. It would not e
kind thing to do. It would not want that
kind thing to do. It would not N R )]
kind thing to do. It would not want that to happen
kind thing to do. It would not R R R R
kind thing to do. It would not want that to happen to you and
want that to happen to you and you would just be left with
you would just be left with GG ILLE
Alison Freeman, BBC News.
If you want to keep up R AR e
as they happen, just R RN IS
There, you’ll find a live page which is being continually
updated with the latest news and developments.
That’s all at bbc.com/news, or you can download
the BBC app.
You can reach me on Twitter.
M R L N
| will have all of the business news for
| will have all of the business RIS RN
| will have all of the business news for you in a few minutes.
news for you in a few minutes. M es
news for you in a few minutes. IR
news for you in a few minutes. Don’t go away.
news for you in a few minutes. M R [ 7 |
news for you in a few minutes. Don’t go away. | will see
- | will see you very soon.
The last couple of days, the weather really has
been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us - particularly
across eastern parts of the UK - but things
are going to turn now.
The cloud you can see on the satellite picture
LR Tele ] R ITs ]
It means rain, wind and, really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland and parts
of England but, generally speaking, it is a dry night
and early morning.
Very, very mild - 8-10 degrees in many areas.
Then quickly through the morning, the rain becomes
quite heavy in south-western parts of England, through
Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach Wales and eventually south-western
Scotland, too, and through the afternoon, | think
many of us will have L Al NI
Now, through the afternoon or so, it’ll brighten up
across Wales and south-western parts of England.
Sunshine and showers here second half of the day.
There could be some QTG I PR L R e R T R )
of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it across A R AR I
bag, I think, through Friday and into Friday night.
Now, Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us.
This, once again, spells heavy rain, initially for western
parts of the UK, but in the south-west, as this low
pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it
- and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around
the Isles of Scilly and the tip of Cornwall, so really very
blustery, even quite stormy S R e
But elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on Saturday,
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London - fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, but there will be plenty of sunny spells
occasionally interrupted by some heavy showers brought
in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be some sunshine around
through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
around 12 degrees or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even
as high as 17 or 18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
in south-western parts of the UK, so the southerly
winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
This is BBC News T RO RE R
headlines for viewers in the UK NG e TR R e 1d s
The economic war intensifies with UK sanctions
against seven more Russian billionaires,
including Roman Abramovich.
Sowing doubt -
consequences if they are not able to plant crops
LB E
UK petrol and diesel prices hit record highs
as business warn they will have to pass on soaring transport
AR R NI
Plus, high hopes -
after two years of pandemic AL
were planning a comeback
but will the war mean their ambitions are grounded?
We are taking a closer look now at the economic
and financial impact around the world
We start here in the UK, where Roman Abramovich is one
of seven more Russian oligarchs to be hit by sanctions,
all billienaire businessmen believed to be part
of Vladimir Putin’s ML delsa -
The men’s assets will be frozen and they are now subject
Our business editor, Simon Jack, looks in more
at what the sanctions are and how much they can
Tl o)
Pictured with Putin, Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich,
aluminium tycoon Oleg Deripaska,
OOV N LR Gy friend Igor Sechin -
they’re among seven oligarchs the UK
followed the EU and US in sanctioning.
That means UK assets frozen, QAR VG
their yachts can be seized and their ability to move
money around the world severely restricted.
The last two weeks YR s
the most robust, onerous, powerful set of sanctions
| for cne have ever seen.
Did those who were et I
have enough time to get NN AR R R &
Roman Abramovich was sanctioned this morning.
Until this morning and until the moment he was sanctioned,
he was at liberty to legitimately do
whatever he wishes O LT o
Given international sanctions, few banks ocutside Russia
would have handled their money anyway,
Lendon in particular, O AT
its armies of private bankers and lawyers,
and of course politicians grateful for party
donations has long been a favoured
haven for the Russian I Igda 8
And the idea of sanctions is if you make their lives less
comfortable, they will bring pressure to bear on Vladimir
Putin to stop the war.
At least, that’s the theory.
But in Putin’'s Kremlin, the idea oligarchs have power
or influence Is a fantasy, according to experts.
The oligarchs know that their position in charge
of state companies that they run is purely
conditional on their relationship, their personal
relationship with him.
They are essentially the managers,
they’re not the owners, and so if they speak
against the war or speak against the regime,
they stand to lose this e I R OB E R ks
within Russia that they have.
Ukraine will need rebuilding N AL R U C R
eyl ag:] bank said oligarch
money should help
pay for it.
A large share of financing T DR N e R ]
as a reparation from the aggressor,
including funds that are currently
YRR I R T ds -
1N g4 the super-rich being
forced to shake IR ER IR
As the world’s biggest brands abandon Russia,
ordinary people are seeing the clocks and living standards
rolled back 30 years.
It’s hard to tell whether either form of pressure
| make a difference.
Simon Jack, BBC News.
Stephen Platt is a barrister and expert
w1
He’s the founder of The International Compliance
Association and Author of the book ‘Criminal Capital:
How the Finance Industry s R a1
Your
Your take on the sanctions
Your take on the sancticns then
Your take on the sanctions then e
Your take on the sanctions then first of all?
Your take on the sanctions then NI LY
Your take on the sanctions then NG IR AL
Your take on the sanctions then NG R A L CR
Your take on the sanctions then NG IR AL IR O
first of all? My take on the sanctions is
first of all? My take on the ¥ R R
first of all? My take on the i R R R )
first of all? My take on the i ARG RO
first of all? My take on the i ARG e R ]
sanctions is that there is a e
sanctions is that there is a i
sanctions Is that there Is a A )
sanctions Is that there Is a R AR
sanctions Is that there Is a A G E
sanctions Is that there Is a A R E LR s
sanctions Is that there is a N R R A R
lot of noise that is created by sanctioning oligarchs and it is
sanctioning oligarchs and it is right
sanctioning oligarchs and it is LR GET
sanctioning oligarchs and it is right that we take steps
right that we take steps against them and they work in a
against them and they work in a sense
against them and they work in a AN R
against them and they work in a sense that that
against them and they work in a AN RO R e
against them and they work in a AN RO G e
against them and they work in a sense that that make us feel
sense that that make us feel bhetter
sense that that make us feel hetter about
sense that that make us feel T T I T
sense that that make us feel better about curselves because
better about ourselves because Y
better about ourselves because 10
better about ourselves because I L]
better about ourselves because we are doing something in
we are doing something in response to
we are doing something in R U
we are doing something in response to the atrocities
VLRI L RSy G Tl [l (R R U R SR
response to the atrocities we Py
response to the atrocities we are seeing,
response to the atrocities we EI XTI P TT
response to the atrocities we are seeing, but they really
CICRIN o T G L R4
are seeing, but they really don’t land any punches on
don’t land any punches on Vladimir Putin. There was a lot
Vladimir Putin. There was a lot N
Vladimir Putin. There was a lot NREIN
Vladimir Putin. There was a lot R A N
Vladimir Putin. There was a lot of fast yesterday about Chelsea
of fast yesterday about Chelsea Yo
of fast yesterday about Chelsea Football Club but it
of fast yesterday about Chelsea S E RUT N NS
of fast yesterday about Chelsea Football Club but it is a
Football Club but it Is a AL A e s]
Football Club but it Is a sideshow. Putin doesn’t
Football Club but it is a sideshow. Putin doesn’t give a
sideshow. Putin doesn’t give a et
sideshow. Putin doesn’t give a damn that Roman Abramovich
sideshow. Putin doesn’t give a damn that Roman Abramovich has
damn that Reman Abramovich has e
damn that Reman Abramovich has R
damn that Roman Abramovich has lost his football club or that
lost his football club or that Y
lost his football club or that 10
lost his football club or that we are seizing
lost his football club or that YT R TV T A¢)
lost his football club or that we are seizing 20 metre yachts
we are seizing 20 metre yachts 3
we are seizing 20 metre yachts inthe
we are seizing 20 metre yachts in the Mediterranean.
we are seizing 20 metre yachts RGN e IR )
we are seizing 20 metre yachts RGN SN IR Y
in the Mediterranean. We have to
in the Mediterranean. We have R e sl
in the Mediterranean. We have R e Eaa L
in the Mediterranean. We have BRG]
to understand that the oligarchs do not control Putin.
oligarchs do not control Putin. i
oligarchs do not control Putin. In fact, they
oligarchs do not control Putin. LR MG
oligarchs do not control Putin. LRGSR
oligarchs do not control Putin. In fact, they are very much
In fact, they are very much sl d
In fact, they are very much under his
In fact, they are very much T e aida B
In fact, they are very much under his control. They will
under his control. They will el
under his control. They will A
under his control. They will not like losing
under his control. They will A A TG R
under his control. They will not like losing their Western
not like losing their Western assets
not like losing their Western Y R L
not like losing their Western assets but on
not like losing their Western IR R R e C -
not like losing their Western assets but on balance, |
assets but on balance, | AN
assets but on balance, | believe, they will be much more
believe, they will be much more el
believe, they will be much more et I o 01
believe, they will be much more worried about upsetting,
worried about upsetting, I33ai |
worried about upsetting, ISR
worried about upsetting, TSGR GE R
worried about upsetting, upsetting the Kremlin. In which
upsetting the Kremlin. In which TN
upsetting the Kremlin. In which EIR 118
upsetting the Kremlin. In which case, what would make sanctions
case, what would make sanctions T
case, what would make sanctions I e
case, what would make sanctions more effective than? Well,
more effective than? Well, e
more effective than? Well, O MY el =)
more effective than? Well, look, sanctioned money is like
look, sanctioned money is like e e )
look, sanctioned money is like RIS A
look, sanctioned money is like narco money, it
look, sanctioned money is like narce money, it always flows to
narco money, it always flows to )
narco money, it always flows to R
narco money, it always flows to the weakest point and
the weakest point and M OREC VA
the weakest point and ORI AR O
the weakest point and MO G AR GGG
the weakest point and M ON G RO CEICE:
the weakest point and unfortunately, there are a lot
unfortunately, there are a lot SR R4
unfortunately, there are a lot QRGO
unfortunately, there are a lot of weak points. Sorry, what you
of weak points. Sorry, what you T 1e]
of weak points. Sorry, what you NG
of weak points. Sorry, what you mean by | don’t follow. There
mean by | don’t follow. There Py
mean by | don’t follow. There ]
mean by | don’t follow. There e
mean by | don’t follow. There R
mean by | don’t follow. There are a lot of weak points in a
are a lot of weak points in a sense
are a lot of weak points in a AN R
are a lot of weak points in a sense that the international
sense that the international response to
sense that the international R U
sense that the international [ R R U RN ]
sense that the international (R R U RN S IR
response to the invasion of Russia when it comes to
Russia when it comes to ¥l asle
Russia when it comes to ¥ uale R E L
Russia when it comes to s R a4
Russia when it comes to sanctions has not been uniform.
sanctions has not been uniform. )
sanctions has not been uniform. I )
sanctions has not been uniform. There are notable absences
sanctions has not been unifoerm. There are notable absences from
There are notable absences from China, India, the United Arab
China, India, the United Arab A ]
China, India, the United Arab TSN RO
China, India, the United Arab Emirates and they will be
Emirates and they will be welcoming
Emirates and they will be ARG
Emirates and they will be welcoming the money that we
Emirates and they will be W RO R IR G R A
welcoming the money that we no IS
welcoming the money that we no longer want to touch. As we
longer want to touch. As we telegraphed to the oligarchs
telegraphed to the oligarchs that
telegraphed to the oligarchs G
telegraphed to the oligarchs R ROl 18]
telegraphed to the oligarchs L RN R )
telegraphed to the oligarchs that the sanctions have been
that the sanctions have been coming
that the sanctions have been IR
that the sanctions have been coming down the track, so they
coming down the track, so they o
coming down the track, so they would have
coming down the track, so they R e e
coming down the track, so they would have been taking steps to
would have been taking steps to divert assets
would have been taking steps to e T R )
would have been taking steps to A T R R e
divert assets to other jurisdictions. The second point
jurisdictions. The second point I3
jurisdictions. The second point TR )
jurisdictions. The second point RGN
jurisdictions. The second point is there has been
jurisdictions. The second point RGN O
jurisdictions. The second point RGN T W el e
jurisdictions. The second point RGN T W Rl i
s there has been a lack of uniformity
Is there has been a lack of IS
Is there has been a lack of IOy E R )
Is there has been a lack of MGy RO
Is there has been a lack of uniformity as to the US, UK and
uniformity as to the US, UK and European Union, on sanctioning
European Union, on sanctiening oligarchs.
European Union, on sanctioning oligarchs. Yesterday the UK
oligarchs. Yesterday the UK section seven oligarchs, all of
section seven oligarchs, all of them apart from Reman
them apart from Roman LYot e ilos]
them apart from Roman L TR i R )
them apart from Roman Abramovich were already
Abramovich were already sanctioned
Abramovich were already TR e
Abramovich were already NN RO AL
Abramovich were already N NI ) AUELIE
Abramovich were already sanctioned either by the US or
sanctioned either by the US or )
N[ G TR G LR VN GO EELEGIE O R
N[ G TR G LR VN the European union, and so,
the European union, and so, this
the European union, and so, AL
the European union, and so, this lack of uniformity creates
this lack of uniformity creates opportunities for them to
opportunities for them to IR
opportunities for them to exploit, by putting their
OO Radl[R G Tl I e
OO Radl[R G Tl property into
O GEIdR Gl property into jurisdictions
property into jurisdictions TV Y-y
property into jurisdictions where their money is
LTI g g AT RV ESs [ Tad [y 1 where their money is welcomed.
where their money is welcomed. That
where their money is welcomed. G A
where their money is welcomed. That is what | mean
where their money is welcomed. S AR A R
where their money is welcomed. That is what | mean by weak
That is what | mean by weak LAy
That is what | mean by weak Il
That is what | mean by weak points. Is interesting you
points. Is interesting you mention
points. Is interesting you e Rl 4
points. Is interesting you N RO E R =
points. Is interesting you mention that because, before
mention that because, before )
mention that because, before N R
mention that because, before AN R U Easle
mention that because, before N R sl s e Ta 1)
mention that because, before R AU CEE R = R P
some of the sanctions came In, again certain individuals, |
again certain individuals, | remember
again certain individuals, | S R e
again certain individuals, | remember ministers in
again certain individuals, | R IR RN R
again certain individuals, | remember ministers in the UK
remember ministers in the UK ey
remember ministers in the UK were asked
remember ministers in the UK AW IR )
remember ministers in the UK were asked would they sanction
were asked would they sanction 3
were asked would they sanction TR a4
were asked would they sanction is that person? And
were asked would they sanction RO LR RO
were asked would they sanction R G LR N RO AL
is that person? And they and they said they would not speak
they said they would not speak FYe L
they said they would not speak e
they said they would not speak about it in advance.
they said they would not speak Y B L s oI 01 4
they said they would not speak E A AL - 1)
about it in advance. But any IR e el el
about it in advance. But any I et e R ]
billienaire connected with Vladimir Putin knows what is
Vladimir Putin knows what is coming
Vladimir Putin knows what is IR
Vladimir Putin knows what is coming down the track so
coming down the track so N EL
coming down the track so G VARG
coming down the track so presumably the key to it is
presumably the key to it is acting swiftly, before they
acting swiftly, before they have
acting swiftly, before they RE R N o]
acting swiftly, before they YV R Nt E o]
acting swiftly, before they EL R et R
acting swiftly, before they have the chance to move assets
have the chance to move assets around
have the chance to move assets IR
have the chance to move assets around the world? That is
have the chance to move assets IR R AL S ]
around the world? That is one N
around the world? That is one R
around the world? That is one RS
around the world? That is one RGN G R
around the world? That is one of the keys to work,
around the world? That is one R G R -
around the world? That is one of the keys to work, as you
around the world? That is one RGN G R CR L 1 E-CR TR
of the keys to work, as you say but
of the keys to work, as you say )
of the keys to work, as you say IR e s e
of the keys to work, as you say NG 8
of the keys to work, as you say but the other really important
but the other really important thing
but the other really important QIR )
but the other really important thing we need to
but the other really important QIR G R LG
but the other really important thing we need to keep in mind
thing we need to keep in mind 3
thing we need to keep in mind is that,
thing we need to keep in mind R IR
thing we need to keep in mind is that, you know, £150 million
s that, you know, £150 million houses on Mayfair and football
houses on Mayfair and football a1
houses on Mayfair and football AT |
houses on Mayfair and football clubs and yachts, that is the
clubs and yachts, that is the easy stuff
clubs and yachts, that is the AR
clubs and yachts, that is the easy stuff to identify
clubs and yachts, that is the AR AL SNV
easy stuff to identify and e
easy stuff to identify and Y i
easy stuff to identify and e
easy stuff to identify and locate. It is much more
locate. It is much more slailatlid
locate. It is much more difficult to identify the
difficult to identify the WG IT)
difficult to identify the ownership structures through
ownership structures through el
ownership structures through O R G
ownership structures through T R G )
ownership structures through O R G G
ownership structures through RGN R EE
ownership structures through which they hold many of their
which they hold many of their I Y
which they hold many of their YIS - |
which they hold many of their assets and much of
which they hold many of their Y R i R R d
assets and much of their il R
assets and much of their wealth. What we’re talking
wealth. What we’re talking Y0
wealth. What we’re talking LN e
wealth. What we’re talking N
wealth. What we’re talking L e e
wealth. What we’re talking about here are shell companies,
about here are shell companies, foundations, trusts, which are
foundations, trusts, which are e GG
foundations, trusts, which are Y E IR
foundations, trusts, which are established in jurisdictions
established in jurisdictions around
established in jurisdictions IR R e ldls
established in jurisdictions around the world. Within my own
around the world. Within my own organisation, together with our
organisation, together with our partner, we have a list of
partner, we have a list of FYe L
partner, we have a list of about 6000 companies connected
about 6000 companies connected to 40
about 6000 companies connected RN d
about 6000 companies connected to 40 or 50 oligarchs, through
to 40 or 50 oligarchs, through e
to 40 or 50 oligarchs, through R GTG
to 40 or 50 oligarchs, through which, they own their wealth.
which, they own their wealth. Identifying the evidence that
Identifying the evidence that e lan o e
Identifying the evidence that R )
Identifying the evidence that connects these individuals to
connects these individuals to those
connects these individuals to N T
connects these individuals to N AN R
those business interests ultimately is very,
those business interests N G AR AR
ultimately is very, very Sl oL
ultimately is very, very difficult, and that is what
difficult, and that is what governments really need to have
governments really need to have to
governments really need to have nReled
governments really need to have eRa ol
governments really need to have to crack if they want to bear
to crack if they want to bear down on oligarchs. We must
down on oligarchs. We must leave
down on oligarchs. We must e
down on oligarchs. We must e
down on oligarchs. We must leave it there. Thank you so
leave it there. Thank you so much.
I LR RN ETL R D[ @ (s producers has told the BBC
if Russian forces make further
if Russian forces make further
advances, it could prevent them
planting this year’s N NI IR L
That would cause huge food supply implications
for the country GRG0 h
Ukraine is one of the world’s top five wheat exporters.
MHP’s chairman Jehn Rich has been speaking to our
Business Editor Simon Jack about what’s at stake.
The stakes are simple, if
The stakes are simple, If it
The stakes are simple, if it fails in
The stakes are simple, If it fails in preduction and
fails in preduction and distribution,
fails in preduction and IS el Ll P
fails in preduction and IS Gl L =1
fails in preduction and distribution, it has a
distribution, It has a catastrophic effect
distribution, it has a catastrophic effect on the
catastrophic effect on the
1L To] Il {Ta T Ry [ E A
1L To] Il {Ta T Ry [ E ARG
1L To] Il {Ta T Ry [ ability of the Ukrainian
catastrophic effect on the ability of the Ukrainian army
ability of the Ukrainian army to
ability of the Ukrainian army R
ability of the Ukrainian army to feed itself
ability of the Ukrainian army R R ]
ability of the Ukrainian army R R NG R
R TRV R G TS population to
(R LD RV DRG] population to feed
to feed itself and the population to feed itself, and
population to feed itself, and humanitarian aid stops. You are
humanitarian aid stops. You are Y
humanitarian aid stops. You are R I
humanitarian aid stops. You are a massive producer of wheat and
a massive producer of wheat and EIN
a massive producer of wheat and T GI]
a massive producer of wheat and EIM IR
a massive producer of wheat and grain, this is a critical time
S| CIL PR 4 Rl TR iy [ 3
S| CIL PR 4 Rl TR iy [ of year,
S| CIL PR 4 Rl TR iy [ IR 1)
grain, this is a critical time of year, the selling season for
of year, the selling season for )
of year, the selling season for XN
of year, the selling season for N R
of year, the selling season for IR R
of year, the selling season for R R U R T
some of those crops, how i1l
some of those crops, how ot 1)
some of those crops, how ot e R e
some of those crops, how ot e R e
some of those crops, how ot e R R T
critical are the next 2- three Y N
critical are the next 2- three Y IR 11)
critical are the next 2- three weeks, can a
critical are the next 2- three Y I RN
critical are the next 2- three weeks, can a sewing for later
weeks, can a sewing for later on
weeks, can a sewing for later onin
weeks, can a sewing for later R )
weeks, can a sewing for later RLRG Rl
weeks, can a sewing for later ORLRGEREIE
weeks, can a sewing for later on in the year go ahead? At
on in the year go ahead? At present
on in the year go ahead? At ST Y
on in the year go ahead? At present we have the ability to
present we have the ability to )
present we have the ability to so within
present we have the ability to R R )
present we have the ability to so within two or three weeks
so within two or three weeks 4
so within two or three weeks R
so within two or three weeks NEN G
so within two or three weeks but the key issue will be the
but the key issue will be the e e
but the key issue will be the advances of the Russian army
advances of the Russian army and
advances of the Russian army L
advances of the Russian army G
advances of the Russian army I T R )
advances of the Russian army and at present we already have
and at present we already have A
and at present we already have LA
and at present we already have NS
and at present we already have 50% of our land is occupied by
50% of our land is occupied by )
50% of our land is occupied by AR
50% of our land is occupied by the Russian army.
50% of our land is occupied by GEGTEIELE [ A
50% of our land is occupied by GEGUEIELE A R Ol
the Russian army. If this continues,
the Russian army. If this W A PR 0le
the Russian army. If this continues, our ability to be
continues, our ability to be 1
continues, our ability to be )
continues, our ability to be RO
continues, our ability to be able to sow rapidly diminishes,
able to sow rapidly diminishes, particularly if
able to sow rapidly diminishes, EIa I Cl A R T
able to sow rapidly diminishes, particularly if they move into
particularly if they move into G A e
particularly if they move into south-western and
particularly if they move into NG N R )]
south-western and western I
south-western and western Ukraine. And
south-western and western I EI Y R
south-western and western Ukraine. And the implication
Ukraine. And the implication e
Ukraine. And the implication TR
Ukraine. And the implication for that on
Ukraine. And the implication TR R R
Ukraine. And the implication for that on food supplies would
for that on food supplies would [y
for that on food supplies would be what?
for that on food supplies would (TR LAl
for that on food supplies would be what? If you don’t sow
for that on food supplies would be what? If you don’t sow in
be what? If you don’t sow in )
be what? If you don’t sow in Ny
be what? If you don’t sow in e ra
be what? If you don’t sow in N IR
be what? If you don’t sow in IR Y Y
the next 2- three weeks? Basically the complete failure
Basically the complete failure of
Basically the complete failure AN IR
Basically the complete failure GRS R e
Basically the complete failure of Ukraine to produce anything.
of Ukraine to produce anything. I
of Ukraine to produce anything. And the impact on the army and
And the impact on the army and population and wider world?
population and wider world? Unimaginable as far as Ukraine
Unimaginable as far as Ukraine s
Unimaginable as far as Ukraine e na - P
Unimaginable as far as Ukraine is concerned, the
Unimaginable as far as Ukraine R PR G R
Unimaginable as far as Ukraine is concerned, the wider world?
Is concerned, the wider world? Simple. The price of wheat will
Simple. The price of wheat will o e e
Simple. The price of wheat will o e TR
Simple. The price of wheat will continue to rise, the price of
continue to rise, the price of S
continue to rise, the price of TR )
continue to rise, the price of corn, these commodities will
corn, these commodities will Y
corn, these commodities will rise significantly, spiralling
rise significantly, spiralling inflation, as you
rise significantly, spiralling HEL AR TR G
rise significantly, spiralling E AR TR GRS
rise significantly, spiralling inflation, as you know as a
inflation, as you know as a business
inflation, as you know as a IR
inflation, as you know as a business editor, you understand
business editor, you understand vty
business editor, you understand IR 4
business editor, you understand what that means. In
business editor, you understand N RO A R
business editor, you understand what that means. |In the current
what that means. In the current I ale ]
what that means. In the current situation where
what that means. In the current R e
what that means. In the current situation where we already have
situation where we already have 0 I
situation where we already have e I R
situation where we already have problems with supply
situation where we already have G R G R Js A= I
problems with supply chains with
problems with supply chains R
That’s a concern shared by the International Monetary
It’s predicting soaring food
prices will soon start to cause
serious problems around the world, particularly
in developing countries
=R R Yo TV e T (] RN
In the case of food prices in )
In the case of food prices in some parts
In the case of fooed prices in some parts of
In the case of fooed prices in R R RO
In the case of fooed prices in some parts of the world,
some parts of the world, e (Y
some parts of the world, especially for instance in
especially for instance in NI
especially for instance in N[ e
especially for instance in Africa, QC high pastoral but
Africa, QC high pastoral but long-term effect will be in
long-term effect will be in 2023
long-term effect will be in 0 VAR )
long-term effect will be in 2023 because there is a lag and
2023 because there is a lag and that
2023 because there is a lag and GEAANEY
2023 because there is a lag and that may lead to social unrest
that may lead to social unrest 3
that may lead to social unrest in parts
that may lead to social unrest IRl R
that may lead to social unrest in parts of the world. | think
in parts of the world. I think Y
in parts of the world. I think 10
in parts of the world. I think we are in
in parts of the world. | think we are in a period when we have
we are in a period when we have A
we are In a period when we have elevated inflation, there are
elevated inflation, there are a0l ea
elevated inflation, there are e R
elevated inflation, there are AR I
elevated inflation, there are T AR IR T e
countries like the US where those markets
countries like the US where QRN E GO D)
countries like the US where those markets already tight and
those markets already tight and that was
those markets already tight and GEI R )
those markets already tight and that was already putting
that was already putting inflationary pressure to build
inflationary pressure to build up that further. This will be a
up that further. This will be a wE (L
up that further. This will be a challenge for policy makers
challenge for policy makers around
challenge for policy makers IR
challenge for policy makers around the world, both monetary
around the world, both monetary policy in terms of interest
policy in terms of interest i1
policy in terms of interest TR
policy in terms of interest T R N L)
policy in terms of interest TR N LRl
policy in terms of interest rates but also fiscal policy
rates but also fiscal policy T )
rates but also fiscal policy N
rates but also fiscal policy because if you
rates but also fiscal policy TR UL
rates but also fiscal policy VAT B L VEIGCE
rates but also fiscal policy because if you are a major
because if you are a major Tl eh s
because if you are a major important, you
because if you are a major AR NS
because if you are a major important, you have to make
important, you have to make )
important, you have to make sure you
important, you have to make R R L)
important, you have to make sure you have the financing to
sure you have the financing to pay for
sure you have the financing to [EV ARG
sure you have the financing to VARG
sure you have the financing to pay for these very high bills -
pay for these very high bills - - major importer.
David Madden is a market analyst at Equiti Capital.
How long does it take for us to T
How long does it take for us to R
How long does it take for us to A R NS el
How long does it take for us to see the effects of rising
see the effects of rising il
see the effects of rising commodity prices like wheat
commodity prices like wheat filtering through to things
filtering through to things '
filtering through to things like things on supermarket
like things on supermarket AN
like things on supermarket I A e sl
like things on supermarket AN T L G
like things on supermarket shelves? Good morning and as
shelves? Good morning and as )
shelves? Good morning and as N d
shelves? Good morning and as IR L Is
shelves? Good morning and as one of your previous guests
one of your previous guests AR
one of your previous guests mentioned, it may take several
mentioned, it may take several e 4 ]
mentioned, it may take several months so
mentioned, it may take several R R Y
mentioned, it may take several NN R UGN
mentioned, it may take several months so we may not see the
months so we may not see the shock to
months so we may not see the A G R
months so we may not see the shock to the Likes
months so we may not see the AR AR
months so we may not see the AR R R A
months so we may not see the shock to the likes of the price
shock to the likes of the price N
shock to the likes of the price AT ]
shock to the likes of the price of wheat and oil that
shock to the likes of the price MR W NP RGO R Y
shock to the likes of the price of wheat and oil that we have
of wheat and oll that we have L
of wheat and oll that we have ]
RVLEE =R G ELR R R AN
RVLEE =R G ELR R R A LR E e
RVLEE =R G ELR R R A NIRRT
RVLEE =R G ELR R R seen in the last few weeks
seen in the last few weeks filter
seen In the last few weeks filter through properly to
filter through properly to headline CPI
filter through properly to headline CPl numbers for
headline CPI numbers for probably around 3-6,
headline CPl numbers for probably around 3-6, nine
probably around 3-6, nine e e
probably around 3-6, nine months. But
probably around 3-6, nine T R )
probably around 3-6, nine A R N |
probably around 3-6, nine months. But the bad news is
months. But the bad news is ey
months. But the bad news Is 0
months. But the bad news is were already talking about high
were already talking about high levels
were already talking about high RS
were already talking about high PR S A i E s
were already talking about high RS AR E A e s |
were already talking about high levels of inflation and the
levels of inflation and the cost
levels of inflation and the )
levels of inflation and the cost of living crisis was
cost of living crisis was EIE
cost of living crisis was already starting to make
already starting to make headlines arocund
already starting to make headlines around the world,
headlines around the world, )
headlines around the world, TN S )
headlines around the world, TN SR
headlines around the world, even before we had
headlines around the world, NSO R R
headlines around the world, NSO R T RGN AT E
even before we had the Russian invasion of Ukraine and in turn
invasion of Ukraine and in turn Y
invasion of Ukraine and in turn FE El)
invasion of Ukraine and in turn R IR R e
invasion of Ukraine and in turn EEN I B ]
invasion of Ukraine and in turn a sharp shock to the oil market
a sharp shock to the oil market and agricultural commodities
and agricultural commodities such
and agricultural commodities i 1
and agricultural commodities AN LR A
and agricultural commodities such as wheat. The really bad
such as wheat. The really bad news is
such as wheat. The really bad T R 14
such as wheat. The really bad news is that even
such as wheat. The really bad (IR G R ST R G ]
QR G R T R G ]y A GOEN
QR G R T R G ]y yesterday in the US we
news is that even though yesterday in the US we saw
yesterday in the US we saw Y5 T
yesterday in the US we saw headline inflation take
yesterday in the US we saw Y R E A R s R
headline inflation take off Tee I8t
headline inflation take off TS
headline inflation take off T IS R ]
headline inflation take off from 7.5% to 7.9%,
headline inflation take off from 7.5% t0 7.9%, a
headline inflation take off from 7.5% to 7.9%, a new 40
from 7.5% to 7.9%, a new 40 el
from 7.5% to 7.9%, a new 40 year high, the reality is that
year high, the reality is that T
year high, the reality is that has nething
year high, the reality is that has nothing to do with the
has nothing to do with the actual
has nothing to do with the Y I R ne )
has nothing to do with the actual increase with
has nothing to do with the Y I RNt IR i R
has nothing to do with the Y R se eI R R R
actual increase with the likes N
actual increase with the likes AT ]
actual increase with the likes of wheat and corn
actual increase with the likes MR Re 1]
actual increase with the likes AW IR G el
of wheat and corn and natural gas and all that we’ve seen in
gas and all that we’ve seen in )
gas and all that we’ve seen in AR
gas and all that we’ve seen in AR
gas and all that we’ve seen in the last few weeks.
gas and all that we’ve seen in AR R o
gas and all that we’ve seen in the last few weeks. It could
gas and all that we’ve seen in MR N R I TGRS
the last few weeks. It could be e
the last few weeks. It could be several more months,
AT M T R L1 L AL
AT M T R L1 L potentially six
several more months, potentially six months, before
potentially six months, before Y
potentially six months, before T
potentially six months, before we see the
potentially six months, before R GBIl
potentially six months, before we see the impact to headline
we see the impact to headline ol
we see the impact to headline W e )
we see the impact to headline CPl numbers. In which
we see the impact to headline CPI numbers. In which case,
CPl numbers. In which case, vty
CPl numbers. In which case, e
CPl numbers. In which case, what is your
CPI numbers. In which case, what is your take on the effect
what Is your take on the effect N
what Is your take on the effect NEl
what Is your take on the effect of all of
what is your take on the effect N R G
what is your take on the effect N R IR ]
what is your take on the effect of all of this on potential
of all of this on potential R
of all of this on potential M a0
of all of this on potential e R I
of all of this on potential interest rate moves by the
interest rate moves by the ey
interest rate moves by the world’s major central banks? It
world’s major central banks? It 3
world’s major central banks? It is made
world’s major central banks? It T L )
world’s major central banks? It is made the overall situation
s made the overall situation St 1ile1]
Is made the overall situation R e
Is made the overall situation much worse. This already talk
much worse. This already talk of
much worse. This already talk N
much worse. This already talk SR B
much worse. This already talk AN G N e a0
much worse. This already talk NG R e T
of several interest rate hikes Tee I8t
of several interest rate hikes TR AT
of several interest rate hikes RO R G T T
of several interest rate hikes from the Federal reserve, the
from the Federal reserve, the 1
from the Federal reserve, the IR ae:
from the Federal reserve, the IR W14
from the Federal reserve, the IR B G
from the Federal reserve, the US central bank that is,
US central bank that is, keeping in that if
US central bank that Is, keeping in that if inflation
keeping in that if inflation ]
keeping in that if inflation keeps moving higher and quite
keeps moving higher and quite aggressively in
keeps moving higher and quite N VAL RS )
keeps moving higher and quite aggressively in step with
aggressively in step with higher oil and wheat prices,
higher oil and wheat prices, that
higher oil and wheat prices, Ela i
higher oil and wheat prices, that will put more and more
that will put more and more N
that will put more and more JENCR ]
that will put more and more NN
that will put more and more pressure on the Federal reserve
pressure on the Federal reserve and
pressure on the Federal reserve IR e e ]
pressure on the Federal reserve and other central banks to hike
and other central banks to hike e
and other central banks to hike I AR
and other central banks to hike R AR T
and other central banks to hike R R TR N R )
and other central banks to hike R A R N R ]
NCC S ETCIN T R G T [ R
NCC S ETCIN T R G T [ IS
NCC S ETCIN T R G T [ A
interest rates but at the same time, it is also the issue of a
time, it is also the issue of a war
time, it is also the issue of a e )
time, it is also the issue of a war could impact on the major
war could impact on the major negative impact on the overall
negative impact on the overall AN RN
negative impact on the overall European economy and
negative impact on the overall D N U U L R G
European economy and the trickle-down effect of the
trickle-down effect of the global economy. Central banks
global economy. Central banks o[
global economy. Central banks B4
global economy. Central banks R R 1
global economy. Central banks A R e ]
global economy. Central banks e R e el
global economy. Central banks do not want to be in a
global economy. Central banks R N AN ]
ST RTED S RN D R T where they
S AT R CRRT EREIE where they are fighting
L RE T R R R T ] where they are fighting high
where they are fighting high inflation
where they are fighting high R i E A I Ta s
where they are fighting high inflation and at
where they are fighting high RN )
where they are fighting high inflation and at the same time
inflation and at the same time OLLiin
inflation and at the same time running the risk of heightening
running the risk of heightening NI
running the risk of heightening R AR T )
running the risk of heightening interest rates to quickly and
interest rates to quickly and in
interest rates to quickly and TR atla:]
interest rates to quickly and in turn overall impact
interest rates to quickly and ROIOEEC BT T [
in turn overall impact growth. )
in turn overall impact growth. Because hiking
in turn overall impact growth. Y T DR
in turn overall impact growth. TNV QS A EICE S
Because hiking interest rates, e
Because hiking interest rates, o O3
Because hiking interest rates, i <]
Because hiking interest rates, OK, it can put
Because hiking interest rates, O LN i 1
Because hiking interest rates, OK, it can put the brakes on
OK, It can put the brakes on T Elale]
OK, it can put the brakes on inflation but it can also put
inflation but it can also put )
inflation but it can also put R
inflation but it can also put the brakes on growth and
inflation but it can alse put the brakes on growth and you
the brakes on growth and you R4
the brakes on growth and you R =1
the brakes on growth and you R T ]
the brakes on growth and you R N RN
the brakes on growth and you don’t want to be eventually
don’t want to be eventually tackling
don’t want to be eventually tackling the inflation fight on
tackling the inflation fight on )
tackling the inflation fight on one hand
tackling the inflation fight on NN ]
tackling the inflation fight on one hand and then on the other,
one hand and then on the other, I
one hand and then on the other, DRG]
one hand and then on the other, pushing the economy into
pushing the economy into recession. This overall
recession. This overall situation has made
recession. This overall R R LR e |
situation has made central e
situation has made central banks and their Life much
banks and their life much harder.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R N
High hopes -
airlines were planning a comeback after two years
of pandemic disruption.
Will the war mean their ambitions are grounded?
The numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
This, the worst terrorist El el A R Rl
R IRl
In less than 24 hours, then,
the Soviet Union lost an elderly, sick leader
and replaced him with a dynamic figure
20 years his junior.
We heard these gunshots in the gym,
then he came out through a fire exit
and started firing at our huts
and, God, we were all petrified.
James Earl Ray, aged 41, R R R
and due for parole ML R
travelled from Memphis jail to Nashville State Prison
in an eight-car convoy.
REPORTER: Paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
It feels fine, thank you.
What are you going to do now?
Is it going to change your life much, do you think?
| don’t know, really - KT N a T N Est R Sy
New satellite images show the Russian military convoy
heading towards Kyiv has now dispersed
with artillery deployed RRLE N
Moscow requests a meeting of the UN Security Council
after claiming, without evidence, that the US
is developing chemical weapons in Ukraine -
something the Ukrainian L
Here in the UK, average petrol and diesel prices have hit
a new record high.
Soaring oil prices AR e e A et e
since the Russian invasion of Ukraine are now being felt
at the pump and businesses are warning they will have
to start passing on those transport costs to consumers,
as our transport correspondent (E I E -V R g
AT RIS
home Kerry Sharon can clock up s
home Kerry Sharon can clock up R T
home Kerry Sharon can clock up 40 miles a day for work in
home Kerry Sharon can clock up O R LA
40 miles a day for work in her own
40 miles a day for work in her LR
40 miles a day for work in her TR o
40 miles a day for work in her own car. She pays
40 miles a day for work in her R T R T AR s
40 miles a day for work in her own car. She pays for the fuel
own car. She pays for the fuel to get to
own car. She pays for the fuel A
own car. She pays for the fuel R IR
own car. She pays for the fuel to get to her first job of
own car. She pays for the fuel R ST S R R
to get to her first job of the LIaIhLE
to get to her first job of the TGRS
to get to her first job of the morning. The business pays 35p
morning. The business pays 35p i
morning. The business pays 35p R
morning. The business pays 35p per mile for
UG RN R LR AR IR G
UG RN R LR AR RO
UG RN R LR per mile for the rest. But
per mile for the rest. But i)
per mile for the rest. But prices at
per mile for the rest. But I R
per mile for the rest. But prices at the forecourt of got
prices at the forecourt of got Y
prices at the forecourt of got A
prices at the forecourt of got FR TS e e
prices at the forecourt of got R A RS AN
prices at the forecourt of got a lot more expensive. Because
a lot more expensive. Because petrol
a lot more expensive. Because (T
a lot more expensive. Because (SRR
a lot more expensive. Because petrol is rising, |1 am
a lot more expensive. Because SRR T W e d 1o}
VRN L [ AR T T s )
petrol is rising, | am putting more out of
petrol is rising, | am putting NN IR
petrol is rising, | am putting MR R A ]
petrol is rising, | am putting NN R R LG
petrol is rising, | am putting NN R N e G R
more out of my own pocket into 1)
more out of my own pocket into a1
more out of my own pocket into my car. As
more out of my own pocket into AT I GG
more out of my own pocket into LRSI
more out of my own pocket into VRIS 2
more out of my own pocket into my car. As before, it was even.
my car. As before, it was even. So
my car. As before, it was even. R eI
my car. As before, it was even. RIS R R
my car. As before, it was even. So it’s covered it, basically?
So it’s covered it, basically? Yes, but
So it’s covered it, basically? N
So it’s covered it, basically? Yes, but now it does
So it’s covered it, basically? TN A R
Yes, but now it does not. Everything else is going up as
Everything else is going up as ol
Everything else is going up as [
Everything else is going up as well and there
Everything else is going up as LR
Everything else is going up as well and there is nothing like
well and there is nothing lLike coming in
well and there is nothing like I RLES SR
well and there is nothing like coming in extra. Business
coming in extra. Business i)
coming in extra. Business iEI R
coming in extra. Business Sharon works for is trying to
Sharen works for is trying to reduce
Sharon works for is trying to TR
Sharon works for is trying to T R s
Sharon works for is trying to T R )
Sharon works for is trying to T R R 1
Sharon works for is trying to reduce the miles care is Like
reduce the miles care is like e
reduce the miles care is like YN E Y
reduce the miles care is like her have to
reduce the miles care is like YN R lat
reduce the miles care is like R RIS
reduce the miles care is like AR I R LSRG
her have to drive. They are aYihl]
her have to drive. They are R Y]
her have to drive. They are RO LR
her have to drive. They are trying to do is speak to
trying to do is speak to e
trying to do is speak to a0 ]
trying to do is speak to AN Rl
trying to do is speak to Al R e
trying to do is speak to AN R R R e e
clients and tried to shorten )
clients and tried to shorten UL )
clients and tried to shorten U R
clients and tried to shorten the allocated times in
clients and tried to shorten MU R RN
the allocated times in between )
the allocated times in between the rooms
the allocated times in between e R
the allocated times in between the rooms to try to save fuel
the rooms to try to save fuel e
the rooms to try to save fuel O T
the rooms to try to save fuel costs. They are
the rooms to try to save fuel O A LS IR e
the rooms to try to save fuel costs. They are worried about
costs. They are worried about existing care
costs. They are worried about USRI R i
costs. They are worried about USRI R A Y
existing care sector shaft. Shortages getting worse. It
Shortages getting worse. It could
Shortages getting worse. It TR
Shortages getting worse. It could be an impact we carers
could be an impact we carers may think about what they want
may think about what they want to
may think about what they want e s le)
may think about what they want el N1s]
may think about what they want AR
may think about what they want to do in the future, the home
to do in the future, the home e
to do in the future, the home care is
to do in the future, the home IR e
to do in the future, the home care is for them or they can
care is for them or they can Ty
care is for them or they can move on
< ICRER RGN RIS G R E] N iR ee)
< ICRER RGN RIS G R E] RN e
< ICRER RGN RIS G R E] move on to other sectors
care Is for them or they can move on to other sectors which
move on to other sectors which can impact our business and all
can impact our business and all TR I e
can impact our business and all home-care businesses if we are
home-care businesses if we are losing valuable care staff due
losing valuable care staff due to
losing valuable care staff due Ry
losing valuable care staff due to the rising
losing valuable care staff due CRGERR LR
losing valuable care staff due to the rising fuel costs.
to the rising fuel costs. [ rae
to the rising fuel costs. Petrol and
to the rising fuel costs. [N s T
to the rising fuel costs. Petrol and diesel prices at UK
Petrol and diesel prices at UK o1 11e13
Petrol and diesel prices at UK DG
Petrol and diesel prices at UK DG
Petrol and diesel prices at UK D RG]
Petrol and diesel prices at UK DU SRR ]
pumps have it fresh record A
pumps have it fresh record ILLERL
pumps have it fresh record BRI RG T
pumps have it fresh record RGN FIN
pumps have it fresh record RO G LN FI SIS
highs in the past week. W alw-101
highs in the past week. e R
highs in the past week. O R e
highs in the past week. Concerns the war in Ukraine and
Concerns the war in Ukraine and ¥ s ladle e
Concerns the war in Ukraine and ¥ uale s e ls]
Concerns the war in Ukraine and sanctions on Russia
Concerns the war in Ukraine and e D AR e s ]
Concerns the war in Ukraine and sanctions on Russia can affect
NGNGB LR L ) (e )
NGNGB LR L ) (e G RAT]IV
sanctions on Russia can affect RN A3
sanctions on Russia can affect RN ARl
sanctions on Russia can affect the supply of oil have
sanctions on Russia can affect QR R R EN R ]
the supply of oil have helped to push wholesale prices up
to push wholesale prices up further
to push wholesale prices up it el e la]
to push wholesale prices up e a1
to push wholesale prices up further in recent days
to push wholesale prices up G NRCEN A
to push wholesale prices up further in recent days and it’s
further in recent days and it’s G
further in recent days and it’s feeding through
further in recent days and it’s LMD RGICIT R
further in recent days and it’s feeding through to forecourts
feeding through to forecourts TR
feeding through to forecourts here. It’s
feeding through to forecourts T R
feeding through to forecourts RN e
feeding through to forecourts here. It’s the latest squeeze
here. It’s the latest squeeze ]
here. It’s the latest squeeze ]
here. It’s the latest squeeze RN
here. It’s the latest squeeze MR
here. It’s the latest squeeze on the cost of living.
on the cost of living. Inflation is already at
on the cost of living. LT
on the cost of living. Inflation is already at a 30
Inflation Is already at a 30 Crld
Inflation Is already at a 30 CEdTL]
Inflation is already at a 30 year high and energy bills and
year high and energy bills and tax
year high and energy bills and )
year high and energy bills and s TR )
year high and energy bills and tax due to go next month.
tax due to go next month. Businesses want
tax due to go next month. AR R e T
Businesses want increased e
Businesses want increased transport costs mean consumers
transport costs mean censumers T alo )
transport costs mean consumers notice the product leg bye go
notice the product leg bye go up
notice the product leg bye go MR
notice the product leg bye go RO EAN]
notice the product leg bye go R GRS
notice the product leg bye go up further in price migratory
IRV Tl gl Ry T LY this
up further in price migratory this wholesaler supplies food
this wholesaler supplies food and
this wholesaler supplies food Il
this wholesaler supplies food and drinks to schools and
and drinks to schools and N T
and drinks to schools and businesses across the country
businesses across the country and
businesses across the country RIS
businesses across the country GRS TS
businesses across the country and bulk buyers diesel for its
and bulk buyers diesel for its lobbies. Our bill has increased
lobbies. Our bill has increased dramatically this
lobbies. Our bill has increased GG (R GTERTCL
lobbies. Our bill has increased ST ELA (R QR L
dramatically this week, between ten
dramatically this week, between ]
dramatically this week, between ten and £15,000, and the
ten and £15,000, and the RTee )
ten and £15,000, and the increase cannot
ten and £15,000, and the IRTae I el o)
ten and £15,000, and the increase cannot be absorbed by
increase cannot be absorbed by TH
increase cannot be absorbed by us. We have to look at ways to
us. We have to look at ways to IS
us. We have to look at ways to pass it on to our customers.
pass it on to our customers. el
pass it on to our customers. Food and
pass it on to our customers. T sEs el e
pass it on to our customers. Food and drink will
pass it on to our customers. ARl LR e Yo a1
pass it on to our customers. Food and drink will become more
Food and drink will become more expensive,
Food and drink will become more SN
Food and drink will become more expensive, not only at home but
expensive, not only at home but e
expensive, not only at home but T
expensive, not only at home but NE A
expensive, not only at home but NE A
expensive, not only at home but a1 TR ety
expensive, not only at home but NE A LR e R e
out of home. The institute for T
out of home. The Institute for T R TI
out of home. The Institute for NS OGIEETEV
out of home. The Institute for N B OGRS
fiscal studies says the Chancellor
fiscal studies says the (LR il
fiscal studies says the Chancellor will have to decide
Chancellor will have to decide S a1 e
Chancellor will have to decide Y AT ]
Chancellor will have to decide whether to do
Chancellor will have to decide RO R e
Chancellor will have to decide whether to do more to protect
whether to do more to protect a3
whether to do more to protect households from
whether to do more to protect i CRie R )
whether to do more to protect households from the effects of
households from the effects of fh]
households from the effects of rising energy
households from the effects of (LAY
households from the effects of rising energy prices at
households from the effects of (LG R 1)
rising energy prices at the spring
L GEEIG R A G T spring statement. The
rising energy prices at the spring statement. The Treasury
spring statement. The Treasury 10
spring statement. The Treasury IR
spring statement. The Treasury RGN 7T
spring statement. The Treasury said the government was already
said the government was already providing £20 billion to help
providing £20 billion to help )
providing £20 billion to help N
providing £20 billion to help G A BT
providing £20 billion to help the of living. Sharon will
the of living. Sharon will 1
the of living. Sharon will carry on
the of living. Sharon will I AL N
the of living. Sharon will carry on doing the job she
carry on doing the job she N
carry on doing the job she Yl s
carry on doing the job she loves but finds
carry on doing the job she R T LRI o]
carry on doing the job she loves but finds filling up is
loves but finds filling up is XM
loves but finds filling up is LEVHL
loves but finds filling up is XL Y RYEITE
loves but finds filling up is leaving her wallet increasingly
leaving her wallet increasingly Julay’A
Katy Austin, BBC News.
IR RG
Let’s turn to the aviation industry.
Airline bosses had high hopes TV PR A RN e (o]
of huge pent-up demand from travellers after two years
of disruption NI R EL
Now, they have been hit by another major challenge
with the war in Ukraine - soaring fuel prices,
longer and costlier flights as airliners re-route avoid
Russian and Ukrainian airspace, and a major question mark over
whether demand for travel will stand up as the war pushes
up living costs.
John Grant is an independent EN LGRS
What can be airlines do, If iR
What can be airlines do, If anything, to
What can be airlines do, if anything, to cope
What can be airlines do, if VO PR GR T LRY1]
What can be airlines do, If VG AR G ERY R I
anything, to cope with these RTee eIl
anything, to cope with these increased costs
anything, to cope with these N R RO AL
anything, to cope with these increased costs they’re seeing
increased costs they’re seeing Tee I8t
increased costs they’re seeing TR
increased costs they’re seeing from the increased
increased costs they’re seeing TR e LR
increased costs they’re seeing from the increased fuel prices?
from the increased fuel prices? Good morning.
from the increased fuel prices? LR TG AR T
from the increased fuel prices? Good morning. The first thing
LG DAL Rl a4l s
LG DAL Rl a4l is some
LGN E GRS e Gl is some of the
LGN E GRS e Gl TR N AT
LGN E GRS e Gl TR N ARG R )
s some of the airlines have hedged so
s some of the airlines have LR R G
s some of the airlines have LB R R G
s some of the airlines have hedged so they are going into
hedged so they are going into this
hedged so they are going into IR etlae a4
hedged so they are going into this current situation with a
this current situation with a large proportion of their fuel
large proportion of their fuel Jele)
large proportion of their fuel eI ]
large proportion of their fuel price protected and guaranteed,
price protected and guaranteed, and
price protected and guaranteed, LR Gy
price protected and guaranteed, and that’s good for some. But
and that’s good for some. But probably for us as consumers,
probably for us as consumers, )
probably for us as consumers, G EL R ]
probably for us as consumers, the unpalatable side of this is
the unpalatable side of this is going to be
the unpalatable side of this is LRGN LR GRS
the unpalatable side of this is LR LR G E R
the unpalatable side of this is going to be that we may well
going to be that we may well T
going to be that we may well see significant
going to be that we may well X3l Al
going to be that we may well see significant increases in
see significant increases in EIe
see significant increases in EI T
see significant increases in TR Y
see significant increases in TR N
see significant increases in fares as we head into
see significant increases in TR IR N TR R
fares as we head into the e
fares as we head into the summer season
fares as we head into the AR N )
fares as we head into the summer season because they are
summer season because they are going to pass these fuel
going to pass these fuel I (a FIO[
going to pass these fuel surcharges through to us and
surcharges through to us and il
surcharges through to us and I E3I=1ad
surcharges through to us and will start doing it pretty
will start doing it pretty quickly.
will start doing it pretty T[4 A
will start doing it pretty quickly. Do you think
LI ETgd [ To M 30 quickly. Do you think they,
quickly. Do you think they, Rl
quickly. Do you think they, Bl |
quickly. Do you think they, dare | say it, looking for some
dare | say it, looking for some "l
dare | say it, looking for some R
dare | say it, looking for some kind of glimmer of hope and
kind of glimmer of hope and Wi
kind of glimmer of hope and optimism in all of this,
kind of glimmer of hope and ISR R R GG
kind of glimmer of hope and optimism in all of this, do you
optimism in all of this, do you think
optimism in all of this, do you s
optimism in all of this, do you think it could perhaps prompt
think it could perhaps prompt ERe
think it could perhaps prompt faster development of more
faster development of more I ST
faster development of more fuel-efficient engines and
fuel-efficient engines and technologies? | don’t think so.
NG XIS G118 e
technologies? | don’t think so. The evolution of that type of
The evolution of that type of technology
The evolution of that type of Y T G
The evolution of that type of technology is probably
The evolution of that type of I T G AT TG EL TR
The evolution of that type of technology is probably still a
technology Is probably still a decade
technology Is probably still a Ve L
technology Is probably still a Ve A S
technology Is probably still a decade away before we will
technology is probably still a decade away before we will have
decade away before we will have enough sustainable fuel around
enough sustainable fuel around )
enough sustainable fuel around the world, which is
enough sustainable fuel around R PR L R T
enough sustainable fuel around the world, which is one of
enough sustainable fuel around R PR T R N R R
the world, which is one of the things that we are obviously
things that we are obviously 1R
things that we are obviously E{ I ETY ]
things that we are obviously all looking for,
things that we are obviously EIINGL LR i
things that we are obviously EIINGL LR T
things that we are obviously all looking for, but I think
all looking for, but I think S0
all looking for, but I think beyond that, the industry has
beyond that, the industry has )
beyond that, the industry has ]
beyond that, the industry has done a great job of
S LN RIS technological
I LN R N technological advancement.
technological advancement. We’ve got carbon fibre
We’ve got carbon fibre aircraft, you know,
UERTG M1l B {L]f EAC P L TR PR
UERTG M1l B {L]f aircraft, you know, they are
aircraft, you know, they are lighter
aircraft, you know, they are LGS
aircraft, you know, they are IR GG
aircraft, you know, they are lighter to operate, we have
lighter to operate, we have )
lighter to operate, we have IRV
lighter to operate, we have R VAL
lighter to operate, we have some really efficient engines
some really efficient engines producing
some really efficient engines LTl P
some really efficient engines producing 20% more performance
producing 20% more performance e
producing 20% more performance TR
producing 20% more performance for the operators.
producing 20% more performance R R I I i
producing 20% more performance for the operators. But | think
for the operators. But I think ]
for the operators. But I think L)
for the operators. But I think you are right,
for the operators. But | think you are right, we should not
you are right, we should not 4
you are right, we should not MR
you are right, we should not AT
you are right, we should not get too hung up, you know? This
get too hung up, you know? This s
get too hung up, you know? This is not
get too hung up, you know? This L
get too hung up, you know? This IR T
get too hung up, you know? This is not good news for the
is not good news for the R )
is not good news for the G RIS s
is not good news for the airline industry but
is not good news for the GRS (A TS
is not good news for the airline industry but we do have
airline industry but we do have %1\
airline industry but we do have really strong, pent-up demand.
really strong, pent-up demand. )
really strong, pent-up demand. I )
really strong, pent-up demand. There are alternative welts
There are alternative welts that
There are alternative welts WEIR e )
There are alternative welts that take us away from these
that take us away from these I YTy
that take us away from these Y1
that take us away from these areas of conflict and yes, they
areas of conflict and yes, they )
areas of conflict and yes, they do add every 15-45 minutes to a
do add every 15-45 minutes to a Tt
do add every 15-45 minutes to a flight time -- routes. The
flight time -- routes. The demand
flight time -- routes. The iR
flight time -- routes. The I R
flight time -- routes. The demand is so strong this
demand is so strong this summer, Australia has
demand is so strong this R VR R E R UG R
summer, Australia has reopened, e
summer, Australia has reopened, A
summer, Australia has reopened, AN
summer, Australia has reopened, QA R Rl
summer, Australia has reopened, there’s lots of family trouble
there’s lots of family trouble going back
QIR NG R E T TR T going back and forth, so |
going back and forth, so | think
going back and forth, so | RS
going back and forth, so | i e
going back and forth, so | e Rl
going back and forth, so | think there is still a lot to
think there is still a lot to )
think there is still a lot to R LT
think there is still a lot to R LR 101
think there is still a lot to R N =L )
think there is still a lot to R R LR
think there is still a lot to be positive about and the war
be positive about and the war s
be positive about and the war %)
be positive about and the war is a frustration, we don’t need
s a frustration, we don’t need it
s a frustration, we don’t need 1 Ite
s a frustration, we don’t need TP TR
s a frustration, we don’t need I Rl
s a frustration, we don’t need TR R L R L)
s a frustration, we don’t need IR R B R
it, but we will survive and a4
it, but we will survive and g
it, but we will survive and I A
it, but we will survive and work our way through it’s like
work our way through it’s like )
work our way through it’s like N
work our way through it’s like G ERL i
work our way through it’s like ORI RIS
the airline industry always Al
the airline industry always does. You mention the rerouting
does. You mention the rerouting and Russian
does. You mention the rerouting U E R
does. You mention the rerouting and Russian airspace being
and Russian airspace being )
and Russian airspace being A |
and Russian airspace being AL
and Russian airspace being AR
and Russian airspace being AT ST
and Russian airspace being closed and it is a huge area
closed and it is a huge area that airlines
closed and it is a huge area RN
closed and it is a huge area that airlines now cannot fly
that airlines now cannot fly IR
that airlines now cannot fly through, Western airlines, so
through, Western airlines, so to
through, Western airlines, so R e
through, Western airlines, so to what extent
through, Western airlines, so R IR R T s [
through, Western airlines, so to what extent does that
through, Western airlines, so R RIS L R R i s
to what extent does that affect R
to what extent does that affect them, given
to what extent does that affect G Y R 1)
to what extent does that affect G A R G R EN
to what extent does that affect them, given the travel between
them, given the travel between (0[]
them, given the travel between N
them, given the travel between L. GE)
them, given the travel between Europe and Asia is fairly
Europe and Asia is fairly M
Europe and Asia is fairly limited because of the pandemic
limited because of the pandemic N EN
limited because of the pandemic anyway with the restrictions
anyway with the restrictions Py
anyway with the restrictions il
anyway with the restrictions N (R
anyway with the restrictions are still in place in China and
are still in place in China and Japan? It’s an inconvenience,
Japan? It’s an inconvenience, and as |
Japan? It’s an inconvenience, FL AT
Japan? It’s an inconvenience, and as | say it’s about 15-45
and as | say it’s about 15-45 Ty
and as | say it’s about 15-45 minutes on a routeing
and as | say it’s about 15-45 LR ERG LR
minutes on a routeing but remember, flying over Russian
remember, flying over Russian EHE Loy
remember, flying over Russian airspace was extremely
airspace was extremely SOV
airspace was extremely expensive, the most expensive
expensive, the most expensive EHE Loy
expensive, the most expensive airspace to fly over in
expensive, the most expensive S El R R AN LR
airspace to fly over in the i
airspace to fly over in the eI
airspace to fly over in the e MR LN A
airspace to fly over in the world. The Russians were, quite
world. The Russians were, quite frankly, abusing their
frankly, abusing their RGN
frankly, abusing their privilege of that piece of
privilege of that piece of land. By flying
privilege of that piece of ELLISA (VLG
privilege of that piece of land. By flying on a southerly
land. By flying on a southerly NG
land. By flying on a southerly routeing, the
land. By flying on a southerly NG LPARGEECY
land. By flying on a southerly (NGRS
land. By flying on a southerly routeing, the en route charges
routeing, the en route charges and navigation charges are
and navigation charges are S (A3
and navigation charges are slightly less so it’s not of
slightly less so it’s not of EJ ]
slightly less so it’s not of EI e L
slightly less so it’s not of SR G EI R
slightly less so it’s not of approved Kwaio Pro, we end up
approved Kwaio Pro, we end up 3
approved Kwaio Pro, we end up ina
approved Kwaio Pro, we end up in asituation
approved Kwaio Pro, we end up R [ R
approved Kwaio Pro, we end up in a situation of a slightly
in a situation of a slightly LGl
in a situation of a slightly longer journey time, but
LR OE L R RSN a1V longer journey time, but the en
longer journey time, but the en route charges will
longer journey time, but the en (NN ETG IR (T
longer journey time, but the en route charges will be quite
route charges will be quite significantly lower -- quid
VN TG [ L T significantly lower -- quid pro
SJONTHIELTGRT gl V[l (v N
SJONTHIELTGRT gl V[l (v pro. But to
significantly lower -- quid pro pro. But to those
significantly lower -- quid pro O R R TR =
significantly lower -- quid pro pro. But to those carriers but
pro. But to those carriers but Py
pro. But to those carriers but are still -- that’s for those
are still -- that’s for those = lee e
are still -- that’s for those e el
are still -- that’s for those carriers still operating on the
carriers still operating on the part of the world. People
part of the world. People T
part of the world. People booking their summer holidays
booking their summer holidays il
booking their summer holidays IR
booking their summer holidays R E R ]
booking their summer holidays will have to pay more?
will have to pay more? Potentially. I’ve
will have to pay more? I E A R T
will have to pay more? Potentially. I’ve said for some
Potentially. I’ve said for some S i)
Potentially. I’ve said for some g
Potentially. I’ve said for some AR Ao 4
Potentially. I’ve said for some time now book early
Potentially. I’ve said for some A AL
Potentially. I’ve said for some W TR T EE L LG
Potentially. I’ve said for some time now book early and get in
time now book early and get in )
time now book early and get in N
time now book early and get in O DR L
time now book early and get in there because prices were going
there because prices were going to
there because prices were going AN
there because prices were going RN TR
there because prices were going RIS TS )Y
there because prices were going to increase just by nature of
to increase just by nature of )
to increase just by nature of the demands
to increase just by nature of M MR
to increase just by nature of the demands that we are going
the demands that we are going to
the demands that we are going R}
the demands that we are going RN e
the demands that we are going RN R ik
the demands that we are going R N R R
the demands that we are going to see but with the surcharge
to see but with the surcharge (N
to see but with the surcharge being added, the airfare will
being added, the airfare will o
being added, the airfare will YT
being added, the airfare will XTI
being added, the airfare will AN G S
being added, the airfare will go up. And look around
being added, the airfare will -SRI TG LR ()
being added, the airfare will go up. And look around for the
go up. And look around for the bargain. There will still be
bargain. There will still be )
bargain. There will still be some bargains out there, there
some bargains out there, there Py
some bargains out there, there CICR o (Y108
some bargains out there, there are still empty seats
are still empty seats available, people have to
available, people have to realise
available, people have to R
available, people have to realise the longer they leave
realise the longer they leave it
realise the longer they leave TR 1)
realise the longer they leave IR GRS
realise the longer they leave 1R RN RGN
realise the longer they leave IR G A L C VAU
realise the longer they leave it, the more likely they are to
it, the more likely they are to have
it, the more likely they are to R
it, the more likely they are to have the fuel surcharge slapped
have the fuel surcharge slapped ]
have the fuel surcharge slapped R d
have the fuel surcharge slapped RO el
have the fuel surcharge slapped MR CIC
have the fuel surcharge slapped on their airfare. OK, John,
on their airfare. OK, John, thank you very much. John
thank you very much. John & A
Let’s see how the Asian markets are faring today.
Asian shares extended a global slump on Friday
after the fastest US inflation in four decades bolstered
expectations for more aggressive rate hikes,
and as Chinese equity markets slumped over regqulatory
concerns of US-listed mainland firms.
You can reach me on Twitter.
M R L N
Think you very
LG LS R s A ey
LG LS DR A Ve B (]
Think you very much for watching.
Think you very much for Yo T P R
Think you very much for watching. | will see you soon.
watching. | will see you soon. LIS
-- thank you very much for watching.
The last couple of days, the weather really has
been quite good.
Beautiful, sunny skies for some of us - particularly
across eastern parts of the UK - but things
are going to turn now.
The cloud you can see on the satellite picture
LR Tele ] R ITs ]
It means rain, wind and, really, that’s how it’ll be
over the next few days.
So through the early hours of the morning,
the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts
Even ahead of it, we have some rain across Scotland and parts
of England but, generally speaking, it is a dry night
and early morning.
Very, very mild - 8-10 degrees in many areas.
Then quickly through the morning, the rain becomes
quite heavy in south-western parts of England, through
Wales, the Midlands.
The rain will reach Wales and eventually south-western
Scotland, too, and through the afternoon, | think
many of us will have L Al NI
Now, through the afternoon or so, it’ll brighten up
across Wales and south-western parts of England.
Sunshine and showers here second half of the day.
There could be some QTG I PR L R e R T R )
of that, the winds will strengthen.
But you can see it across A R AR I
bag, I think, through Friday and into Friday night.
Now, Saturday, we see another area of low pressure
with new fronts approaching us.
This, once again, spells heavy rain, initially for western
parts of the UK, but in the south-west, as this low
pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it
- and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around
the Isles of Scilly and the tip of Cornwall, so really very
blustery, even quite stormy S R e
But elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on Saturday,
look at that, Newcastle, Hull, London - fine, sunshine.
Breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
And then come Sunday, that low pressure really
spreads across the country.
It’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some
of the coasts, but there will be plenty of sunny spells
occasionally interrupted by some heavy showers brought
in by those strong winds.
So, yes, there’ll be some sunshine around
through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds
around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering
around 12 degrees or so.
Well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even
as high as 17 or 18 Celsius, at least temporarily,
in south-western parts of the UK, so the southerly
winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
The country’s biggest W LR R e &
AL This is an audition round.
It’s pressure! i eI
Whoa! Steam up!
A really good-looking dish.
LR T A R LT there’s talent, then there’s talent.
We may have the MasterChef winner L ECE LA
It’s time to come together to change lives with an amazing
night of comedy.
Have a round with Jack Whitehall.
While French and Saunders and Dame G IR AL E UL
for the most star-studded Red Nose Day ever.
You have the power to change lives.
Join us for...
# Take my hand now
# Won’t you follow me?
# What is it you see? #
THUNDER RU
DAVID ATTENBOROUGH: Return to a world of power struggles
..where only the strongest create a lasting legacy.
SIRENS WAIL | want to be a good bobby.
AR
It’s important work.
Except the moles wear trackies.
What brings you to Port Devine?
YELLING AND CRASHING
Looking for clues, Sgt?
We’ll send over our best undercover man. Oh, yes, good idea.
Has he discovered your secret?
I’ll show you the inside of a cell in a minute. Och! Ogh!
# | know you’re dying trying to find me out... #
Your favourite detectives are on the Iy
That’s what | signed up for.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Charlie Stayt
and Naga Munchetty.
Our headlines today...
Growing international concern that Russia is on the verge
of using chemical weapons in Ukraine, as Boris Johnson accuses
the Kremlin coming up with fake SR GRS GAG N
Reports of blasts in two Ukrainian cities -
Lutsk and Dnipro - that hadn’t seen any
shelling in the war so far.
New plans to help those fleeing the fighting.
The Government is drawing up a scheme to allow Ukrainian refugees
We want to try to go to London T AR RN B G
daughter are here.
We want to try.
A new
Wl A=l
A new centre opens today designed to |
A new centre opens today designed to IR
A new centre opens today designed to speed up and
A new centre opens today designed to L 113
A new centre opens today designed to speed up and simplify that these are
speed up and simplify that these are o]
speed up and simplify that these are TR
speed up and simplify that these are (T R R
speed up and simplify that these are processed for those in need.
Factoring in fuel hikes - when your job depends on it.
As prices continue to break records, we speak to people who have
to drive for a living - and ask how they’re coping,
and how long this might last.
As the Government seize S RO A A
owner Roman Abramovich, could this spell the end
of the glory years?
Two
Two bands of rain across
IR R RGNt R I
Two bands of rain across us at the moment.
Two bands of rain across us at the T o]
Two bands of rain across us at the R N ]
Two bands of rain across us at the moment. In between sunshine
Two bands of rain across us at the I R NI e R s
moment. In between sunshine with they
moment. In between sunshine with QA R
moment. In between sunshine with O A A R A S
moment. In between sunshine with they view showers. Wherever you are
they view showers. Wherever you are 3
they view showers. Wherever you are s
they view showers. Wherever you are (L
they view showers. Wherever you are it is going to be windy. -- with a
it is going to be windy. -- with a view
it is going to be windy. -- with a R e
it is going to be windy. -- with a SRy el
it is going to be windy. -- with a R e UEGT
it is going to be windy. -- with a R e R E
it is going to be windy. -- with a view showers. All the details in
it is going to be windy. -- with a N R e R S AR R G
ST G ER S EN O R programme.
AR e E ) T el L g
Fears are growing this morning that Russia could be planning to use
chemical weapons in Ukraine.
Britain and the US have accused President Putin of trying
to concoct a fake story to justify carrying out a possible attack,
such as claiming America has been SN E G L
weapons for Ukraine.
Meanwhile, there have been reports of blasts overnight in two cities
which until now had avoided direct shelling - Lutsk in the north west
and Dnipro in the south east.
Jon Donnison reports.
This is what is left of Ukraine X e sy
This is what is left of Ukraine YN KRV A
This is what is left of Ukraine N R A GO
This is what is left of Ukraine second’s city, Kharkiv, once
This is what is left of Ukraine second’s city, Kharkiv, once home to
second’s city, Kharkiv, once home to e
second’s city, Kharkiv, once home to Rt R s1s]
second’s city, Kharkiv, once home to more than 1
second’s city, Kharkiv, once home to R e R el B e T HYe]
second’s city, Kharkiv, once home to more than 1 million people. For two
more than 1 million people. For two YN
more than 1 million people. For two Y 4
more than 1 million people. For two weeks it has been
more than 1 million people. For two N R O E N U R L
more than 1 million people. For two weeks it has been pounded by the
weeks it has been pounded by the AL
weeks it has been pounded by the Russian military, whose forces
Russian military, whose forces o e e
Russian military, whose forces o e TR
Russian military, whose forces continue to lay siege. Russia has
continue to lay siege. Russia has EIE
continue to lay siege. Russia has already bombed hospitals, so here
already bombed hospitals, so here )
already bombed hospitals, so here R ]
already bombed hospitals, so here MR LY
already bombed hospitals, so here ORI LG
already bombed hospitals, so here the wounded are kept in corridors,
the wounded are kept in corridors, LN
the wounded are kept in corridors, VAT )
the wounded are kept in corridors, VR R
the wounded are kept in corridors, away from the windows, including
away from the windows, including this woman who has been hit by
this woman who has been hit by shrapnel.
this woman who has been hit by A G
this woman who has been hit by shrapnel. The stupid Russian
shrapnel. The stupid Russian IE R
shrapnel. The stupid Russian shrapnel pieces
shrapnel. The stupid Russian e RN
shrapnel. The stupid Russian shrapnel pieces | will carry
shrapnel. The stupid Russian e ARG =GR
shrapnel. The stupid Russian shrapnel pieces | will carry all my
shrapnel pieces I will carry all my B
shrapnel pieces I will carry all my B
shrapnel pieces I will carry all my G
shrapnel pieces I will carry all my L WLES
shrapnel pieces | will carry all my GG ELNY
shrapnel pieces | will carry all my life. As long as my heart still
life. As long as my heart still 1
life. As long as my heart still r|
life. As long as my heart still beats, | will still
life. As long as my heart still R S S
life. As long as my heart still beats, | will still live and love.
beats, | will still live and love. %14
beats, | will still Live and love. TR
beats, | will still Live and love. Near the capital Kyiv,
beats, | will still Live and love. NEETR G R o1 W T 1)
beats, | will still live and love. Near the capital Kyiv, the fighting
Near the capital Kyiv, the fighting s edging
Near the capital Kyiv, the fighting XL R IIE
Near the capital Kyiv, the fighting is edging closer, but
Near the capital Kyiv, the fighting XL R TT & 1 1Y
Near the capital Kyiv, the fighting is edging closer, but the Russians
is edging closer, but the Russians Py
is edging closer, but the Russians are meeting stiff resistance stop
are meeting stiff resistance stop this video released by the Ukrainian
this video released by the Ukrainian G E1sY
this video released by the Ukrainian military shows a convoy of Russian
military shows a convoy of Russian =
military shows a convoy of Russian tanks being destroyed to the east of
tanks being destroyed to the east of )
tanks being destroyed to the east of R
tanks being destroyed to the east of the city. In
tanks being destroyed to the east of R ARG
tanks being destroyed to the east of the city. In the towns north of Kyiv
the city. In the towns north of Kyiv e )
the city. In the towns north of Kyiv e B e
the city. In the towns north of Kyiv more and more people feel they have
more and more people feel they have )
more and more people feel they have Nt
more and more people feel they have no choice but
more and more people feel they have R e N T ]
more and more people feel they have no choice but to get out. In the
no choice but to get out. In the i
no choice but to get out. In the capital itself,
no choice but to get out. In the (1 W T VR
no choice but to get out. In the 1 W R G RN E) S
no choice but to get out. In the capital itself, the mayor estimates
capital itself, the mayor estimates 2 million,
capital itself, the mayor estimates R U TN
capital itself, the mayor estimates 2 million, half the population,
capital itself, the mayor estimates 2 million, half the populatien, have
2 million, half the population, have ]
2 million, half the population, have now fled
2 million, half the populatien, have now fled their homes. The
2 million, half the populatien, have T Rl LE G e LR s
2 million, half the populatien, have T R LR LR Y
now fled their homes. The fear Is vty
now fled their homes. The fear Is e k]
now fled their homes. The fear Is what Russia will
now fled their homes. The fear Is T AR )
now fled their homes. The fear Is what Russia will do next. A week
now fled their homes. The fear is what Russia will do next. A week ago
what Russia will do next. A week ago 1R
what Russia will do next. A week ago IRy
what Russia will do next. A week ago IR R IR A
what Russia will do next. A week ago IR R IR E LN
what Russia will do next. A week ago all the talk was of this
what Russia will do next. A week ago ClIR G R E LRI RO T[S
all the talk was of this huge Russian military convoy stretched
Russian military convoy stretched e
Russian military convoy stretched out north
Russian military convoy stretched et )
Russian military convoy stretched out north of Kyiv.
Russian military convoy stretched N U R RS
Russian military convoy stretched out north of Kyiv. New satellite
out north of Kyiv. New satellite images show it has dispersed. The
images show it has dispersed. The guestion,
iImages show it has dispersed. The question, whether there is now an
question, whether there is now an Elay]od
question, whether there is now an L ] ()
question, whether there is now an ELC [ R R eI )
question, whether there is now an attempt to encircle the capital.
attempt to encircle the capital. Speaking again from his office, the
Speaking again from his office, the Ukrainian president remained defiant
Ukrainian president remained defiant e
Ukrainian president remained defiant NIV
Ukrainian president remained defiant but ready and
Ukrainian president remained defiant NI L)
Ukrainian president remained defiant NN R
Ukrainian president remained defiant but ready and no doubts about the
but ready and no doubts about the N
but ready and no doubts about the R
but ready and no doubts about the NN AR B
but ready and no doubts about the enemy was capable of. We are decent
enemy was capable of. We are decent ]
enemy was capable of. We are decent people, | am the president of a
people, | am the president of a (e 1e 4
people, | am the president of a W R T
people, | am the president of a decent country, a decent nation and
decent country, a decent nation and )
decent country, a decent nation and U REhe
decent country, a decent nation and R )
decent country, a decent nation and R e ]
decent country, a decent nation and RN E SR RGIe
decent country, a decent nation and the father of two children. No
the father of two children. No chemical weapons or any other
chemical weapons or any other T
chemical weapons or any other XL IR
chemical weapons or any other R A
chemical weapons or any other weapons of mass destruction were
weapons of mass destruction were developed
weapons of mass destruction were VG R
weapons of mass destruction were e R N1
weapons of mass destruction were developed on my land, the whole
developed on my land, the whole el )
developed on my land, the whole world knows that, you know that and
world knows that, you know that and if
world knows that, you know that and LA
world knows that, you know that and if you do something like that
if you do something like that against us you will get the most
against us you will get the most severe
against us you will get the most AN el e
against us you will get the most severe sanctions response. As the
severe sanctions response. As the fighting continues, a
severe sanctions response. As the BRI BT BT
fighting continues, a similar warning about chemical weapons from
warning about chemical weapons from )
warning about chemical weapons from N el
warning about chemical weapons from RN IR e
warning about chemical weapons from the Prime Minister here. The
warning about chemical weapons from RN IR e LT R
the Prime Minister here. The stuff you
the Prime Minister here. The stuff T
the Prime Minister here. The stuff you are hearing about clinical
you are hearing about clinical T
you are hearing about clinical weapons is straight out of their
weapons is straight out of their playbook. They start saying there
playbook. They start saying there Py
playbook. They start saying there are chemical
playbook. They start saying there E IR R CE P I
playbook. They start saying there are chemical weapons that have been
are chemical weapons that have been R

Citation: BBC News, 01:45 11/03/2022, BBC1 London, 255 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BF08007?bcast=136416095 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)