Good morning! It’s Radio 1 Breakfast G RETCLRET
| like listening to Greg FIE RS VA
MUSIC: Sweet Talker by Years & Years and Galantis
SHOUTING: | like listening to Greg IRl
| take the long route to work!
| like listening while teaching my stepdaughter to drive.
# You made me believe... #
While being there for Stephanie.
# Every lie was a beautiful sound. .. #
I}
Hi.
How do you like your Greg RGO LK
It’s all right - I’m on the radio.
# Where are you, where are you now, sweet talker? #
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again, will be rather high,
but maybe not quite as high across England and Wales
Now, that rain will clear away TR RN R LR
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
it’ll be a fresher night to come for Wednesday night,
with temperatures down into single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday, then, shows more
weather fronts affecting OO E I RO
so again, It’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier NG
So, best of the sunshine for England and Wales
throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures
will begin to rise.
More cloud, though, for northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland - there’s the northwest
of Scotland, which will see AR RGN NG I L
G RS G DI o R G R L
After that cool start, temperatures will reach
highs of 14-19 Celsius e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers
and blustery conditions across the north of the UK, but
as we head into the weekend, this area of high pressure
begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers Pl R U I
Y CTaE LR T )2
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but alse some heavy showers in the south.
Welcome to Newsday, reporting live from Singapore.
Marike O].
Sri Lanka brings in new shoot-on-sight orders to try
and quell protests calling for the president to step down.
Once again, Russia targets the crucial port city of Odesa
with missile strikes hitting a shopping centre.
Last night where we were here e
Last night where we were here it was difficult to see
Last night where we were here TR LR il RO R R
it was difficult to see the full
it was difficult to see the NS -
it was difficult to see the NS e
it was difficult to see the NS R R
it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage but
full extent of the damage but I
full extent of the damage but this morning you can. The
this morning you can. The e i E
this morning you can. The rocket has completely ripped
rocket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping
into the back of the shopping g}
into the back of the shopping T
into the back of the shopping I L]
into the back of the shopping SR TR
into the back of the shopping centre here, you can see it has
centre here, you can see it has SN
centre here, you can see it has completely folded.
Pomp, pageantry, but ne Queen.
The Prince of Wales stands in for his mother for the first
time at the State Opening of Parliament.
And Vardy versus Rooney,
but this time in the High Court.
The so-called Wagatha Christie EI T L TR
Live from our studio in Singapore, this is BBC News.
It’s Newsday.
It’s 8:00am in the morning in Singapore,
and 5.30am in Sri Lanka, where security forces have been
ordered to shoot anyone seen looting
or damaging public property,
in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
Since last month, QR A N U L G
G N L DO g soaring prices, power cuts
Demonstrators are calling for the resignation
of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.
His brother, Mahinda Rajapaksa, stepped down as Prime Minister
on Monday following violent street clashes.
Protesters have defied an island-wide curfew
and at least eight people have died and 200 have been injured,
as our correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan
reports from Colombo.
A capital under curfew.
Troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public
property or threatens lives.
The skeletons of a bustling city
scorched by an economic crisis.
Reeling after a day SRR
Yesterday, supporters RGN R IR e
anti-government protesters, who until that point had been
peacefully demonstrating.
At the city’s main hospital, more
than 200 have been wounded, NI A R LU R
This man fractured his leg after a tear gas
canister landed on It.
War veterans Yigit and Assuncao are out of hospital.
Men who lost their legs in mines
VL INTR R &R civil war say
they were beaten up by the very people they made
sacrifices for.
"They started punching me.
| was left with only one crutch.
They pushed me and | fell.”
"When we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
Now we’re being attacked.”
With trust in the government shattered, the homes
of at least two dozen politicians who backed
QLR [ol = ee) LYV N R e f
This was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
It belonged to a supporter of the government,
ER Tl FY
And this was the bedroom.
It was set on fire.
All you can see now TR I R R R 188 11
R R R G Rl
And if we just move into the living room,
completely trashed - just look around.
Tonight, a resort belonging to the son of Sri Lanka’'s
former Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa,
who quit yesterday, was set alight.
And clashes broke out in the city of Negombo.
Protesters want the president Gotabaya Rajapaksa to resign -
as long as he stays, tensions on this island
Rajini Vaidyanathan, S AR A EL SR
So the Prime Minister has resigned - but the protests
CICRCI N T
People are demanding the resignation of the president.
But is it as simple as that?
A question | put to Dr Niro Kandasamy, an expert
in Sri Lanka migration at the University of Sydney.
| think the widespread protests
across the island ARG R ] G
are beyond frustrated with the Sri Lankan government.
And this is a reflection on the systematic problems
within the government itself.
Economists have long observed R LI iR e et
Sri Lankan governments have been
mismanaging the national economy.
So the current economic IR R
the worst we’ve seen since Sri Lanka
gained independence from the British in 1948 -
LN AN predicable and people
are really frustrated at the government.
As you say, It is a deeply rooted economic crisis,
but how long will it R e R A E e Tl s
Especially the likes of the IMF may
not offer financial assistance if the political
It’s difficult to say, SIRRT IR g
President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has
refused to resign from his position.
L ER QR [ its support is pending
on sound ecenomic policies - and clearly, the Sri Lankan
government has refused to deliver
on sound economic policies.
So, one of the more disastrous economic policies that we’ve
seen was the ban on chemical fertilisers,
which caused a shutdown on several plantations,
([Tl | IR TV as a consequence, the country’s
ability to feed itself.
You know, that triggered inflation -
so there’s been a lot of challenges the government
and is directly responsible for, so it’s difficult
to say what will happen.
These protests have been taking TR R L A
and largely, they were peaceful.
In your view, what actually made them turn violent?
So | think there R e
| think the government YIRS |
to listen to its people.
The Rajapaksa family remains in power, so,
despite the resignation B EI s
and the dismissal of Basil Rajapaksa,
the president remains.
The government AN
listening to N e s eRnd
So, there are still food shortages,
fuel supplies are still low, people are dying in queues
waiting for fuel because of the heat, as well.
LT[ Qo Tl NI 1= in shortage, as well.
So really, people’s immediate needs
are not being addressed, and the government does not
seem to be implementing adequate measures
DR G-
Let’s take a look at some other RO ARG R L S
The head of the World Health Organization has said China’s
zero tolerance policy against Covid is not sustainable.
The authorities in Beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting
tens of millions of people, lasting several weeks,
to try to prevent any spread of the illness.
But the WHO’s director general said he had told Chinese
experts it was time R DRG] Tl
T TR RGN R
T Y R R I N RO RN s
When we talk about the O Covid strategy, we
When we talk about the O Covid strateqy, we don’t
When we talk about the O Covid strategy, we don’t think that
strategy, we don’t think that 3
strategy, we don’t think that s
strategy, we don’t think that it is sustainable between what
it is sustainable between what Y
it is sustainable between what we have with
it is sustainable between what N R R e
it is sustainable between what we have with the virus now and
we have with the virus now and vty
we have with the virus now and what we anticipate in the
what we anticipate in the future.
what we anticipate in the el iLs
what we anticipate in the e LRI
what we anticipate in the future. This issue is Chinese
future. This issue is Chinese Yo
future. This issue is Chinese experts, we indicated the
experts, we indicated the approach,
experts, we indicated the ET I PR
experts, we indicated the approach, you know, would not
approach, you know, would not )
approach, you know, would not be sustainable.
In court in New York,
the former president R IR
Juan Orlando Hernandez,
pleaded not guilty to drugs and weapons charges.
Mr Hernandez, who governed from 2014 to January this year,
was arrested in February.
This is him being extradited from Honduras
He is accused of having accepted millions of dollars
in bribes during his eight years as president, in exchange
for protecting drug traffickers from investigation and arrest.
An international donors e e TR BT e
than $6.5 billion to help war-tern Syria
and its neighbours.
The news was announced RGN R e E A
a UN-backed conference R e
Earlier the UN’s High Commissioner for Refugees,
Filippo Grandi warned L RN i E i s ke d s s
for Syrians was catastrophic.
Russia has targeted the Black Sea port of Odesa
using what the Ukrainians say AN S NS G
which fly at five times the speed of sound.
One person is reported to have died.
It comes as the United Nations has estimated that the number
of civilians killed NE el
the official figure of just over 3,000.
From Odesa, Caroline Davies reports.
As Russia celebrated Victory Day, Odesa burned.
This was one of QR R LTI
centres, incinerated, by a missile strike.
The Ukrainian NG AT G
missiles were launched at the city yesterday,
killing one person and injuring five more.
L InIhA the smell of burning
plastic still hung in the air.
Last night when we were here, it was difficult to see
the full extent of the damage, but this morning you can.
The rocket has completely ripped into the back
of the shopping centre here.
You can see it has completely folded.
There are still fires that the Fire Brigade
here are trying to put out and the electricity wires
on this side have NN L)
Russia has been targeting the port city of Odesa
MR AN NG Gt R s e
It’s strategically important.
Before the war, it was a key international port, taking
Ukrainian products to the world.
President Zelensky appealed again to end the war,
so that the port can reopen.
Missile strikes don’t only destroy infrastructure.
They shake lives.
This eight-year-old boy lives
As we talk, he fiddles nervously
with two pieces of blackened IR R
"I heard a loud explosion,” he says, "I fell out
of bed and started to cry.
Then | ran down the corridor to find my dog, Max.
"Mum tried to calm me down, but there were more explosions.
We don’t know what will happen next.”
The force of the blast smashed many of the windows
Fortunately, most were unoccupied.
Katarina and her two-year-old daughter Arina were
iR NG G I E of the courtyard.
"We were about to go to bed when the air alert
began,” she tells me.
"l heard a very loud explosion, and | grabbed two pillows
and covered my daughter’s e R R
| didn’t want her to hear the sound of the explosion
and be frightened by It.
The whole house was shaking.”
Then she asks her daughter, T Y R R N ]
the air raid siren?”
"We run,” she says.
RNV I1
Young minds already used to living
with the constant W doR Ed
Caroline Davies, BBC News, Odesa.
The first president of independent Ukraine,
Leonid Kravchuk, has died.
Leonid Kravchuk swept to victory
in the first round of presidential elections in 1991,
but he didn’t even last a whole term,
becoming the first post-Soviet leader
to peacefully hand over power.
The Queen’s Speech, which sets out the British government’s
legislative programme, N RO R [T RS
But the one which happened on Tuesday was a little
different, because for the first time in nearly 60
years, Queen Elizabeth A RO
Her Majesty had authorised the Prince of Wales
and the Duke of Cambridge to open the new parliamentary
Session.
Prince Charles delivered the speech on the Queen’s
behalf, after Buckingham Palace explained that the Queen
was suffering from episodic mobility problems.
Our royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell examines
GRS Tl e Ty o of today’s events.
He’s been waiting for his destiny
for longer than any other heir RO R e -]
And, while no-one XL R %1
a major change is imminent, the inescapable fact
s that a transition s under way.
And this, today, was the most tangible sign of it.
As Prince Charles I T
on the Consort’s Throne, the Imperial State Crown,
the symbol of the monarch’s authority, was placed
on a table beside him.
The Prince studied it closely, and then, with Lords
and Commons assembled, R R M T S S EEL
short of his own opiniens took on the discipline required
of a monarch.
Reading out the words written by the Government.
The continued success AT [e1sY
of the whole of the United Kingdom
is of paramount importance to Her Majesty’s Government.
It was this, the Regency Act of 1937, that the Palace used
to delegate the power RN Gl
M [ TR suggesting a permanent
transfer of the monarch’s powers.
The Queen is still busy with her
paper work and virtual audiences.
Changes are happening, but they are gradual.
For the Queen, I
very important to carry out all her public duties in public
whenever she can.
She’s famously said "to be seen is to be believed,”
and she believes the monarchy must be seen,
but in future it is Likely N R R R LR T
members of the Royal Family carrying out
royal duties on her behalf.
For seven decades, IR R sl
a highly visible head of state.
Those days are over, X GIEIC E IR
faced, the burden is shifting.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
Still to come on the programme: Game over, why one of the most
profitable computer franchise deals in history
TN E R - R f
The Pope was shot, G R
that’s the essence of the appalling news from Rome
this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television
commentator put it, terrorism LR i RO R R Z R
The man they called the Butcher of Lyon, Klaus Barbie,
went on trial today in the French town where
he was the Gestapo chief in the Second World War.
Winnie Mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced
to six years in jail.
The judge told Mrs Mandela there was no indication
she felt even the slightest remorse.
The Chinese government has LR R E i e s
to help the victims of a powerful earthquake -
the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
The computer Deep Blue has NI GO LN R
the world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.
IR G R T Ry e T 1) has defeated a reigning world
champion in a classical RG]
America’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking
place in Massachusetts.
This is Newsday on the BBC.
I’m Marike Oi in Singapore.
Anti-government AR R G
curfew in Sri Lanka, calling for the country’s
president to step down.
Once again, Russia targets the crucial port
city of Odesa, with NI CES Gl
SR oTo Tl ol o101 {¢ -0
Just six months i R R e L
conference in Glasgow, new analysis suggests the world
is closer than ever to crossing a key global warming
Meteorological Organisation say there’s now around a 50:50
chance that it’ll warm by more than 1.5 degrees celsius over
the next five years.
I8 ELRL i G E RO R GEFTIET
temperature first went one degree celsius above
pre-industrial levels.
LI the year that leaders
signed the Paris climate agreement, where the 1.5
degrees target was set to prevent dangerous global
warming.
Governments re-committed to keeping 1.5
degrees alive at AR E N
Researchers
also believe it’s almost IR R N R 4
five years will be R NN Ao
On that, the BBC has spoken to John Kerry,
US Special Presidential TN FICE
He said that countries need to "raise ambitions further”
to reach their climate LN
People need to remember that 65% of global GDP,
economic effort globally, committed to plans that
are legitimate that could keep 1.5
degrees of warming NG an
The 35% that did not RO SR
and we have to bring those T R R el B A
One of those AR AR
And obviously, that UFINE R DS Ry ElLe
We don’t know - nothing is possible right now,
we will see what happens.
But China, India, RO G il R
ORI R [0 WSROI R L
| think, to raise ambition over R R e
And all of us, the developed world
particularly, has I & R
job of breaking the mould, getting away from business
as usual, which is dominating at this moment.
What Vladimir Putin has done, by using gas energy
as a weapon, is to convince G R GEI R
RN R GG
So in fact, Europe will AR R (5
renewable energy - wind, solar, etc -
much faster than they had originally planned.
The key will be finding greater levels of finance
on an international basis IR N R R e Ts
(CRGUELR VLI so that investment begins
VN R L according to the most
recent IPCC scientific report - it makes it very clear that
if we do the things that are available to us,
RIS AN R G TR 6 N IR RO RN ELG
i
But people need to understand that’s
avoiding the worst N I
not the crisis to some degree.
We need to break the mould, NV R e R
the rhetoric suggests we should, which is we call
this existential - but as a world,
we are not behaving TR A
You can find much more T RGN ey
on our website, including
this special section WL Al
what it achieved, and how that is being transformed
LR
Just log on to bbc.com/news or download the BBC news app
Elon Musk has said he will reverse the Twitter ban imposed
on Donald Trump, once he takes over the social media company.
The richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion
takeover bid with the Twitter board last month, but he said
it was not a done deal and that ideally it would be completed
in the next two BRI
Our technology correspondent James Clayton has more.
He has kind of already intimated that
He has kind of already R R R R R IR
He has kind of already intimated that this was going
intimated that this was going to happen. This is the first
to happen. This is the first S i)
to happen. This is the first i
toe happen. This is the first N i
toe happen. This is the first A N e ettt than-Nel
toe happen. This is the first time he has committed to
to happen. This is the first time he has committed to saying
time he has committed to saying that he
time he has committed to saying I R e 00|
time he has committed to saying that he would actually reverse
that he would actually reverse this
that he would actually reverse G
that he would actually reverse I e e
that he would actually reverse I L e e el
that he would actually reverse this at Banten and Donald
that he would actually reverse this at Banten and Denald Trump
this at Banten and Donald Trump T
this at Banten and Donald Trump TN
this at Banten and Denald Trump has not been able to
this at Banten and Denald Trump R TN RO
this at Banten and Denald Trump has not been able to tweet for
has not been able to tweet for 1N
has not been able to tweet for 15, 16 months now after the
15, 16 months now after the €T
15, 16 months now after the Capitol Hill riots he
15, 16 months now after the T SR
Capitol Hill riots he was accused
Capitol Hill riots he was sl
Capitol Hill riots he was accused of stoking. Those that
accused of stoking. Those that 10T:)
accused of stoking. Those that Elon Musk said that it wasn’t
Elon Musk said that it wasn’t morally reprehensible to have
morally reprehensible to have SR
morally reprehensible to have SRS
morally reprehensible to have SR e
morally reprehensible to have SRR R 5
morally reprehensible to have done, that it was a mistake.
done, that it was a mistake. e
done, that it was a mistake. The former executive
done, that it was a mistake. TR RS e N
done, that it was a mistake. The former executive of Twitter
The former executive of Twitter T
The former executive of Twitter TR
The former executive of Twitter has said that
The former executive of Twitter LRI R E )
The former executive of Twitter has said that he regrets that
has said that he regrets that i)
has said that he regrets that Y
has said that he regrets that R
has said that he regrets that too sew the door
has said that he regrets that R R
has said that he regrets that R AU SR ]
has said that he regrets that too sew the door is open for
too sew the door is open for Donald
too sew the door Is open for DI GR I
too sew the door Is open for Donald Trump to come back
too sew the door Is open for DI R [ R R I R Gl
Donald Trump to come back to Twitter. The problem is that
Twitter. The problem is that Donald
Twitter. The problem is that DI GR I
Twitter. The problem is that Donald Trump has said he does
Donald Trump has said he does s
Donald Trump has said he does not really want to come
Donald Trump has said he does A A R R R e e
Donald Trump has said he does not really want to come back to
not really want to come back to Twitter.
not really want to come back to e )
not really want to come back to Twitter. He said he would much
Twitter. He said he would much i d
Twitter. He said he would much EIOE A
Twitter. He said he would much rather post on
Twitter. He said he would much EOGEEH I
Twitter. He said he would much rather post on his own
GO A I TRy platform.
LIV I TR o ELa (I TR
LIV I TR platform. Se, |
LIV I TR platform. So, | would
rather post on his own platform. So, | would not
platform. Seo, | would not T
platform. Seo, | would not necessarily assume that
platform. So, | would not necessarily assume that he is
necessarily assume that he is L
necessarily assume that he is going to start tweeting. The
going to start tweeting. The e
going to start tweeting. The other thing to mention is that
other thing to mention is that AN
other thing to mention is that Flon Musk has not
other thing to mention is that Elon Musk has not actually
Elon Musk has not actually TG
Elon Musk has not actually bought Twitter yet and he seems
bought Twitter yet and he seems low
bought Twitter yet and he seems LN Y
bought Twitter yet and he seems LG
bought Twitter yet and he seems low energy about the deal
low energy about the deal today, | thought. | am
low energy about the deal today, | thought. I am not
today, | thought. I am not necessarily 100% sure, | don’t
necessarily 100% sure, | don’t think Elon Musk is either, that
think Elon Musk is either, that 1Y
think Elon Musk is either, that he is
think Elon Musk is either, that (RN
think Elon Musk is either, that (R )
think Elon Musk Is either, that he is going to buy
think Elon Musk Is either, that RN LR R VAN
think Elon Musk Is either, that NIRRT L TN
he is going to buy Twitter. So, N
he is going to buy Twitter. So, o
he is going to buy Twitter. So, R A
he is going to buy Twitter. So, RN R
he is going to buy Twitter. So, lots of reasons why Donald
lots of reasons why Donald Trump
lots of reasons why Donald LT Al L
lots of reasons why Donald Trump might not come back on
Trump might not come back on FYe L
Trump might not come back on Y]
Trump might not come back on YR N [o ] d
Trump might not come back on about the door is more ajar
about the door is more ajar than it ever has been for the
than it ever has been for the e
than it ever has been for the former president to make a
former president to make a Twitter return.
The High Court in London has begun hearing a defamation
trial brought by Rebekah Vardy, the wife of the former England
footballer Jamie Vardy, against Coleen Rooney,
who’s married to the former England captain Wayne Rooney.
The court heard that Ms Vardy felt she had
to establish her innocence after being accused of leaking
personal information about Mrs Rooney to the media.
W Iy reports.
Coleen Rooney arriving at the High Court,
accompanied by her husband, Wayne Rooney,
for the start of a much-anticipated trial,
which her legal team have summed up
as being about betrayal.
One minute later, Rebekah Vardy,
who Is suing her for e s RN
Both women very used to cameras,
A - Rwe ladge o lail
Inside, Coleen Rooney sat next I e I e e )
No more than ten feet away was Rebekah Vardy.
There was almost zero eye contact
At the 2016 Euros, they had cheered
on England together from the stands.
But everything changed in October
2019, when Coleen Rooney did some
online detective work to investigate
who was leaking information about her to the press.
She wrote three iTasid IR &1
on her private Instagram stories,
a1 EL N A GGV
and their basement flooding to see if they would
LR LT LRGSR
Only then did Coleen reveal, AU N A 3
to ramp up the tension, EIRN T ane e Y
allowed access to read them was Rebekah Vardy’s.
In court today, we heard the details
of Rebekah Vardy’s case, MBI L N iR ida e
choice but to bring this libel claim
to establish her innocence and validate her reputation.
It was stressed that this legal battle was being reported
as entertainment, AR Zlad L)
had a hugely damaging impact on Rebekah Vardy’s life.
And then it was the turn of Coleen Rooney’s legal team
LS e R G Bl Rebekah Vardy’s
agent had leaked the stories, LR GIR IR R 1
man - although Rebekah Vardy hadn’t pulled the trigger,
she was still responsible.
They also accused Rebekah Vardy’s
team of widespread R EILLTE
loss of evidence, including a phone
oo Nl el s} into the North Sea.
Towards the end of the day, Rebekah Vardy was questioned
and denied being Al Sy
WG RIEL E E E ] a history of selling stories
to newspapers for money.
The trial may have kicked off, but there’s a long way to go
with Wayne Rooney himself expected
VR LT a witness next week.
Colin Paterson, BBC News, the High Court.
It’s one of the most profitable gaming franchise deals
in history, serving more than 150 million players
For the best part of 30 years, Electronic Arts has enjoyed
huge success with its A IR R
But now the company says it’s splitting from Fifa,
football’s governing body.
Our gaming reporter Steffan Powell explains why.
EA Sports - it’s in the game.
Since 1993, the Fifa video game franchise
has been made by one company, EA Sports.
The title has changed immeasurably
on the screen and off it - becoming a cultural powerhouse
played by 150 million people around the world.
But EA Sports has announced it’s
splitting from Fifa - it didn’t fancy playing
the reported $1 billion price tag to keep
the licence from the governing body.
It also sees the opportunity IR Rt
from beyond just gaming.
Instead, EA Sports FC will launch in Autumn 2023,
with this year’s Fifa being the last one.
The move might surprise some, but it makes sense to others.
It’s where we’re seeing games go as a whole,
really, moving more into games as a platform
and bringing in other brands and entertainment products,
such as concerts and other live events into their games.
The Fifa President VRN
to assure players the Fifa name will be the best one available
for gamers, as it’s the only global original title.
They’re working on new games.
When it comes to EA Sports FC, players might not notice a huge
difference to the core game’s offering, with player
likenesses and game modes staying the same.
They will, though, see more brand partnerships
and experiences beyond games.
If that trend sticks, QRGN R T T
just for the popular games studio,
but potentially the industry.
Steffan Powell, BBC News.
[LiE1L @0
Il @ TR
Thank you so much for watching Newsday.
Stay with BBC World News.
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But, as this rain band begins to move southeastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
IRl to fragment again.
Another windy day to come, particularly acress southern
Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
of 14-19 Celsius across the south.
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
We will have the headlines NG B R R R e
for you at the top of the hour straight after this programme.
Coming up this week, there’s something strange
In your neighbourhood.
Who you gonna call?
MR
Also, Spot the builder.
RIS LN L] by any chance?
Spencer, here Is a question.
Can tech make TR S A
Sounds like it can, yes.
FICE IRV
MG N - - R VR
Don’t say a word.
I’ve got bass in a backpack, this is amazing.
First up this week, we’re going to be talking about drones,
which gives us a perfect example to show off our shiny
new base here in Glasgow.
Which is rather picturesque.
Ll = a0 1S are always welcome.
True.
James has been checking out some of the latest tech
designed to take drones out of the sky.
Commercial drones have the potential to revolutionise
a load of industries NI LG E G R e
and rescues, mapping cities, giving information to fire
crews after traffic accidents, the possibilities are endless.
Flying a drone can be seriously fun.
There are loads of applications in the world where drones can
be used for public good.
However In
However in the havoc.
In December 2018, a suspected drone at Gatwick
grounded flights for days.
Flights have been suspended...
Flights were grounded after drones were spotted
IR R G R OLEE
Arrests eventually led to nothing.
Tens of thousands of people’s RN e
It is still not totally clear M TN Do
Drones have even been used to try to assassinate
They thought it was fireworks first, but it was a drone bomb.
President Maduro of Venezuela was targeted in 2018,
and a similar attempt was made R GERIEG
Minister last year.
It is notoriously difficult T I R R
of a dangerous drone.
BUt one company in Washington, N R LN
Dedrone work with the Department of defence in the US
and UK airports to spot and take down drones_
If you have ever flown a drone, you know they are incredibly
easy to lose in the air.
They are hard to see until they are pretty close to you.
Dedrone say they have FR AR R E
We have this tracker e sl
What we see Is the drone L R G R
diamond on the map.
Most drones use radio NN R R AU
and we can use that to localise that and
tell you where it is at.
Additionally we implement some radar technology
to help verify that.
My camera woman and | thought we would try to put it
Our plan was to try to fly low to see if we could go
literally under the radar.
Problem was we turned the drone on too quickly,
which emitted a radio frequency.
That is us turning MBI e R Y
And before we even get the drone airborne,
we are detecting It.
Camera’s looking for It.
Trying to find you guys.
How big a scale could you do this?
The beauty of the system is we can scale this.
If you want to cover an entire city or state,
we can lay out sensors IR
It is one thing trying to spot a drone, but how do
you actually take it down?
It looks like a gun but it actually scrambles the signal
of anything that uses radio NCO I R GG
including drones.
It is so powerful, that Ben here, by law isn’t allowed
to press the trigger.
What does It actually do?
This is the final part.
You simply press the trigger, but we are currently
If | turn that one step down, it will jam any radio
frequency or RF SN ERL RG]
After that, we can do the full GPS which can do that.
Drones have been used to try and assassinate world leaders.
How would this be used in that kind of context?
If by the time you see R
you are probably too late.
Anytime you are in a situation where you may think that drones
might be a threat to somebody, it is important to have
the detection technology, assuming you have detected
a drone, or you know M N EG T
Pull this out of the case, hit a button and you can
start mitigating a drone within seconds.
Such is the importance of drones on the battlefield
that there are currently more than 600 of these
anti-drone devices used in the US military.
But like all technology on the battlefield, this can
get into the wrong hands.
Drone footage has been NSRRI
to document potential war crimes and atrocities.
If Russia had this kind of technology, perhaps it
would have been harder to work VIR ET RN IR EL L]
on the ground.
Drenes primarily are used for good.
In order for us to maximise the potential of these good
drones, we feel that drone technology, airspace security,
what we provide, is a necessary step to ensure that good
traffic, any conflict involves drones and it is a great
equaliser in the battlefield from an offensive perspective,
but it is also important that drones be able to fly
and provide people with QT R GR T
QIR T IR TR people that are injured
and do some scouting, all that stuff that goes along
with drones for good, even the battlefield.
Drones can be used for good and bad.
Perhaps the days where you can just whack up a drone
are becoming numbered.
As tech catches up with them,
it might be more and more difficult to
get views like this.
All right, Clayton, TR A
We have a good shot as well.
Are we even allowed RN ey
OK, question.
Which industry is more dangerous than mining,
farming or manufacturing?
You are more likely to have an accident on a building site.
We have been taking a look at how robotics and 5G
could help improve site safety.
| am not just on any st R
I am on one in a remote and barren part of the world.
LT R g SRR O U 2
Situated at the top of Scotland RGN R RGN [ D
Shetland is exposed to some RN e R T
conditicns in the UK.
There is rain, hail, snow and S R N -
But, crucially, IR I s F
Only one quarter of the renewable wind energy
produced on Shetland is used GRS IR QR EL
So here, the teams are building an electricity converter
It will connect Shetland to the National Grid
and allow wind farms to export energy south.
It is not just manpower, but new technologies that
are making it happen.
It is a big project!
Bosses here thought a private 5G network would be a big idea.
Faster Internet speeds R R L1 A
We’ve got a fibre-optic e s R E et
just down the valley, we have a microwave link
to the site and there is a fibre-optic connection
IR R ) the 5G masts.
What the 5G network does is provide high-speed wireless
Internet connection, low latency and very high
speed, essentially as fast as in coming fibre-optic
connection.
And with those 5G masts T ARG A S ]
a new site inspector.
The aim of the engineers is that Spot can connect
to the 5G network and much of the work can be
done remotely.
How useful has it been to have Spot on the site?
It makes our life as engineers a bit easier.
1 AT (s F T is unsafe us to go.
Spot has a scanner attached and makes sure the floor
is exactly level after QNG R
poured the concrete.
We just performed a scan RO LR R
you the scan we did there.
So, green means ideal for our models,
blue Is a bit low and red, only a few but that
L3N il 1[4
What will you do with this now?
Make a report and hand it back to the engineers
and we will work out a plan to try and solve these issues.
LTS R SO L LT[R the 5G network just yet
because there has been a few SO G R )
getting it up and running to full capacity.
At the moment, itis on a narrow bandwidth,
so we have only had a few specialised SIM cards that can
connect, but we are working on getting some modems
in which will convert the 5G into breadband,
which will allow more devices R g N
But the concept of what might be possible on the network has
spurred further information.
--1nnovatiocn.
Including getting drones to transmit site footage
and augmented reality to bring WA R
You can really get a feel of how the site is going
to shape up in the future.
Good for demonstration purposes then.
The augmented reality means R U R U G O P LG
of the site in real-time and understand what is
going to be built next.
Before on a site like this, we would do have to print off
drawings,
they would do a lot of things around the office, but now
if we have to whip up a drawing, we can do it
on the fly.
It is easy to see construction TG E N G R G LI
of concrete, but it is clearly no longer just an industry
of manual labour.
This is all about future proofing our economy and making
IR G IR RV QLN s S AU R
in the world when it comes to 5G connectivity.
And all the applications that flow from it, but also try
and get a competitive advantage on other countries
in this space.
Everyone | have spoken to about MR NG R o]
that they work with is really O AL
and from Spot the dog to augmented reality,
it is not hard to see why, it is all really cool stuff.
L SRR T side to it as well -
it makes the work faster and more safe, and means
less people need to come T RO R L
with these ever-changing Shetland weather conditions.
It Is @ win-win, really.
It’s now possible to ask Google to remove websites containing
personal infermation, like your phone number
or e-mail address from search results.
Google says it will help protect against identity theft
and fraud, but warns that R an i iae R a1l
still exist online.
Apple is being forced to explain why other
providers can’t make use RGN SRR
technology on iPhones.
It’s after the EU accused it of being anti-competitive
by limiting the feature to just ApplePay.
A TG [N G 116 from the game, Apple has
unfairly shielded its ApplePay wallet from competition.
If proven, this behaviour would amount to abuse
of a dominant position, which is illegal
under our rules.
We are used to the owners of Facebook telling us
that the future of shopping N R R R N A
but this week it is opening its first physical shop.
The Metastore in California will sell products like
Fancy hanging out with your favourite artists on Roblox?
These are the possibilities touted by the game’s
new Spotify Island where fans possibly music stars
will mingle, make music at Virtual Beat Maker stations
and of course purchase merch.
I’m off to see if Ed Sheeran fancies a brick battle.
I’m prepped for battle.
Wrote this while training for a boxing match,
but it ain’t a8 hassle.
This Is battle rapping.
RN Ty [ R Ta =1 | ORI =L 2
emotional impact and most of the time, humour.
Hashtag date night.
Old El Paso dinner kit.
For years I’ve wanted to rap but I’ve never got past
the rhyming perfectly stage, or even being able
DL R G R I RN G E R §
Our planet Earth fits a million times into the sun.
Six months to get to Mars if you take the shortest run.
But going from reading rhymes to spitting bars on the stage
Seats on a spaceship, G IR R R R
I’m off the beat already...
Ryl [IL TR GRS R R G might be some technology
which could help me be half as good as that lot.
So I’ve come to Abbey Road RN SRR e e
of a team who created BrainRap.
Conventionally as an artist we need to spend 10,000 hours
or sometimes its 100,000 hours, sometimes it’s ten years.
The idea is we take that 10,000 hours and cut it down to ten.
You know that | really want to learn to rap and | hear
that by wearing this and looking at this screen,
I’m going to get better at it. IR SR
| want to do a disclaimer that it isn’t like Dorothy’s
magic shoes.
You don’t put it on and fly away in the sky.
The headset uses something called electroencephalogram,
and that is electrical signals from your brain interpreted
by machine-learning ElOI IR L D
Yes, the headband GRS R
It pairs with a laptop to combine your brain
output with what you say into the microphene.
| want to embrace the place where we interface.
The company claims the data R A IE R A R
the system choose the best O R TG R R U ]
and also helps it understand when it’s time to move on.
Close your eyes for us, ORI OE S
put your hand down. Breathe and open your eyes.
A CRi[shid
Testing, resting, digesting, divesting and ingesting.
I’m questioning and suggesting, investing, protesting,
contesting and requesting, manifesting, clandestine
betting, petting, belting...
It’s gone very strange. 8
What was happening was you were in a flow state,
listening to the beat, you were inside it and then
you open your eyes and you just went into flow state.
The machine recognised that civic kept it on screen.
An accomplished rapper would be able to put quite
R AR R
I will use it and show you later.
Seen in the part of a swish...
For an experienced rapper LR GRS A G
allows him to be creative NN R R s
on building a story instead of worrying about finding
the right words.
VT G R RIS T on and never be seen. ..
It’s clear using the headset takes practice, and like most
new music tech, there’s a chance it could freak out
the old school which, let’s face it, always happens.
When the synthesiser IR PR G-
industry was terrified.
| think one of the organisations, the Musicians
Union, tried to ban it because they thought it would
replace musicians but it just bred a new format of music.
The machine made us breed completely new formats
and new genres that we haven’t AL R GG TR
Hold on, I’m not at the genre-busting stage yet.
| need to practice T G RGEl Rl e
Luckily improvising is actually IR R R T E L
For example, we don’t script most conversations in advance
but to start performing well, we need to stop
thinking as much.
There is part of a brain T R RN
in conscious self-monitoring and self-censoring
These parts of the brain are shutting down during a lot
of creative behaviours, and so it’s almost as
if the brain is trying R R cR i
| don’t think this is the kind of thing that amateur musicians
or amateur rappers can do right away.
| think that’s the difference, that they are so self-conscious
they are getting in their way and thinking about so many
things that they can’t turn off in the brain.
Speaking to a real-time rhyming dictionary
So am | really being A RN
a mouthpiece for a machine?
So many musicians struggle with this question when using tech.
Technology can be a helpful support, but | don’t actually
think it can replace the human spirit and the soul.
When | play with technology | try to make sure that it is
a support to what I’m doing versus a replacement
to the art or the organicness.
With the headset planned for release in July
for between $3,000-$5,000, it’s not exactly
an impulse purchase.
L CE i EICA T will sell separately
for a much more palatable $10, which is arguably the most
fun part of the system.
Six weeks later, I’m back at Abbey Road.
Time is fleeting, goes by quickly.
So
| think they were all surprised by my improvement.
Whether this is due to skill or software, I’m not sure.
# Like Kirk, BRI R LY LGS
# | thought by now | would be wiser but I’m just older. #
Musicians embracing TR T T T G AL ETS
always resulted in amazing creative leaps.
This concept feels like one of those leaps.
Plus, anything that makes creativity accessible to people
think they can do anything as a good thing.
Next time | get a chance to go on stage at the Don’t Flop
battle rap, | might just take it.
She’’s good, isn’t she? Brilliant.
That’s not the only outrageous musical behaviour
going on this week. RN
No. N CRTIER Y&
I’ve been sent to Coventry to the UK city of culture
festival for a trip into the past with a bit
I’m taking a trip FIN LR R ]
This time I’m not IR CEI R
I’m heading to an illegal rave. I’ve just got to find it.
Hello? A R Y
First it’s time to get on a virtual reality headset,
some headphones for spatial audio and a vibrating
| don’t know whether I’m expected to try and
re-tune on the radio? 'yl
I
=10 AN g1l
| am slightly ahead of the game.
| can change the frequency by moving up and down.
The meeting point will T LR
We mix motion capture, volumetric data,
G A P
Some of it is 360 video on blue screen and 3-D environments,
and we try and seamlessly sort of take you through movement
within the scene to different I R R O RS
I’m on top of the record!
That happens at the very start, when you imagine that
you are inside the record player, and then you gradually
get taken along this journey even to the point
where you are walking along the floor trying to tune a radio.
What we were looking for in terms of interaction,
the key for interaction is find XIE QIR GE S
intuitive that maybe it uses your whole body
and you get it straight away.
RTINS e I [y for the rave at once,
including the police.
LR RO E R [T on at the station.
Semething over here.
This is Tim, a policeman in the Acid House Squad.
The responsibility of the squad was to gather intelligence
whilst trying to disrupt Ll VLR ELG
evidence to prosecute individuals involved.
Were are you worried about glamorising something
that was illegal? Not really, no.
| don’t think we glamorise It.
And it’s not really about the illegality of the event.
Back in 1989, these AN R A
That wasn’t because they were illegal, it’s
because the licensing laws L R R R e il e s
to stop people doing It.
Meanwhile I’ve been looking for clues at my friend’s
house and out and about. Remember phone boxes?
I’m naturally feeling I need to walk towards this phone.
Hello, this is Amnesia House.
Tonight’s a massive party will be taking place as scheduled.
The Rose and Crown pub at 10:30pm.
That’s the first meeting point. TS R R N A
I’ve got bass in a backpack. This is amazing.
The backpack is called a sub pack and you wear
14 and basically certain
frequencies in the soundtrack
respond to that survey gives you a deep sort
It is really good to build up tension.
When you’re outside the warehouse and you’re
the warehouse and you’re trying
to find the entrance, you feel that.
That was important to me because | remember that feeling
of coming up to a club and feeling that sense
of trepidation, like, | feel nervous as I’m
going on but also excited. The police have found us.
I can’t believe I’m now wanting to run away from the police.
We didn’t focus on drugs at all.
We didn’t really feel RO s AT
at all those sort of basically what was going
Ultimately, it’s about finding the rave and then just
RO TR VRS through you and enjoying
the rave and being with people.
LML | was totally
and utterly immersed in another world there.
It was fascinating to see what an emotive and important
time this was for people who are part of it.
It was a scene that meant so much to people
GBI CR R learned something today.
Now with this piece T e - s - s
advanced we’ve ever been.
We have the ability R LI TR
That’s six degrees of freedom.
We have interactions, we have haptics so we have wind
blowing in your face.
You don’t know it’s happening, you just feel it.
You know what to do. You are at a warehouse party.
LR L R (] the big one!
Did you just feel it? GV
Not that it was A VAT D
| felt Like | was living somebody else’s life.
That’s the first time either of us have ever been to a rave.
1989, it was all about Kylie Minogue for me.
Let’s leave it there, shall we? Thanks for watching.
We will see you soon. Goodbye.
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
GEEg R R T e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
"Shoot on sight.”
for security forces in Sri Lanka amid viclent
protests calling for the President to step down.
A warning for China - the World Health Organization
says Beijing must change course on Covid.
When Michelle Jaques zero Covid
When Michelle Jagues zero Covid strategy,
When Michelle Jaques zero Covid strategy, we
When Michelle Jaques zero Covid strateqy, we don’t sustainable
strategy, we don’t sustainable considering
strategy, we don’t sustainable GG RG T
strategy, we don’t sustainable IR YL R
strategy, we don’t sustainable OO GER L E T
considering the behaviour of )
considering the behaviour of R Ie I
considering the behaviour of R e ]
considering the behaviour of RIS T |
considering the behaviour of R R a L
considering the behaviour of R N R W R Y
the virus now and what we EL Aol e EL )
the virus now and what we [ FI RN
the virus now and what we anticipate in the future.
We are in the city of Odesa as Ukraine’s strategic port
struggles under the barrage A AR R A R e
Last night when we were here, it was difficult to see
the full extent of the damage.
But this morning, you can - the rocket has completely
ripped into the back of the shopping centre here.
You can see it’s completely folded.
And, going back to the past, the company trying to prove
that sailboats are a greener way to transport cargo.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS Y- e 0la s ]
the globe.
Security forces in Sri lanka N N T MR O R Rl
anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest
attempt to stop anti-government protests.
Since last month, QR A N U L G
G N L DO g soaring prices, power cuts
At least 8 people have died RGO R I N LN T
been injured, as our correspondent Rajini
Vaidyanathan reports TR el
A capital under curfew.
Troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public
property or threatens lives.
The skeletons of a bustling city
scorched by an economic crisis.
Reeling after a day SRR
Yesterday, supporters RGN R IR e
anti-government protesters, who until that point had been
peacefully demonstrating.
At the city’s main L G
than 200 have been wounded, NI A R LU R
This man fractured his leg after a tear gas
canister landed on It.
War veterans Yigit and Assuncao are out of hospital.
Men who lost their legs in mines
VL INTR R &R civil war say
they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices
e
"They started punching me.
"I was left with only one crutch.
"They pushed me and | fell.”
"When we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
"Now we’re being attacked.”
With trust in the government shattered, the homes
of at least two dozen politicians who backed
QLR [ol = ee) LYV N R e f
This was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
It belonged to a supporter of the government,
ER Tl FY
And this was the bedroom.
It was set on fire.
All you can see now TR I R R R 188 11
R R R G Rl
And if we just move into the living room,
completely trashed - just look around.
Tonight, a resort belonging to the son of Sri Lanka’'s
former Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa,
who quit yesterday, was set alight.
And clashes broke out in the city of Negombo.
Protesters want the president Gotabaya Rajapaksa to resign -
as long as he stays, tensions on this island
Rajini Vaidyanathan, S AR A EL SR
The head of the World Health Organization has said China’s
zero-tolerance policy against Covid is not sustainable.
The authorities in Beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting
tens of millions of people, lasting several weeks,
to try to prevent any spread of the illness,
but the WHO’s director general said he had told
Chinese experts it was time R DRG] oI T o B
When we talk about the zero-Covid
strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable
considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we
anticipate in the future.
We have discussed IR G IR
with Chinese experts, IR R s a1
the approach, you know, would not be sustainable.
We can now speak to Saad Omer RN e R R
Institute for Glebal Health.
Thanks very much for jeining us. It
Thanks very much for jeining T
Thanks very much for joining T a R Ze
Thanks very much for joining N AR ZHE )
Thanks very much for joining us. It is fair to peint out,
us. It is fair to point out, isn’t
us. It is fair to point out, i
us. It is fair to point out, TR PR
us. It is fair to point out, isn’t it, this zero Covid
isn’t it, this zero Covid E 0T
isn’t it, this zero Covid approach has
isn’t it, this zero Covid O E R
isn’t it, this zero Covid approach has meant, relative to
R P G W RS
approach has meant, relative to R
approach has meant, relative to I e
approach has meant, relative to MR R
approach has meant, relative to R R L -]
approach has meant, relative to most other countries, a very
most other countries, a very successful containment of
most other countries, a very e e it e el e e R
successful containment of the west
successful containment of the Y
successful containment of the west of Covid, so what is
successful containment of the R A PR R E SR e
west of Covid, so what is not NI e
west of Covid, so what is not sustainable about it? Well, the
sustainable about it? Well, the policy had its value at the
policy had its value at the beginning,
policy had its value at the OIS
policy had its value at the O AL
policy had its value at the beginning, or even at the -
LML DAL G well, you
DL LR DEEL R G well, you know, if you
beginning, or even at the - well, you know, if you months
well, you know, if you months after
well, you know, if you months )
well, you know, if you months AU A s e
well, you know, if you months AU A R R Y
after the start of the pandemic.
after the start of the [ERLE (]
after the start of the pandemic. If you are in a
pandemic. If you are ina football game and your first
football game and your first )
football game and your first R
football game and your first ten minutes strategy
football game and your first ten minutes strateqgy is
football game and your first ten minutes strategy is being
ten minutes strategy is being played out in the overtime,
ten minutes strategy is being [ EN L R ARG R G L
played out in the overtime, if you will, there is something
you will, there is something LN
you will, there is something wrong, and so | do not it is
wrong, and so | do not it is NI e
wrong, and so | do not it is sustainable in
wrong, and so | do not it is AR R R )
wrong, and so | do not it is sustainable in the light of the
sustainable in the light of the e ilge- e
sustainable in the light of the AR
sustainable in the light of the current variant, its
W10 A7 TaF Ty ) infectivity,
W10 A7 TaF Ty ) N1 A0
current variant, its infectivity, but also
current variant, its N A T R G 1
current variant, its infectivity, but also the fact
infectivity, but also the fact that
infectivity, but also the fact UEIRN)
infectivity, but also the fact UEIRONEIC )
infectivity, but also the fact that there are other tools
IR QIR G R (T available. So, China has
G EIR QIR G TR (T available. So, China has other
available. Se, China has other tools
available. Se, China has other e e
available. So, China has other tools at its disposal that can
GRS R G R el )
tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and | think
tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and I think it
be deployed, and | think it il
be deployed, and I think it should seriously consider
should seriously consider expanding a little bit of focus
expanding a little bit of focus ]
expanding a little bit of focus MR e
expanding a little bit of focus MR G RN &
expanding a little bit of focus MR e ]
expanding a little bit of focus on these other tools and easing
on these other tools and easing up
on these other tools and easing Ml
on these other tools and easing RO
on these other tools and easing RN RO LG
on these other tools and easing up on the so-called zero
up on the so-called zero ey
up on the so-called zero ke e
up on the so-called zero e ER ]
up on the so-called zero tolerance or zero Covid policy.
tolerance or zero Covid policy. Yy
tolerance or zero Covid policy. LR
tolerance or zero Covid policy. When you talk about the other
When you talk about the other tools, | presume that vaccines
tools, | presume that vaccines Py
tools, | presume that vaccines P N )
tools, | presume that vaccines e N RG
tools, | presume that vaccines R N RG aie
tools, | presume that vaccines e NGRS
are one of those. Either the sl
are one of those. Either the T toe e
are one of those. Either the T tne e a4
are one of those. Either the a1 8
vaccines are not terribly i el s
vaccines are not terribly effective in Beijing’s
vaccines are not terribly QRN LRI
vaccines are not terribly S QRN RN L G R
effective in Beijing’s mind or they
effective in Beijing’s mind or GG
effective in Beijing’s mind or they are struggling to get
they are struggling to get people to
they are struggling to get (L CRGR AL
they are struggling to get people to take them. What is
people to take them. What is it?
people to take them. What is TaAL
people to take them. What is BN g1
people to take them. What is BN R
people to take them. What is it? In terms of vaccines, it is
it? In terms of vaccines, it is s
it? In terms of vaccines, it is not a yes
it? In terms of vaccines, it is N L]
it? In terms of vaccines, itis R L
it? In terms of vaccines, itis not a yes and no question. It
not a yes and no question. It s not
not a yes and no question. It 05
not a yes and no question. It I R 1
not a yes and no question. It is not just vaccines but what
s not just vaccines but what kind
s not just vaccines but what AR 3
s not just vaccines but what AR R el
s not just vaccines but what ARG R el )
s not just vaccines but what kind of vaccines are being
kind of vaccines are being W3]
kind of vaccines are being destroyed - whether they are
destroyed - whether they are WG T]
destroyed - whether they are deploying boosters. | will give
deploying boosters. | will give you
deploying boosters. | will give U
deploying boosters. | will give you an example.
deploying boosters. | will give RS Il R
deploying boosters. | will give you an example. -- deployed.
you an example. -- deployed. W E]
you an example. -- deployed. China focused on
you an example. -- deployed. R R )
China focused on the TETaai e sl
China focused on the RETad el R 2 aula Y
China focused on the NETaai e R laula Rl
China focused on the METa i R lan s R R e
inactivated vaccines that were extremely useful
inactivated vaccines that were SN EV A UR]
inactivated vaccines that were extremely useful in the
extremely useful in the beginning, especially against
beginning, especially against )
beginning, especially against Wi
beginning, especially against the earlier variance and
beginning, especially against MR ZI Nl R
the earlier variance and severe I E I
the earlier variance and severe disease, but since then, there
disease, but since then, there Ty
disease, but since then, there have been
disease, but since then, there N N R e o)
disease, but since then, there have been variance for which
have been variance for which you would require additional
you would require additional ATy
you would require additional e |
you would require additional doses and perhaps different
doses and perhaps different s
doses and perhaps different R
doses and perhaps different LR Rz e
doses and perhaps different kinds of vaccines. So, there
kinds of vaccines. So, there Py
kinds of vaccines. So, there IR o]
kinds of vaccines. So, there EICR G I UL
kinds of vaccines. So, there are two applications pending in
are two applications pending in W E]
are two applications pending in China for NRMA vaccines and |
China for NRMA vaccines and | think China should focus
China for NRMA vaccines and | uaTs R RAa e 1S ls Rt 1ot s
OIS R RS TG R TNy acquiring
think China should focus on acquiring the technology but
acquiring the technology but )
acquiring the technology but also producing mRNA vaccines
also producing mRNA vaccines e
also producing mRNA vaccines for boosters
also producing mRNA vaccines TR R e e
also producing mRNA vaccines for boosters or reconsidering
for boosters or reconsidering the
for boosters or reconsidering R e
for boosters or reconsidering the schedules in
for boosters or reconsidering LR T
for boosters or reconsidering the schedules in line with the
the schedules in line with the variance they
the schedules in line with the LR O
the schedules in line with the variance they are facing. The
variance they are facing. The e
variance they are facing. The other thing is they have a sub
other thing is they have a sub Wkl
other thing is they have a sub optimal immunisation
other thing is they have a sub U E R GG
other thing is they have a sub optimal immunisation rates in
optimal immunisation rates in )
optimal immunisation rates in XN
optimal immunisation rates in N R
optimal immunisation rates in R RGBS
optimal immunisation rates in IR RGBT e
some of the highest risk populations in China, so
TN RO 4 populations in China, so they
populations in China, so they need to
populations in China, so they TR N
populations in China, so they need to be a major focus. And
need to be a major focus. And then coming
need to be a major focus. And QR T ET
need to be a major focus. And then coming back to the...
then coming back to the... s
then coming back to the... i
then coming back to the... Sorry - dust on that peint.
Sorry - dust on that point. That
Sorry - dust on that poeint. That seems an
Sorry - dust on that poeint. U NS e NG 2
Sorry - dust on that poeint. That seems an extraordinary, an
That seems an extraordinary, an anomaly, really,
That seems an extraordinary, an A (AR 1]
That seems an extraordinary, an anomaly, really, within China
anomaly, really, within China that
anomaly, really, within China LR
anomaly, really, within China WEIRO A
anomaly, really, within China WEIROE A
anomaly, really, within China R RO A R
anomaly, really, within China that that is allowed to happen
that that is allowed to happen T )
that that is allowed to happen -
that that is allowed to happen because if they want
that that is allowed to happen TR RS A R
that that is allowed to happen because if they want to impose
because if they want to impose certain
because If they want to impose IR 3 sa w s s
because If they want to impose certain restrictions as they
certain restrictions as they Ty
certain restrictions as they NN )
certain restrictions as they have done with isolating people
have done with isolating people and locking down, why can’t
and locking down, why can’t they
and locking down, why can’t they impose the insistence
and locking down, why can’t they impose the insistence that
they impose the insistence that they
they impose the insistence that QAN
they impose the insistence that they have vaccines? Well, they
they have vaccines? Well, they Py
they have vaccines? Well, they P
they have vaccines? Well, they are - again, even before
are - again, even before )& o a1 1s]
are - again, even before Draconian mandates or
are - again, even before )T IE ARt A el T a e T
Draconian mandates or strict mandates, there are a lot of
mandates, there are a lot of things
mandates, there are a lot of QIR
mandates, there are a lot of QILERLRGTY
N ER ORI G R R R things in the toolbox of
mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public
things in the toolbox of public health entities, including in
health entities, including in China, for example, soft
China, for example, soft mandates meaning requiring
mandates meaning requiring vaccination
mandates meaning requiring T loe - ld R g
mandates meaning requiring vaccination for certain
'EIa B B (T 1y Y dLTiia-
'EIa B B (T 1y activities and
vaccination for certain YA LTIt Al Ta s e 0la e
vaccination for certain activities and countries like
activities and countries like ST a]e )
activities and countries like ST e N )
activities and countries like France have shown
activities and countries like ST e e i R
activities and countries like France have shown that using
France have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong
those kinds of nudges or strong L
those kinds of nudges or strong GGG N
those kinds of nudges or strong QGG R (T
those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful. OK. We
nudges can be helpful. OK. We il
nudges can be helpful. OK. We IR
nudges can be helpful. OK. We R E R ]
nudges can be helpful. OK. We R R R
nudges can be helpful. OK. We IR R V-
nudges can be helpful. OK. We will have to leave it there,
will have to leave it there, 4
will have to leave it there, =]
will have to leave it there, but thank you very much indeed
but thank you very much indeed e
but thank you very much indeed IR
but thank you very much indeed R
but thank you very much indeed IS NS -
but thank you very much indeed IS RS - R T
for your expertise as China P 1aa a0l
for your expertise as China continues to
for your expertise as China P Ta N R e o il
for your expertise as China continues to battle with
for your expertise as China P e R N At R R
continues to battle with the wE (L
continues to battle with the challenge of Covid there.
The US House of Representatives 3
The US House of Representatives is deciding whether or not to
is deciding whether or not to T G
is deciding whether or not to S LU
is deciding whether or not to approve another $40 billion in
approve another $40 billion in |
approve another $40 billion in R g
approve another $40 billion in aid for Ukraine. We have got
aid for Ukraine. We have got )
aid for Ukraine. We have got )
aid for Ukraine. We have got some live pictures. A vote is
some live pictures. A vote is |
some live pictures. A vote is expected in
some live pictures. A vote Is S AL RUG
some live pictures. A vote Is expected in the course of
some live pictures. A vote is S RN R U R TR IR U
expected in the course of the T3 4s
expected in the course of the next hour
expected in the course of the Tt Nl e
expected in the course of the T e
That figure is more than I [Na 14
That figure is more than I P e s [ Te]
That figure is more than President Biden requested.
President Biden requested. )
President Biden requested. TR
President Biden requested. There were casts
President Biden requested. IR e
President Biden requested. There were casts at the sound
There were casts at the sound N
There were casts at the sound Nkt
There were casts at the sound SR
There were casts at the sound LRI R
There were casts at the sound NN R
There were casts at the sound of 33 billion but these funds
of 33 billion but these funds o
of 33 billion but these funds would be used
of 33 billion but these funds T sl R ge)
of 33 billion but these funds would be used to provide
would be used to provide G E1sY
would be used to provide military support Ukraine and
military support Ukraine and humanitarian assistance to
humanitarian assistance to those civilians affected by the
those civilians affected by the Russian invasion. As we see
Russian invasion. As we see there,
Russian invasion. As we see TR )
Russian invasion. As we see there, the debating still goes
there, the debating still goes on. As
there, the debating still goes AT L e s
there, the debating still goes on. As sooh as
there, the debating still goes I LR R )
there, the debating still goes on. As soon as we have a vote,
on. As soon as we have a vote, Y
on. As soon as we have a vote, |l
on. As soon as we have a vote, A [T ]
on. As soon as we have a vote, we will bring you the results.
we will bring you the results. e
we will bring you the results. The fighting goes on,
The fighting goes on, T S e
Russia has targeted the Black Sea port of Odesa,
using what the Ukrainians say AN S NS G
which fly at five times the speed of sound.
One person is reported to have died.
It comes as the United Nations has estimated that the number
of civilians killed NE el
the official figure of just over 3000.
From Odesa, Caroline Davies reports.
As Russia celebrated Victory Day, Odesa burned.
This was one of QR R LTI
centres, incinerated, by a missile strike.
The Ukrainian NG AT G
missiles were launched at the city yesterday,
killing one person and injuring five more.
L InIhA the smell of burning
plastic still hung in the air.
Last night when we were here, it was difficult to see
the full extent of the damage, but this morning you can.
The rocket has completely ripped into the back
of the shopping centre here.
You can see it has completely folded.
There are still fires that the Fire Brigade
here are trying to put out and the electricity wires
on this side have NN L)
Russia has been targeting the port city of Odesa
MR AN NG Gt R s e
It’s strategically important.
Before the war, it was a key international port, taking
Ukrainian products to the world.
President Zelensky appealed again to end the war,
so that the port can reopen.
Missile strikes don’t only destroy infrastructure.
They shake lives.
This eight-year-old boy lives 300
As we talk, he fiddles nervously
with two pieces of blackened IR R
"I heard a loud explosion,” he says, "I fell out
"of bed and started to cry.
en | ran down the corridor to find my dog, Max.”
"Mum tried to calm me down, but there were more explosions.
"We don’t know what will happen next.”
The force of the blast smashed many of the windows
Fortunately, most were unoccupied.
Katarina and her two-year-old daughter Arina were
iR NG G I E of the courtyard.
"We were about to go to bed when the air alert
"began,” she tells me.
"l heard a very loud explosion, and | grabbed two pillows
"and covered my daughter’s R R
"l didn’t want her to hear the sound of the explosion
"and be frightened by It.
"The whole house was shaking.”
Then she asks her daughter, T Y R R N ]
"the air raid siren?”
"We run,” she says.
RNV I1
Young minds already used to living
with the constant W doR Ed
Caroline Davies, BBC News, Odesa.
Elon Musk has said he will reverse the Twitter ban imposed
on Donald Trump once he takes over the social media company.
The richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion
takeover bid with the Twitter board last month, but he said
it was not a done deal and that ideally it would be completed
Our correspondent James Clayton has more.
He has kind of already intimated that this
was going to happen.
This is the first time he has committed to saying
that he would actually reverse this ban, and Denald Trump has
not been able to tweet for 15, 16 months now
after the Capitol Hill riots he was accused of stoking,
QR G G R [V S said that it was morally
reprehensible to have done, that it was a mistake.
The former chief executive L S R ]
that he regrets that too, so the door is open
for Donald Trump to N E R
The problem is that Donald Trump has said he does
not really want to N E e E R
He said he would much rather post on his own platform.
So, | would not necessarily assume that he is going
to suddenly start tweeting.
The other thing to mention is that Elon Musk has not
actually bought Twitter yet, and he seemed very low energy
about the deal today, | thought.
| am not necessarily 100% sure - | don’t think Elon Musk
is either - that he Is actually going to buy Twitter.
So, lots of reasons why Donald Trump might not come
back on, but the door is more ajar than it ever has been
for the former president to make a Twitter return.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Coming up in @ moment: Flying the flag for their country,
Ukraine qualifies for the final of the Eurovision Song Contest.
We will have more on that.
The Pope was shot, G R
that’s the essence of the appalling news from Rome
this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television
commentator put it, terrorism LR i RO R R Z R
The man they called the Butcher of Lyon, Klaus Barbie,
went on trial today in the French town where
he was the Gestapo chief in the Second World War.
Winnie Mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced
to six years in jail.
The judge told Mrs Mandela there was no indication
she felt even the slightest remorse.
The Chinese government has LR R E i e s
to help the victims of a powerful earthquake -
the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
The computer Deep Blue has NI GO LN R
the world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.
IR G R T Ry e T 1) has defeated a reigning world
champion in a classical RG]
America’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking
place in Massachusetts.
Hello, you
Helle, you are
Hello, you are watching BBC 3T
Hello, you are watching BBC IR d)
Hello, you are watching BBC VR R
Hello, you are watching BBC News with me, David Eades.
Anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew
in Sri Lanka, calling for the country’s president
to step aside.
The head of the World Health Organization has said China’s
zero-tolerance policy against Covid is not sustainable.
It’s widely expected that Finland will begin the process
of joining the Nato alliance this week.
Finland becoming a Nato member would significantly redraw
the security map of Europe and the prospect is already
viewed with undisquised hostility in Moscow.
From Finland, our special correspondent, Allan Little,
sent this report, which includes some stark images.
Finland may be a small country, but it has one of the biggest
armies in Europe.
Defence and security are not just matters
for the armed forces here.
They are woven into R AR R e Tl
URGLEGI 1A We have a firm role in society.
We still have a conscription, which means that majority
of the Finns are somehow part R E e e e o]
via their conscription IR e o]
And give me some sense of how big the Finnish Armed Forces
How many service personnel could you mobilise in the event
of a real national emergency?
208,000 is the figure L TR
From a population SRR
[SEai}'A That’s huge, isn’t it?
These are mostly conscript soldiers.
They serve full-time for a year, and will then do
regular refresher training throughout their adult lives.
For men, it’s compulsory. Some women also volunteer.
| have two older brothers LR A
so when they were in the army, | just thought that if there
was a war, | want R R R
| don’t want them to go, like, and | would stay home.
| want to go too.
NEWSREEL: Today little Finland Y B RV
defence as the modern G E T -
Finland’s thinking about defence is still shaped by this
- an attempt by the Soviet Union to invade and occupy
the country in 1939.
Finland’s resistance then is an echo of Ukraine today.
Among the wreckage, the Finns found propaganda films,
which were to have been shown in Helsinki after the Russians
had taken the capital.
This is also 1940, RS a e
Yes, during the Winter War.
Analisa Antilla was a teenager in the city of Vyborg.
The Soviets captured it and made it part of Russia.
Finland never got it back.
And did you witness some of the destruction yourself?
"Yes, of course,” she told me.
"I was there when the W SRR EI T T
"We had to get down MR R
"People were fleeing with their belongings.
"My mother and | were MR R R TR R
LTI
And are you still sad that TN A E Rl X
Of course.
Finland’s border with Russia is 800 miles long.
Its accession to Nato’s would strengthen the alliance’s
llUET Ryl el on Russia’s doorstep.
The trees beyond the frozen lake are in Russia.
On the other side of this frontier, this further advance
of Nato will be seen as more evidence of malign Western
intent, as a direct threat to the security
of Russia itself.
Finland’s army is already U EL L CRY G E X
This is a British tank taking part in joint training
exercises on Finnish soil already.
For Finland was once part of the Russian Empire,
and the spectre of a resurgent Russian imperialism has driven
Finland into full alignment R G ER CH GO G E1s%
alliance, and is redrawing the security map of Europe.
Allan Little, BBC News, Finland.
Ml
I’ll show you will be aware T
I’ll show you will be aware TR
I’ll show you will be aware it’s the revision
I’ll show you will be aware RO N Ra
I’ll show you will be aware TR N AR e
t’s the revision time. -- Furovision.
Eurovision Song Contest NN RN AR e e
voted through to the final on Saturday, following
the first semi-final which has been heldf in the Italian
city of Turin.
The band delivered an energetic performance of their song,
Stefania, to secure a place in the final.
At the end of the performance, the folk-rap group thanked
everyone for supporting Ukraine amid the Russian invasion.
Earlier one of its members told the BBC why taking part
was so important.
TRANSLATION: For our country e
TRANSLATION: For our country it’s important
TRANSLATION: For our country (AT e el o
TRANSLATION: For our country it’s important to have
it’s important to have ilure dl
it’s important to have lar ]
it’s important to have victories and always so if we
victories and always so if we win
victories and always so if we e
victories and always so if we R (T
victories and always so if we R (B e
win it’ll be another Yo gl lie
win It’ll be another S TR )
win It’ll be another opportunity to show
ORISR R [ opportunity to show Ukraine to
opportunity to show Ukraine to )
opportunity to show Ukraine to the world and remind
opportunity to show Ukraine to QR N RGP
the world and remind people FYe L
the world and remind people NI E T
the world and remind people A& ]
the world and remind people about Ukraine and increase
about Ukraine and increase morale in
about Ukraine and increase G RG]
about Ukraine and increase morale in the whole country.
Well, the executive supervisor of the contest,
Martin Osterdahl, has been explaining the significance
of this year’s contest against the backdrop
of the ongoing war in Ukraine.
TRANSLATION: It’s affected all N
TRANSLATION: It’s affected all A
TRANSLATION: It’s affected all RV 18
TRANSLATION: It’s affected all of us, not all of
TRANSLATION: It’s affected all R ] R AT
TRANSLATION: It’s affected all of us, not all of us in
of us, not all of us In AT e s ]
of us, not all of us In AT LA 1a B 01 4
of us, not all of us Iin Eurovision but everyone in the
Eurovision but everyone in the i
Eurovision but everyone in the e
Eurovisien but everyone in the world. If anything it’s a
world. If anything it’s a e
world. If anything it’s a broader and the Eurovision
broader and the Eurovision family, so
broader and the Eurovision I AR R )
broader and the Eurovision family, so to speak, closer to
family, so to speak, closer to ¥ Tes]
family, so to speak, closer to Y T B e e
family, so to speak, closer to Y Yo B s e |
family, so to speak, closer to P T R R e Y
family, so to speak, closer to L e R R e IR
each other and we realise that Y
each other and we realise that TV YN R I-Y
each other and we realise that when we stand
each other and we realise that TR R BRIl Ys|
each other and we realise that TR R s BTl s e s
each other and we realise that when we stand united on the
when we stand united on the stage, that we
when we stand united on the GG E A R )
when we stand united on the stage, that we are uniguely
D ARG LRI T TN a1
stage, that we are uniquely T L]
stage, that we are uniquely L RS
stage, that we are uniquely powerful and it’s a message of
powerful and it’s @ message of unity across
powerful and it’s a message of IRl R T
powerful and it’s a message of unity across Europe and that’s
unity across Europe and that’s vty
unity across Europe and that’s what we’re
unity across Europe and that’s what we’re gonna show
unity across Europe and that’s what we’re gonna show yet
unity across Europe and that’s what we’re gonna show yet again
what we’re gonna show yet again this
what we’re gonna show yet again QIR
what we’re gonna show yet again IR L
what we’re gonna show yet again this year. That family is a
this year. That family is a sl
this year. That family is a broad ocne.
this year. That family is a R U (R
this year. That family is a broad one. Australia, for
broad one. Australia, for example, will take part in the
example, will take part in the Yo sl
example, will take part in the second semi-final.
Their representative is 23-year-old Sheldon Riley.
His seng Is Not the Same.
He wrote the lyrics about his NI LR
He was diagnosed with Asperger syndrome at just six years old.
Joining me now is a Eurovision fan in Australia.
Hayley Wilkinson is in Wagga Wagga, New South Wales.
SFCTS
Hayley, very good to see you. ILEh S
Hayley, very good to see you. Thanks for joining us. Before
Thanks for joining us. Before Y
Thanks for joining us. Before N[
Thanks for joining us. Before IR )10
Thanks for joining us. Before we get onto Sheldon, there will
we get onto Sheldon, there will )
we get onto Sheldon, there will bhe a
we get onto Sheldon, there will (R
we get onto Sheldon, there will be a huge step give it for
be a huge step give it for IE
be a huge step give it for Ukraine but what do you rate
Ukraine but what do you rate them in
Ukraine but what do you rate iR e
Ukraine but what do you rate NIRRT
Ukraine but what do you rate IR E A G
them in terms of their performance
them in terms of their N L]
them in terms of their performance and their song? |
performance and their song? | think
performance and their song? | i QAL
performance and their song? | think that by father had the
think that by father had the R
think that by father had the most standout perfoermance of
most standout performance of )
most standout perfoermance of Rl
most standout perfoermance of the first semi-final.
most standout perfoermance of WG IE R L
the first semi-final. The staging, the energy, the crowd
staging, the energy, the crowd Ty
staging, the energy, the crowd was completely on their feet,
was completely on their feet, e
was completely on their feet, not a single person sitting
not a single person sitting Ll
not a single person sitting down. You could really feel the
down. You could really feel the N
down. You could really feel the OV
down. You could really feel the energy all the way down and
energy all the way down and Australia
energy all the way down and e IE L 4
energy all the way down and Australia at 530 in the
energy all the way down and S EE S (O R G R T
Australia at 530 in the morning 3
Australia at 530 in the morning HRTE
Australia at 530 in the morning it was a standout perfoermance
it was a standout performance and they
it was a standout perfermance and they truly deserve to be in
and they truly deserve to be in )
and they truly deserve to be in the final.
and they truly deserve to be in W RiLE IR RS
and they truly deserve to be in R E R ]
and they truly deserve to be in QR E R T E I
the final. That’s a generous commentary
the final. That’s a generous Wl E1 A
the final. That’s a generous commentary on Ukraine. What
commentary on Ukraine. What FYe L
commentary on Ukraine. What about your
commentary on Ukraine. What E[ LA T
commentary on Ukraine. What about your boy, Sheldon Riley?
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? Not
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? IR
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? ST
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? G
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? NG rR
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? SRR R R )
about your boy, Sheldon Riley? RGO R R R N
Not the same as the title of )
Not the same as the title of L
Not the same as the title of WL
Not the same as the title of the soul and its very much his
the soul and its very much his )
the soul and its very much his whole persona, isn’t it? Yes,
whole persona, isn’t it? Yes, iG]
whole persona, isn’t it? Yes, Sheldon stood out from
whole persona, isn’t it? Yes, LRI R R e R
Sheldon stood out from the moment
Sheldon stood out from the I R
Sheldon stood out from the moment that we found
Sheldon stood out from the NI R UEI R R sEs s
Sheldon stood out from the moment that we found out that
moment that we found out that he was going to
moment that we found out that (R LG RCY
moment that we found out that (LR R GE R
moment that we found out that (LR LRGN
he was going to be in a YL Ell
he was going to be in a national selection. |
he was going to be ina national selection. | think
he was going to be ina N B i R
national selection. | think he Ty
national selection. | think he ]
national selection. | think he was a fan favourite here and
was a fan favourite here and his
was a fan favourite here and (R LR
was a fan favourite here and TR PR )
was a fan favourite here and his son, who has one of the
his sen, who has one of the best
his son, who has one of the best male locals in
his son, who has one of the AU EI R LR R Y
his son, who has one of the best male locals in the whole
best male locals in the whole G
best male locals in the whole competition this year. One of
competition this year. One of )
competition this year. One of the stronger, strongest
the stronger, strongest ballads. And the staging, he
ballads. And the staging, he has
ballads. And the staging, he RN ]
ballads. And the staging, he has emptied up.
ballads. And the staging, he LRI LR R Y
ballads. And the staging, he R LA RV R R 1)
ballads. And the staging, he has emptied up. We are well
gEET T T TRV TR e e]
has emptied up. We are well known for having good staging
known for having good staging e
known for having good staging G NT]
known for having good staging but Sheldon with his 40
known for having good staging R G R G I Y R G|
but Sheldon with his 40 kg I
but Sheldon with his 40 kg I
but Sheldon with his 40 kg dress, he really is going to
dress, he really is going to stand
dress, he really Is going to AR A
dress, he really Is going to stand out. You are
dress, he really Is going to eI L Al
dress, he really is going to stand out. You are well known
stand out. You are well known e
stand out. You are well known IR
stand out. You are well known I i g e}
stand out. You are well known for your attraction to
for your attraction to diversity and inclusion in
diversity and inclusion in s
diversity and inclusion in R
diversity and inclusion in terms of Eurovision. Is
diversity and inclusion in terms of Eurovision. |s Sheldon
terms of Eurovision. Is Sheldon just a perfect role model in
Just a perfect role model in T e1d
just a perfect role model in U E R e
just a perfect role model in that respect, would you say?
that respect, would you say? Absolutely.
that respect, would you say? Y T T T
that respect, would you say? Absolutely. He comes from a
Absolutely. He comes from a AR
Absolutely. He comes from a diverse background. He comes
diverse background. He comes Tee I8t
diverse background. He comes e AT
diverse background. He comes from Filipino heritage, he is a
from Filipino heritage, he is a proud
from Filipino heritage, he is a PTG R o
from Filipino heritage, he is a PO E R RO
from Filipino heritage, he is a proud member of the LGBTQI+
proud member of the LGBTQI+ s
proud member of the LGBTQI+ T L]
proud member of the LGBTQI+ SR LR
proud member of the LGBTQI+ ST L R
proud member of the LGBTQI+ community and he also stands
community and he also stands e
community and he also stands R
community and he also stands out for, you know, challenging
out for, you know, challenging ERI N
out for, you know, challenging fashion, challenging vocals,
fashion, challenging vocals, ]
fashion, challenging vocals, you know, and
fashion, challenging vocals, RGN AN
fashion, challenging vocals, R G AN R RG] 8
fashion, challenging vocals, you know, and he really does
you know, and he really does bring a message
you know, and he really does bring @ message that a lot of
bring a message that a lot of TG
bring a message that a lot of people can
bring a message that a lot of I XTI
bring a message that a lot of people can get behind
bring a message that a lot of XL LG
bring a message that a lot of people can get behind this year
people can get behind this year 1
people can get behind this year at Furovision.
people can get behind this year A LR LY
people can get behind this year CI A R LAl
people can get behind this year AR LS AL
people can get behind this year A R LS AL ]
at Eurovision. They can be a e
at Eurovision. They can be a i
at Eurovision. They can be a lot of politics in
at Eurovision. They can be a NI E GG
at Eurovision. They can be a X E G R G R
lot of politics in the voting. We
lot of politics in the voting. Ty Y]
lot of politics in the voting. We know that. It doesn’t
L O U R R G R [S We know that. It doesn’t always
We know that. It doesn’t always a4
We know that. It doesn’t always work out that way.
We know that. It doesn’t always W IR R R
work out that way. Doesn’t %1\
work out that way. Doesn’t really matter, do you
L TR G EIRE VT R really matter, do you think,
really matter, do you think, Ty
really matter, do you think, R X4
really matter, do you think, R XA 1]
really matter, do you think, R A G
really matter, do you think, R XA NI
really matter, do you think, who wins? You are one of the
who wins? You are one of the big fans. Look, at the end of
big fans. Look, at the end of )
big fans. Look, at the end of G
big fans. Look, at the end of the day, |
big fans. Look, at the end of LR EV ARG
big fans. Look, at the end of the day, | think it really
big fans. Look, at the end of GEREV A RO AT VA
the day, | think it really Is e
the day, | think it really is ST 0L
the day, | think it really is e )
the day, | think it really is e R N o e s
the day, | think it really is more about the celebration of
more about the celebration of bringing all these different
bringing all these different languages, people from
languages, people from e e 4
languages, people from different backgrounds
different backgrounds altogether. At the end of the
altogether. At the end of the EV RN )
altogether. At the end of the day everyone is a winner and
day everyone is a winner and T
day everyone is a winner and has a
day everyone IS a winner and TRt ai e 4
day everyone IS a winner and has a moment in the
day everyone Is a winner and has a moment in the spotlight.
has a moment in the spotlight. Although we would love to see
Although we would love to see Australia when, | think at the
Australia when, | think at the il
Australia when, | think at the end of the day, other
Australia when, | think at the R R OERE ARG RN
Australia when, | think at the end of the day, other wins is
end of the day, other wins is deserving of the trophy. Very
deserving of the trophy. Very LN
deserving of the trophy. Very good. Hayley, enjoy the final
good. Hayley, enjoy the final and
good. Hayley, enjoy the final N B4
good. Hayley, enjoy the final and thank you for joining us.
and thank you for joining us. T4
and thank you for joining us. IEL SN
Each year, billiens of tonnes of goods are transported around
the world by sea.
Huge cargo ships travel the oceans, contributing
to greenhouse gas emissions.
Now one company is trying to provide an alternative,
and it involves the use of an ancient technology,
as the BBC’s Tim Allman explains.
In the shadow of a city built ]
In the shadow of a city built MR
In the shadow of a city built on trade, the
In the shadow of a city built R PR U R R a1
In the shadow of a city built on trade, the President meets
on trade, the President meets )
on trade, the President meets QR
on trade, the President meets R AN
on trade, the President meets QN ES LA
on trade, the President meets the past and in doing so, could
the past and in doing so, could Lilis
the past and in doing so, could LI
the past and in doing so, could IR R T
the past and in doing so, could point to the future? At this
point to the future? At this i
point to the future? At this point in
point to the future? At this A
point to the future? At this point in New Jersey,
point to the future? At this A B RS RO
point to the future? At this AN RS RS KL
point in New Jersey, they are loading a cargo ship, well,
loading a cargo ship, well, el 3
loading a cargo ship, well, S VR
loading a cargo ship, well, SO VR L
loading a cargo ship, well, technically a boat, that harks
technically a boat, that harks back to an
technically a boat, that harks NG N e
technically a boat, that harks back to an earlier age. The
back to an earlier age. The SIEL]
back to an earlier age. The IELL TG
back to an earlier age. The grand sale is powered by the
grand sale is powered by the LR
grand sale is powered by the LTI
grand sale is powered by the wind, goods across the
wind, goods across the Atlantic, the old-fashioned
Atlantic, the old-fashioned "
Atlantic, the old-fashioned way. The mission of Grand
LEV AR L RS RO ECIE LT Y
way. The mission of Grand Assail is to reinvent shipping
Assail is to reinvent shipping and
Assail is to reinvent shipping VLN
Assall is to reinvent shipping and away by doing it with a
and away by doing it with a cargo sailboat to reduce the
cargo sailboat to reduce the impact
cargo sailboat to reduce the Tyl El )
cargo sailboat to reduce the I Ela IR G
cargo sailboat to reduce the I E e K RGN il
cargo sailboat to reduce the impact on the environment so we
impact on the environment so we e
impact on the environment so we want to produce and sell
want to produce and sell great gastronomic product and we come
gastronomic product and we come Tee I8t
gastronomic product and we come from far away.
gastronomic product and we come HOREIE L AR LG
gastronomic product and we come from far away. The sailboat is
from far away. The sailboat is a
from far away. The sailboat is il
from far away. The sailboat is FNZE LR
from far away. The sailboat is a 72 foot, to
from far away. The sailboat is FW A PR R I
from far away. The sailboat is a 72 foot, to master the
a 72 foot, to master the e I
a 72 foot, to master the scooter, carrying around 50
scooter, carrying around 50 i
scooter, carrying around 50 el A
scooter, carrying around 50 tons of cargo, a tiny fraction
tons of cargo, a tiny fraction N
tons of cargo, a tiny fraction R
tons of cargo, a tiny fraction AT ]
tons of cargo, a tiny fraction R el s [ 1gs]
tons of cargo, a tiny fraction of what a modern transporter
of what a modern transporter ship
of what a modern transporter iK1
of what a modern transporter I E=L RGN
of what a modern transporter L LT
of what a modern transporter ship can old. One trip takes
ship can old. One trip takes around 3.5 weeks, weather
around 3.5 weeks, weather permitting. So patience really
permitting. So patience really s
permitting. So patience really %)
permitting. So patience really is a virtue for any potential
is a virtue for any potential i
is a virtue for any potential customers. We assure
Is a virtue for any potential customers. We assure people
customers. We assure people that
customers. We assure people Gy
customers. We assure people that it’s possible to make
that it’s possible to make ey
that it’s possible to make green transportation with a
green transportation with a =IO
green transportation with a cargo, selling
green transportation with a (IR LE ][N
green transportation with a cargo, selling cargo, just to
cargo, selling cargo, just to )
cargo, selling cargo, just to take time and it’s possible,
take time and it’s possible, yes.
take time and it’s possible, LR T
take time and it’s possible, R I R
take time and it’s possible, yes. There are plans for a
yes. There are plans for a sister
yes. There are plans for a AR GIR T
yes. There are plans for a sister vessel that’ll be about
sister vessel that’ll be about ey
sister vessel that’ll be about iR
sister vessel that’ll be about i Ry
sister vessel that’ll be about i R N
sister vessel that’ll be about i R R N A
sister vessel that’ll be about twice the size of Grand Assail
twice the size of Grand Assail and
twice the size of Grand Assail P Tsle1s]
twice the size of Grand Assall and can make more
twice the size of Grand Assail and can make more trips. No-one
and can make more trips. No-one 3
and can make more trips. No-one is under
and can make more trips. No-one R 1)
and can make more trips. No-one is under any illusions that
is under any illusions that IR
is under any illusions that R )
is under any illusions that sailboats are about to
is under any illusiens that sailboats are about to replace
sailboats are about to replace modern cargo ships but in the
modern cargo ships but in the fight against climate change,
fight against climate change, every little helps.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
A bit of a way to go for that. T
A bit of a way to go for that. It’s progress
A bit of a way to go for that. [EFTCH IR
A bit of a way to go for that. It’s progress of a sort, isn’t
It’s progress of a sort, isn’t it?
It’s progress of a sort, isn’t ANl
It’s progress of a sort, isn’t it? I’ll join your attention to
LES RINTIL BT I g L R e
it? I’ll join your attention to our webpage.
There you’ll find IR TR R o
And the cost of lLiving,
And the cost of living, affecting
And the cost of living, EH iR
And the cost of living, El e LI ST
And the cost of living, affecting not just the
And the cost of living, EH I ST LRI
And the cost of living, EH A I ST R G LR ]
Ui IS TR G RN @] worldwide. Our
Ui IS TR G AT @] worldwide. Our correspondence
worldwide. Our correspondence L]
worldwide. Our correspondence giving answers and insights
giving answers and insights T )
giving answers and insights NCNuEL
giving answers and insights into many different parts of
into many different parts of that.
inte many different parts of that. You
inte many different parts of LR LT
inte many different parts of that. You are watching BBC
that. You are watching BBC IS
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
of 14-18 or 19 degrees e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
Tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed
in the Sri Lankan capital Colombo as the government
struggles to contain protests against the spiralling
cost of Living.
Security forces have been given the right to shoot anyone
suspected of looting or posing a risk to life.
China has been urged to change its zero-Covid
strategy by the World Health Organization.
The head of the UN agency said it RO R
the virus were unsustainable.
Many cities in China have faced lockdown restrictions
as the country suffers its worst Covid ocutbreak
since the pandemic began.
Russia has targeted the Black Sea port of Odesa,
using what the Ukrainians say AN S A G
One person is reported to have died.
It comes as the UN has estimated the number
of civilians killed NE el
the official figure NI {0
Tuesday’s state opening of parliament marked the first
time since 1963 that The Queen didn’t attend.
Her Majesty had authorised the Prince of Wales
and the Duke of Cambridge to open the new parliamentary
Session.
Prince Charles delivered the speech on the Queen’s
behalf after Buckingham Palace explained that
Her Majesty was suffering from episodic mobility problems.
Our royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell examines
the significance of the events.
He’s been waiting for his destiny
for longer than any other heir RO R e -]
And, while no-one XL R %1
a major change is imminent, the inescapable fact
s that a transition s under way.
And this, today, was the most tangible sign of it.
As Prince Charles I T
on the Consort’s Throne, the Imperial State Crown,
the symbol of the monarch’s authority, was placed
on a table beside him.
The Prince studied it closely, and then, with Lords
and Commons assembled, R R M T S S EEL
short of his own opiniens took on the discipline required
of a monarch.
Reading out the words written by the Government.
The continued success AT [e1sY
of the whole of the United Kingdom
is of paramount importance to Her Majesty’s Government.
It was this, the Regency Act of 1937, that the Palace used
to delegate the power RN Gl
M [ TR suggesting a permanent
transfer of the monarch’s powers.
The Queen is still busy with her
paper work and virtual audiences.
Changes are happening, but they are gradual.
For the Queen, I
very important to carry out all her public duties in public
whenever she can.
She’s famously said "to be seen is to be believed,”
and she believes the monarchy must be seen,
but in future it is Likely N R R R LR T
members of the Royal Family carrying out
royal duties on her behalf.
For seven decades, IR R sl
a highly visible head of state.
Those days are over, X GIEIC E IR
faced, the burden is shifting.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
LA 1O T The Travel Show.
Coming up on this A SR IR
Making ancient Greece more accessible.
| mean, this is an extra R RGNl N
This is a part that only we get.
We meet the woman who helped QR EI TR GV R LR RO I
survive through the pandemic.
Ps-ps-ps.
And we’re off to Spain for a taste of the sun.
Oh, my God.
That crushing sound.
History and accessibility can sometimes feel like they’re
| love a historical site as much as the next person,
but with narrow walkways, flights of stone steps
and worn-away surfaces, a visit can feel Like a Herculean task.
I’m making my way up to the Acropolis -
which in Greek means High City - which doesn’t loock nor
sound very wheelchair-friendly.
So before Covid, It was a proper mission to get up
to the Acropolis if you had any sort of mobility issues.
Basically, you had a 15-minute hike up a load of steep stairs
and loads of steep ramps before you came to any sort
of accessible pathway.
But since then, things have changed.
The Acropolis is Greece’s number-one tourist attraction
and, pre-pandemic, over 3.5 million people climbed
to the top each year.
One good thing to come T s R e s le el
was there was finally the time and the space to make the site
more accessible to those W T G R
Just seen a sign for a disabled entrance,
1S AN Ty RIS
| can see why the ancient B R L
You have to be a god R RGN TN
Which way am | going?
This way?
111918
Remember when | said it was a 15-minute hike up some
stairs to get to the Acropolis?
L IR G R I’m talking about.
I’d never make it up there.
ST IR R o
All I have to do is catch my breath and admire the scenery
as | wait for the brand-new lift, built to comfortably
accommodate two wheelchairs at a time.
But not everyone sees it as an improvement -
with some critics calling it ER L EOIB S IS
Well, | think it beats climbing flights of steps any day
This is all right.
lock at this view.
This Is just...
| mean, this is an extra R RGNl N
This is a part that only we get.
All the other good old-fashioned two-leggers have
to go up the stairs!
And this is what I’m talking about.
After just 40 seconds in the lift, and using
the Acropolis’ new accessible paths, | get to experience
The Acropolis has a long history, and over its time it’s
been used as a fortress, a mosque, and it’s even
been blown up.
But its headliner has got RN e e
a temple dedicated to the ancient Greek goddess
Athena, who gave the city NG R R e
| have never been so happy to see concrete.
That is amazing.
I’ve actually been here before, LR AR AR L )
this was all rough and gravelly and really hard to push along.
But now | get to experience the Acropolis, and | get this
LG eI RN RGN IR G ]
| want to take these concrete slabs home!
But improvement is not a word some would use when describing
the work carried out NG
Not everyone is happy with the renovations that have
gone on here at the Acropolis.
Now, some people have complained about the concrete
slabs being laid down, saying that it’s hiding
the original features of the Acropolis, and even
wounding the stone here.
But I’ve been told that these slabs can be raised,
and you’ll still have the original features,
and actually, look - this is some of the original
stone, and it’s smooth anyway.
Rival historians claim the work carried out is @ means to get
more tourists to visit, and is disrespectful
to the site’s diverse past.
I’m heading down to the Acropolis Museum to meet
a man who knows a thing or two about ancient history,
and he believes the ancient Greeks themselves would have
been OK with this upgrade.
Ancient Greek civilisation, culture is an anthropocentric
That means they created their gods in the image
Zeus, Hera, Aphrodite, and so on.
And between them they had Hephaestus, a very hard-working
metal smith, and very powerful god.
LR R
Disabled gods, or gods with disabilities.
I’m learning so many new things.
This I1s amazing.
And I’m also told that accessibility at the Acropolis
s not a new thing.
Even in the Archaic Period - QNN LGRSOl A - L
there were ramps leading up to the Temple of Athena.
Not the Parthenon, YR N E e he e s e R s
exist until the 5th century.
But even earlier, there TG R
ramp, as well.
And many times it has been interpreted that it was for
the animals to be sacrificed.
But it is not only that - M R (R R L0 CF
helping disabled people and older people or pregnant
women and so on, so that they have a good and easy
[T TR (LT ) the temple of the Goddess.
And the conversation has got quite heated.
You know, people have said that (¥R GRS L]
It’s wounding the rock.
What are your thoughts on that?
Come on.
These are politics, and politics...
It is actually, democratically speaking, different options
QG L0 R
You cannot look with my eyes and | cannot lock with yours.
There are plans in place to make the site even more
accessible, with the installation of further paths.
I, for one, think this El L R G DR [
example to historic monuments throughout the world.
And I’m really happy G E L R R (T
the Acropolis now.
Well, if you’re planning RN LG LA
soon, here’s a rundown of things to maybe look out for.
You might find yourself paying QIR R IR (]
onto one of Athens’ many beaches.
Entry fees can push up into the hundreds of euros
at somewhere like Astir Beach during peak season.
Vouliagmeni Lake is a good alternative.
It has sunbeds, hot springs BRI R e
Athens’ open-air amphitheatres are a really special place
to go and see a concert or play.
Patti Smith and Diana Krall are both appearing this summer
at the Odeon Herodes Atticus at the foot of the Acropolis.
If you’re a fan of the classics, plays by Aeschylus,
Sophocles and Euripides N R N R e AT
of Epidaurus, with full English subtitles.
Many visitors pass through the vast and ancient Piraeus
port on their way RGN VAL
While you’re there, check N ORI GRS
and warehouses in surrounding streets.
In recent times, the buildings have become a hub for
contemporary art galleries.
A brand-new metro line can whisk you there from central
Athens in around 50 minutes.
And Athens is known for its open-air cinemas.
Throughout June, July and August, you can catch
classic films and new releases in some beautiful cutdoor
The screenings take place under Sl AL AL R G R AT
squares, museums and parks, and some are totally
free of charge.
Right, stay with us, N B e 1]
on the programme...
Ps-ps-ps.
| meet the woman who helped hundreds of her four-legged
friends survive the pandemic here in Athens.
And Kate is off to Malaga R IR R LR ML GG
culinary challenge.
The olive oil is going to be totally different.
They look identical to me.
Yeah, but, you know, | promise, it’s going to be
a totally different taste.
So don’t go away.
These are just some of the cats of Athens.
If you’ve ever visited Greece, then there’s a good chance
a feline friend has made a cameo appearance in your trip
outside a taverna or I aes R
These guys are everywhere.
o Il 1 TR R ii)
I’m meeting Sam Beaker, a volunteer at Athens-based cat
SE1d1 A L TS
We are a team, Nine Lives, and we feed every day
here in Acropolis and in many other places around
R G
LA [ CEL IR G RG]
There are many, many cats in Athens.
Yes.
We feed around over 500 I R R -
The team at Nine Lives definitely have their work cut
e
So I’ve decided to help TR IR R R e e e i
shift and get some grub out to these furry Athenians.
They are always together. TR X
(N P R ia P
How did the pandemic affect the work that you were doing,
and also the welfare RN Y
Well, suddenly, because the town was empty,
you could see...
..S0 many, many cats, revealed a lot of cats
LG ID IR QIR G R G were around and we had to feed
more because probably some of them were eating around
tavernas who were not any more open.
QG VT[N LRI
You recognised e TR RO RS X
Yeah, he lost his eye... ..er, recently.
[N E10E LA I
This isn’t just about keeping these cats’ bellies full.
Feeding them breeds trust IR o R AT
volunteers to carry out important health checks.
It’s not so, so much food for them.
Town is not the physical e e R G e
They don’t have enough food and they wouldn’t
be so healthy.
They would be a little bit skinny, sick, and if we didn’t
sterilise them, there Tl R L
Yeah. So they would die.
Yeah. ISR LG IR NS
No tourists meant no tavernas.
CHE AL EH R e (g volunteers, these guys
would have gone hungry.
But as Athens opens up again, should we all be sharing our
meals with the local cats?
OK, they can give them a treat, as, er, as far is not problem
ORI LRV TN S ANERE
Animals mustn’t eat, actually, our food.
And sometimes it can be dangerous for them
because usually they give NN A G i
| always carry now with me cat food so | don’t have to take
from my plate and give to the animals if | am outside.
| have something always.
Right, next time I’m in Athens, I’ll be packing cat
hiscuits for sure!
Well, to finish up this week, we’re leaving the cat food
behind and heading off to Spain, where Kate Hardy Buckley
is on the lookout for something far more enticing to add
LR
I’m in Malaga, a sun-kissed port city in southern Spain.
Now, every summer, | normally pass straight through here
to another town further along the Costa del Sol.
IR R sticking around.
With its fertile soll, the sea air, and over 300 days
of sunshine a year, this region is perfect for finding
the best produce.
Jose Carlos Garcia is one of Malaga’s finest
ambassadors of gastronomy.
He suggested we meet RN e R e
to explore some local produce that inspired his
What are we going to cook together?
Before | leave the market, O RO
for our ajo blanco soup.
First up, | visit Finca La Torre - producers of one
of the world’s most premium RO IR ORI S
LR (I TSl G R (-1
PR
Even more. Wow.
Victor Perez tends to his 34,000 olive trees with such
care, his olive oil RN RGN e
score at competitions.
We take, you know, one olive, IR NG S
The olive oil is going to be totally different.
They look identical!
Yeah, but, you know, | promise it’s going to be
G R Y
In a few weeks, they will become a little bit yellow
and they will be more tender.
It’s the signal that the olive oil content, it is full now.
That means harvest time, and Victor prioritises
quality, not quantity.
From this tree, we will get around 30, 40 kilos.
So that’s only three B
It is, yeah, three B
From the moment the olive leaves the tree to the bottle,
how long does that take?
The whole process, it I I R N e
Two hours?!
Since we have to be really, really, really, really fast.
There’s no other way.
This estate dates back to Roman times, and today we’re pressing
QLR the old-fashioned way.
Oh, my God. That crushing sound!
And back? Yeah.
0 I & s
Unlike wine, which often improves with age, olive oil
IR R I N (e
I’m going to go back to London now and start drinking olive
oil in a wine glass!
I’ve also got to bring chef Jose Carlos something
from the sea.
And I’m just in time for the fishermen coming
in from their night trawl.
I’ve seen sardines, I’ve seen N L T
It doesn’t get much fresher than this.
This is absolutely amazing.
The noise, the pace, IR - e
Literally, your fish is off the boat, into auction,
and in a matter of hours onto a plate.
| pick up some sardines - RS U IR AU RIS
city.
Last on my list is the pitaya - the dragonfruit.
This cactus fruit, often associated with Southeast Asia,
originates from southern Mexico.
Its production in Spain has grown exponentially
in the last few years.
And now to Jose Carlos Garcia’s Michelin-starred restaurant
The easy stuff for me, the difficult stuff for you.
VLN [l TR G LR G [y 3 Rt R N N
ajo blanco soup.
It’s totally changed colour.
It’s a magnificent, creamy white.
Jose Carlos takes the freshest ingredients and turns them
inte something beautiful.
Ty T
Oh, my Goa! TR
Mm! So fresh.
The crunch of the fruit BRI N E G R A e
of the sardine - absolutely fenomenal!
Well, that’’s your lot NG Ra
Just before we go, a quick word about next week.
LR N mummies here, Vivian.
Carmen’s back in Chile - where this time she comes
face-to-face with the ancient AUV R G E SR L N
RV T T Ta T [y for humanity’s oldest
examples of mummification.
Oh, wow! It’s quite small.
What can you tell me about this mummy?
So make sure you catch that if you can, and also check us
out on social media.
But for now, from me, LY LR R G R
of the Travel Show team here in Athens -
where it’s so good to finally be out on the road again
together with you guys - it’s goodbye, and see
you next time.
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty as well Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
of 14-18 or 19 degrees e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine
but also some heavy showers in the south.
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
"Shoot on sight” -
the orders for security forces in Sri Lanka
amid violent protests
calling for the president R ReA
A warning for China -
the World Health Organization says
LI sV change course on Covid.
When we talk about a zero-Covid strategy,
we don’t see it as sustainable, considering
=R ET R E TR in the future.
We are in the city of Odesa as Ukraine’s strategic
port struggles under the barrage of Russian missile
Last night when we were here,
it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage.
But this morning, you can -
the rocket has completely ripped into the back
of the shopping centre here.
You can see it’s completely folded.
And going back to the past -
the company trying to prove that sailboats
dré a greener wdy to transport cargo.
Security forces in Sri Lanka have been ordered
to shoot anyone seen looting or damaging public property
in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
Since last month,
the country has been rocked RSN
over soaring prices, power cuts LR G A el
At least eight people have died in the violence
and 200 have been injured,
as our correspondent, Rajini Vaidyanathan,
reports from Colombo.
A capital under curfew.
Troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public
property or threatens lives.
The skeletons of a bustling city
scorched by an economic crisis.
Reeling after a day SRR
Yesterday, supporters RGN R IR e
anti-government protesters, who until that point had been
peacefully demonstrating.
At the city’s main L G
than 200 have been wound
Many were beaten up.
This man fractured his leg after a tear gas
canister landed on It.
War veterans Yigit and Assuncao are out of hospital.
Men who lost their legs in mines
VL INTR R &R civil war say
they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices
e
"They started punching me.
"I was left with only one crutch.
"They pushed me and | fell.”
"When we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
"Now we’re being attacked.”
With trust in the government shattered, the homes
of at least two dozen politicians who backed
QLR [ol = ee) LYV N R e f
This was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
It belonged to a supporter of the government,
ER Tl FY
And this was the bedroom.
It was set on fire.
All you can see now TR I R R R 188 11
R R R G Rl
And if we just move into the living room,
completely trashed - just look around.
Tonight, a resort belonging to the son of Sri Lanka’'s
former Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa,
who quit yesterday, was set alight.
And clashes broke out in the city of Negombo.
Protesters want the President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, to resign -
as long as he stays,
tensions on this island will be inflamed.
Rajini Vaidyanathan, S AR A EL SR
The head of the World Health Organization has said
0 FER I ([ [ policy against Covid
iSRG
The authorities in Beijing have imposed lockdowns
Gl R CLEN millions of people,
lasting several weeks,
to try to prevent any spread of the illness.
INSGLRY, 08 director-general said
he had told Chinese R RN
to change that appreach.
When we talk about the zero-Covid
strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable
considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we
anticipate in the future.
We have discussed IR G IR
with Chinese experts, IR R s a1
the approach, you know, would not be sustainable.
TG R [ R () Saad Omer, the director
of the Yale Institute TR N
| asked him for his view on China’s zero-covid
strategy,
Well, the policy had its value EI R QR EL I A
at the - well, you know, a few months after the start
QB G ERE ]
If you are In a football game
and your first ten-minute strategy
R s el E LT} out in the overtime,
if you will, there is something LN
and so | do not think it is sustainable in the light
of the current variant,
its infectivity, but also R UE RO
So, China has other tools at its disposal that can be
deployed, and | think it should seriously consider expanding
a little bit of focus on these other tools and easing up
on the so-called zero-tolerance R ('R
When you talk about the other tools, | presume that vaccines
are one of those.
Either the vaccines are not terribly effective in Beijing’s
mind, or they are struggling to get people to take them.
In terms of vaccines, it is not a yes-no question.
It is not just vaccines, R W A AR AL el
are being deployed - IS G IR GG T
I
| will give you an example.
China focused on the NETaai e R laula Rl
were extremely useful RGN LT ALY,
against the earlier variants and severe disease,
but since then, there have been variants for which you would
require additional doses and perhaps different
kinds of vaccines.
So, there are two applications pending in China for mRNA
vaccines, and | think China should focus on acquiring
the technology, but also producing mRNA vaccines
for boosters or reconsidering LR T
with the variants they are facing.
The other thing is they have sub-optimal immunisation rates
in some of the highest-risk populations in China,
so they need to be a major focus.
And then coming back to the...
Sorry - just on that point - that seems an extraordinary,
an anomaly, really, within IR R G R A
to happen, because if they want to impose certain restrictions
- as they have done with isolating people
and locking down - why can’t they impose
the insistence that they have vaccines?
Well, they are.
Again, even before Draconian mandates or strict mandates,
there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public health
entities, including in China, for example, soft mandates,
meaning requiring vaccination for certain activities,
and countries like France have shown that using those kinds
of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
We will have to leave it there, but thank you very much indeed
for your expertise as China P Ta N R e o il
with the challenge ARG
Taking a live now to the US S}
Taking a live now to the US RN
Taking a live now to the US House of Representatives
House of Representatives T )
House of Representatives IR Y
House of Representatives e RGN
House of Representatives N R ]
House of Representatives e R R
House of Representatives because there is a how going on
because there is a bow going on il
because there is a bow going on right now about approving a
right now about approving a significant sum of money in aid
significant sum of money in aid to Ukraine. You would know that
to Ukraine. You would know that Joe Biden had called on
to Ukraine. You would know that R N LR (L B 5 5
Joe Biden had called on $33 billion as
Joe Biden had called on $33 (IR st 00ad
Joe Biden had called on $33 billion as the amount he
billien as the amount he s
billien as the amount he wanted. They
billien as the amount he N I LS
billion as the amount he wanted. They are actually
wanted. They are actually ]
wanted. They are actually voting on $40 billion of funds,
voting on $40 billion of funds, el
voting on $40 billien of funds, which could
voting on $40 billien of funds, Y iR TR
voting on $40 billien of funds, s R TR R
voting on $40 billien of funds, T e R IR NI R ]
voting on $40 billien of funds, which could be used to provide
which could be used to provide G E1sY
which could be used to provide military support to the Ukraine
military support to the Ukraine e
military support to the Ukraine but also humanitarian
LI T ER TG ED Y A e o]
LI T ER TG ED assistance to
LI T ER TG ED YA RO R
but also humanitarian YA R R Rl IETa
assistance to the civilians P sl
assistance to the civilians affected by the Russian
affected by the Russian invasion.
affected by the Russian R L
affected by the Russian invasion. The speaker of the
invasion. The speaker of the house, Nancy Pelosi, told
house, Nancy Pelosi, told Y
house, Nancy Pelosi, told AT e o
house, Nancy Pelosi, told fellow Democrats, it was
fellow Democrats, It was el
fellow Democrats, It was s eI
fellow Democrats, It was e A CK:
fellow Democrats, It was important to act quickly.
fellow Democrats, it was important to act quickly. As
important to act quickly. As Vladimir Putin desperately
Vladimir Putin desperately Y
Vladimir Putin desperately e e
Vladimir Putin desperately accelerates his campaign of
accelerates his campaign of horror and
accelerates his campaign of IR O A
accelerates his campaign of horror and brutality, Mr
horror and brutality, Mr Speaker
QTR RN 10 Speaker in
QTR RN 10 LGN E N
QTR RN 1A T Speaker in Ukraine, time is of
Speaker in Ukraine, time is of )
Speaker in Ukraine, time is of MR e
Speaker in Ukraine, time is of the essence. This is why
Speaker in Ukraine, time is of RN R R A
Speaker in Ukraine, time is of O R R R A LG
the essence. This is why we are )
the essence. This is why we are so pleased to hear
the essence. This is why we are R CEH R IR G
the essence. This is why we are so pleased to hear we could
so pleased to hear we could proceed immediately
so pleased to hear we could L R e LG VAL ]
so pleased to hear we could proceed immediately with this
proceed immediately with this IR
proceed immediately with this bill. Today. So go through the
bill. Today. So go through the )
bill. Today. So go through the )
bill. Today. So go through the -1 ls|
bill. Today. So go through the AN R
bill. Today. So go through the Senate and to the
bill. Today. So go through the N N RO R R AN
Senate and to the President’s 4
Senate and to the President’s desk so
Senate and to the President’s M G R
Senate and to the President’s M SRR o)
Senate and to the President’s desk so the assistance can
desk so the assistance can reach the
desk so the assistance can IO RGN0
desk so the assistance can reach the people of Ukraine and
reach the people of Ukraine and Fastern
reach the people of Ukraine and OGN
reach the people of Ukraine and Eastern Europe. That is Nancy
Eastern Europe. That is Nancy Pelosi talking about the need
Pelosi talking about the need to move quickly. It appears
R TV VT VAR L ToTs [T g that
to move quickly. It appears G
to move quickly. It appears EIRNR )
to move quickly. It appears that the vote is pretty much
that the vote is pretty much Al
O F 1 QTR R T a Vel done and clear
O F 1 QTR R T a Vel s Re - s
O F 1 QTR R T a Vel R )
O F 1 QTR R T a Vel done and clear that the Met
done and clear that the Met e
done and clear that the Met Democrats have
done and clear that the Met T R R )
S RN G IR TR [ Democrats have the majority of
Democrats have the majority of votes
Democrats have the majority of R
Democrats have the majority of IR R
Democrats have the majority of votes for that. $40 billion is
votes for that. $40 billion is )
votes for that. $40 billion is the figure made available to
the figure made available to e
the figure made available to YA AN IR
Well, the number of Ukrainians who have fled their country
since Russia’s invasion in February is approaching six
million, according to the UN, making it the fastest growing
And there is no let-up in the attacks.
On Monday night, Russia pounded the Black Sea port of Odesa,
from where, using what the Ukrainians say,
IR e Tl T E T
From there, Caroline Davies reports.
As Russia celebrated Victory Day, Odesa burned.
This was one of the city’s shopping centres, incinerated,
by a missile strike.
The Ukrainian authorities say A NI R R o
at the city yesterday, killing one person and injuring
NN e
LG AR GRS of burning plastic still hung
Last night when we were here, it was difficult to see
the full extent of the damage, but this morning you can.
The rocket has completely ripped into the back
of the shopping centre here.
You can see it has completely folded.
There are still fires that the Fire Brigade
here are trying to put out and the electricity wires
on this side have NN L)
Russia has been targeting the port city of Odesa
MR AN NG Gt R s e
It’s strategically important.
Before the war, it was a key international port, taking
Ukrainian products to the world.
President Zelensky appealed again to end the war,
so that the port can reopen.
Missile strikes don’t only destroy infrastructure.
They shake lives.
This eight-year-old boy lives LV e TRt R e
As we talk, he fiddles TR O R R
of blackened metal that he found - shards of the missile.
"I heard a loud explosion,” ICETN
and started to cry.
en | ran down the corridor to find my dog, Max.”
"Mum tried to calm me down, but there were more explosions.
"We don’t know what will happen next.”
The force of the blast smashed many of the windows in this
Fortunately, most were unoccupied.
Katarina and her two-year-old daughter, Arina, were
iR NG G I E of the courtyard.
"We were about to go to bed when the air alert began,”
"l heard a very loud explosion, and | grabbed two pillows
"and covered my daughter’s R R
"l didn’t want her to hear the sound of the explosion
"and be frightened by It.
"The whole house was shaking.”
Then she asks her daughter, T Y R R N ]
"the air raid siren?”
"We run,” she says.
RNV I1
Young minds already used to living with the constant
Caroline Davies, BBC News, Odesa.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
An international donors e e TR BT e
than $6.5 billion to help war-tern Syria
and its neighbours.
The news was announced RGN R e E A
a UN-backed conference R e
Earlier, the UN’s High Commissioner for Refugees,
Filippo Grandi, warned
that the humanitarian situation for Syrians was catastrophic.
The families of eight miners trapped by flood waters
in Burkina Faso say
they’re still hopeful they’ll be found alive.
Nothing has been heard of the miners,
who were working 520 metres,
or 1,500 feet, below [CILEFIS T
The Canadian owners of the zinc mine say specialist equipment
has been brought in from Ghana and South Africa.
Elon Musk has said he will reverse the Twitter ban
imposed on Donald Trump,
once he takes over the social media company.
The richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion
takeover bid with the Twitter board last month
but he said it was not a done deal and that ideally it
would be completed in the next R e e e e
We can now speak to Washington Post’s Taylor Lorenz,
who is a technology journalist focussing on social media
and internet culture.
He is already
He Is already creating quite a
He is already creating quite a SOUN
He is already creating quite a storm, clearly, in what his
storm, clearly, in what his proposals. | suppose we should
proposals. | suppose we should e
proposals. | suppose we should start, let’s be
proposals. | suppose we should S SR I
proposals. | suppose we should start, let’s be honest, from
start, let’s be honest, from )
start, let’s be honest, from N L
start, let’s be honest, from G ER
start, let’s be honest, from QY ER T L 1Y
start, let’s be honest, from G EE I L o A [ O
the basic point. Easy actually going to buy a? That is the
going to buy a? That is the TR
going to buy a? That is the TS T
going to buy a? That is the millien, you know,
going to buy a? That is the million, you know, billien,
millien, you know, billion, multibillion-dollar question!
multibillion-dollar question! i
multibillion-dollar question! 1= Ya =1
multibillion-dollar question! I AU
multibillion-dollar question! I A S Gl
multibillion-dollar question! I A SR G
It certainly seems intent on it He
It certainly seems intent on TNk e
It certainly seems intent on it. He hasn’t given any
t. He hasn’t given any I ale s
t. He hasn’t given any indication he is
t. He hasn’t given any indication he is backing down
indication he is backing down I
indication he is backing down NN E
indication he is backing down Annie has the support of
indication he is backing down R R G R R R
Annie has the support of the e
Annie has the support of the T uIR
Annie has the support of the T e R u o
Annie has the support of the e au o N T
Annie has the support of the TR N TR U
Annie has the support of the former CEO. He has talked about
former CEO. He has talked about Twitter
former CEO. He has talked about T G SN
former CEO. He has talked about Twitter being left leaning and
Twitter being left leaning and coming
Twitter being left leaning and R
Twitter being left leaning and IR R
Twitter being left leaning and SRR G I
Twitter being left leaning and IR R GRS
coming up with his own NS EHEIS
coming up with his own NSNS
coming up with his own NS N R )
coming up with his own interpretations as to what is
interpretations as to what is Elw o &0 )
interpretations as to what is acceptable and what good
acceptable and what good iTe e[ s d s s ]
acceptable and what good R B
acceptable and what good moderation is. Do they
acceptable and what good L EE LD G A
moderation is. Do they time with
moderation is. Do they time R )
moderation is. Do they time with the requlators?
moderation is. Do they time with the regulators? No,
moderation is. Do they time with the requlators? No, |
with the regulators? No, | think
with the regulators? No, | s
with the regulators? No, | a1 Gl
with the regulators? No, | think it has actually shown a
think it has actually shown a deep
think it has actually shown a LY AT e
think it has actually shown a deep ignorance in terms of his
deep ignorance in terms of his views
deep ignorance in terms of his TN
deep ignorance in terms of his views on content moderation.
views on content moderation. Just the notion that Twitter is
Just the notion that Twitter is IS
Just the notion that Twitter is left ring is wrong we
Just the notion that Twitter is (iR R N R VG
Just the notion that Twitter is left ring is wrong we have seen
left ring is wrong we have seen S i)
left ring is wrong we have seen time and time again in studies
time and time again in studies that
time and time again in studies GE R
time and time again in studies ROV
time and time again in studies that they have —-
time and time again in studies that they have -- left wing,
that they have -- left wing, that
that they have -- left wing, =1l
that they have -- left wing, R L T TN
that they have -- left wing, that right when information is
that right when information is e
that right when information is RGN
that right when information is more likely to
that right when information is T EACY
that right when information is WL CVA N I iG]
that right when information is more likely to be amplified and
more likely to be amplified and o
more likely to be amplified and RUIE]
more likely to be amplified and R ]
more likely to be amplified and RUIEIE R
more likely to be amplified and go viral on the platform. And
go viral on the platform. And it’s interesting, just today,
it’s interesting, just today, he was
it’s interesting, just today, (R eV
it’s interesting, just today, RN G VA LI o]
it’s interesting, just today, he was certainly spouting off
he was certainly spouting off )
he was certainly spouting off - Neliii
he was certainly spouting off Nl iR
he was certainly spouting off the cuff that banning all
the cuff that banning all suites
the cuff that banning all e R
the cuff that banning all ARG R ey
the cuff that banning all suites that were wrong and bad,
suites that were wrong and bad, el
suites that were wrong and bad, which is just a very subjective
which is just a very subjective N
which is just a very subjective term, so, unclear -- banning
term, so, unclear -~ banning 1R
term, so, unclear -~ banning IR o
term, so, unclear -- banning IR o )
term, so, unclear -- banning IR S e s [
term, so, unclear -- banning all tweets. Re does have
term, so, unclear -- banning IR R TN
all tweets. Re does have a Lilis
all tweets. Re does have a IS
all tweets. Re does have a point for many, is the
all tweets. Re does have a R I AR U R
point for many, is the idea that a permanent ban or an
that a permanent ban or an RSl
that a permanent ban or an indefinite one, which is what
indefinite one, which Is what %Gl
indefinite one, which Is what Donald Trump has been
indefinite one, which is what Donald Trump has been landed
Donald Trump has been landed iR
Donald Trump has been landed with, seems wrong. Even Jack
with, seems wrong. Even Jack Dorsey suggests that is wrong.
Dorsey suggests that is wrong. e
Dorsey suggests that is wrong. R
Dorsey suggests that is wrong. But that ban
Dorsey suggests that is wrong. G R
Dorsey suggests that is wrong. NG A R Y4
Dorsey suggests that is wrong. But that ban is there? He said
But that ban is there? He said e
But that ban is there? He said T
But that ban is there? He said it is wrong until it is
But that ban is there? He said RN LI Rl
it is wrong until it is right. We
it is wrong until it is right. Nk
it is wrong until it is right. We don’t want to
We don’t want to permanently ban
We don’t want to permanently ban someone unless they violate
ban someone unless they violate 1R
ban someone unless they violate R T
ban someone unless they violate IR G R
ban someone unless they violate all these roles which is what
all these roles which is what N
all these roles which is what trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out
trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out N
trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out R
trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out of the blue
trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out RN (TN 04
trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out RN TN e e )
trumpeted. He wasn’t burned out of the blue but because he
of the blue but because he WG
of the blue but because he consistently violated committee
consistently violated committee guidelines for the platform.
guidelines for the platform. il
guidelines for the platform. You sign up for a platform and
You sign up for a platform and I
You sign up for a platform and agree to
You sign up for a platform and EL (LR GELIE
You sign up for a platform and LR CELI N )Y
You sign up for a platform and agree to abide by rules. If you
agree to abide by rules. If you e
agree to abide by rules. If you I &Y
agree to abide by rules. If you I & - Rl
agree to abide by rules. If you break the rules often
agree to abide by rules. If you X QGRS LRI
break the rules often enough, you will get banned. Whether
you will get banned. Whether )
you will get banned. Whether Rt T 0l sl
you will get banned. Whether one must could go back, we will
one must could go back, we will sep.
one must could go back, we will -
one must could go back, we will see. He wants
one must could go back, we will A - R Z R )
one must could go back, we will see. He wants to bring Trump
see. He wants to bring Trump e
see. He wants to bring Trump out which has
see. He wants to bring Trump T AT I EER ]
see. He wants to bring Trump out which has big political
out which has big political I
out which has big political implications but think of spam
implications but think of spam ch
implications but think of spam IR )
implications but think of spam IR R L
implications but think of spam bots. We want to permanently
bots. We want to permanently ban
bots. We want to permanently FREG T
bots. We want to permanently R LT
bots. We want to permanently RO R
bots. We want to permanently IR LT R
bots. We want to permanently ban those. The idea of having
ban those. The idea of having )
ban those. The idea of having no permanent
ban those. The idea of having ne permanent ban on the phone
no permanent ban on the phone o
no permanent ban on the phone G ]
no permanent ban on the phone would allow spam and bad actors
would allow spam and bad actors to run rampant. It will
would allow spam and bad actors GRONREL T 1 A L R L VT0s )
would allow spam and bad actors to run rampant. It will trump a
to run rampant. It will trump a comeback?
to run rampant. It will trump a oo A e 01 0s|
to run rampant. It will trump a L A s )
to run rampant. It will trump a comeback? Would he come back
comeback? Would he come back ey
comeback? Would he come back like that Like a flash
comeback? Would he come back like that like a flash or, he
like that like a flash or, he T
like that like a flash or, he has pursued
like that like a flash or, he WE IS
like that like a flash or, he has pursued his own social
has pursued his own social media over it? He has truth
media over it? He has truth ek
media over it? He has truth social, ate
media over it? He has truth ol LR il els
media over it? He has truth social, ate Twitter competitor,
social, ate Twitter competitor, 4
social, ate Twitter competitor, N EL R s
social, ate Twitter competitor, but hasn’t used
social, ate Twitter competitor, N LR AN B
social, ate Twitter competitor, but hasn’t used it much. It’s a
but hasn’t used it much. It’s a iGYoN
but hasn’t used it much. It’s a flop. |
but hasn’t used it much. It’s a T[N
but hasn’t used it much. It’s a flop. | don’t know, he was
flop. I don’t know, he was LI
flop. | don’t know, he was obviously very addicted to
obviously very addicted to Twitter
obviously very addicted to R ian e ]
obviously very addicted to Twitter and said
obviously very addicted to s Ha )
obviously very addicted to Twitter and said he doesn’t
Twitter and said he doesn’t e
Twitter and said he doesn’t want to
Twitter and said he doesn’t o R Rt 1]
Twitter and said he doesn’t want to come back to
I I DI R I want to come back to Twitter
want to come back to Twitter 4
want to come back to Twitter but who knows with Elon musk
but who knows with Elen musk and
but who knows with Elen musk R )
but who knows with Elon musk and the helm, that was his
and the helm, that was his megaphone to tens of millions
megaphone to tens of millions of
megaphone to tens of millions IR G
megaphone to tens of millions of people on a minute by minute
of people on a minute by minute A
of people on a minute by minute LY
of people on a minute by minute basis. The power of Twitter to
basis. The power of Twitter to R e
basis. The power of Twitter to influence American politics is
influence American politics is just
influence American politics is PR CEICN
influence American politics is just heard, isn’t it? We have
just heard, isn’t it? We have to
just heard, isn’t it? We have IR
just heard, isn’t it? We have R e
just heard, isn’t it? We have R N e LT
just heard, isn’t it? We have to leave it there. Thank you
to leave it there. Thank you e
to leave it there. Thank you IR
to leave it there. Thank you for your analysis. Thanks to
for your analysis. Thanks to W=V
for your analysis. Thanks to =L
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: We’ll assess the environmental impact of war
- the latest in our special series, Climate Critical.
The Pope was shot, G R
that’s the essence of the appalling news from Rome
this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television
commentator put it, terrorism LR i RO R R Z R
The man they called the Butcher of Lyon, Klaus Barbie,
went on trial today in the French town where
he was the Gestapo chief in the Second World War.
Winnie Mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced
to six years in jail.
The judge told Mrs Mandela there was no indication
she felt even the slightest remorse.
The Chinese government has LR R E i e s
to help the victims of a powerful earthquake -
the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
The computer Deep Blue has NI GO LN R
the world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.
IR G R T Ry e T 1) has defeated a reigning world
champion in a classical RG]
America’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking
place in Massachusetts. God bless America!
You
N T e
You are watching BBC News with me, David Eades.
Anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew
in Sri Lanka, calling for the country’s president
to step down.
The head of the World Health Organisation has said China’s
zero-tolerance policy against Covid is not sustainable.
At this time every week, in our Climate Critical slot,
we turn our attention to global climate issues.
As we report on the catastrophic damage and loss
of life in the war in Ukraine, we also need to ask how
the conflict affects the entire planet.
We’re joined by Neeta C Crawford, Professor
of political science at Boston University.
She is also Co-director AR I R Y e
project documenting the direct NGELt e S iR R L
Neeta, thanks very much, indeed, for joining
Neeta, thanks very much, LU IR TSR RS
Neeta, thanks very much, indeed, for joining us. Let’s
indeed, for joining us. Let’s e
indeed, for joining us. Let’s Al M
indeed, for joining us. Let’s A E R
indeed, for joining us. Let’s A R il
indeed, for joining us. Let’s start, if we can, with the
start, if we can, with the direct
start, if we can, with the el e el
start, if we can, with the direct effects. Can
start, if we can, with the T el e IR )
start, if we can, with the direct effects. Can we say what
direct effects. Can we say what )
direct effects. Can we say what the carbon emissions and the
the carbon emissions and the w3
the carbon emissions and the PR A
the carbon emissions and the I PR TR R
the carbon emissions and the PR e TR |
the carbon emissions and the cost, therefore, of, | don’t
cost, therefore, of, | don’t QR
cost, therefore, of, | don’t G R
cost, therefore, of, | don’t know, a javelin mess would be
know, a javelin mess would be or
know, a javelin mess would be L
know, a javelin mess would be or any other ordnance? Is it
or any other ordnance? Is it that
or any other ordnance? Is it e Rl &
or any other ordnance? Is it that clear? Yes, you can
that clear? Yes, you can 1 at )
that clear? Yes, you can et R
that clear? Yes, you can calculate the emissions from,
calculate the emissions from, let’s say,
calculate the emissions from, TV
calculate the emissions from, XTI
calculate the emissions from, let’s say, a Russian tank
calculate the emissions from, XA LI LR L L
let’s say, a Russian tank or )
let’s say, a Russian tank or QR e
let’s say, a Russian tank or RN R
the operation of personnel e e sl
the operation of personnel carriers and so
the operation of personnel LRl
the operation of personnel carriers and so on. You’d
the operation of persennel carriers and so on. You’d have
carriers and so on. You’d have to know
carriers and so on. You’d have R R o]
carriers and so on. You’d have LGRS
carriers and so on. You’d have to know to get a
carriers and so on. You’d have RGBT
to know to get a full accounting
to know to get a full L I R0
to know to get a full accounting would be how many
accounting would be how many Yy
accounting would be how many e d
accounting would be how many hours of operation and
accounting would be how many R R UL R )
accounting would be how many hours of operation and the fuel
hours of operation and the fuel efficiency of the vehicle, and
S pila L2 Ta 0l G R [« LT T )
S pila L2 Ta 0l G R [« LT T L
efficiency of the vehicle, and so oh. So
efficiency of the vehicle, and R R
efficiency of the vehicle, and so on. So it’s, you know, tens
so on. So it’s, you know, tens N
so on. So it’s, you know, tens of tons
so on. So it’s, you know, tens R R
so on. So It’s, you know, tens of tons of carbon
so on. So It’s, you know, tens B R s Rie
so on. So It’s, you know, tens RO R LR R L
of tons of carbon for weapons as
of tons of carbon for weapons IG5
of tons of carbon for weapons GG
of tons of carbon for weapons as they are operated, yes. The
as they are operated, yes. The )
as they are operated, yes. The whole military structure of our
whole military structure of our el
whole military structure of our G
whole military structure of our world is such
whole military structure of our BRI R Cl
whole military structure of our world is such that it is a huge
world is such that it is a huge consumer
world is such that it is a huge e
world is such that it is a huge consumer of carbon
world is such that it is a huge N R R ey
consumer of carbon products, fossil fuels, | saw a figure
fossil fuels, 1 saw a figure Tl
fossil fuels, | saw a figure IRy
fossil fuels, | saw a figure W RGNS
fossil fuels, | saw a figure that the US military uses
that the US military uses G G|
that the US military uses SIE QIS
that the US military uses TG GILETCE
that the US military uses SIE GG RTEE ST
OE T G R TCR 1Y ET AT something like $5 billion of
SN G PR CR SR R fuel
something like $5 billion of R
something like $5 billion of fuel are year as a sort of
fuel are year as a sort of VIS
fuel are year as a sort of average. The scale there is
average. The scale there is 3t g8t 0L
average. The scale there is Nl est ]
average. The scale there is N TRL L)
average. The scale there is TR A
average. The scale there is enermous in any case. But
average. The scale there is VRN A% R G
enormous in any case. But then Y
enormous in any case. But then e )
enermous in any case. But then we come onto
enermous in any case. But then N i N e )
enermous in any case. But then we come onto the damage. How
we come onto the damage. How Al
we come onto the damage. How does that, how do you measure
does that, how do you measure )
does that, how do you measure the damage in it sort of
the damage in it sort of vl
the damage in it sort of NI e X
the damage in it sort of NI R e XA T
the damage in it sort of environmental science? You can
environmental science? You can think
environmental science? You can e 2
environmental science? You can think of it
environmental science? You can i EAian]
environmental science? You can G AR a8
environmental science? You can G AR E e iR
environmental science? You can G AR R A e
think of it in terms of direct N IR (18
think of it in terms of direct consequences, for example, when
consequences, for example, when military
consequences, for example, when e AU
consequences, for example, when military vehicles are operated
military vehicles are operated ]
military vehicles are operated MR
military vehicles are operated RGO
military vehicles are operated R R G A LG
military vehicles are operated on roads, they create dust.
on roads, they create dust. Yy
on roads, they create dust. LR
on roads, they create dust. When you destroy a weapon with
When you destroy a weapon with Y
When you destroy a weapon with R e LU
When you destroy a weapon with a weapon, the explosion of the
a weapon, the explosion of the weapon
a weapon, the explosion of the LRI N
a weapon, the explosion of the weapon itself releases toxic
weapon itself releases toxic chemicals and then
weapon itself releases toxic I R R ]
weapon itself releases toxic chemicals and then there is
weapon itself releases toxic o NI R R e R
chemicals and then there is the consequences
chemicals and then there is the SRR
chemicals and then there is the consequences of, let’s say,
consequences of, let’s say, burning a building or a
burning a building or a factory. So when
burning a building or a E(n (8 A RO U 0]
burning a building or a factory. So when you do that,
factory. So when you do that, ]
factory. So when you do that, you can
factory. Se when you do that, you can release asbestos and
you can release asbestos and e
you can release asbestos and SO E Gl
you can release asbestos and OIS R LGl
you can release asbestos and other particulate matter which
other particulate matter which can
other particulate matter which R )
other particulate matter which IR R o
other particulate matter which NN TR R s Rl ]
other particulate matter which NN TR R e R R e
can lead to cancer. Then there s
can lead to cancer. Then there is the destruction of something
is the destruction of something ey
is the destruction of something like a fertiliser
is the destruction of something LCER St Id Fh
is the destruction of something like a fertiliser plant or the
like a fertiliser plant or the ITIE T
like a fertiliser plant or the A R )
like a fertiliser plant or the Russians have targeted and so
Russians have targeted and so have
Russians have targeted and so U R
Russians have targeted and so have the Ukrainians,
Russians have targeted and so RO AEIE L T
Russians have targeted and so RO AE I E L T A1
Russians have targeted and so RO RS IEL VA2 I
have the Ukrainians, any war in I[SEHR
have the Ukrainians, any war in Ukraine, targeted fuel depots
Ukraine, targeted fuel depots el
Ukraine, targeted fuel depots which can
Ukraine, targeted fuel depots N e R R Y
Ukraine, targeted fuel depots which can release methane. And
which can release methane. And those
which can release methane. And )
which can release methane. And those are direct costs, if you
those are direct costs, if you like. The indirect costs being?
like. The indirect costs being? R
like. The indirect costs being? Y
like. The indirect costs being? Well, one country has its
Well, one country has its R I aa Tl e
Well, one country has its infrastructure destroyed,
infrastructure destroyed, TG
infrastructure destroyed, people compensate by doing some
people compensate by doing some things like, for example,
things like, for example, taking down forests and using
taking down forests and using those
taking down forests and using R
taking down forests and using those forests to
taking down forests and using MR R
taking down forests and using MRt e e e
those forests to heat their T T 1
those forests to heat their I R ]
those forests to heat their homes when they have no longer
homes when they have no longer any
homes when they have no longer e
homes when they have no longer any access to electricity. All
any access to electricity. All they
any access to electricity. All 1 AL
any access to electricity. All QAR Gl
any access to electricity. All they could be using wood to
they could be using wood to A
they could be using wood to [T PR )
they could be using wood to burn, to cook food, and all
burn, to cook food, and all FYe L
burn, to cook food, and all about destruction
burn, to cook food, and all Yo s [ g wals sl
burn, to cook food, and all about destruction not only of
about destruction not only of )
about destruction not only of R A0
about destruction not only of the forest but again the
the forest but again the (IO
the forest but again the IO AELGE
the forest but again the GGG R
the forest but again the burning, adds to the pollution,
burning, adds to the pollution, )
burning, adds to the pollution, R
burning, adds to the pollution, so the direct costs of the
so the direct costs of the destruction, indirect our
destruction, indirect our people’s
destruction, indirect our people’s reaction. In the long
people’s reaction. In the long LR G
people’s reaction. In the long UG AL
people’s reaction. In the long run, they will be
people’s reaction. In the long LRGSR W R
people’s reaction. In the long run, they will be costs that
run, they will be costs that Py
run, they will be costs that are caused by the reaction to
are caused by the reaction to )
are caused by the reaction to the destruction as
are caused by the reaction to R A R = L
are caused by the reaction to the destruction as well, for
the destruction as well, for instance, environmental costs
instance, environmental costs e
instance, environmental costs for reconstruction.
instance, environmental costs RN T [ I A
instance, environmental costs for reconstruction. Right. Let
for reconstruction. Right. Let me
for reconstruction. Right. Let R
for reconstruction. Right. Let me ask you
(T Ty 13 T Tad o]y A Ty | R -1 me ask you then, in
for reconstruction. Right. Let me ask you then, in searching
me ask you then, in searching e
me ask you then, in searching )
me ask you then, in searching TR e
me ask you then, in searching TR e
me ask you then, in searching for some sort of positive is
for some sort of positive is LS
for some sort of positive is perhaps not the right word here
perhaps not the right word here e
perhaps not the right word here but consolation prize, when you
but consolation prize, when you e
but consolation prize, when you I 0
but consolation prize, when you talk about a
but consolation prize, when you U R L
but consolation prize, when you talk about a rebuild, let’s
talk about a rebuild, let’s )
talk about a rebuild, let’s take a city
talk about a rebuild, let’s take a city and there are
take a city and there are ey
take a city and there are cities aplenty at the moment
cities aplenty at the moment that
cities aplenty at the moment B R )
cities aplenty at the moment that we could point out in
that we could point out in a3
that we could point out in various parts of the world.
various parts of the world. )
various parts of the world. There are ways of, maybe it’s,
There are ways of, maybe it’s, you
There are ways of, maybe it’s, IR GA
There are ways of, maybe It’s, TG U A [gwt gl
There are ways of, maybe It’s, you know, circularity, the
you know, circularity, the circular economy, ways of
circular economy, ways of reusing damaged materials, of
reusing damaged materials, of Ty
reusing damaged materials, of AL
reusing damaged materials, of AN G E R 11)
reusing damaged materials, of NG E R R
reusing damaged materials, of new materials, can we draw
reusing damaged materials, of AN U R G L)
QN RN R R VT comfort
new materials, can we draw any comfort from
new materials, can we draw any e R
new materials, can we draw any comfort from the opportunity, |
comfort from the opportunity, | LN
comfort from the opportunity, | o PR 1
comfort from the opportunity, | I PRGSO
comfort from the opportunity, | suppose, that those rebuilds
suppose, that those rebuilds ]
suppose, that those rebuilds can create? Yes, sadly, you can
can create? Yes, sadly, you can Y
can create? Yes, sadly, you can make changes, for instance,
make changes, for instance, Y
make changes, for instance, R
make changes, for instance, when you repay the road you
when you repay the road you have
when you repay the road you R )
when you repay the road you have to use
when you repay the road you R NI )
when you repay the road you E R R )
when you repay the road you N R RIS R st N Aals|
when you repay the road you N R NI R N At s B
have to use the same kind of LN
have to use the same kind of L]
EVER GRS G R R AL E L E L .
EVER GRS G R R AL asphalt alse meant. You
have to use the same kind of asphalt alse meant. You can
asphalt also meant. You can things
asphalt also meant. You can QI
asphalt alse meant. You can things don’t use
asphalt alse meant. You can things don’t use things
asphalt alse meant. You can things don’t use things lowered
things don’t use things lowered emissions. Building anything as
emissions. Building anything as W
emissions. Building anything as high emissions especially if
high emissions especially if you
high emissions especially if T
high emissions especially if IR0
high emissions especially if you are using standard
you are using standard arlas- -
you are using standard e ]
you are using standard et IR R
you are using standard Nt LI RO
you are using standard concrete. Then there is a lot
concrete. Then there is a lot of
concrete. Then there is a lot SRy
concrete. Then there is a lot RG]
concrete. Then there is a lot RO R
concrete. Then there is a lot of the potential to make a
of the potential to make a transition and energy systems
transition and energy systems and water
transition and energy systems IR e
transition and energy systems and water treatment. When
transition and energy systems R LR U RO LR
and water treatment. When you Py
and water treatment. When you are building from rubble, as
are building from rubble, as many cities are, you can make
many cities are, you can make those transitions but
many cities are, you can make QRN N X1 [
those transitions but sadly vty
those transitions but sadly what happens often is the
what happens often is the ae eI n et e
what happens often is the e aeInee R i
what happens often is the contractors will do
what happens often is the e A nr R B R s
what happens often is the contractors will do what they
contractors will do what they PG
contractors will do what they know which may be standard
know which may be standard building construction
building construction OO
building construction techniques. Right. Even
building construction technigues. Right. Even the
techniques. Right. Even the Yo gl lie
techniques. Right. Even the opportunity for passive solar
opportunity for passive solar o
opportunity for passive solar would be an improvement. Very
would be an improvement. Very (JUEI G
would be an improvement. Very IR HE
would be an improvement. Very breviary briefly because we are
breviary briefly because we are e
breviary briefly because we are T
breviary briefly because we are N R
breviary briefly because we are out of time, but looking at the
out of time, but locking at the I
out of time, but locking at the e
out of time, but looking at the R RGN iy
out of time, but looking at the RN RN il s]
out of time, but looking at the R RO e R R
state of the conflicts in the el
state of the conflicts in the e
state of the conflicts in the I R )
state of the conflicts in the G R G RN
state of the conflicts in the O R G R 1
state of the conflicts in the world at the moment, are they
world at the moment, are they e
world at the moment, are they T e N s
world at the moment, are they more than a pinprick on our
more than a pinprick on our =1ae o]
more than a pinprick on our carbon emission crisis?
carbon emission crisis? Military fuel use and military
Military fuel use and military industry
Military fuel use and military LRI
Military fuel use and military industry are an enormous
industry are an enormous contributor
industry are an enormous a8 aalo i i)
industry are an enormous contributor to our greenhouse
contributor to our greenhouse E
contributor to our greenhouse gases and it’s not a pinprick.
gases and it’s not a pinprick. s
gases and it’s not a pinprick. o
gases and it’s not a pinprick. 1]
gases and it’s not a pinprick. It is a significant and they
LRI Ty LT T 3 have
1R RSN L [ R G Y EVCRE
1R RSN L [ R G Y have ripple effect
It is a significant and they have ripple effect throughout
have ripple effect throughout )
have ripple effect throughout N e
have ripple effect throughout the entire economy. Neeta,
the entire economy. Neeta, thank you. Neeta C Crawford,
thank you for jeining us. Thank IR
Each year, billiens of tonnes of goods are transported around
the world by sea.
Huge cargo ships travel the oceans, contributing
to greenhouse gas emissions.
But one company is trying to provide an alternative,
and it involves the use of an ancient technology,
as the BBC’s Tim Allman explains.
In the shadow of a city built R R G R T
meets the past.
And in doing so, could it point to the future?
At this port in New Jersey, they are loading a cargo ship,
well, technically a boat, that harks back to an earlier age.
The Grand Assall is powered by the wind, transporting goods
across the Atlantic the old-fashioned way.
The mission of Grand Assail is to reinvent shipping
in a way by doing it with a cargo sailboat to reduce
the impact on the environment so we want to produce and sell
great gastronomic product while we come from far away.
The sailboat Is a 72-foot, two-masted schooner.
It can carry around 50 tons of cargo, a tiny fraction
of what a modern transporter ship can hold.
One trip takes around 3.5 weeks, weather permitting.
So patience really is a virtue for any potential customers.
We assure people that it’s possible to make green
transportation with a cargo, selling cargo, just to take
time, and it’s possible, yes.
There are plans for a sister A R E R B e R e
the size of Grand Assail and can make more trips.
No-one Is under any TG ER G E R P
are about to replace modern cargo ships but in the fight
against climate change, every little helps.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
Yes,
NP
Yes, it may seem like a small Gl
Yes, it may seem like a small everything at this stage but as
everything at this stage but as iR
everything at this stage but as Tim said,
S UIMDRIR OIS D[R =1 Tim said, everything helps.
Tim said, everything helps. e
Tim said, everything helps. That’s BRC News
Tim said, everything helps. IR R W R L N
Tim said, everything helps. IR R Y R L e CR s
That’s BBC News. Thanks for watching.
You can reach me on Twitter - RO EIGI Eh
LARUEIT
Always good to hear from you. TS
Always good to hear from you. Goodbye for
Always good to hear from you. L SR A
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
of 14-18 or 19 degrees e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
This is BBC News - WL
This is BBC News - WL
Tens of thousands of military personnel have been
deployed in the Sri Lankan capital, Colombo,
as the government struggles RN IR G )
against the spiralling I EI AN
Security forces have been given the right to shoot anyone
suspected of looting or posing a risk to life.
China has been urged to change its zero-Covid
strategy by the World Health Organization.
The head of the UN agency said it RO R
the virus were unsustainable.
Many cities in China have faced lockdown restrictions
as the country suffers its worst Covid ocutbreak
since the pandemic began.
Russia has targeted the Black Sea port of Odesa
using what the Ukrainians say AN S A G
One person is reported to have died.
It comes as the UN has estimated the number
of civilians killed NE el
the official figure NI LDV F
The UK has a postcode inequality problem -
where you live can determine your chances in life.
| just know that if we lived IR PR R L L
getting more money and we’d be making more changes.
Transport!
Throughout the UK, so often MR RO I
of England and then there’s everywhere else.
So the Government’s on a mission to what it calls
"level up the UK".
You’ve got to invest in education.
You’ve got to strengthen local leadership.
You’ve got to make sure that the soil is irrigated
(@ GENIAE TR Ta (g to play its role.
And all of those things together will see lasting
change occur.
But our investigation raises SIS T A TR T
up cash is handed out.
A beauty contest around who gets the money, that’s not
really how | would do It.
Now, this Northern Soul is heading to South Yorkshire
to find out how Levelling Up is going down.
Give us the help, give us the hand up and the government
will reap the rewards TS T IR R L L
You had community centres, you had youth clubs.
There’s nothing.
Breathe, five, six seven and...
..reach out get that emotion going, guys.
17-year-old Safaa Shreef from Barnsley is a talented
dancer.
She’s been taking lessons since she was very young.
That’s your homework on the table.
Yeah, piles of maths homework.
She’s also a promising mathematician and a climate
You find yourself doing what?
Hours every night, RS R
You’re recommended to do five hours per week per subject.
| know!
| do four subjects, so that’s like 20 hours,
| probably do a tad less DA QT LR
or two every night.
Do you think things might be different for Barnsley
if you took Barnsley just as it is and plenked it down
in the south-east of England, somewhere near London?
I do think it would be a massive change because there
is a definite divide and | see as a young person walking
around, we’re not oblivious and | see it.
And | just know if we lived TR G R PR R L S
getting more money, IS GG REIG I S
and we will be making more changes.
It wouldn’t still be the best place in the world,
but it would drastically be different.
Barnsley is a Labour-leaning town.
It has two MPs in the council.
Barnsley is a post-industrial town.
We used to be a mining town.
The vast majority of employment and the vast majority
of businesses in Barnsley relied on mining.
Most of that disappeared.
So we’re a place that’s LRGN Bk
economically, reinvent itself socially.
What does levelling up need to look like for Barnsley?
For me, it’s three significant facets to that.
One is to make sure we’ve got the business and transport
infrastructure we need.
It’s about how we deal with people and their skills
and their confidence and their aspirations in life.
And then the third aspect of this is public services.
The poorest communities depend S W T g i
Barnsley is not a one-off.
Many towns and cities outside the south-east of England also
ISR GG LN )'A
In London, nearly £1,500 a year of public money is spent
per person on transport.
In Yorkshire it’s TR R
In Basingstoke the average salary is more than £36,000.
ST G T ol o LTSNV VN
Life expectancy in Blackpool is at least eight years shorter
After winning the 2019 election, and taking many
VRl o= L] I T R U E LR 1 in the Midlands and the North
of England, the Conservatives allocated billions of pounds
for Levelling Up.
They’re inviting towns R RN R R R ]
We have a situation where the south-east of England has
been the economic powerhouse.
That has been unfair for other the parts of the United Kingdom
that have not had a fair shake RN i N
We need fundamentally G
RGN 7T T & own admission, this
s a collossal challenge.
In this document, they say it’ll require the same ambition
as putting man on the moon, so how do they ensure that
people in Barnsley have ORI R OEL U A A U -S
the same opportunities, as people here in London?
To put it bluntly, can they actually do it?
7am, the outskirts A GE R
So it’s down Hall Read, through Raw Marsh.
And how long does It take you?
The most it’s taken me is about RN R ORIt
Show me the way.
For four weeks in December and January, 16-year-old
Curtis Yip, a member of the Labour Party,
had to walk five miles to get to school.
What have you got IR R LB A
I’ve got economics double, oh right.
And then I’ve got politics.
A local bus strike over pay meant a 45-minute journey took
double that time and he LRGN R e iRl
Five miles, that’s IR e
I IGhLE SO R | could get to school.
Public transport is my main use of travel.
So | just decided I RO e
His family does have a car A R G PR S
disabled, takes priority.
Curtis would like to see better public transport.
All the investment’s down south, and there’s a huge lack
of investment in provisions, consistent and fair funding
ISR [T in South Yorkshire.
Really nice to see you.
Have a good day.
TS
The strike is now over so Curtis can get back
But his experience underlines the lack of options in many
R
Henri Murison, a former Labour councillor, is the Director
of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership, a lobby group
for the north of England, set up by senior members
of the Conservative Party.
Both getting from here to Sheffield, which is just
down the road, the nearest next big city to Barnsley,
or up to Leeds, as well as getting across to Manchester,
getting across to Liverpool, is much more difficult
And the lack of connectivity means that young people growing
up in Barnsley don’t have the same opportunities
as that someone would have, VAR LR R0 )
The construction of the station will be a feat of engineering.
The HS2 Rail Network will connect London
to the north-west of England with high-speed trains.
Turning it into one super-hub station.
Which is fine if you live in the North West.
But the Eastern leg of HS2 IR TR IR
Northern Powerhouse Rail TR S i
the north of England.
And the proposed Northern Powerhouse Rail, which would
have improved the network between Northern towns
and cities, has been cut back.
Nicola Headlam is a former e
Something that has been AN E VAL
recently has been the scaling back of Northern Powerhouse
Rail and the eastern leg.
And I’m sure you can find out better than | can why on Earth,
a government that wants to unite and level up
would just so flagrantly ignore R LR
of the combined nerthern business and mayors and leaders
and everybody who were brought business and mayors and leaders
and everybody who were bought into a rail strategy that had
HS2 in full both sides and NPR across the middle.
(RGO IR G T LT 1 we’ve been investing in rail,
not just through HS2 but more broadly, in rail improvements
across the north of England T R e R
But there is more that requires to be done.
Put simply, through, the eastern leg of HS2
being cancelled, Northern Powerhouse Rail being cut back,
that’s just bad news for South Yorkshire and it
doesn’t look like Levelling Up to people in South Yorkshire.
Well, there are other investments that we are making
not just in transport, but money that’s gone directly
for improvement of education.
The challenge for many employers in Barnsley
is finding staff with the right skills.
Nice to meet you, I’m Chris.
Pit Stop Productions produce sound for computer
games and films.
These are the titles that we’ve worked on.
Divinity, Original Sin LR T RN
as was the Persistance.
Founder John Sandersen wanted to set up in the town
Set of headphones here.
Lots of headphones.
What being here has kind of allowed us to do as Pit Stop
means that kind of initial set-up cost was far cheaper.
And in hindsight, maybe setting TR LI 1Y
would have meant we R e RN
At the time, for the equivalent facility, if we’d have set up
in Sohe, you’re probably talking an initial outlay
of about five million, whereas our initial outlay
of here was 500,000.
Ten times cheaper?
The company employs 54 people, almost all of them
with university degrees.
LA U NI LR recording studios for music.
5D
Nice to see you.
John, he’s one of our composers.
What have you got going on in here then?
So this is where we do the majority of the writing
that we do for films, video games, whatever we might
be working on.
We also mix in this rcom.
It’s a great surround space to work with.
This is just the sort of highly-skilled business
the government would love to see thriving
across the north of England.
Ah, this capacity to transport you.
LY TR
I’m intrigued, Al
Here we are in Barnsley, where do you live?
So | live in Leeds, actually, just up the M1.
Originally from Hertfordshire, so down south, just
And then | moved up LN S LR R [
to Leeds College of Music and stayed.
So you’ve been lured from Hertfordshire on the edges
of London to do the most creative of jobs here in
Barnsley.
LY TR
John wants to grow his business, but says he can’t
find the staff from the local colleges in Barnsley.
We talk about creating better jobs.
We talk about creating skills and a lot of these skills
now that are needed are still not on a lot of people’s radar.
Where | think the government would fail is if they didn’t
recognise that, because the jobs of yesterday aren’t
QLN ER RGN RGN AU
opportunities out there.
I think that one of O N R O F R R GGl
is that Further Education Colleges of the past have been
incentivised to get people in to do a particular set
of courses which are easily sellable to students,
but not necessarily valued by employers.
Well, again, it will depend on the individual location,
but we’re setting up and | know it sounds bureaucratic
and jargon-rich local U E R
which are ways of making sure that either mayors or Chambers
of Commerce can have more of a role in getting
the right qualifications.
If successful businesses like Pit Stop Productions don’t
keep growing and offering good jobs, there’s less incentive
for bright young people to stay and thrive.
Ambitious young people are left with no choice but to go down
to London or go out elsewhere RGO R U AL E
to access genuinely transformational opportunities.
And the sad thing about that is that the thing that holds
a place back is a lack of access to talent.
So the North of England can’t continue to bleed graduates,
and other skilled people to other parts of the country
and the world and expect to change its economy.
Stopping the flight of young N AR NN R G E]
challenges of Levelling Up.
So this Is the Urban Tree film project, also known
That’s the name N R R L)
Climate activist Safaa is showing me her environmental
project.
So, how many trees R N Y
So, over 450, all different types, you have some whips
and willows and fruit trees like plum, pear, apple.
It will be amazing in the summer when you can
actually pick them.
Fed up with drug dealers
Just the sort of civic pride that Levelling Up
But unless things improve LGSR FE R
What would have to happen for bright, intelligent people
like you to see a future in LG AR R R )V ALK
| think we just need ORGSR
Like the public transport, it needs to just be better.
Our parks need to be better.
Our safety in town RN N
The shops we have in town just be better.
Everything just needs to be up one notch.
And then, you know, | might Ela OGS (o IR
Barnsley Council has YRR e
many services,though.
Like other local authorities, it had to make austerity
cutbacks following the financial crash in 2007.
Its daily spending on many services fell by 40% from 2010
to before the Covid pandemic.
Is there not a paradox here, though?
Because you as Conservatives have been in power since 2010,
and those early years RN GRLE Gl
were associated with austerity -
hugely significant cuts in Barnsley, in particular.
BT EI STV R ML I VY merely rectifying the funding
you removed earlier on in your time in Government?
RGOS O] who was in power between 2010
and 2015 would have recognised the need for reductions
in public spending after the financial crash.
But | also think it’s fair to say that the government that
took power in 2019 was a different government
with a different approach to that which had gone before.
Since austerity, some residents have been relying
on the goodwill of their neighbours.
Holden has Tourette’s syndrome.
He has nervous tics and can’t always control his behaviour.
We’ve gone through a million laptops, iPads, because he
ticks, and he punches and he breaks them or
he head-butts th
Every single thing used to be a hassle and hard work.
And by nine o’clock RGN R R R (NCE )
ready for bed.
I’ve tried everything.
We’ve got a tiny little park, but it’s not very desirable
Wyatt and his family’s PR LR e e |
when he started boxing.
So these are the boots that | probably will be fighting in,
But my first pair boots were these Adidas ones,
What does it feel like when you get whacked
round the head G ER R Y
Oh, | don’t know.
IO R e EIVA I ]
I’ve never ticked while boxing, and | think I’ve had Tourette’s
diagnosed for three years, ticking every day,
and | haven’t ticked once.
| don’t even know R CEI I EIL NI
It’s so weird, | don’t even tic while doing it.
It were like something e
You could see in him straightaway.
And from that second, he stopped, stopped twitching.
It’s made everything AR R
And he’s got something happy to get up about now.
So, yeah, it’s given him a lease on life.
And this is where the magic happens.
Jonny’s gym in R R Rl
You can see all the energy inside here, you can even smell
Tell us about the finances, how it works.
I just charge the subs, and then | have to pay me rent
every month, that is what it costs me.
Some weeks I’ll lose money, and some weeks | might make
IV SR SR (g weeks when | don’t make owt.
| have some help really some friends give me sponsorship.
There’s no help from the council, there’s no help
from the government?
No.
There were a lot of weeks or days, when I’d come and I’d
sit behind the counter, and nobody came through the door.
So I’d be wondering if I’d done the right thing,
and then as you can see, it’s built up, and now
Iit’s really busy.
What is also really obvious RGO = LY
s having on dozens of men here, just how valuable
a project this is.
And yet he doesn’t get any help from the council,
he doesn’t get government funding, and it’s left me
thinking, is this not just the kind of project
that is deserving SECE LI R
Levelling up cash is being allocated through
three main pots.
There’s the Towns Fund, worth £3.6 billion.
There’s the Levelling Up Fund, e IR
And there’s the UK Shared Prosperity Fund,
intended to replace EU funding, worth 2.6 billion.
Barnsley Council got 23 million to regenerate a former pit
village, and 15 million R G T UG
for its town centre.
But Barnsley still feels hard done by.
That is tens of millions of pounds of public money
coming into this corner of South Yorkshire.
Do you think Barnsley and the surrounding area has
had a fair deal so far under the branding of "levelling up™?
In Barnsley’s case, IR
I think across the North LR
it’s @ mixed picture.
We had bids in for the Levelling Up Fund
Even though we were told they were strong bids.
We weren’t even in the top priority list for the
Government on levelling up, when we’re in, you know,
the top 40 of deprived authorities in England.
Why do you think that is?
Well, when we went to the civil RS AN
"You don Sl I s isnt G
Well, who made the formula?
"Well, we did.”
Well, you need to change the formula, don’t you?
Because you’re not recognising where the real need is.
Levelling up is intended to address regional inequality.
We decided to see if the most deprived parts of England
TR N i[RI g+
the Government’s most valuable fund.
The first round of the R LR L RE IR g dy
We sent Freedom of Information requests to 100 councils
representing the most deprived areas in England.
We discovered that 34 of those councils, a third,
Of the 66 that did bid, LR R
Nicola Headlam says asking councils to bid against each
Once you’re in a competitive bidding climate,
you’re inviting a much more subjective analysis of where
needs the money.
A beauty contest around [ R R A
LI O A R how | would do it.
Why not?
Because in places that are doing better,
they have a stronger IR A i e
able to write those bids,
and therefore those I N e
So those bids get funded,
and it’s costing local authorities money to kind
of draw down this money.
As a set of premises for funding, | would go
for deprivation first, worst first, as a kind
of principle of seeking to level up an area.
We’re working with local authorities in order to make
sure that their bids are as effective as possible.
And we’re deploying people, levelling up directors,
whose job it is to be rooted RN et RO R
sure the bid i1s rebust.
There’s no point giving money to a local authority
if the prospectus they put forward will mean the money
won’t make a difference.
MPs on the Public Accounts Committee have already
criticised how areas were selected for another pot -
They said the justification for selection was vague
and based on sweeping I [
without local consultation.
Stocksbridge is ten miles from Barnsley.
It got £24.1 million from the Towns Fund,
despite being classed as low priority
in the Government’s selection process.
Property developer Mark Dransfield was joint chair
And this is where the first tranche of the Towns Fund money
has gone In.
There was an advancement of half a millien pounds,
which has been delivered here to the leisure centre.
And what difference does it make?
Well, we’ve developed C(R G Y I LG G
There’s a playground RGN &
It’s really made a big difference to everything.
Stocksbridge had been a traditionally Labour area,
but it voted in a Conservative MP, Miriam Cates,
Has it made a difference, do you think, to Stocksbridge,
as far as government levelling up money is concerned,
that there’s a Conservative MP here now?
| think the answer has VISR R IR
Ultimately, the reason why the money’'s here
Is because of the influence of the MP, obviously.
And | think she’s done an amazing job to do that.
Our community here in Stocksbridge has been starved
of investment for many, many generations.
And whichever politician came forward and offered
what they’ve offered, | would imagine that they would
secure the votes of our community, because we just
want to see our LA T e
We crunched the numbers on the allocation of the first
two rounds of Towns Fund money across England.
80 out of the 101 places due to receive the £3.6 billion
of funding are represented only N R LR
including 24 in the seats which the Conservatives won
from Labour at the last election.
Nine towns with both Conservative and Labour
IV QPR LR G R IVA F]L T LR e R e
You know what your critics say,
they say it’s pork barrel politics.
You’re shovelling money RGO e sl s o] d
If we were interested only in political calculation,
then we wouldn’t be spending money and devoting resources
as we have to the fate of what’s happening
and the fate of people R R
So | completely reject the idea that it is driven
by party politics.
Since the launch of the levelling up agenda,
the world has changed.
Can the Government’s ambition G R G R G I ANy
the cost-of-living squeeze
and predictions of an economic downturn?
At a time when inflation is rising, that means that
every pound of government NG IMRER s ER (Yl
(G BT 4y than it was last year.
So it Is a tough climate.
It’s tough for everyone.
I think it makes it all the more important
G EI R RN OB
| think, unless we do everything in this white paper,
unless we stick to those missions, then the cost
of living issues that we face RN a e
will deepen inequality.
(N R [V R (R g el and also that Little
Last week’’s elections suggest ORI R
the Government for many people.
The desire here to see levelling up remains undimmed.
Now they want it delivered.
The stakes are so high.
LI NI RYI &1k ]gd of the political economy
of the country.
It’s just had a bit too much of the attention
over the years.
But | think it is possible RN E L RO R G R R hds
beyond the greater South East,
and | think that other versions of England are possible.
Really nice to meet you.
Safaa might take X RNl ]
And she’s not prepared to wait.
| think it can be better if the people in power actually
do something about It.
I’m seeing this affecting every one of my friends,
one by one, like an L R e
There’s nothing bigger.
Definitely, 100%.
It was very showery on Tuesday,
particularly across the North and the West of the UK.
It remains quite unsettled for the next few days,
thanks to low pressure always being nearby.
It will stay quite breezy too.
Now, this tumble SR R e e
brings a renewed area of rain into England and Wales
through Wednesday,
and some of this could be quite heavy and persistent
pretty much from the word go for parts of Wales
and socuthwest England.
As we move through the day,
that rain will extend a little R s L I
perhaps towards Greater Manchester, Leeds area,
and it will begin to push RV 710}
into eastern England, southern England.
As it works into East Anglia IR
later in the day,
it will begin to fragment and turn a little bit lighter.
Sunshine and showers further north once again,
a breezy day to come,
quite windy across southern parts around this rain band.
Temperatures mid-to-high teens for many.
We hold onto to further showers IR R A s
across the north of the UK Thursday and Friday,
but as we head on into the weekend,
particularly England and Wales,
it’s going to start to turn PR R I
with the risk of some thundery showers.
ILIEREN ) e [ R
Our top stories:
"Shoot on sight” -
the orders for security forces in Sri Lanka
amid violent protests
LR (g the president to step down.
A warning for China -
the World Health Organization Y- )"
Beijing must change course on Covid.
When we talk about a zero-Covid strategy, we don’t see it
as sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now
=R ET R E TR in the future.
Members of the US House of Representatives vote
overwhelmingly in favour of providing an additional
$40 billion dollars
And going back to the past -
the company trying to prove
that sailboats are a greener way to transport cargo.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
Security forces in Sri lanka N N T MR O R Rl
anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest
attempt to stop anti-government protests.
Since last month, QR A N U L G
G N L DO g soaring prices, power cuts
At least eight people have died RGN e LN )
been injured, as our correspondent Rajini
Vaidyanathan reports TR el
A capital under curfew.
Troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public
property or threatens lives.
The skeletons of a bustling city
scorched by an economic crisis.
Reeling after a day SRR
Yesterday, supporters RGN R IR e
anti-government protesters, who until that point had been
peacefully demonstrating.
At the city’s main L G
than 200 have been wounded, NI A R LU R
This man fractured his leg after a tear gas
canister landed on It.
War veterans Yigit and Assuncao are out of hospital.
Men who lost their legs in mines
VL INTR R &R civil war say
they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices
e
"They started punching me.
| was left with only one crutch.
They pushed me and | fell.”
"When we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
Now we’re being attacked.”
With trust in the government shattered, the homes
of at least two dozen politicians who backed
QLR [ol = ee) LYV N R e f
This was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
It belonged to a supporter of the government,
ER Tl FY
And this was the bedroom.
It was set on fire.
All you can see now TR I R R R 188 11
R R R G Rl
And if we just move into the living room,
completely trashed - just look around.
Tonight, a resort belonging to the son of Sri Lanka’'s
former Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa,
who quit yesterday, was set alight.
And clashes broke out in the city of Negombo.
Protesters want the president, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, to resign -
as long as he stays, tensions on this island
Rajini Vaidyanathan, S AR A EL SR
The head of the World Health Organization has said
China’s zero tolerance policy against
The authorities in Beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting
tens of millions of people lasting several weeks
to try to prevent any spread of the illness.
But the WHO’s Director General said he had told
Chinese experts it was time R DRG] oI T o B
When we talk about the zero-Covid
strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable
considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we
anticipate in the future.
We have discussed IR G IR
with Chinese experts,
and we indicated that the approach, you know,
Earlier, | spoke to Saad Omer,
the Director of the Yale Institute for Global Health.
| asked him for his view on China’s zero-Covid strategy.
Well, the policy had its value EI R QR EL I A
at the - well, you know, a few months after the start
QB G ERE ]
If you are in a football game and your first ten-minute
strategy is being played ARG R L T
if you will, there is something wrong, and so | do not think
it is sustainable in the light RGNSl E L
its infectivity, but also R UE RO
So, China has other tools at its disposal that can be
deployed, and | think it should seriously consider expanding
a little bit of focus on these other tools and easing up
on the so-called zero-tolerance R ('R
When you talk about the other tools, | presume that vaccines
are one of those.
Either the vaccines are not terribly effective in Beijing’s
mind, or they are struggling to get people to take them.
In terms of vaccines, it is not a yes-no question.
It is not just vaccines, R W A AR AL el
are being deployed - IS G IR GG T
I
| will give you an example.
China focused on the NETaai e R laula Rl
were extremely useful RGN LT ALY,
against the earlier variants and severe disease,
but since then, there have been variants for which you would
require additional doses and perhaps different
kinds of vaccines.
So, there are two applications pending in China for mRNA
vaccines, and | think China should focus on acquiring
the technology,
but also producing mRNA vaccines
for boosters or reconsidering LR T
with the variants they are facing.
The other thing is they have sub-optimal immunisation rates
in some of the highest-risk populations in China,
so they need to be a major focus.
And then coming back to the...
Sorry - just on that point - that seems an extraordinary,
an anomaly, really, within IR R G R A
to happen, because if they want to impose certain restrictions
- as they have done with isolating people
and locking down - why can’t they impose
the insistence that they have vaccines?
Well, they are.
Again, even before Draconian mandates or strict mandates,
there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public health
entities, including in China, for example, soft mandates,
meaning requiring vaccination for certain activities,
and countries like France have shown that using those kinds
of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
The US House of Representatives has voted to give Ukraine
a further $40 billion in military and humanitarian
EIGE
It’s nearly $7 billion more than President Biden requested.
It’s proposed the funds will be used to provide military
support to Ukraine and humanitarian assistance
to the civilians affected by the Russian invasion.
The Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, told fellow
Democrats it was important R eI A
As Putin desperately Y
As Putin desperately e e
CERU G accelerates his campaign of
accelerates his campaign of [T es IR
accelerates his campaign of horror, the brutality is just
horror, the brutality Is just YT e e a1
horror, the brutality Is just EI e A 1gt1 1 s
horror, the brutality Is just abhorrent brutality in Ukraine,
abhorrent brutality in Ukraine, S i)
abhorrent brutality in Ukraine, e
CLe g e N SR RS TS R
CLe g e N SR RS TS AR R
CLe g e N SR RS TS A T ]
CLe g e N SR RS TS AN T T L %
time is of the essence. That why we
time is of the essence. That AT RN Y
time is of the essence. That W RN
time is of the essence. That why we were so pleased to hear
why we were so pleased to hear Y
why we were so pleased to hear il
why we were so pleased to hear we could proceed immediately
we could proceed immediately with
we could proceed immediately T R
we could proceed immediately with this bill today so it goes
with this bill today so it goes I
with this bill today so it goes QIR
with this bill today so it goes through to Senate
with this bill today so it goes QI RGN BTG
with this bill today so it goes through to Senate and the
through to Senate and the president’s desk,
through to Senate and the AL NS
through to Senate and the president’s desk, so the
president’s desk, so the Y A e o]
president’s desk, so the assistance can reach
president’s desk, so the Y AR R R i R
president’s desk, so the assistance can reach the people
assistance can reach the people NAIE T
assistance can reach the people A& |
assistance can reach the people of Ukraine and Eastern
assistance can reach the people SR EI L TR R
of Ukraine and Eastern Europe. What’s
of Ukraine and Eastern Europe. Y R
of Ukraine and Eastern Europe. What’s the impact of that?
Joining us now from Washingten,
is Anna Borshchevskaya, a Russia Expert and Senior
fellow with Washington Institute.
WYYy
$40 billion not the 33
ORI S G R R U
$40 billion not the 33 billien, just
$40 billion not the 33 billion, TS A
$40 billion not the 33 billion, just looking at the way that
just looking at the way that breaks
just looking at the way that I VR i
just looking at the way that breaks down, third of four
breaks down, third of four military assistance, weaponry
military assistance, weaponry and training, third for
and training, third for humanitarian aid, quite a bit
humanitarian aid, quite a bit e
humanitarian aid, quite a bit T el
humanitarian aid, quite a bit for food shortages as well, but
for food shortages as well, but Tl
for food shortages as well, but GRS
for food shortages as well, but that is a
for food shortages as well, but W AR
for food shortages as well, but W AR
for food shortages as well, but that is a lot of money going
that is a lot of money going LI
that is a lot of money going G Rt %18
that is a lot of money going towards military hardware, how
towards military hardware, how il
towards military hardware, how (i
towards military hardware, how will it impact on
towards military hardware, how (WA e O GE
towards military hardware, how will it impact on the military
will it impact on the military situation? It’s certainly going
situation? It’s certainly going to
situation? It’s certainly going O
situation? It’s certainly going to help Ukraine, the question
to help Ukraine, the question is, with
to help Ukraine, the question TR Ry
to help Ukraine, the question IR GRGER &1
to help Ukraine, the question is, with the military part
s, with the military part T e sl
s, with the military part e R ]
s, with the military part S e R 1
s, with the military part referred to as artillery, at
referred to as artillery, at this
referred to as artillery, at QI LN
referred to as artillery, at this stage, one of the things
this stage, one of the things Ukraine needs is more artillery
Ukraine needs is more artillery in particular. Again, of course
in particular. Again, of course T
in particular. Again, of course it’s going to help,
in particular. Again, of course SRR E A G
in particular. Again, of course it’s going to help, the fact of
it’s going to help, the fact of )
it’s going to help, the fact of R e
it’s going to help, the fact of R A
it’s going to help, the fact of the matter is, though, Ukraine
the matter is, though, Ukraine 3
the matter is, though, Ukraine is facing protracted warfare.
is facing protracted warfare. Y
is facing protracted warfare. One way or
is facing protracted warfare. WU T
is facing protracted warfare. One way or another this is
is facing protracted warfare. R RN O R QIR ]
One way or another this is not L
One way or another this is not going to end anytime soon.
going to end anytime soon. &I
going to end anytime soon. Ukraine is
going to end anytime soon. VI R
going to end anytime soon. Ukraine is already devastated
Ukraine is already devastated W
Ukraine is already devastated by the war. | think we need
Ukraine is already devastated SRR I R G ST R
by the war. | think we need to I el
by the war. | think we need to prepare ourselves for
by the war. | think we need to N EIC AR R )
by the war. | think we need to prepare ourselves for the long
prepare ourselves for the long ()]
prepare ourselves for the long stop this is going to sustain
stop this is going to sustain )
stop this is going to sustain the conflict. It would appear
the conflict. It would appear I [Na 14
the conflict. It would appear President Putin
the conflict. It would appear G A eI L1
President Putin probably (IO NIIYS
President Putin probably recognises that
President Putin probably OL NI RGE !
President Putin probably recognises that and preparing
recognises that and preparing M-
recognises that and preparing himself for a much longer
himself for a much longer o 811w
himself for a much longer conflict? |
himself for a much longer s R
himself for a much longer s B R G E
himself for a much longer conflict? I think if you look
conflict? I think if you look 1
conflict? I think if you look R )
conflict? I think if you look IR GRLEVE
conflict? I think if you look at the May night speech so many
at the May night speech so many analysts expect that he would
analysts expect that he would announce
analysts expect that he would N e i e
analysts expect that he would announce either full
analysts expect that he would XAl e T ias ek Tl e e
analysts expect that he would announce either full or partial
announce either full or partial mobilisation, perhaps a final
mobilisation, perhaps a final declaration
mobilisation, perhaps a final [ Ta I al Tl e) d
mobilisation, perhaps a final declaration of war
mobilisation, perhaps a final (eI A A e e )
mobilisation, perhaps a final eI R A Ll T
declaration of war because as you
declaration of war because as RGN
declaration of war because as you know this is quote unquote
you know this is quote ungquote ol ar
you know this is quote unquote special military operation
special military operation i a e
special military operation rather than war,
special military operation ORI I )
special military operation rather than war, the fact is,
rather than war, the fact is, )
rather than war, the fact is, ]
rather than war, the fact is, the speech was remarkably
the speech was remarkably unremarkable. The only thing
unremarkable. The only thing that
unremarkable. The only thing G R3]
unremarkable. The only thing LRI sE Tt
unremarkable. The only thing G AR T ]
unremarkable. The only thing MBI R e )
unremarkable. The only thing that stood out to me was
unremarkable. The only thing that stood ocut to me was that
that stood out to me was that 1Y
that stood out to me was that R ZH I
that stood out to me was that he failed to refer to Ukraine
he failed to refer to Ukraine in
he failed to refer to Ukraine L
he failed to refer to Ukraine in any way at all, he didn’t
in any way at all, he didn’t
in any way at all, he didn’t =l B
in any way at all, he didn’t =l &)
in any way at all, he didn’t call it a war or a
in any way at all, he didn’t (R IR IR R e E
|G RUE T B e[l NN
call it a war or a special operation. And it could be that
operation. And it could be that potentially sometime down the
potentially sometime down the road
potentially sometime down the EEid
potentially sometime down the road it could open the
road it could open the 11
road it could open the possibility for reframing it
possibility for reframing it e
possibility for reframing it s
possibility for reframing it but at this
possibility for reframing it R R YIRS D]
possibility for reframing it R R GRS LRI
possibility for reframing it N R GRS DRI -
possibility for reframing it N R YIRS LRI R R
but at this stage since he is %
but at this stage since he Is simply preparing for more
but at this stage since he is simply preparing for more of
simply preparing for more of )
simply preparing for more of U
simply preparing for more of LR ]
simply preparing for more of the same. When we
simply preparing for more of TR LN N )
simply preparing for more of the same. When we have a
the same. When we have a situation
the same. When we have a R
the same. When we have a LR )
the same. When we have a R N
the same. When we have a LR 1
the same. When we have a LR R
situation as we do at the e
situation as we do at the moment, Washington pumping tens
moment, Washington pumping tens of
moment, Washington pumping tens S
moment, Washington pumping tens A R
moment, Washington pumping tens of billions of dollars, we know
of billions of dollars, we know )
of billions of dollars, we know GO EEL
of billions of dollars, we know QTN EE R ]
of billions of dollars, we know the European Union has tried to
the European Union has tried to Gl
the European Union has tried to hold together, you can see
hold together, you can see S a1 e
hold together, you can see whether there
hold together, you can see RN
hold together, you can see OIS G I E (UL
hold together, you can see whether there are signs for
whether there are signs for ey
whether there are signs for R
whether there are signs for TR ]
whether there are signs for (N IS TS
whether there are signs for refs here, I’m just reading
refs here, I’m just reading FYe L
refs here, I’m just reading YN
refs here, I’m just reading about half a
refs here, I’m just reading Y EI e T s Ye)
refs here, I’m just reading Y E e T R e st ls
about half a million German jobs
about half a million German LI
about half a million German LR
about half a million German LI O
about half a million German jobs to go, if the Russian gas
jobs to go, if the Russian gas route
jobs to go, if the Russian gas I
jobs to go, if the Russian gas [T
jobs to go, if the Russian gas Tl
jobs to go, if the Russian gas route is axed. How sustainable
route is axed. How sustainable o[
route is axed. How sustainable R
route is axed. How sustainable do you think is that sense of
do you think is that sense of Y Y S - a1
do you think is that sense of Western unity?
do you think is that sense of S AODLIvEA]
do you think is that sense of Western unity? | think that is
Western unity? | think that is )
Western unity? | think that is N d
Western unity? | think that is RO R Y
Western unity? | think that is one of the key guestions,
Western unity? | think that is one of the key questions, the
one of the key questions, the fact
one of the key questions, the Elad)
one of the key questions, the fact of the
one of the key questions, the E e R e
one of the key questions, the fact of the matters in
fact of the matters in short-term, certainly, the
short-term, certainly, the horror
short-term, certainly, the Y e a1
short-term, certainly, the T e R E )
short-term, certainly, the horror that the Kremlin
short-term, certainly, the e R R R IR B
horror that the Kremlin has TR s
horror that the Kremlin has unleashed on
horror that the Kremlin has TR R 4]
horror that the Kremlin has unleashed on Ukraine has
unleashed on Ukraine has garnered unprecedented
garnered unprecedented sympathy, and Western
sympathy, and Western policymakers, finally have
policymakers, finally have bequn
policymakers, finally have begun reassessing some of their
begun reassessing some of their e
begun reassessing some of their core assumptions about
begun reassessing some of their N L M L LSS L
core assumptions about Russian A i
core assumptions about Russian statecraft in
core assumptions about Russian R e AR
core assumptions about Russian A e iR A
statecraft in the Russian G E1sY
statecraft in the Russian military and so forth. The
military and so forth. The IS IR
military and so forth. The IER I OREES
military and so forth. The ICR N1
military and so forth. The question is as war continues to
question is as war continues to )
question is as war continues to take an
question is as war continues to N e st a1l
question is as war continues to take an economic goal on Europe
take an economic goal on Europe Ll
take an economic goal on Europe IR LG
take an economic goal on Europe RN ARG
take an economic goal on Europe and, frankly the rest of the
and, frankly the rest of the world, the question
and, frankly the rest of the R G R T T R
and, frankly the rest of the world, the question is, how
world, the question is, how long
world, the question is, how LR
world, the question is, how long will principal take over,
long will principal take over, basically from conflict, and
basically from conflict, and that
basically from conflict, and G A
basically from conflict, and that is an open-ended question
that is an open-ended question o)
that is an open-ended question A ]
that is an open-ended question A e s et 1g
that is an open-ended question since the number of Ukrainian
since the number of Ukrainian refugees is
since the number of Ukrainian (LSRR
since the number of Ukrainian refugees is just under 6
refugees is just under 6 million
refugees is just under 6 IR R
refugees is just under 6 million at this point,
GGV AT LI million at this point, the
million at this peint, the Yo lat a1l
million at this peint, the Yoot at ol i e
million at this peint, the Yt e e
million at this peint, the Y At e R R
million at this point, the At e R R R E]s
million at this point, the Y At e R R R I
economic effects of the war are 1]
economic effects of the war are R
economic effects of the war are N Y L R
economic effects of the war are N N N DN R LG
economic effects of the war are widespread and we are only at
widespread and we are only at )
widespread and we are only at GBI
widespread and we are only at the beginning of
widespread and we are only at QR LRGP ES R
widespread and we are only at the beginning of it, really.
the beginning of it, really. T4
the beginning of it, really. Thank you
the beginning of it, really. =S TR s
the beginning of it, really. Thank you very much indeed, $40
Thank you very much indeed, $40 hillion
Thank you very much indeed, $40 TGN
Thank you very much indeed, $40 billion being pledged, it is
billien being pledged, it is alxld
billion being pledged, it is Al e
billion being pledged, it is clear whether loyalties lies at
clear whether loyalties lies at this
clear whether loyalties lies at QI EN Y
clear whether loyalties lies at this stage but as you say a
this stage but as you say a long
this stage but as you say a RN
this stage but as you say a WNEEVA
this stage but as you say a L RTZVA R
Elon Musk has said he will reverse the Twitter ban imposed
on Donald Trump, once he takes over the social media company.
The richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion
takeover bid with the Twitter board last month,
but he said IR N N R e
ideally it would be R R G R AR
Our correspondent James Clayton has more.
He has kind of already intimated that this
was going to happen.
This is the first time he has committed to saying
that he would actually reverse this ban, and Denald Trump has
not been able to tweet for 15, 16 months now
after the Capitol Hill riots he was accused of stoking,
those that Elon Musk said that it wasn’t morally
reprehensible to have done, that it was a mistake.
The former executive of Twitter has said that he regrets
(LRGN EERTL] for Donald Trump te come
WEin GO
The problem is that Donald Trump has said he does
not really want to N E e E R
He said he would much rather post on his own platform.
So, | would not necessarily assume that he is going
to start tweeting.
The other thing to mention is that Elon Musk has not
actually bought Twitter yet, and he seemed low energy
about the deal today, | thought.
I’m not necessarily 100% sure - | don’t think Elon Musk
is either - that he is going to buy Twitter.
So, lots of reasons why Donald Trump might not come
back on, but the door is more ajar than it ever has been
for the former president to make a Twitter return.
Stay with us on BBC News.
(MUSIC)
Ukraine qualifies for the final of the Eurovision Song Contest.
We’ll take a closer look at their entry.
The Pope was shot, G R
that’s the essence of the appalling news from Rome
this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television
commentator put it, terrorism LR i RO R R Z R
The man they called the Butcher of Lyon, Klaus Barbie,
went on trial today in the French town where
he was the Gestapo chief in the Second World War.
Winnie Mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced
to six years in jail.
The judge told Mrs Mandela there was no indication
she felt even the slightest remorse.
The Chinese government has LR R E i e s
to help the victims of a powerful earthquake -
the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
The computer Deep Blue has NI GO LN R
the world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.
IR G R T Ry e T 1) has defeated a reigning world
champion in a classical RG]
America’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking
place in Massachusetts.
Anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew
in Sri Lanka,
calling for the country’s president to step down.
The head of the World Health Organization has said China’s
zero tolerance policy against Covid is not sustainable.
Tuesday’s UK State Opening of Parliament marked
the first time since 1963 that Queen Elizabeth didn’t attend.
the first time since 1963 that Queen Elizabeth didn’t attend.
Her Majesty had authorised the Prince of Wales
and the Duke of Cambridge
G R G G EET N E I A
after Buckingham Palace explained that Her Majesty
was suffering from "episodic mobility problems™.
Our royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell examines
the significance of the events.
He’s been waiting for his destiny
for longer than any other heir RO R e -]
And, while no-one XL R %1
a major change is imminent, the inescapable fact
s that a transition s under way.
And this, today, was the most tangible sign of it.
As Prince Charles I T
on the Consort’s Throne, the Imperial State Crown,
the symbol of the monarch’s authority, was placed
on a table beside him.
The Prince studied it closely, and then, with Lords
and Commons assembled, R R M T S S EEL
short of his own opiniens took on the discipline required
of a monarch.
Reading out the words written by the Government.
The continued success AT [e1sY
of the whole of the United Kingdom
is of paramount importance to Her Majesty’s Government.
It was this, the Regency Act of 1937, that the Palace used
to delegate the power RN Gl
M [ TR suggesting a permanent
transfer of the monarch’s powers.
The Queen is still busy with her paper work
and virtual audiences.
Changes are happening, but they are gradual.
For the Queen, I
very important to carry out all her public duties in public
whenever she can.
She’s famously said "to be seen is to be believed,”
and she believes the monarchy must be seen,
but in future it is Likely N R R R LR T
members of the Royal Family carrying out
royal duties on her behalf.
For seven decades, IR R sl
a highly visible head of state.
Those days are over, X GIEIC E IR
faced, the burden is shifting.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
An international donors e e R |
more than $6.5 billion to help war-torn Syria
and its neighbours.
The news was announced RO R RN
of a UN-backed conference N
Earlier the UN’s High Commissioner for Refugees,
Filippo Grandi, warned L RN i E i s ke d s s
for Syrians was catastrophic.
Aid agencies say would-be asylum seekers
arriving in Britain
have self-harmed and attempted suicide
because of fears of being sent to Rwanda.
More than 28,000 people crossed the English Channel
last year.
The UK government plans to send people judged to have entered
the country illegally, RN R T G
to combat people traffickers.
Each year, billions of tonnes of goods are transported
around the world by sea.
Huge cargo ships travel the oceans,
contributing to greenhouse gas emissions.
Now, one company is trying to provide an alternative
and it involves the use of an ancient technology,
as Tim Allman explains.
In the shadow of a city built on trade,
the present meets the past.
And in doing so, could it point to the future?
At this port in New Jersey, they are loading a cargo ship -
well, technically a boat -
that harks back to an earlier age.
The Grand Assall is powered by the wind,
transporting goods across the Atlantic
the old-fashioned way.
The mission of Grand Assail is to reinvent shipping
in a way by doing it G IR LEEI LY
to reduce the impact RN e ilee el e
so we want to produce and sell great gastronomic product
while we come from far away.
The sailboat Is a 72-foot, two-masted schooner.
IR R IGTT 50 tons of cargo,
a tiny fraction of what
a modern transporter ship can hold.
One trip takes around 3.5 weeks,
weather permitting.
So patience really is a virtue for any potential customers.
We assure people that it’s I R FL S
green transportation with a cargo, selling cargo,
just to take time, and it’s possible, yes.
There are plans for a sister A R R N e 0L
twice the size of Grand Assail and can make more trips.
No-one Is under any TG ER G E R P
are about to replace modern cargo ships
but in the fight against climate change,
every lLittle helps.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
It’s one of the most profitable gaming franchise deals
[ ]e"2
serving more than 150 million players around the world.
For the best part of 30 years, Electronic Arts has enjoyed
huge success with its A IR R
But now, the company says I e R il
football’s governing body.
Our gaming reporter Steffan Powell explains why.
EA Sports - it’s in the game.
Since 1993, the Fifa video game franchise
has been made by one company, EA Sports.
The title has changed immeasurably
on the screen and off it - becoming a cultural powerhouse
played by 150 million people around the world.
But EA Sports has announced it’s
splitting from FIFA - it didn’t fancy playing
the reported $1 billion price tag to keep
the licence from the governing body.
It also sees the opportunity IR Rt
from beyond just gaming.
Instead, EA Sports FC will launch in Autumn 2023,
with this year’s Fifa being the last one.
The move might surprise some, but it makes sense to others.
It’s where we’re seeing games go as a whole,
really, moving more into games as a platform
and bringing in other brands and entertainment products,
such as concerts and other live events into their games.
The FIFA President VRN
to assure players the FIFA name will be the best one available
for gamers, as it’s the only global original title.
They’re working on new games.
When it comes to EA Sports FC, players might not notice a huge
difference to the core game’s offering, with player
likenesses and game modes staying the same.
They will, though, see more brand partnerships
and experiences beyond games.
If that trend sticks, QRGN R T T
just for the popular games studio,
but potentially the industry.
Steffan Powell, BBC News.
Ukraine has made it through to this year’s
Eurovision Song Contest final,
after qualifying from a semi final heat on Tuesday night.
The song Stefania,
by the Ukrainian group Kalush Orchestra,
has become the favourite to win the competition.
David Sillito was there,
and his report contains flashing images.
1014
Turin, Eurovision, and
Turin, Eurevision, and flag-waving fans and thousands
flag-waving fans and thousands more
flag-waving fans and thousands R ]
flag-waving fans and thousands IR Y
flag-waving fans and thousands more in the Eurovision village
more in the Eurovision village and
more in the Eurovision village R )
more in the Eurovision village TR R
more in the Eurovision village and the most visible flag in
and the most visible flag in )
and the most visible flag in the crowd? The blue and
and the most visible flag in R KR L R O L R G,
the crowd? The blue and yellow N
the crowd? The blue and yellow of Ukraine.
the crowd? The blue and yellow A E
the crowd? The blue and yellow of Ukraine. He had
the crowd? The blue and yellow AT i E R
the crowd? The blue and yellow of Ukraine. He had to cheer
of Ukraine. He had to cheer along the
of Ukraine. He had to cheer EI RGN
of Ukraine. He had to cheer along the hot favourites, that
along the hot favourites, that "€
along the hot favourites, that I Rl e
along the hot favourites, that Kalush Orchestra. Strangers
Kalush Orchestra. Strangers el Nel
Kalush Orchestra. Strangers bonded by a moment. We met like
bonded by a moment. We met lLike ten
bonded by a mement. We met like R
bonded by a mement. We met like ten minutes ago. We don’t know
ten minutes ago. We don’t know each
ten minutes ago. We don’t know Y T R TR Y
ten minutes ago. We don’t know Y T R R )
ten minutes ago. We don’t know each other. We are just selling
each other. We are just selling e
each other. We are just selling it plugs and supporting each
it plugs and supporting each G
it plugs and supporting each o L
it plugs and supporting each other. It is so much sadness
other. It is so much sadness A
other. It is so much sadness also_ It
other. It is so much sadness AN A
other. It is so much sadness also_ It is a
other. It is so much sadness N SR
other. It is so much sadness E N1
other. It is so much sadness CI SRR A
other. It is so much sadness also. It is a big unity of the
also. It is a big unity of the European family so it is
Gl S R R RV TR R [ European family so it is really
European family so it is really ey
European family so it is really like a big
European family so it Is really like a big family and Europe
like a big family and Europe and
like a big family and Europe LRI
like a big family and Europe and Ukraine it feels Like
like a big family and Europe and Ukraine it feels like part
and Ukraine it feels like part N
and Ukraine it feels like part N
and Ukraine it feels like part L ]
and Ukraine it feels like part Nl
and Ukraine it feels like part AR R
and Ukraine it feels like part NN E ARG
and Ukraine it feels like part LR R QIR CE VY
and Ukraine it feels like part SEEL LR R QIR CE VR
of it and if this Is really a celebration
of it and if this Is really a a0 i R
of it and if this Is really a R R
of it and if this Is really a W IR R QIR el
celebration of this European IR
celebration of this Eurepean IR R Ta |
celebration of this Eurepean Union and all the values
celebration of this European Union and all the values and
LI EL GRS G ERZ DL T 1R
LI EL GRS G ERZ DL T IRy
Union and all the values and ER G RO R
Union and all the values and all the European values
LI EL GRS G ERZ DL T all the European values and
Union and all the values and all the European values and it
all the European values and it seems a lot. And
all the European values and it AN L
all the European values and it AN B E A
all the European values and it seems a lot. And if it went?
all the European values and it AL U A A
seems a lot. And if it went? | (0T
seems a lot. And if it went? | hope that
seems a lot. And if it went? | R GE T
seems a lot. And if it went? | hope that maybe in the
seems a lot. And If it went? | hope that maybe in the future,
hope that maybe in the future, families divided
hope that maybe in the future, G R AL
hope that maybe in the future, families divided by wall will
families divided by wall will )
families divided by wall will one day be able to share this
one day be able to share this moment
one day be able to share this i ]
one day be able to share this i dhEG e
one day be able to share this moment in their home
one day be able to share this moment in their heme country.
moment in their home country. —— war.
moment in their home country. il 21001\
moment in their home country. -- war. My daughter is five
-- war. My daughter is five years older she asked me, |
years older she asked me, | (0T
years older she asked me, | hope that my grandfather and
hope that my grandfather and grandmother are safe but it
grandmother are safe but it o
grandmother are safe but it would be
grandmother are safe but it I G ERCEV
grandmother are safe but it I G R CE VA Gl
grandmother are safe but it I G NG VA I )
grandmother are safe but it would be really better to see
would be really better to see this
would be really better to see IR TIb e
would be really better to see QIR LS R G L
would be really better to see QIR LS S LG IR
would be really better to see QIR LS R T IR R LYy
IRV S OO LR IG RO Ly 3
QIR DGR TG RGN R
QIR DGR TG RGN in Ukraine. The
QIR DGR TG RGN LRI AR L
QIR DGR TG RGN in Ukraine. The night was
QIR DGR TG RGN LRI AR LG ST
in Ukraine. The night was all FYe L
in Ukraine. The night was all NI E T
in Ukraine. The night was all A& ]
in Ukraine. The night was all about Ukraine and they remain
about Ukraine and they remain )
about Ukraine and they remain e
about Ukraine and they remain N R ey
about Ukraine and they remain A RNl ]
about Ukraine and they remain N R e R ila]
about Ukraine and they remain the hot favourite to win on a
the hot favourite to win on a SELOIOEN
the hot favourite to win on a Saturday and what happens
the hot favourite to winon a Saturday and what happens to
Saturday and what happens to )
Saturday and what happens to N EE
Saturday and what happens to QY ELR RGN
Saturday and what happens to the bad if they do
Saturday and what happens to QN R RO A LRk
Saturday and what happens to the bad if they de when? Well,
the bad if they do when? Well, they
the bad if they do when? Well, G
the bad if they do when? Well, QIR ST
the bad if they do when? Well, they go straight back to
they go straight back to Ukraine
they go straight back to I EI |
they go straight back to Ukraine and their agenda is not
Ukraine and their agenda is not I ol
Ukraine and their agenda is not music. | spoke to the bad’s
music. | spoke to the bad’s e
music. | spoke to the bad’s leader Oleh
music. | spoke to the bad’s L RS
music. | spoke to the bad’s L R S R Y
music. | spoke to the bad’s L R S e R
music. | spoke to the bad’s leader Oleh before the show and
leader Oleh before the show and e e g
leader Oleh before the show and RO IS
leader Oleh before the show and T EI ]
leader Oleh before the show and R LR U IR O BV A
whatever happens on Saturday, on Sunday it is back to work.
on Sunday it is back to work. TRANSLATION: We have a
TRANSLATION: We have a e d
TRANSLATION: We have a volunteer organisation. There
volunteer organisation. There Py
volunteer organisation. There Y
volunteer organisation. There LY A
volunteer organisation. There I LSRR Y
volunteer organisation. There NSRRI
volunteer organisation. There are 35 of us we are helping
are 35 of us we are helping people with transport,
people with transport, Eloe i L iR
people with transport, accommodation, medicine, were
accommodation, medicine, were doing
accommodation, medicine, were LRGN
accommodation, medicine, were LR TG LR ]
accommodation, medicine, were doing everything possible to
doing everything possible to i1
doing everything possible to N
doing everything possible to help people across the Ukraine.
help people across the Ukraine. e
help people across the Ukraine. o4
help people across the Ukraine. A&l
help people across the Ukraine. A L SR
help people across the Ukraine. But back in the semifinals, it
But back in the semifinals, it Ty
But back in the semifinals, it ]
But back in the semifinals, it - Rl
But back in the semifinals, it was a little Furovision moment.
was a little Eurovision mement. Ukraine!
was a little Eurovision moment. I EIR IR
was a little Eurovision moment. Ukraine! The song, does that
Ukraine! The song, does that have
Ukraine! The song, does that YU N o et
Ukraine! The song, does that have become a
Ukraine! The song, does that N N RS e
Ukraine! The song, does that have become a symbol of hope,
have become a symbol of hope, Il e 8
have become a symbol of hope, support, community.
David Sillito, BBC News, Turin.
And good luck to Ukraine
And good luck te Ukraine and
And good luck to Ukraine and )
And good luck to Ukraine and e e
And good luck to Ukraine and the other contestants, of
the other contestants, of ey
the other contestants, of course. Bye
the other contestants, of ST R s
the other contestants, of T S R I A
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here,
breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier NG
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start,
temperatures NG gD
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
GEEg R R T e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
This is BBC News - WL
Tens of thousands of military personnel have been
deployed in the Sri Lankan capital, Colombo,
as the government struggles RN IR G )
against the spiralling I EI AN
Security forces have been given the right to shoot anyone
suspected of looting or posing a risk to life.
China has been urged to change its zero-Covid
strategy by the World Health Organisation.
The head of the UN agency said it RO R
the virus were unsustainable.
Many cities in China have faced lockdown restrictions
as the country suffers its worst Covid ocutbreak
since the pandemic began.
The US House of N LR R L L
overwhelmingly in favour of providing an additional
$40 billien in aid for Ukraine.
Most Republicans joined Democrats in supporting
The funds will be used to provide military support
to Ukraine and humanitarian assistance to the civilians
affected by the Russian invasion.
Stephen Sackur is in Washington, with HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk from Washington,
NI CT LR 018
When Vladimir Putin made that momentous decision to invade
Ukraine, maybe he calculated that the US was too weak,
too polarised to offer anything more than ritual condemnation.
If so, he was wrong.
American weapons are now flowing into Ukraine.
Unprecedented sanctions have been imposed on Moscow.
My guest today is the Senior e T e E R e
Is this Ukraine war the wake-up call America needed?
Senator Mark Warner, AR Re L LLhEE
Thank you so much.
s there an attitude in this city, Washington,
DC, that you politicians are now prepared to do whatever
it takes to ensure Ukraine’s victory in the war with
Well, my sense, Stephen, is that this is not enly
an attitude that’s reflected by politicians, by the American
public, quite honestly,
| think it is the British government, the British public.
What has taken place over R R G AL P R
you know, the West, Nato have come back together,
an organisation that candidly a year ago at the end
of the Trump presidency IR & AT IR
I think a lot of that was due R R R E B Na i alecls
intelligence community, along with the British
intelligence community, had been very forward-leaning
IR RG] of the conflict about
VLG Tl R (A and made the case that he was
going to not only invade Ukraine, but invade
In @ massive way, as he has.
I L BN T G ER G B S R U RN ]
started being in Munich at the security conference
and sitting down T GEO XN A
I’m chairman of the Intelligence Committee,
sitting down with the head of the German spy services,
and they still didn’t believe that he was going to,
Putin was going to come NG N
So | think there is this unity of purpose that we,
America and the West, will take on the aggressors.
But you know that Zelensky’s message, when asked,
"What do you still need?”
is, "Weapons, weapons, weapons.”
So the question is, how far will America go
in the arming of Ukraine?
So far you’ve talked about defensive weaponry.
You’ve also backfilled - you know, you’ve given
new weaponry to Nato allies in Eastern Europe so they can
release some of their equipment to the Ukrainians.
Are you going to go further?
Could you envisage in the next few months, maybe even years,
giving US warplanes, US tanks direct to Ukraine?
I’m not going to weigh LR L R R
in future weeks, NGRS T
| will say that the level oElaa et YR R Ta a5
assistance - we are giving American artillery that frankly
Is real-time, Ukrainians are training on out of country.
Again, the British government has done some of the same.
And this notion of where N R AN e
what is defensive versus offensive weaponry, | think
that is becoming a more N e e e R
Another question which is about how far America goes
s about personnel, NG
We know American service personnel are training
Ukrainians in countries neighbouring Ukraine.
Are there US personnel ALY
There are no operating military personnel inside Ukraine.
You phrase that carefully.
People training inside...?
Clearly we are seeing, LR RO ST Yo SEL )
that the diplomats that exited the country as the war started
are coming back not just to Lviv, but going actually
back to Kyiv, which | think is terribly important.
Again, we’ve done this...
One of the things that | think IR e N AR R A
done this in concert with our NATO allies.
And if there had not been e AR R )
togetherness, I’m not sure that President Zelensky,
no matter how resolute he’’s heen, and we all have enormous
respect for the Ukrainian forces, but without that total
Western support?
And that, again, EEL I G .
There are many things the Biden administration may have not got
right, particularly in Afghanistan.
But in terms of rebuilding the coalition and keeping
I R TamOlalia-To
The fact that the Germans took the lead on stopping
Nord Stream 2 - | don’t think any of us could have predicted
that three to four months ago.
As you just said, you’re R IR R UL R
Intelligence Committee.
You know a lot of what is going on.
How surprised have you been by the depth, the extraordinary
SO G R ELC U0 I IR G G
the United States and the Ukrainians?
We know, at least according R TR RN
to The New York Times, that a dozen Russian generals
have been targeted by the Ukrainians thanks
to US intelligence.
We believe that the Moskva, the Black Sea flagship Russian
vessel, was sunk thanks to US intelligence cooperation
INIERER U]
But those items you’ve stated, I’ve seen the public reports,
but there’s been no official US government confirmation.
But you know the inside story.
Yeah, but that’s not my role ORI R e L iR
particularly on a broadcast show.
But | will say this - that leading up to the invasion,
one of the things that...
And again, intel, whether it’s Y AR B e - Na il a e 1a]
intel, you know, by nature those folks in that community
SR R G EIS information.
One of the things that was remarkable was early on,
Putin expected not only to be militarily successful,
but actually had ideas G e TR Ta o]
R I ML RN [D
It was American intelligence leaning forward, saying
iIf a coup happens, it’s going to be the Russians,
and then our friends, the British a few days later
even identified the individual the Russians wanted
(RN AWl TR
That has really, | think, put Putin off his game by that
willingness to share intelligence and frankly share,
as we had to convince our European allies that this
But Senator, everything you are talking to me about,
that is the incredibly close intelligence cooperation,
QLRI RV ST N the feeling that we will do
whatever It takes - it feeds into a Russian
narrative, a narrative that Vladimir Putin has just
repeated on his Victory Day speech, when he basically says,
"We in Russia are facing a war with the West, with Nato.”
What Lavrov - Sergey Lavrov, the Foreign Minister -
calls a proxy war.
That’s the truth of what’s happening now, isn’t it?
My belief is this is what Putin and his cabal have brought on.
RTGEDLICLR QIR Gl has become much bigger
than Ukraine versus Russia.
| think most of us in the West over the last few years,
particularly here in this country, have felt,
whether it’s with Covid, some of the political
dysfunction in this country - can liberal democracy be
successful against authoritarian regimes
And | think what at least the Ukrainian people have said
is they are voting with their lives to say we will give
up our lives to have a taste of the kind of freedom
that we in the West enjoy every day.
And | think we all do need to rise to that occasion.
But is there a danger of going too far?
We’ve talked about the weaponry, the intelligence.
Also, we could talk about the unprecedented
ecenomic sanctions that you in the US have imposed on Russia.
What it looks like to Russia, IR R R e e
outside Russia, is that here in Washington there is now
an intent to effectively neutralise Russia and destroy
Vladimir Putin’s regime.
If this was enly an American action alone, even though
America is far and away the pre-eminent military power
in the world, if this was only L R
It would not carry near that weight.
The fact that we have Nato United, the fact that
countries like Japan, Australia and others are engaged...
But what matters RGNS ES &
When the Defense Secretary, Lloyd Austin, said not long
agoe, quote, "We want to see Russia weakened to the degree
that it cannot do the kinds of things that it has done
in invading Ukraine ever again” - that’s a message to Russia
that Putin has no future.
Biden, in an unscripted moment, talked about the fact
that he felt Putin could not be I R RGN R L e
Is that the prevailing feeling today in Washington?
Here. ..
Sometimes | have the luxury to say things that perhaps
senior administration officials should take a bit more care.
But | look at, | believe Liz Truss, the UK Foreign
Secretary, calling out YR IR I eal R E
We see German leaders, T R e
The truth is, potentially in the world of diplomacy,
maybe some of these leaders should have been a little more
careful with their language.
But when you see the butchery that took place in a community
like Bucha, how does R A e B E e 0L s
Now, that does raise the concern of when you’ve got
someone like Putin who rules with a small cabal, when this
individual who’s become more and more disconnected from,
LRI A G
The pictures we’ve all seen R R N
whether foreign leaders R AR
leadership, him at one end SRR R AR N e
it speaks a thousand words.
Where this allows Putin an exit ramp, that’s a valid question
to ask, but not being willing to call out the atrocities
for what they are | think would be a grave mistake as well.
But the point is that on that table you talk about that
VLG Tl O B R R i of, there is a button -
(NG G () a metaphorical button,
but there is a button which he can press to launch
a nuclear strike, whether it be AR i G a4
weapon or something very e Bt e R Tedle -0
We are dealing with the leader of the world’s second nuclear
superpower.
When you take the stance you are taking, that
in essence, Putin cannot be allowed to continue,
are you risking nuclear war?
And the countervailing risk is to turn a blind eye
to the type of atrocities that we in the West have said
we will stand firmly against.
| think that is absolutely the right question to pose me
and to other leaders e R R
But the notion that we would suddenly turn a blind eye
COU TR TR G IR all is forgiven and we’re
going to invite you back in to the to the club
of respectable world leadership...
You know, I’m not sure how that meeting goes.
To quote the CIA director, Bill Burns, just a couple
of days ago, "Putin does not believe he can afford to lose.
He has staked so much on this invasion, he is committed
to doubling down.”
The question is what doubling down means,
and whether you in the United States have prepared
the American public properly for the degree to which there
Is now perhaps a greater danger of an escalating conflict
between nuclear superpowers than there has been since 1945.
We live in a very, very dangerous time,
and an aggression that was purely started by Putin’s grand
design of recreating the greater Russia and whether
we stand with democratic-elected nations.
Our failure to do so, IR U R
aggression to go unchecked, we all know Putin would not
have stopped with Ukraine.
You not only sit there as chair of the Intelligence Committee,
you’re also, | believe, a co-chair of the Cybersecurity
IR ARG - Gl -]
You keep tabs on what Russia is up to.
Do you believe, having seen what they tried to do in 2016,
that Russia is going to try to make a concerted effort
to disrupt American democracy in this year of midterms, 20227
Well, having led the investigation when Russia
massively intervened in our elections in 2016,
| think the American system, the Western systems have gotten
better at protecting N Qe Rl A
But on the capacity of the Russian cyber
operations, this has been the dog that hasn’t barked.
The Russian military may be a bit inept, but we’ve seen...
There was a cyberattack called Solarwinds where Russia GRU got
into 18,000 companies.
Luckily, they only used it to take out information rather
than shutting down those companies.
But as we saw in the NotPetya attack, where Russia launched
against Ukraine in 2017 and that rebounded around
the world because the malware knew no network boundaries,
that we know they’ve got these capabilities.
And quite honestly, it has been probably the greatest surprise
that Russia did not shut down RN AL R T
G EIRGIE R ARG T getting out, that they’ve not
launched a more massive cyber attack against whether it be
ISR R
But the notion that O IRV
Is it coming, in your view?
I’ve been remarkably surprised that we’ve not seen it to date.
And | think we should assume that at some point
there will be a more massive Russian cyber effort,
OGN I Ta ) against Ukraine, whether it’s
directed against Eastern Europe, whether it’s directed
against the UK or America.
But | think we have to keep what’s called, in a sense,
shields up for the TR L R
If it comes against the United States, will it be
regarded as an act of war?
That is, again, one of the things that diplomats
term in strategic ambiguity.
My fear was at the beginning of this conflict that Putin
would’ve shut down circumstances in Ukraine,
it would’ve bled over into Poland, and whether it
would’ve caused Nato troops G CEIC N R LS
to shut down, that is an area that has not ever
been tested yet.
A wider geopolitical thought - IR L IR T L
here in the US Senate, RN R G L
like Marco Rubio and Lindsey Graham, want Biden to be even
tougher, send more weapons, impose tighter sanctions
And they say not just because we have to win this
fight in Ukraine, but also they say it has huge
ramifications for our wider struggle, particularly with
They say that unless Putin is defeated and seen to be
defeated, President Xi of China will see it as some sort
of green light to invade Taiwan.
Do you agree?
Well, first of all, | would take issue with your notion
that they are my A T
Matter of fact, Senator Rubio is my vice chair on my
Intelligence Committee.
I work regularly GBI NE a1
OO R GIENCTER E 114 of stance against Putin,
it is overwhelmingly Il
Now, again, some of my colleagues may want to go
quicker, faster, sooner, but | think we do stand united.
On the question of China, China is the true economic
challenge, technology challenge and long-term military
challenge.
You would China an adversary?
I would call China’s goals, with their authoritarian
capitalism model, a model that, frankly, the Soviet Union,
Russia, was a military threat and an ideological threat.
It was never really PN R o st st le Lo
The whole size of Russia’s economy is smaller than
ltaly’s, but China is the first nation post-World War Il that
in technology domain after technology domain...
I was an old telecom guy, R UEIER e LR e
the Huawei Chinese company, we’re seeing that kind of same
Chinese advancement in artificial intelligence,
quantum computing and a whole series of areas.
And one of the things that we’re launching right now
is this alliance of democracies, so that we can try
on a technology competition basis to maintain both
innovation and that technology lead.
Because as we’ve known, China has been stealing close
to $500 billion of intellectual product a year from Western
companies all over the world.
So, let me now turn inward hefore we end this discussion
and just discuss whether America has the strength,
the internal coherence right now to meet these challenges.
| look at a United States, | see deep political
polarisation.
(1T el i1 g () well-equipped to meet this
challenge - do you?
It’s never been a good bet to bet against America.
Are we going through enormous challenges?
LY TR
I think, frankly, again, this goes back to the question
RUELRI ]
VLT GTRE T (VAR TN you know, we’ve seen liberal
democracies, whether it be LY RIS LR D
or elsewhere in many ways have some level of disarray.
We’ve seen disinfermation tools, but what I think has
showed us In the battle in Ukraine and Russia is this
notion of moral ambiguity.
| think most of us in the West have realised we need to get
rid of that moral ambiguity.
We are the good guys RGO
Well, hang on...
And | think we will rally to the rally to the occasion.
You speak as though things are clear-cut.
They’re not clear-cut, N ERE G I RS Sl
You’re a Democrat.
You have your guy in the White House, Joe Biden.
Joe Biden promised to rebuild America.
What we see today is that his Build Back Better programmes
and $1.7 trillion of new tax-and-spend measures
s stuck, not least because people in your own party,
in the Senate, your own colleagues, Manchin,
Sinema, they won’t vote for it.
And the public is thinking - where’s the leadership here?
| guess...
Were there aspirations that were beyond what a 50-50
Senate could provide?
| do think if President Biden had said a year ago
when he came In, you know, let’s see if we can get
Let’s make sure that we do, for the first time in 40 years,
a major infrastructure R i B L
Can we end up reunifying Nato?
But it’s stuck, Senator, it’s stuck.
Those are all things that have taken place.
Well, with great respect, LE VI TR UGN
of his Build Back Better programme is stuck in your
place, the Senate.
ChRhe R g0 bill that took. ..
For the last eight Presidents, people have said it was
going to happen.
Broadly bipartisan, AR A R R LR G
of the guys to put it together.
Well, you know the facts TS IR TR NS
KR 11114 N s Rl -
He’s running out of time.
The midterms are coming A N A
K IR G L T IEIRE
The Democrats are going to lose the House, according
to all the polls, probably going to lose the Senate, too.
You’ve had your moment, and you’ve wasted it.
You know, we have IR lge st L3 s o - T
You know, there’s no such thing as calling snap elections
President Biden is about 18 months into his first four-year
term.
And, as we saw just recently RGN A e R A el
election, | think Macron went RGN G ]
Biden’s numbers look soaring compared to that.
Well, here’s what Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a fellow
Democrat in the House, says.
She says, "We are in big LA ek
even govern decisively.”
Within the Democratic Party, there’s always been divide
between those of us who are on the more moderate
or pro-business side and those who are on the extreme
W[OS R
Bernie Sanders, talking of progressives, he says
the Democrats still have R A R U R S AL
to become a party which stands IR QLR R N R G
country or remain corporately controlled, beholden to wealthy
contributoers and the corporate media.
Which party do you want to belong to?
| want to belong to a party G E R R [ R
that is pro-worker, that recognises America has
an essential role in a world that is complicated
R LT T
And | think at the core, the Democratic Party that I’ve
WL WG R (g d of represents those values.
Do you want to be part of a party which fights
the Republicans on the grounds of culture and social issues?
And I’m thinking primarily today here in the United States
about the extraordinarily heated debate that has already
begun about the future of abortion rights,
the so-called Roe v Wade Supreme Court decision
of 1973, which, according R (R R R R T 0]
of the Supreme Court, TN E N R e h
Is that to be a battleground TN e ]
Republicans over the next few months?
| am personally very disappointed that the Supreme
Court is jumping feet-first IR R e s Batlkatle
wars in the notion that...
With respect, they’re coming up with a legal decision.
They’re not characterising this as jumping into
..In the notion that a woman’’s right to have control
over her own body, that has been basically precedent-driven
law for 50 years, Is going to be reversed.
| think that will drive many people to the polls,
because what starts around the very challenging question
around abortion can morph R AN TR R
can morph to gay rights, marriage equality rights.
d | don t think Americans. ..
Is this the territory R iR st n e
are going to run and fight the midterm elections of 20227
You want to take the Republicans on in a culture
war?
One of the things that about, at least politics in this
country, is it’s hard to predict umpteen months out.
But the fact that this has been forced onto the political
centre-stage by this SUEOINEI A L]
decision..
And it’s not final yet, R R
there could be some change...
| understand that, but if...
If this much of retreating of rights...
One of the things about this country, whether it goes left
or right, it generally has not taken rights away.
And that’s what at LG IR QI
But what I’m trying R R G R GE
of House Democrat Sean Patrick Maloney, who said just
the other day abertion N IRLRCR R G LR L]
You’re @ main - You’re seen Y R e e et e
Do you see it that way, too?
| believe that as people think EL N LR RGN (R 1
fall, will inflation be on their mind?
LY TR
Will the world circumstance vis a vis Putin, China
and elsewhere, be on your mind?
But if people are literally having their rights taken away,
O EL R L TRV (T GRUER (RGN
R e sl s
And a final thought, and it’s about leadership
and about this country.
We talked about Putin.
VR EIL TR T President Xi of China.
Right now, America is led by Joe Biden.
You referred earlier to the possibility...
You implied that he will be running again for a second
term.
You know better than | that if he runs again for a second
term, he will, just...
He’ll be 82, 82 by the time the next election comes around,
or just a few days after.
That means he’ll be 86 N R | B R e
as President of the RO S R A R i
R nt iR e-1801F
Is that healthy for America?
Let’s see where RN
| think President Biden is providing the kind
of leadership, the Nl R A El ]
the re-establishment of America’s leadership
on the world stage.
Were there overly ambitious plans in a first year?
But the fact that we have managed to take on Covid,
that we do have job growth at record levels
and that we finally put MBI R E
infrastructure plan.
I think if we put those out as goals, there would be much
greater support for what was already a very, very successful
Senator Mark Warner, sadly, we are out of time.
Thank you very much indeed for being on HARDtalk.
111918
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
GEEg R R T e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
Hello, a warm welcome to you.
This is BBC News with me, Mark Lobel.
For viewers in the UK DI O R R 1]
here are your headlines:
The US House of Representatives votes overwhelmingly in favour
of providing an additional $40 billion in aid for Ukraine.
As Putin desperately Y
As Putin desperately e e
CERU G accelerates his campaign of
accelerates his campaign of horror and
accelerates his campaign of IR O A
accelerates his campaign of horror and brutality, just
horror and brutality, just horror
horror and brutality, just e g s |
horror and brutality, just eI R Ig0L 1 s
horror and brutality, just herror and brutality in
g eI R 1N AT I
g eI R 1N AT TR
g eI R 1N AT Ukraine, time is
g eI R 1N AT R R
g g (g el dgTi &[N A R R R R
Ukraine, time is of the T e
Shoot on sight - the orders for Security Forces
[INTAR T LGP I RY L gl protests calling for
the president to step down.
Spain’s top spy loses her job, following a phone-hacking
scandal that involved the country’s Prime Minister.
And, hitting the right note.
Ukraine qualifies for the final of the Eurovision Song Contest.
Hello, and welcome.
We begin in the States.
Members of the US House of Representatives have voted
overwhelmingly in favour of providing another $40
IUIGEGE LRIV Ih-
Most Republicans joined Democrats in supporting
Such is the bipartisan support TR A R A e R e e
President Biden’s request for aid and added nearly $7
The funds will be used to provide military support
to Ukraine and humanitarian assistance to the civilians
affected by the Russian invasion.
The speaker of the house, Nany Pelosi told fellow
Democrats it was important R eI A
CERU G accelerates his campaign
e R el there has just been
CLe g e N SR RS TS A T ]
That why we were so pleased to hear
we could proceed immediately with this bill today so it goes
through to Senate and the President’s desk,
so the assistance can reach the people
of Ukraine and Eastern Europe.
of Ukraine and Eastern Europe.
David Willis jeins us from LA.
David, this was not only swept through, unlike other funding
appeals that hit the buffers, like funding to tackle
the latest coronavirus spike, but added to.
ILF
That’s right, Republicans and e S
That’s right, Republicans and Democrats can agree, of course
Democrats can agree, of course 11
Democrats can agree, of course ViRl OF (1
Democrats can agree, of course on virtually nothing, they
on virtually nothing, they can’t
on virtually nothing, they =B T[T
on virtually nothing, they IR R
on virtually nothing, they R LR R
on virtually nothing, they can’t agree on the amount
on virtually nothing, they R LR R U I T
can’t agree on the amount of money, for example that should
money, for example that should )
money, for example that should be combating the latest bike in
be combating the latest bike in )
be combating the latest bike in et e aE eI
be combating the latest bike in Nt e e E i IR I
be combating the latest bike in R R SR
be combating the latest bike in the coronavirus cases here, but
the coronavirus cases here, but on
the coronavirus cases here, but )
the coronavirus cases here, but RN e
the coronavirus cases here, but on one subject, all as
on one subject, all as unanimously,
on one subject, all as =R T AR G Y
on one subject, all as unanimously, they agree on
unanimously, they agree on supplying
unanimously, they agree on LI
unanimously, they agree on supplying aid to Ukraine. Once
supplying aid to Ukraine. Once again, they have taken
again, they have taken I [Na 14
again, they have taken President Biden’s request for
President Biden’s request for LG
AL G I KR D & (g funding and they have
funding and they have LG
funding and they have LGN
funding and they have heightened it, they have added
heightened it, they have added to
heightened it, they have added i
heightened it, they have added wEia L]
heightened it, they have added ARG
heightened it, they have added R RO
heightened it, they have added to it. In this case, an
to it. In this case, an additional $7 billion on top of
additional $7 billion on top of )
additional $7 billion on top of the $33 billion that he had
the $33 billion that he had originally requested. Of the
originally requested. Of the e e B
originally requested. Of the total of $40
originally requested. Of the G R YRR
originally requested. Of the total of $40 billion, about one
total of $40 billion, about one el
total of $40 billion, about one R il
total of $40 billion, about one third will be
total of $40 billion, about one GG R Y T o}
total of $40 billion, about one third will be going to military
third will be going to military I -
third will be going to military assistance, that is training,
assistance, that is training, N
assistance, that is training, weapons, and so
assistance, that is training, N I R R U
assistance, that is training, weapons, and so on. Another
weapons, and so on. Another el
weapons, and so on. Another QIGI LT
weapons, and so on. Another third going to humanitarian
third going to humanitarian I -
third going to humanitarian assistance, that is dealing
assistance, that is dealing refugees
assistance, that is dealing (GOSN
assistance, that is dealing refugees and so
assistance, that is dealing (GULEEELLEL IR
assistance, that is dealing (SO EESEN LR R AN b
assistance, that is dealing refugees and so on, and $5
refugees and so on, and $5 NN
refugees and so on, and $5 NGRS
refugees and so on, and $5 IR R ]
refugees and so on, and $5 billion has been earmarked
refugees and so on, and $5 IR LR R I R )8
billion has been earmarked for yEL b
billion has been earmarked for making up the lack of food
making up the lack of food supplies
making up the lack of food o TR %1
making up the lack of food supplies that have been
supplies that have been =
supplies that have been IR S
supplies that have been compromised because of the war
compromised because of the war )
compromised because of the war ]
compromised because of the war there in Ukraine. This is the
there in Ukraine. This is the largest
TRV TN N R [ largest foreign
there in Ukraine. This is the largest foreign aid package of
largest foreign aid package of its kind in
largest foreign aid package of AN I
largest foreign aid package of its kind in several decades,
its kind in several decades, according
its kind in several decades, Elae TR
its kind in several decades, according to analysts, people
according to analysts, people Py
according to analysts, people are saying that given the fact
are saying that given the fact that US officials are
are saying that given the fact G E R TR YR
that US officials are saying that Russia
that US officials are saying G AR 1]
that US officials are saying that Russia could prolong this
that Russia could prolong this conflict, that
that Russia could prolong this W i R A1
that Russia could prolong this conflict, that it could drag on
conflict, that it could drag on e
conflict, that it could drag on TR
conflict, that it could drag on for months, this
conflict, that it could drag on (I R G EL
conflict, that it could drag on for months, this may not
conflict, that it could drag on R G A
conflict, that it could drag on U R G A R UG
for months, this may not be the last such
for months, this may not be the (E e R e e gt 1 0
for months, this may not be the last such enormous package of
last such enormous package of its
last such enormous package of TRl
last such enormous package of its kind. Thank you so
last such enormous package of its kind. Thank you se much for
its kind. Thank you so much for )
its kind. Thank you so much for e G s
its kind. Thank you so much for the breakdown David. To discuss
the breakdown David. To discuss this
the breakdown David. To discuss R
the breakdown David. To discuss this further, we are now joined
this further, we are now joined by Andrew D’Anieri,
this further, we are now joined by Andrew D’Anieri, assistant
by Andrew D’Anieri, assistant e aie]g
by Andrew D’Anieri, assistant e e a1 e
by Andrew D’Anieri, assistant e e g )
by Andrew D’Anieri, assistant e e e N Sa s ial
director at the Atlantic Council’'s
director at the Atlantic Council’s Furasia centre.
Council’s Eurasia centre. IR
Council’'s Eurasia centre. Andrew, what you think
Council’s Eurasia centre. Andrew, what you think this
Andrew, what you think this RTse- o lle 1)
Andrew, what you think this incredible amount of money is
incredible amount of money is L
incredible amount of money is going to be
incredible amount of money is IRLRCR RS
incredible amount of money is going to be spent on the
going to be spent on the el G
going to be spent on the e il G ]
going to be spent on the battlefield and what kind of
battlefield and what kind of s
battlefield and what kind of Il Fla iy
battlefield and what kind of [ E=aR OIS
battlefield and what kind of impact is this going to have on
impact is this going to have on I
impact is this going to have on YRR
impact is this going to have on YA |
impact is this going to have on Ukraine? Yes, | think this will
Ukraine? Yes, | think this will have
Ukraine? Yes, | think this will )
Ukraine? Yes, | think this will have a significant impact on
have a significant impact on )
have a significant impact on R R G
have a significant impact on MR RSB
have a significant impact on the battlefield in Ukraine, but
the battlefield in Ukraine, but 3
the battlefield in Ukraine, but it does depend in part on the
it does depend in part on the |
it does depend in part on the L
it does depend in part on the e R e
it does depend in part on the speed at which this
it does depend in part on the LR R R G|
it does depend in part on the speed at which this aid can
it does depend in part on the e R R O R G R o
speed at which this aid can be I
speed at which this aid can be disbursed. The House of
disbursed. The House of NI I
disbursed. The House of TN N R G
disbursed. The House of Representatives voted on at
Representatives voted on at this package earlier this
this package earlier this CUILLE
this package earlier this SN el (8
this package earlier this evening. It still has to be
evening. It still has to be taken up by the Senate,
taken up by the Senate, although
taken up by the Senate, E G UL R [
taken up by the Senate, although we do expect it to
although we do expect it to P EE
although we do expect it to pass, and then it
although we do expect it to (NG R GRS
although we do expect it to pass, and then it will go to
pass, and then it will go to e
pass, and then it will go to President Biden’s
pass, and then it will go to A A
pass, and then it will go to President Biden’s desk. It
President Biden’s desk. It should happen
President Biden’s desk. It should happen pretty
President Biden’s desk. It should happen pretty quickly
should happen pretty quickly 4
should happen pretty quickly but until
should happen pretty quickly I s 4 B 1 4
should happen pretty quickly [T AT R B
should happen pretty quickly T R I AR 11
but until that happens, this ]
but until that happens, this big package will remain on the
big package will remain on the 1o 1)
big package will remain on the 1o N 0L
big package will remain on the 1o N i 4
big package will remain on the table but not signed into law.
table but not signed into law. |
table but not signed into law. K14
table but not signed into law. | think the speed,
table but not signed into law. RGOS G LA
table but not signed into law. | think the speed, as Speaker
| think the speed, as Speaker Pelosi
| think the speed, as Speaker AR
| think the speed, as Speaker Pelosi said earlier in the
Pelosi said earlier in the N
Pelosi said earlier in the (T
Pelosi said earlier in the SRR (T
Pelosi said earlier in the clip, is the big
Pelosi said earlier in the A IR GGG YL
Pelosi said earlier in the clip, is the big deal, that
clip, is the big deal, that this needs to get quickly to
this needs to get quickly to Donbas and
this needs to get quickly to e A s ]
this needs to get quickly to Donbas and the South to
this needs to get quickly to Donbas and the South te help
Donbas and the South to help Ukrainian forces to replenish
Ukrainian forces to replenish e
Ukrainian forces to replenish R e
Ukrainian forces to replenish their stocks and fight off
their stocks and fight off Russian invaders. No doubt
Russian invaders. No doubt welcome
Russian invaders. No doubt I )
Russian invaders. No doubt welcome help to those fighting
welcome help to those fighting 3
welcome help to those fighting inthe
welcome help to those fighting in the ease.
welcome help to those fighting RO LIS
welcome help to those fighting RO I LR
welcome help to those fighting in the ease. This came at a
in the ease. This came at a S i)
in the ease. This came at a AR e
in the ease. This came at a time when US Intelligence was
time when US Intelligence was saying this was going to be a
saying this was going to be a long conflict, this is surely a
long conflict, this is surely Ty
long conflict, this is surely move to
long conflict, this is surely a move to sustain
long conflict, this is surely a M R mi 4
long conflict, this is surely a move to sustain it as
long conflict, this is surely a M R e R
move to sustain it as well? Yes, absolutely,
move to sustain it as well? N X 0 YA
move to sustain it as well? Yes, absolutely, | think this
Yes, absolutely, I think this 3
Yes, absolutely, I think this )
Yes, absolutely, I think this R
Yes, absolutely, I think this is a really sober recognition
s a really sober recognition hy
s a really sober recognition by Washington that this war is
by Washington that this war is likely going to take a longer
likely going to take a longer iy
likely going to take a longer I Y
likely going to take a longer time. Ukraine bravely fought
time. Ukraine bravely fought i
time. Ukraine bravely fought off Russia in Kyiv, nor the new
off Russia in Kyiv, nor the new grave and other
off Russia in Kyiv, nor the new VUL RO T
off Russia in Kyiv, nor the new VLR Ol X
grave and other parts of IEI
grave and other parts of Ukraine, rocket attacks in
Ukraine, rocket attacks in A
Ukraine, rocket attacks in IR
Ukraine, rocket attacks in Lviv, Western Ukraine,
Ukraine, rocket attacks in AR S QORI G
Ukraine, rocket attacks in Lviv, Western Ukraine, and now
Lviv, Western Ukraine, and now things
Lviv, Western Ukraine, and now QI
Lviv, Western Ukraine, and now things are likely to
Lviv, Western Ukraine, and now QIR C AR 0 ()
things are likely to settle Ty
things are likely to settle into a
things are likely to settle TR )
things are likely to settle into a more grinding,
things are likely to settle into @ more grinding, long,
into @ more grinding, long, SO
into @ more grinding, long, ground kind
[N TR LG R T S[CILLEL GRS
[N TR LG R T ground kind of campaign in
NN G IR T ground kind of campaign in the
ground kind of campaign in the Y13
ground kind of campaign in the east and
ground kind of campaign in the YU Gl
ground kind of campaign in the YL EL G LIE
ground kind of campaign in the east and south. This is DC,
east and south. This is DC, this
east and south. This is DC, G
east and south. This is DC, RN T 13
east and south. This is DC, QIR G ]
east and south. This is DC, this is Congress and the
QIR BRG] president recognising
QIR G RE L president recognising that it
president recognising that it s
president recognising that it is likely and in the US and
is likely and in the US and Y Y S - a1
is likely and in the US and Western interests to help
Western interests to help Ukrainian that fight.
Ukrainian that fight. I
Ukrainian that fight. And what is your assessment of
And what Is your assessment of Y
And what is your assessment of LY A il sl
And what is your assessment of Y AR
And what is your assessment of how unified the international
how unified the international community
how unified the international i A1)
how unified the international STl AL R L
how unified the international ST A= RCuEIL N
how unified the international ST A =L RGSU IR R G
community can remain in their battle against Russia, when
battle against Russia, when vty
battle against Russia, when what President Zelensky was
what President Zelensky was EIU]
what President Zelensky was talking about global food
talking about global food ISR o}
talking about global food supplies being shocked, and all
supplies being shocked, and all N
supplies being shocked, and all R
supplies being shocked, and all of the extra
supplies being shocked, and all NGRS e e el e
supplies being shocked, and all of the extra economic pressures
of the extra economic pressures )
of the extra economic pressures the world is dealing with on
the world is dealing with on top
the world is dealing with on R
the world is dealing with on R
the world is dealing with on top of that now?
top of that now? |
top of that now? [BaTal e
top of that now? | think unity
top of that now? RO AL
top of that now? I think unity will remain,
top of that now? RO T A W E L
| think unity will remain, it has
| think unity will remain, it IR
| think unity will remain, it has been a pleasant surprise
has been a pleasant surprise that
has been a pleasant surprise G
has been a pleasant surprise that the US,
has been a pleasant surprise R R R T
has been a pleasant surprise that the US, its European
that the US, its European NI
that the US, its European allies and
that the US, its European IR g
that the US, its European allies and other western
allies and other western [l (116
allies and other western IR
allies and other western E O N
allies and other western IR N T
allies and other western partners have been so unified.
partners have been so unified. Not
partners have been so unified. Va1
partners have been so unified. Not only on
partners have been so unified. VRIS ETsY
partners have been so unified. Not only on military aid but
Not only on military aid but )
Not only on military aid but also on
Not only on military aid but IR R
Not only on military aid but also on the sanctions, on
also on the sanctions, on economic
also on the sanctions, on a1 A
also on the sanctions, on economic aid, and | think you
economic aid, and | think you Py
economic aid, and | think you are right, on
ecenomic aid, and | think you are right, on food aid. This is
are right, on food aid. This is sl
are right, on food aid. This is s
are right, on food aid. This is kind of an emerging issue that
kind of an emerging issue that Y
kind of an emerging issue that |l
kind of an emerging issue that R B
kind of an emerging issue that we will see, and | do expect
we will see, and | do expect that
we will see, and | do expect R R
we will see, and | do expect eI R ORI
we will see, and | do expect that the US along with its
that the US along with its IS
that the US along with its allies in
that the US along with its E RGN
that the US along with its allies in Europe will
that the US along with its RN R L E LB L
allies in Europe will banded together
allies in Europe will banded O[S IR
allies in Europe will banded O[S GR R A
allies in Europe will banded together to tackle this
G RNV T LR U= T[T} together to tackle this problem
together to tackle this problem T )
together to tackle this problem IR
together to tackle this problem because we should
together to tackle this problem YR TRl
together to tackle this problem IR B e a1
because we should remember that e
because we should remember that T
because we should remember that it is Russia that is causing
it is Russia that is causing ey
IRV R G SR T T these global food
it is Russia that is causing these global food shortages, in
these global food shortages, in large part, and so it is up to
large part, and so it is up to e R
large part, and so it is up to Ukraine’'s allies and
large part, and so it is up to Ukraine’s allies and partners,
Ukraine’s allies and partners, and
Ukraine’s allies and partners, R )
Ukraine’s allies and partners, and the west, and North America
and the west, and North America )
and the west, and North America do band together to pool
do band together to pool T e
do band together to pool resources to mitigate the
resources to mitigate the I
[3]1[1] 1%L
[3]1[1] That is
3111 I R e
3111 That is one side,
(I That is one side, briefly, the
That is one side, briefly, the migration issue, Ukrainians
migration issue, Ukrainians wanting to get into the
migration issue, Ukrainians IR AR R G ELEER
wanting to get into the States, vty
wanting to get into the States, e
wanting to get into the States, what is your assessment of how
what Is your assessment of how that
what Is your assessment of how G A
what Is your assessment of how that is panning out?
that is panning out? e
that is panning out? The Biden Administration
The Biden Administration M LR )
The Biden Administration unveiled validate uniting for
unveiled validate uniting for &I
unveiled validate uniting for Ukraine programme to admit
Ukraine programme to admit 100,000 Ukrainian refugees,
100,000 Ukrainian refugees, el
100,000 Ukrainian refugees, which is
100,000 Ukrainian refugees, LI N1
100,000 Ukrainian refugees, which is great. The only
which is great. The only el
which is great. The only R
which is great. The only problem is that the package
problem is that the package e T O (Y
problem is that the package itself actually bars
problem is that the package tself actually bars millions
itself actually bars millions of
itself actually bars milliens AT
itself actually bars milliens of Ukrainians from actually
of Ukrainians from actually VL
of Ukrainians from actually being eligible. If you were
being eligible. If you were Ukrainian living outside of
Ukrainian living outside of IE
Ukrainian living outside of Ukraine two weeks prior to
Ukrainian living outside of IR R A MR R UG
Ukraine two weeks prior to the invasion you
Ukraine two weeks prior to the WNZEEN LT
Ukraine two weeks prior to the invasion you are ineligible for
invasion you are ineligible for )
invasion you are ineligible for the programme, which is now the
the programme, which is now the i\
the programme, which is now the only way
the programme, which is now the VAYEY RS
the programme, which is now the only way for Ukrainian refugees
only way for Ukrainian refugees to
only way for Ukrainian refugees R
only way for Ukrainian refugees )
only way for Ukrainian refugees to enter the US.
only way for Ukrainian refugees RO
only way for Ukrainian refugees RN RGN LR ]
only way for Ukrainian refugees RN RO LR R
to enter the US. And even for those who
to enter the US. And even for MR )
to enter the US. And even for those who are eligible, there
those who are eligible, there Py
those who are eligible, there are number
those who are eligible, there Y 1o )
those who are eligible, there are number of roadblocks that
are number of roadblocks that slow down the process and make
slow down the process and make 3
slow down the process and make it more difficult for Ukrainian
it more difficult for Ukrainian D
it more difficult for Ukrainian refugees to
it more difficult for Ukrainian (IR ORI
it more difficult for Ukrainian SRR G
it more difficult for Ukrainian G EIR RN R ORI
it more difficult for Ukrainian refugees to enter the US, which
refugees to enter the US, which s not
refugees to enter the US, which is not the policy we should be
s not the policy we should be pursuing.
s not the policy we should be DL AR
s not the policy we should be pursuing. We should be making
pursuing. We should be making this
pursuing. We should be making I
pursuing. We should be making IR
pursuing. We should be making this as easy as possible for
this as easy as possible for Ukrainians seeking refuge from
Ukrainians seeking refuge from war toc come to
Ukrainians seeking refuge from IR R R R I
war to come to the United e
S1CIC1Y Y]
States. TR
States. So money flowing
States. SRR GL VALY
States. So money flowing easily one
States. RIS R ULV H AL CRTEY
So money flowing easily one way but
So money flowing easily one way SIS e e
So money flowing easily one way but more difficult for refugees
but more difficult for refugees coming
but more difficult for refugees RO
but more difficult for refugees coming the other way. Andrew
coming the other way. Andrew D’Anieri
coming the other way. Andrew D NI aRietat]
coming the other way. Andrew NI eRis R
coming the other way. Andrew DY NI eRic RN e
D’Anieri from the Atlantic L.
D’Anieri from the Atlantic Council, thank you so
D’Anieri from the Atlantic Council, thank you se much
D’Anieri from the Atlantic Council, thank you so much for
Council, thank you so much for LI
Council, thank you so much for NGRS
joining us. Thank you.
Security forces in Sri Lanka N N T MR O R Rl
anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest
attempt to stop anti-government protests.
Since last month, QR A N U L G
G N L DO g soaring prices, power cuts
At least eight people have died RGN e LN )
been injured, as our correspondent Rajini
Vaidyanathan reports TR el
A capital under curfew.
Troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public
property or threatens lives.
The skeletons of a bustling city
scorched by an economic crisis.
Reeling after a day SRR
Yesterday, supporters RGN R IR e
anti-government protesters, who until that point had been
peacefully demonstrating.
At the city’s main L G
than 200 have been wounded, NI A R LU R
This man fractured his leg after a tear gas
canister landed on It.
War veterans Yigit and Assuncao are out of hospital.
Men who lost their legs in mines
VL INTR R &R civil war say
they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices
e
"They started punching me.
"I was left with only one crutch.
"They pushed me and | fell.”
"When we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
"Now we’re being attacked.”
With trust in the government shattered, the homes
of at least two dozen politicians who backed
QLR [ol = ee) LYV N R e f
This was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
It belonged to a supporter of the government,
ER Tl FY
And this was the bedroom.
It was set on fire.
All you can see now TR I R R R 188 11
R R R G Rl
And if we just move into the living room,
completely trashed - just look around.
Tonight, a resort belonging to the son of Sri Lanka’'s
former Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa,
who quit yesterday, was set alight.
And clashes broke out in the city of Negombo.
Protesters want the president Gotabaya Rajapaksa to resign -
as long as he stays, tensions on this island
Rajini Vaidyanathan, S AR A EL SR
Spain has dismissed its spy chief after a phone hacking
scandal that engulfed the government.
The mobile phones of the Prime Minister, defence
and interior ministers were infected with the notorious
Pegasus spyware.
LR 1 WV ZT Ty Moshiri reports.
The BBC’s Azadeh Moshiri reports.
ST EINES
Spain’s spy chief
Spain’s spy chief is
Spain’s spy chief is out, and e
Spain’s spy chief is out, and it is
Spain’s spy chief is out, and itis a
Spain’s spy chief is out, and 14N
Spain’s spy chief is out, and IR R i
Spain’s spy chief is out, and it is a big shift at the top.
IQER-RIDEL T - G LR (8 i
IQER-RIDEL T - G LR (8 &
it is a big shift at the top. It all comes down to a hacking
It all comes down to a hacking el
It all comes down to a hacking s Raa s
It all comes down to a hacking AL B e e
It all comes down to a hacking scandal that became too
scandal that became too T Y
scandal that became too unwieldy to
scandal that became too E VARG EL G Y
unwieldy to handle. TRANSLATION: the government has
TRANSLATION: the government has ELICE
TRANSLATION: the government has DGR
TRANSLATION: the government has agreed to change and that the
agreed to change and that the leadership of
agreed to change and that the RO
agreed to change and that the R R R G B 5L
leadership of the National Intelligence centre is very
Intelligence centre is very sl
Intelligence centre is very Bl E
Intelligence centre is very Rl
Intelligence centre is very RN R )
Intelligence centre is very important to me to emphasise
important to me to emphasise that this is my position as
O F 1 TN R T R YR
O F 1 TN R T R Minister of
O F 1 TN R T R IR GRS AN S e
O F 1 TN R T R Minister of Defence but
O F 1 QIR WO R Minister of Defence but also
Minister of Defence but also )
Minister of Defence but also the position
Minister of Defence but also TR
Minister of Defence but also QR R
Minister of Defence but also the position of a government
the position of a government that
the position of a government B
the position of a government that we have an intelligence
that we have an intelligence a0
that we have an intelligence 338 e R G
that we have an intelligence - AU R
that we have an intelligence - RUEC R R
that we have an intelligence service made up of 3000
service made up of 3000 (LR
service made up of 3000 responsible, hard-working,
responsible, hard-working, IR
responsible, hard-working, professional, generous men and
professional, generous men and women who put their lives at
women who put their lives at ST
women who put their lives at N
women who put their lives at risk every day.
risk every day. Paz Esteban
risk every day. Y A ENE AL
risk every day. Y AN R
risk every day. Y A I ENR LR R s
risk every day. Y A ENE LR R iR il
Paz Esteban was the first woman to
Paz Esteban was the first woman NRCED
Paz Esteban was the first woman BRG]
Paz Esteban was the first woman to lead the CNI, but
to lead the CNI, but Y I A Ta 1]
to lead the CNI, but Yol A R
to lead the CNI, but Yl A LR A R
to lead the CNI, but accusations that she and
to lead the CNI, but L eIl A R R R R e
accusations that she and the ELCUS
CI T L R GG LR [ agency stepped
CI T L R GG LR [ S G RN G
accusations that she and the agency stepped over the line
agency stepped over the line and made too many mistakes made
and made too many mistakes made g
and made too many mistakes made (I (]
and made too many mistakes made her position untenable. It all
her position untenable. It all EIE
her position untenable. It all started when Pegasus hacking
started when Pegasus hacking i ey
started when Pegasus hacking i e Y
started when Pegasus hacking software was found on
started when Pegasus hacking X E N LR R R )
software was found on the phones of
software was found on the phenes of Spain’s top
phones of Spain’s top politicians. Seme are
phones of Spain’s top politicians. Some are legally
politicians. Some are legally YT )
politicians. Some are legally hacked by the spy
politicians. Some are legally RGO ER GRS L Te '
hacked by the spy agency e
hacked by the spy agency L)
hacked by the spy agency itself, and include 18
hacked by the spy agency AL RL OL R R
itself, and include 18 a EIe1E]
itself, and include 18 a Catalan separatists. But,
Catalan separatists. But, JEIES
Catalan separatists. But, RS
Catalan separatists. But, IR L8
Catalan separatists. But, Spain’s spy agency buckled
Spain’s spy agency buckled under the pressure of another
under the pressure of another XehsEIn
under the pressure of another scandal. Turns out, they were
scandal. Turns out, they were )
scandal. Turns out, they were G0
scandal. Turns out, they were the only ones using Pegasus
the only ones using Pegasus e
the only ones using Pegasus XN
the only ones using Pegasus software. Foreign Minister
software. Foreign Minister P i)
software. Foreign Minister Pedro Sanchez
software. Foreign Minister oA e Ta i)
I TR LRGN Gl T o TR R
I TR LRGN Gl Pedro Sanchez became the first
Pedro Sanchez became the first el
Pedro Sanchez became the first world leader known to have been
world leader known to have been EYd LR
world leader known to have been hacked, allegedly by an
hacked, allegedly by an el
hacked, allegedly by an L i
hacked, allegedly by an external actor. Spain’s Defence
external actor. Spain’s Defence IR
external actor. Spain’s Defence IRl
external actor. Spain’s Defence Minister and its
external actor. Spain’s Defence IR SR el d
Minister and its Interior IR )
Minister and its Interior Minister were also victims,
Minister were also victims, adding to the embarrassment.
adding to the embarrassment. TRANSLATION: It seems logical
TRANSLATION: It seems logical to
TRANSLATION: It seems logical )
TRANSLATION: It seems logical to me that
TRANSLATION: It seems logical IR )
TRANSLATION: It seems logical to me that she was dismissed, |
to me that she was dismissed, | think
to me that she was dismissed, | s IR ]
to me that she was dismissed, | think it would also be good to
think it would also be good to declassified
think it would also be good to e LAl Es s Ta Tl 1 Ta 03
think it would also be good to declassified documents that are
declassified documents that are )
declassified documents that are SN
declassified documents that are also being linked
declassified documents that are E RG]
declassified documents that are also being linked to the press
also being linked to the press by the
also being linked to the press SR
also being linked to the press by the CNI itself, and | think
RGN VARL R G PN
RGN VARL R G an enquiry
by the CNI itself, and | think an enquiry would be a good
an enquiry would be a good thing.
IR IR el
IR The scandal also adds
thing. The scandal also adds to the
The scandal alse adds to the L]
The scandal also adds to the growing debate around Pegasus
growing debate around Pegasus e
growing debate around Pegasus i el e
growing debate around Pegasus e e R R
growing debate around Pegasus software. It was developed by a
software. It was developed by a N1
o T RUE LNV LT private Israel farm called NSO
private Israel farm called NSO eI
private Israel farm called NSO Group, and they insist Pegasus
Group, and they insist Pegasus s
Group, and they insist Pegasus is meant to be
Group, and they insist Pegasus TR R N NI
Group, and they insist Pegasus is meant to be used against
Is meant to be used against gl E I e s |
Is meant to be used against SN R e e e
Is meant to be used against criminals and terroristss. But,
criminals and terroristss. But, )
criminals and terroristss. But, the US commerce Department had
the US commerce Department had EIE
the US commerce Department had already blacklisted it and the
already blacklisted it and the European Parliament is now
European Parliament is now investigating its use for
investigating its use for LG
investigating its use for EILEL LI TGRS
investigating its use for alleged breaches of EU law. For
alleged breaches of EU law. For ]
alleged breaches of EU law. For now though, Innisplain, despite
now though, Innisplain, despite Y I A Ta 1]
now though, Innisplain, despite accusations Paz Esteban was
accusations Paz Esteban was %
accusations Paz Esteban was i VE
accusations Paz Esteban was simply a scapegoat, it promises
simply a scapegoat, it promises ey
simply a scapegoat, it promises its people will work within the
its people will work within the EE)
its people will work within the law to keep its people say.
Azadeh Moshiri, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News, (B R i R Y R
all the sport, including, R R [
Liverpool keep their title hopes alive, with a 2-1 win
The Pope was shot, G R
that’s the essence of the appalling news from Rome
this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television
commentator put it, terrorism LR i RO R R Z R
The man they called the Butcher of Lyon, Klaus Barbie,
went on trial today in the French town where
he was the Gestapo chief in the Second World War.
Winnie Mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced
to six years in jail.
The judge told Mrs Mandela there was no indication
she felt even the slightest remorse.
The Chinese government has LR R E i e s
to help the victims of a powerful earthquake -
the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
The computer Deep Blue has NI GO LN R
the world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.
IR G R T Ry e T 1) has defeated a reigning world
champion in a classical RG]
America’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking
place in Massachusetts.
This is BBC News - AR R L s
The US House of Representatives votes overwhelmingly in favour
of providing an additional $40 billion
Tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed
in the Sri Lankan capital Colombo as the government
struggles to contain protests against the spiralling
cost of Living.
For more than three decades, scientists have investigated
the cause of so-called Gulf wWar Syndrome -
the cause of so-called Gulf wWar Syndrome -
a collection of chronic health problems that affected more
than a quarter of the Coalition troops deployed during
the first Gulf war in 1991.
Now a new study by researchers in Texas indicate the nerve gas
Sarin is to blame.
Caroline Hawley has QIR e
The ward to dislodge Irag
The ward to dislodge Iraq from Kuwait was
The ward to dislodge Iraq from R LR i e
The ward to dislodge Iraq from Kuwait was short was described
Kuwait was short was described as
Kuwait was short was described YRy
Kuwait was short was described YR AN
Kuwait was short was described YR N el
Kuwait was short was described as the most toxic in history
NGRS O (Y and
as the most toxic in history R )
as the most toxic in history IR e
as the most toxic in history and have had devastating
and have had devastating long-term consequences for many
long-term consequences for many G
long-term consequences for many soldiers. For 30 years, no-one
soldiers. For 30 years, no-one G
soldiers. For 30 years, no-one knew exactly why. This person
knew exactly why. This person Ty
knew exactly why. This person TN )
knew exactly why. This person TN
knew exactly why. This person IR N
knew exactly why. This person IR R ]
knew exactly why. This person IR R PRl
was one of them, a fit P R r e+ 1)
was one of them, a fit P BT e LS
was one of them, a fit 26-year-old at the time of the
26-year-old at the time of the "
26-year-old at the time of the war. Now it
26-year-old at the time of the I Y A A
26-year-old at the time of the war. Now it is a
26-year-old at the time of the Il Y R AR e )
26-year-old at the time of the YO WA S RN LYV
26-year-old at the time of the war. Now it is a battle just to
war. Now it is a battle just to 4
war. Now it is a battle just to RN
war. Now it is a battle just to A
war. Now it is a battle just to RN AR
war. Now it is a battle just to get out of bed. Was getting
get out of bed. Was getting IR
get out of bed. Was getting illness after illness,
Illness after illness, breathing problems, chronic
breathing problems, chronic LR
breathing problems, chronic fatigue, rundown of the time
fatigue, rundown of the time and
fatigue, rundown of the time F R 1] s
fatigue, rundown of the time and when | questioned
fatigue, rundown of the time N R R TR e R G
and when | questioned whether 3
and when | questioned whether TRl
and when | questioned whether it had anything to do with my
it had anything to do with my ey
it had anything to do with my Xatile-Ns]
it had anything to do with my el R
it had anything to do with my e e IR NIt
it had anything to do with my service in the Gulf War or what
service in the Gulf War or what Y
service in the Gulf War or what 10
service in the Gulf War or what R R A )
service in the Gulf War or what we are exposed to, the military
we are exposed to, the military My
we are exposed to, the military MR
we are exposed to, the military line was you
we are exposed to, the military R RELG
we are exposed to, the military line was you are talking
line was you are talking nonsense,
line was you are talking N TR )
line was you are talking TR G R
line was you are talking TR G R
line was you are talking nonsense, there is no evidence,
nonsense, there is no evidence, two paracetamol, crack on
i
he suffered excruciating joint pain but
he suffered excruciating joint NN G
he suffered excruciating joint LN RGNS
he suffered excruciating joint pain but there is more to it
pain but there is more to it than than that. The chemical
than than that. The chemical LN
than than that. The chemical Ll
than than that. The chemical EL IR
than than that. The chemical agent Sarin was released in the
agent Sarin was released in the e
agent Sarin was released in the P!
agent Sarin was released in the air and scientists say it is a
air and scientists say it is a breakthrough
air and scientists say it is a LGB R ELS
air and scientists say it is a breakthrough that vindicates
breakthrough that vindicates )
breakthrough that vindicates the veterans. The
breakthrough that vindicates R IR LR
breakthrough that vindicates R IR L R )
the veterans. The ones who i)
the veterans. The ones who IR R
the veterans. The ones who [l =R R
the veterans. The ones who became ill, the study show, the
became ill, the study show, the ones
became ill, the study show, the R i)
became ill, the study show, the ones who have
became ill, the study show, the MR )
became ill, the study show, the ones who have the weak form
became ill, the study show, the MR A R R Y& e Ei
ones who have the weak form of Y
ones who have the weak form of R
ones who have the weak form of a gene that normally protects
a gene that normally protects you from nerve
a gene that normally protects R i T LR E
a gene that normally protects you from nerve gas so people
you from nerve gas so people with
you from nerve gas so people AT
you from nerve gas so people OEE O]
you from nerve gas so people with a strong form of the gene,
with a strong form of the gene, R
with a strong form of the gene, I
with a strong form of the gene, most of them did not get ill.
most of them did not get ill. il
most of them did not get ill. You say that definitively now,
You say that definitively now, no ifs or
You say that definitively now, R e Tl Y
You say that definitively now, no ifs or buts? This is the end
no ifs or buts? This is the end of
no ifs or buts? This is the end SRy
no ifs or buts? This is the end of the mystery as far as you
of the mystery as far as you Py
of the mystery as far as you R le gl
of the mystery as far as you e e I
of the mystery as far as you are concerned. Due to
of the mystery as far as you IR e IR 1l
of the mystery as far as you IR e R R
are concerned. Due to all the controversy over the many
controversy over the many studies that
controversy over the many DI R G R )
controversy over the many studies that have been
controversy over the many I R G R e N L R e
controversy over the many studies that have been done and
studies that have been done and )
studies that have been done and so forth, all
studies that have been done and R s Al R
studies that have been done and so forth, all of which
studies that have been done and R s R R )
so forth, all of which had i e e
so forth, all of which had it e s ey
so forth, all of which had it e S el
so forth, all of which had e S e e R
so forth, all of which had different defects of one type
different defects of one type or
different defects of one type NN
different defects of one type or another, we designed this
or another, we designed this ()
or another, we designed this SOV AN
or another, we designed this SO AR s
or another, we designed this study over a number of years to
study over a number of years to )
study over a number of years to RGN ey
study over a number of years to be the definitive study. To
be the definitive study. To T
be the definitive study. To R R
be the definitive study. To TR IR R ndia a8t
be the definitive study. To answer all the criticisms of
answer all the criticisms of studies in the past, so we
studies in the past, so we o
studies in the past, so we would get it just right, we
would get it just right, we (0T
would get it just right, we hope that what our findings
hope that what our findings il
hope that what our findings will do
hope that what our findings LRl
hope that what our findings LR E T
hope that what our findings will do will lead to a
will do will lead to a ATy
will do will lead to a ST R e el e
will do will lead to a S e A e e ]e
will do will lead to a SN R e R
definitive treatment for this S E L)
definitive treatment for this S F I R
definitive treatment for this I E I R R 0]
definitive treatment for this A F I R E R L BR Ty
definitive treatment for this A F I R E R L OGRCS R
disease that would relieve them of
IR G EL RV LRGN R G T SR N
IR G EL RV LRGN R G T ARG
IR G EL RV LRGN R G T of some of their symptoms. |
of some of their symptoms. | carry has
of some of their symptoms. | 1 A LR
of some of their symptoms. | carry has not only a huge array
carry has not only a huge array of symptoms, including memory
of symptoms, including memory loss
of symptoms, including memory LR 4
of symptoms, including memory LY Te ]
of symptoms, including memory loss but an arsenal of
G N[ =T medication to
G N[ =T NI R R
loss but an arsenal of medication to help with them.
medication to help with them. Daughter Rebecca has to go to
Daughter Rebecca has to go to (e n et
Daughter Rebecca has to go to doctors appointments with
Daughter Rebecca has to go to W I I Gl R iRl
doctors appointments with him T Y
doctors appointments with him N
doctors appointments with him because he struggles to process
because he struggles to process )
because he struggles to process the information
because he struggles to process IS E A R ]
because he struggles to process the information he is given. He
the information he is given. He ]
the information he is given. He T A Y
the information he is given. He TR L R
the information he is given. He now wants the Ministry of
now wants the Ministry of NS ey
now wants the Ministry of Defence to
now wants the Ministry of NS e R s
now wants the Ministry of Defence to act on
now wants the Ministry of NS e e R ]
now wants the Ministry of Defence to act on the American
Defence to act on the American findings.
Defence to act on the American LI
Defence to act on the American findings. | hope they take
Defence to act on the American HOGIL I R G R ELER
findings. | hope they take it A
findings. | hope they take it seriously and do the
findings. | hope they take it T L LR LR RG]
seriously and do the right iR
seriously and do the right ILAEL G
seriously and do the right thing, and understand that for
thing, and understand that for R
thing, and understand that for I AT
thing, and understand that for most of us it
thing, and understand that for R AR A
thing, and understand that for most of us it is not about
most of us it is not about money. It is
most of us it is not about UL A A L0
most of us it is not about money. It is about being
most of us it is not about UM ST R LTI
money. It is about being able to
money. It is about being able G
money. It is about being able to access the right medical
to access the right medical treatment.
to access the right medical e 0t s o o) e
to access the right medical treatment. Not a
to access the right medical e e A e
to access the right medical treatment. Not a lot to
to access the right medical e A R R L
to access the right medical e A R R T @i e
treatment. Not a lot to ask for vty
treatment. Not a lot to ask for what we
treatment. Not a lot to ask for R s
treatment. Not a lot to ask for R IR
treatment. Not a lot to ask for what we did. The MOD says he is
what we did. The MOD says he is B R
what we did. The MOD says he is B R
what we did. The MOD says he is indebted to all who
what we did. The MOD says he is BRI e sl
what we did. The MOD says he is indebted to all who served like
indebted to all who served like 1]
indebted to all who served like Kerry and already
indebted to all who served like N A I I
Kerry and already sponsored vty
Kerry and already sponsored G SY
Kerry and already sponsored what they call
Kerry and already sponsored B R G R
what they call significant research but
what they call significant Y (e s N )
what they call significant Y (et B R
what they call significant research but he was tangible
research but he was tangible =0
research but he was tangible help and fears the latest study
help and fears the latest study il
help and fears the latest study Ry 1102
help and fears the latest study will simply be
help and fears the latest study O (o A Yol e
help and fears the latest study will simply be swept under the
will simply be swept under the 1
Caroline Hawley, BBC News.
Eurovision Song Contest NN RN AR e e
voted through to the final on Saturday, following
the first semi-final which has been held in the Italian
city of Turin.
The band delivered an energetic performance
of their song Stefania to secure a place in the final.
At the end of the performance, the folk-rap group thanked
everyone for supporting Ukraine amid the Russian invasion.
Let’s speak to Alasdair Rendall, former president
How
How did you feel when Ukraine got through? It was
How did you feel when Ukraine &G kN TE ]
How did you feel when Ukraine got through? It was a very
got through? It was a very el
got through? It was a very emotional moment and an
emotional moment and an el
emotional moment and an emotional performance. The band
emotional performance. The band |
emotional perfoermance. The band LR ]
emotional perfoermance. The band walked on getting ready to
walked on getting ready to perform
walked on getting ready to sl
walked on getting ready to perform in the whole crowd was
perform in the whole crowd was ]
perform in the whole crowd was on their
perform in the whole crowd was MR
perform in the whole crowd was on their feet, applauding, they
on their feet, applauding, they applauded the whole way through
applauded the whole way through )
applauded the whole way through QRN
applauded the whole way through the song and by far got the
the song and by far got the biggest reception of the night.
LB AT Ry R G L[]8 i
LB AT Ry R G L[]8 Bk
biggest reception of the night. | don’t think we were
biggest reception of the night. NG R R R
| don’t think we were too eI
(LT R T L QR (R surprised at
| don’t think we were too surprised at qualified
| don’t think we were too surprised at qualified boats
surprised at qualified boats i
surprised at qualified boats till a very emotional moment
till a very emotional moment TN e
till a very emotional moment T S |
till a very emotional moment nonetheless and you can see why
nonetheless and you can see why they
nonetheless and you can see why GG
nonetheless and you can see why they are one
nonetheless and you can see why ORI IR
nonetheless and you can see why they are one of the big
GETCENER R G LR favourites to be the
they are one of the big B RN RO e
favourites to be the overall e 0
favourites to be the overall winners on Saturday. | guess
winners on Saturday. | guess you’re not surprised because |
LN VIV el T TV EIE
you’re not surprised because | already listed in the top
you’re not surprised because | A R R G R RN
already listed in the top five TS
already listed in the top five SR
already listed in the top five before the Russian
already listed in the top five IS R N AR R A e
already listed in the top five before the Russian invasion of
oS (RO HIEL R EH R Ukraine. Is it even a fair
Ukraine. Is it even a fair e
Ukraine. Is it even a fair contest anymore? | think it
contest anymore? | think it still
contest anymore? | think it S
contest anymore? | think it still is a fair contest. There
still is a fair contest. There | still a number of
still is a fair contest. There I still a number of songs
still Is a fair contest. There I still @ number of songs in
| still a number of songs in LA
| still a number of songs in 1 PR
| still a number of songs in L PR G
| still a number of songs in contention, the UK been
BN Ty L O RS contention, the UK been one of
contention, the UK been one of them
contention, the UK been one of iR
contention, the UK been one of IR R
contention, the UK been one of them for the first time.
them for the first time. Looking at the betting
QTR IR QIR iy R Looking at the betting odds, it
Looking at the betting odds, it s
Looking at the betting odds, it LRI
Looking at the betting odds, it is looking very difficult for
is looking very difficult for anything to be Ukraine on
anything to be Ukraine on SELOIOEN
anything to be Ukraine on NEVOEVA LS
anything to be Ukraine on Saturday but still shaping up
Saturday but still shaping up to
Saturday but still shaping up R
Saturday but still shaping up to be a
Saturday but still shaping up RN ue
Saturday but still shaping up to be a pretty strong contest.
to be a pretty strong contest. Symbolically, this is a message
Symbolically, this is a message that
Symbolically, this is a message e &G s
Symbolically, this is a message LRI IE e Ratlbatle)
Symbolically, this is a message that Ukrainian culture is
Symbolically, this is a message e I IEaRetlane Nl
that Ukrainian culture is still alive
that Ukrainian culture is still AT sl
that Ukrainian culture is still alive and Russia has been
alive and Russia has been banned by the organisers, they
banned by the organisers, they say,
banned by the organisers, they VT
banned by the organisers, they say, because it could bring the
say, because it could bring the e
say, because it could bring the S R
say, because it could bring the competition into disrepute?
competition into disrepute? That is true and there
competition into disrepute? I AR N R N
That is true and there is always comments about the role
always comments about the role N
always comments about the role of politics in
always comments about the role SRR R O]
always comments about the role SR GRS L)
of politics in Eurovision and its
N R RO L 1yt
N R RO L its political impact and |
its political impact and | would say the vast majority of
would say the vast majority of times
would say the vast majority of AR )
would say the vast majority of RO R
would say the vast majority of ARG R )
would say the vast majority of times there isn’t the best
times there isn’t the best TN
times there isn’t the best NN
times there isn’t the best NG LR
times there isn’t the best songs doing well generally but
songs doing well generally but 3
songs doing well generally but it would be impossible for a
it would be impossible for a e
it would be impossible for a Ay
it would be impossible for a contest Like Eurovision
it would be impossible for a contest like Eurovision Song
contest like Eurovision Song Contest to ignore
contest like Eurovision Song NS CRLLCR G
contest like Eurovision Song NS CRL R G R
Contest to ignore the wider e Gl
Contest to ignore the wider political things going on and
political things going on and )
political things going on and the terrible situation in
the terrible situation in Ukraine
the terrible situation in I EI |
the terrible situation in I s s e
the terrible situation in NN R
the terrible situation in NI R R L R A )
Ukraine and no surprise that Russia
Ukraine and no surprise that AR |
Ukraine and no surprise that Russia and Belarus as well were
Russia and Belarus as well were s
Russia and Belarus as well were Y B iie )
Russia and Belarus as well were B R
Russia and Belarus as well were not invited to take part in the
not invited to take part in the i
not invited to take part in the contest. The surprise is as you
contest. The surprise is as you A Ta |
contest. The surprise is as you AR
contest. The surprise is as you AN R R E e
contest. The surprise is as you MR R G R )
contest. The surprise is as you mentioned is that the UK’s
mentioned Is that the UK’s potential
mentioned is that the UK’s potential rival for
mentioned Is that the UK’s potential rival for the
mentioned is that the UK’s potential rival for the crown!
potential rival for the crown! YTy
potential rival for the crown! YR
potential rival for the crown! Are you sure they will not come
Are you sure they will not come last
Are you sure they will not come IR 1
Are you sure they will not come last this year! Can you
last this year! Can you guarantee that?
last this year! Can you EIE RG]
last this year! Can you guarantee that? I cannot
guarantee that? I cannot guarantee but | am 99.99% sure
guarantee but | am 99.99% sure Y
guarantee but | am 99.99% sure |l
guarantee but | am 99.99% sure we will not come last this
we will not come last this T
we will not come last this year. Sam
we will not come last this IR I AT S
we will not come last this year. Sam Ryder is a fantastic
year. Sam Ryder is a fantastic LA
year. Sam Ryder is a fantastic singer. We
year. Sam Ryder is a fantastic [ YRR FITY
year. Sam Ryder is a fantastic singer. We have a great song
singer. We have a great song and
singer. We have a great song LRy
singer. We have a great song IR
singer. We have a great song BRI
singer. We have a great song and it’s an unusual feeling to
and it’s an unusual feeling to )
and it’s an unusual feeling to )
and it’s an unusual feeling to )
and it’s an unusual feeling to T e )
and it’s an unusual feeling to be here in the Eurovision host
be here in the Eurovision host 14
be here in the Eurovision host S1ANI0]
be here in the Eurovision host SRR
be here in the Eurovision host city with the UK
be here in the Eurovision host AR RV QTN
city with the UK being genuinely talked about is one
genuinely talked about is one 3
genuinely talked about is one SRy
genuinely talked about is one R RET LI
genuinely talked about is one SRR e AN i
genuinely talked about is one SRR LTI AN i
of the favourites! After so many years of,
of the favourites! After so NEI AR R .
of the favourites! After so many years of, well, less than
many years of, well, less than great results.
many years of, well, less than [ RGN
many years of, well, less than great results. It is always a
great results. It is always a great night watching
great night watching AN R
great night watching Eurovision, not everyone
Eurovision, not everyone agrees, but
Eurovisien, not everyone LI A L
Eurovisien, not everyone E LI T A EL TS
Eurovisien, not everyone agrees, but what are the
agrees, but what are the Sl
agrees, but what are the striking performances, which
striking performances, which e e ey
striking performances, which countries should
striking performances, which T R R )
striking performances, which countries should we looking out
countries should we looking out for? Things are coalescing
for? Things are coalescing P
for? Things are coalescing ol iR s 0ld
for? Things are coalescing YT TR e 0l e
for? Things are coalescing YT TR Tl R )
for? Things are coalescing about four or five countries,
about four or five countries, Ukraine, the UK, Sam Ryder is
Ukraine, the UK, Sam Ryder is )
Ukraine, the UK, Sam Ryder is N3
Ukraine, the UK, Sam Ryder is the best singer in
Ukraine, the UK, Sam Ryder is GRS LA RO
Ukraine, the UK, Sam Ryder is the best singer in the contest.
the best singer in the contest. A simple but effective song
A simple but effective song Tee I8t
A simple but effective song IR O IR
A simple but effective song from Sweden, and very good
from Sweden, and very good song.
from Sweden, and very good SLLEICIA
from Sweden, and very good song. Italy, they could
song. Italy, they could AL
song. Italy, they could potentially do
song. Italy, they could G R R 1
song. ltaly, they could potentially do the double after
potentially do the double after LN
potentially do the double after winning with a heavy rock song
winning with a heavy rock song last year they have a gentle
last year they have a gentle ballad sung by two men, and
ballad sung by two men, and they
ballad sung by two men, and GG
ballad sung by two men, and they are the ones
ballad sung by two men, and ORI N A TGN
ballad sung by two men, and they are the ones likely to be
they are the ones likely to be 4
they are the ones likely to be but a
VTR QNG IR VAR G R
VTR QNG IR VAR G but a few potential outsiders
but a few potential outsiders as
but a few potential outsiders RN
but a few potential outsiders as well. Quite a bit
but a few potential outsiders R (AR
but a few potential outsiders as well. Quite a bit of variety
as well. Quite a bit of variety 3
as well. Quite a bit of variety inthe
as well. Quite a bit of variety in the final
as well. Quite a bit of variety RGN IR s
as well. Quite a bit of variety in the final on Saturday.
in the final on Saturday. J\EIZ1
in the final on Saturday. Alastair, thank you so much,
Alastair, thank you so much, we’re looking forward to that
we’re looking forward to that 3
we’re looking forward to that ina
we’re looking forward to that inafew
we’re looking forward to that in a few days time.
Time now to get the latest sports news.
Hello, I’m Chetan Pathak with your sports news.
Liverpool’s Premier League title hopes are still alive
after they came from behind to beat Aston Villa by two
goals to one.
Former Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard, now in charge
of Villa, saw his side take an early lead before Joel Matip
equalised minutes later.
The winner came in the second half -
Sadio Mane heading in to move Liverpool level on points
with the leaders Man City, who stay top on goal difference
= [oJo 1R 1 UL NTEE on Wednesday.
After that, both title contenders have two games
remaining.
| couldn’t be more part of the IR
| couldn’t be more part of the boys, to be
| couldn’t be more part of the R G L
| couldn’t be more part of the IR R -
| couldn’t be more part of the boys, to be honest. A massive,
boys, to be honest. A massive, T
boys, to be honest. A massive, massive performance in the
massive performance in the middle of May
massive performance in the LIRS E LD
massive performance in the middle of May and it
massive performance in the UL RS ET L R A
middle of May and it is massive. Yeah, were on top and
massive. Yeah, were on top and WAIH
massive. Yeah, were on top and obviously for us very
obviously for us very Iy el
Manchester City have reached an agreement to sign
Norway striker Erling Haaland from Borussia Dortmund.
The 21-year-old LR
for around $60 million
after City activated a release clause in his contract.
Haaland, who passed his medical in Belgium on Monday,
has scored 85 goals in 88 appearances for Dortmund
since joining them from Red Bull Salzburg in January 2020.
Inter Milan take on Juventus on Wednesday
in the final of the Coppa ltalia at the Stadio Olimpico
BT
It’s the first head-to-head between the two teams in this
Juventus will be chasing a record 15th
victory in the competition -
it’s their only remaining o)
to win a trophy this season.
[} I T RS (o] ol G a league and cup double
but they trail AC Milan WA AR Y.,
with two games remaning.
Novak Djokovic is into the third round of
the Italian Open after straight sets victory over
The top seed took TSIV
to chalk up his 60th career win on the clay in Rome,
as he looks to win the title for a fifth time.
Djokovic turns 35 later this UG RS b e R
to last week’s defeat by Carlos Alcaraz.
He’ll play the winner of the match between Laslo Djere
and Stan Wawrinka.
Ons Jabeur, who became the first African player to win
a WTA 1000 title in Madrid over the weekend, is into the second
(IVLRL RN g beating Romania’s Sorana
Jabeur looked set for a comfortable victory
when she won the first set ORI A ]
in the second with 45 minutes played
but Cirstea fought back Rt R
but the Tunisian eventually prevailed to win a seventh
consecutive match for the first g
Dryness
Mg IR g
Dryness after the break and we il
Dryness after the break and we R EIL ]
Dryness after the break and we will talking about tackling
will talking about tackling inflation in
will talking about tackling R R R ]
will talking about tackling RE R RN L
will talking about tackling inflation in the US. -- join
inflation in the US. -- join TH
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
GEEg R R T e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
This is BBC News with the latest business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
Tackling inflation.
US President Biden says
Tl U s elgle13 is his top priority.
Can Africa replace Russia as a supplier of rare metals
needed for electric cars and other high-tech products?
We go live to Cape Town
for a major mining conference e
The end of a beautiful NIRRT R
Fifa and games maker EA part ways
RGN R D] (] IR R N
A possible reprieve on tariffs.
TLIICHIN ELCT President Joe Biden says
his administration could drop
ORIy Rl TR T RN
That comment from Mr Biden comes against
the backdrop of surging RE R RN L
In remarks at the White House on Tuesday,
Mr Biden also blamed the rising cost of living on pandemic
disruptions and the war in Ukraine.
Our North America business correspoendent
Michelle Fleury has more.
The latest inflaticn
The latest inflation reading is I
The latest inflation reading Is due out this Wednesday,
due out this Wednesday, Yot ot a1
due out this Wednesday, economists predict it will show
economists predict it will show LN
economists predict it will show LGRS
economists predict it will show rising prices remain rising prices remain R
economists predict it will show rising prices remain rising prices remain N Mg
economists predict it will show rising prices remain rising prices remain entrenched, for Americans
entrenched, for Americans filling up this tank this will
filling up this tank this will P )
filling up this tank this will come as no
filling up this tank this will N R LR AT
filling up this tank this will come as no surprise, the
come as no surprise, the N E L)
come as no surprise, the NN e
come as no surprise, the average price of a gallon of
average price of a gallon of petrol
average price of a gallon of NS
average price of a gallon of i 1]
average price of a gallon of petrol at an all-time high,
petrol at an all-time high, fh]
petrol at an all-time high, (LRI FYG
petrol at an all-time high, (LRI FLG T
petrol at an all-time high, (LR EL LN S
petrol at an all-time high, (LR EL G S L]
rising inflation not just an Yo lat a1l
rising inflation not just an economic challenge, also a
economic challenge, also a e Gl
economic challenge, also a G R
economic challenge, also a political one. President
popularity has taken a hit over this issue told
popularity has taken a hit over IR R e Vet 1 1a e Ta 1
popularity has taken a hit over this issue told Americans felt
this issue told Americans felt e
this issue told Americans felt QAR RGUIG]]
this issue told Americans felt QARG
this issue told Americans felt their pain though he blamed
this issue told Americans felt QARG R EL EL R T
their pain though he blamed the war in
their pain though he blamed the AR )
their pain though he blamed the AR A s
their pain though he blamed the AR EI s R s
their pain though he blamed the war in Ukraine and the pandemic
war in Ukraine and the pandemic e
war in Ukraine and the pandemic ISR
war in Ukraine and the pandemic for soaring prices. | want
for searing prices. | want every
for soaring prices. | want RG]
for soaring prices. | want SR IR
for soaring prices. | want every American to know and |
for soaring prices. | want - MU LG L R L
every American to know and | am taking inflation very
taking inflation very seriously. He criticised
seriously. He criticised Republican policy, saying it
Republican policy, saying it would
Republican policy, saying it Rt G )
Republican policy, saying it would make the situation
Republican policy, saying it B G R A IE R e
would make the situation worse. Republicans disagreed. Pointing
Republicans disagreed. Pointing )
Republicans disagreed. Pointing the finger at everyone house
the finger at everyone house e
the finger at everyone house other than himself, the
other than himself, the American
other than himself, the LN
other than himself, the American people are sick and
American people are sick and i
American people are sick and tired. Taming inflation is the
tired. Taming inflation is the job
tired. Taming inflation is the X
tired. Taming inflation is the LIl e
tired. Taming inflation is the job of policy makers inside
Job of policy makers inside here, the
job of policy makers inside here, the American
job of policy makers inside RO s R et
here, the American central e
here, the American central L
here, the American central bank, one way the president
bank, one way the president could help
bank, one way the president w1 GG R
bank, one way the president could help with rising prices
could help with rising prices s
could help with rising prices is to remove tariffs on
could help with rising prices TR RN R R R
s to remove tariffs on Chinese Tl
s to remove tariffs on Chinese [ A
s to remove tariffs on Chinese [ LG ]
s to remove tariffs on Chinese imports under Don --
s to remove tariffs on Chinese [ R L IR
s to remove tariffs on Chinese imports under Don -- on the --
imports under Don -- on the -- %Gl
imports under Don -- on the -- Donald Trump. Will you drop
Donald Trump. Will you drop %Gl
Donald Trump. Will you drop Donald Trump poss
Donald Trump. Will you drop Donald Trump poess mac
Donald Trump. Will you drop Donald Trump poss mac tariffs?
Donald Trump poss mac tariffs? We are discussing that right
We are discussing that right A
We are discussing that right now. No
We are discussing that right T A s el s
We are discussing that right T A R e Rt e
We are discussing that right now. No decision made on it.
now. No decision made on it. Pockethook
now. No decision made on it. e e I
now. No decision made on it. Rt e R R g a1
now. No decision made on it. e RN R i e e d
now. No decision made on it. Pocketbook issues front of mind
Pocketbook issues front of mind e
Pocketbook issues front of mind for many Americans, with
for many Americans, with congressional mid-term
congressional mid-term APl 18 1]
congressional mid-term S NN
congressional mid-term elections only a few months
elections only a few months LN
elections only a few months away Democrats worried they
away Democrats worried they il
away Democrats worried they will use votes over inflation
will use votes over inflation el
will use votes over inflation Y R e e a1y
will use votes over inflation which economists predict will
which economists predict will Bl
which economists predict will remain significantly higher,
remain significantly higher, e
remain significantly higher, for a
remain significantly higher, TR LI
=¥l
Bear in mind.
Consumer prices surged by 8.5% - the largest annual gain
Sl (R VT Ty gl oI o] last month following
a double-digit rise in energy prices.
Joining me now is Pete Earle,
Economist and research fellow Y il e B AR tEe)
for Economic Research -
Pete, what’s your take R LROEE F LA
to ease today?
Last month we saw inflation as measured
Last month we saw inflation as WEERCU NG
Last month we saw inflation as measured by CPI up eight point
measured by CPI up eight point Ly
measured by CPI up eight point 5%, year-on-year with a 1.2
5%, year-on-year with a 1.2 Tlae Y1y
5%, year-on-year with a 1.2 increase from
5%, year-on-year with a 1.2 RO
5%, year-on-year with a 1.2 increase from February to
increase from February to March, expectation is that many
March, expectation is that many of
March, expectation is that many SRy
March, expectation is that many SRGILIEl
March, expectation is that many of the initial price shocks
of the initial price shocks that
of the initial price shocks G i)
of the initial price shocks E R R g a1
of the initial price shocks LRIt R
of the initial price shocks that came from the Russian
that came from the Russian invasion have
that came from the Russian AR e R |
that came from the Russian invasion have settled back, we
invasion have settled back, we il
invasion have settled back, we will steal
invasion have settled back, we IR R
invasion have settled back, we will steal see year-on-year
will steal see year-on-year inflation at eight or 8.1%.
inflation at eight or 8.1%. ey
inflation at eight or 8.1%. Y s
inflation at eight or 8.1%. R YT
inflation at eight or 8.1%. What do you think the two-year
What do you think the two-year I )¢
What do you think the two-year Outlook would be and
What do you think the two-year IO R L HGE - s R i
Outlook would be and will remain the greatest challenge
remain the greatest challenge e
remain the greatest challenge T ]
remain the greatest challenge for the US?
remain the greatest challenge TR Y
remain the greatest challenge for the US? A lot of what
for the US? A lot of what happens over the next 12 months
happens over the next 12 months as
happens over the next 12 months YR Zld
happens over the next 12 months YR Iy
happens over the next 12 months as far as inflation goes will
as far as inflation goes will LN
as far as inflation goes will depend on
as far as inflation goes will UL R R L
as far as inflation goes will UL R LI R I
as far as inflation goes will depend on what happens in two
depend on what happens in two | Ele-IH
depend on what happens in two places, Ukraine and China. If
places, Ukraine and China. If )
places, Ukraine and China. If the war in Ukraine grinds into
the war in Ukraine grinds into Y
the war in Ukraine grinds into ARG
the war in Ukraine grinds into a persistent conflict energy
a persistent conflict energy el
a persistent conflict energy a3 Rl
a persistent conflict energy prices might be elevated for
prices might be elevated for )
prices might be elevated for some time, China
prices might be elevated for R GG
prices might be elevated for some time, China keeps the
some time, China keeps the lockdowns in
some time, China keeps the lockdewns in place, there are
lockdowns in place, there are EIE
lockdewns in place, there are already showing signs of
already showing signs of bringing back supply chain
bringing back supply chain N O
bringing back supply chain hottlenecks, both
bringing back supply chain U G R
bringing back supply chain U A G R G
bringing back supply chain N A O R G- R
bottlenecks, both of those will N R
bottlenecks, both of those will N AEI R
bottlenecks, both of those will translate to persistently hire
translate to persistently hire (e[
translate to persistently hire (R I
translate to persistently hire IR
translate to persistently hire prices. Do you think the
prices. Do you think the T
prices. Do you think the N B ey
prices. Do you think the B e
prices. Do you think the Federal reserve is now doing
Federal reserve is now doing enough
Federal reserve is now doing LR
Federal reserve is now doing enough to contain inflation, or
enough to contain inflation, or as
enough to contain inflation, or TR ]
enough to contain inflation, or as some people say to its going
as some people say to its going to fast? No,
as some people say to its going R E A |
as some people say to its going to fast? No, | think the
IR EI A [ R GRS G T BT ey
IR EI A [ R GRS G T e Y
IR I [ R Tl L 4T Federal Reserve has got a late
Federal Reserve has got a late start
Federal Reserve has got a late X 1a sl
Federal Reserve has got a late start and trying to catch up,
start and trying to catch up, vty
start and trying to catch up, G SY
start and trying to catch up, what they are trying to do is
what they are trying to do is Y
what they are trying to do is R
what they are trying to do is raise interest rates hoth
raise interest rates both quickly enough and to levels
quickly enough and to levels W
quickly enough and to levels high enough, so they slow and
QI LG T B R G T LN SEOE] Y
high enough, so they slow and eventually stop the
eventually stop the inflationary updraught, they
inflationary updraught, they )
inflationary updraught, they EIC R 1
inflationary updraught, they ICe R e e
inflationary updraught, they also want to do so in a way
also want to do so in a way el
also want to do so in a way B R
also want to do so in a way which doesn’t bring
also want to do so in a way which doesn’t bring on
also want to do so in a way which doesn’t bring on a
which doesn’t bring on a 3R
which doesn’t bring on a 3]
which doesn’t bring on a recession, a difficult balance
recession, a difficult balance to
recession, a difficult balance e e
recession, a difficult balance to strike. Historically most
to strike. Historically most I
to strike. Historically most Bt T
to strike. Historically most rate increase cycles ended in
rate increase cycles ended in PN
rate increase cycles ended in an economic slowdown, right now
an economic slowdown, right now if
an economic slowdown, right now LA
an economic slowdown, right now if you look at equity markets
if you look at equity markets around
if you look at equity markets IR
if you look at equity markets around the world,
if you look at equity markets IR G ER PR i El ]
around the world, financial market participants and
market participants and R e i h
market participants and investors don’t believe the
investors don’t believe the soft landing is likely. We will
soft landing is likely. We will )
soft landing is likely. We will be watching
soft landing is likely. We will R IR ELS
soft landing is likely. We will RN LR EIAYYeT
soft landing is likely. We will be watching that very closely,
be watching that very closely, PN
be watching that very closely, RN )
be watching that very closely, NN IR
be watching that very closely, an interesting line from
be watching that very closely, RN R ER (T R 1
be watching that very closely, RIS R ER (T RO R IR
an interesting line from the US today Chinese sanctions might
today Chinese sanctions might )
today Chinese sanctions might be dropped, these were put in
SLIGIGVL R G-I T Ay I
SLIGIGVL R G-I T Ay place by
be dropped, these were put in place by Donald Trump. Do you
place by Donald Trump. Do you think
place by Donald Trump. Do you il R R
place by Donald Trump. Do you think that’s likely, what
think that’s likely, what effect
think that’s likely, what it a0
think that’s likely, what effect would that have? Well,
effect would that have? Well, anything
S Ta @GR G EI EV RS anything undertaken
S Ta @GR G EI EV RS VGG EL O R G ELS
anything undertaken that removes
anything undertaken that N R e ea e
anything undertaken that I R LR ]
anything undertaken that removes barriers to trade,
removes barriers to trade, S a1 e
removes barriers to trade, whether or high taxes, or
whether or high taxes, or EIsel ey
whether or high taxes, or EIa R
whether or high taxes, or EIR e R Y
whether or high taxes, or barriers of those sorts, will
barriers of those sorts, will G N
barriers of those sorts, will help. But
barriers of those sorts, will (T A
barriers of those sorts, will help. But the fact
barriers of those sorts, will TSGRl
barriers of those sorts, will help. But the fact is, both the
help. But the fact is, both the e
help. But the fact is, both the former administration and the
former administration and the present one, have
former administration and the U X
former administration and the present one, have a vested
present one, have a vested NI
present one, have a vested R A
present one, have a vested interest in protecting the
interest in protecting the agricultural sector, that’s
agricultural sector, that’s vty
agricultural sector, that’s what a lot
agricultural sector, that’s R )
agricultural sector, that’s N R R RN e
what a lot of the tariffs L
what a lot of the tariffs X1 & )
what a lot of the tariffs L&
what a lot of the tariffs sought to do, protect American
sought to do, protect American EL LT
sought to do, protect American agricultural interest. |
sought to do, protect American agricultural interest. I think
agricultural interest. | think they may
agricultural interest. I think they may do it, if
agricultural interest. I think O ANEV A R R (T
they may do it, if they T )
they may do it, if they evaluate the risk of inflation
evaluate the risk of inflation T
evaluate the risk of inflation TN
evaluate the risk of inflation has higher than, say, what they
has higher than, say, what they lose from not protecting the
lose from not protecting the agricultural complex, but |
agricultural complex, but | R4
agricultural complex, but | R dsls 4
agricultural complex, but | R A
agricultural complex, but | don’t think it’s going to be an
don’t think it’s going to be an easy
don’t think it’s going to be an R e
don’t think it’s going to be an R IR
don’t think it’s going to be an R DR IR GG
don’t think it’s going to be an AR R IR G R )
don’t think it’s going to be an easy decision for them to make,
easy decision for them to make, )
easy decision for them to make, Rl
easy decision for them to make, R R
easy decision for them to make, there will be a lot
easy decision for them to make, MR R
easy decision for them to make, R R R R A E BT o)
there will be a lot of balance 3
there will be a lot of balance inthe
there will be a lot of balance in the administration mind to
in the administration mind to o[
in the administration mind to R
in the administration mind to IRl E 4
in the administration mind to do so. Thank you so
in the administration mind to do so. Thank you s6 much
in the administration mind to do so. Thank you so much for
do so. Thank you so much for taking us through all of that
taking us through all of that R e Elde i l
taking us through all of that el Rl E 4
taking us through all of that information. Thank you for
information. Thank you for (=N
information. Thank you for VLGRS
1NN R e:LT the Iberian exception:
Spain and Portugal
have been allowed by the EU to manage their own energy
costs and impose a price cap of 40 euros per megawatt-hour.
The reference price for gas in the wholesale market is e90.
The European Council approved the move as both nations
produce a high level of renewable energy and have
"very low" dependency e An NN
It means that both countries will now be able to help
businesses avoid the impact of volatile gas prices.
It comes as the European Commission is looking
to increase the EU’s renewable energy target for 2030 as part
of plans due next week.
Joining me now is Henry Edwardes-Evans,
Associate Editorial Director, Energy Transition,
S&P Global Commodity Insights.
Henry, why are Spain and Portugal being given this
T [o Ll
It Is rare,
IR TP
IR
It Is rare, it is almost
It is rare, It is almost unheard
It is rare, It is almost MLEEIORI R
It is rare, It is almost unheard of, for
It is rare, It is almost MUEEIO R PR R
It is rare, it is almost unheard of, for the market,
unheard of, for the market, T
unheard of, for the market, quite worrying.
unheard of, for the market, qguite worrying. It’s because
quite worrying. It’s because )
quite worrying. It’s because the gas price has risen so
the gas price has risen so steeply, and the marginal unit
steeply, and the marginal unit 3
steeply, and the marginal unit inthe
steeply, and the marginal unit in the setting of the power
in the setting of the power price, is often the gas unit,
price, is often the gas unit, )
price, is often the gas unit, so that pulls up
price, is often the gas unit, SR A R G
price, is often the gas unit, R T R G LGl
so that pulls up the power e[y
so that pulls up the power price alarmingly. And that’s
price alarmingly. And that’s what’s happened here. Limiting
what’s happened here. Limiting )
what’s happened here. Limiting the gas price
what’s happened here. Limiting the gas price and power
the gas price and power generation
the gas price and power NG R
the gas price and power generation to 50
the gas price and power NG RO
the gas price and power generation to 50 euros a minute
generation to 50 euros a minute vty
generation to 50 euros a minute what -- megawatt-hour, half the
what -- megawatt-hour, half the cost of
what -- megawatt-hour, half the R RE RG]
what -- megawatt-hour, half the O RGN
what -- megawatt-hour, half the cost of the gas being used in
cost of the gas being used in s
cost of the gas being used in AR CUEG L
cost of the gas being used in power generation, and will
power generation, and will e Tl
power generation, and will (S
power generation, and will reduce power prices, likewise.
reduce power prices, likewise. 3
reduce power prices, likewise. ]
reduce power prices, likewise. TR L]
reduce power prices, likewise. It’s a political move to ease
It’s a political move to ease )
It’s a political move to ease O
It’s a political move to ease NN
It’s a political move to ease the pressure on consumers in
the pressure on consumers in Iberia, in
the pressure on consumers in [T F PRI R 308
the pressure on consumers in [T FPRL R Rl
the pressure on consumers in Iberia, in their final bills
Iberia, in their final bills and
Iberia, in their final bills R )
Iberia, in their final bills and we can
Iberia, in their final bills NG e N e
Iberia, in their final bills and we can see other member
and we can see other member G
and we can see other member states throughout Europe
states throughout Europe looking
states throughout Europe L
states throughout Europe AL R G
states throughout Europe looking at these ideas, the
looking at these ideas, the problem is, European power
problem is, European power R
problem is, European power I )
problem is, European power markets are very closely
markets are very closely R o]
markets are very closely R SR
markets are very closely interlinked so the European
interlinked so the European € eI e
interlinked so the European I
interlinked so the European Commission is only taking this
Commission is only taking this step
Commission is only taking this SR8
Commission is only taking this step very cautiously
Commission is only taking this SRS AU VA
Commission is only taking this SRS A T ARG
step very cautiously on the eI
step very cautiously on the S )
step very cautiously on the S il
step very cautiously on the S R )
step very cautiously on the details are still to come out.
details are still to come out. Because those
details are still to come out. RBecause those markets
details are still to come out. Because those markets are
Because those markets are w1 N
Because those markets are coupled, and if you export
coupled, and if you export s
coupled, and if you export IR I F I
coupled, and if you export IR T C T Yo L[ a1 o)
coupled, and if you export power from Spain, inte France,
power from Spain, into France, then
power from Spain, into France, QR
power from Spain, into France, then you have
power from Spain, into France, QOB TR R
power from Spain, into France, then you have to work out who
then you have to work out who 3
then you have to work out who s
then you have to work out who it is actually going to pay for
it is actually going to pay for this
it is actually going to pay for G
it is actually going to pay for this is in fact a
it is actually going to pay for QIR Rl R 18
this is in fact a pretty Al
this is in fact a pretty substantial subsidy on the
this is in fact a pretty S S EN I RIS R R G LR L
substantial subsidy on the gas e[y
substantial subsidy on the gas el Rl
substantial subsidy on the gas price will. Everybody would
price will. Everybody would ey
price will. Everybody would like some help with
price will. Everybody would G R G R G
price will. Everybody would like some help with their bills
like some help with their bills and whatever country they are
and whatever country they are 3
and whatever country they are R
and whatever country they are IR G
and whatever country they are R G I L)
and whatever country they are inis this also a reward for
in is this also a reward for )
EER G R EUE TG R (g e Eh
in is this also a reward for the renewable energy
EER G R Z] R the renewable energy work,
the renewable energy work, ey
the renewable energy work, T R ey
the renewable energy work, N e R )
the renewable energy work, these countries have been
these countries have been undertaken? Well, it’s trying
undertaken? Well, it’s trying to
undertaken? Well, it’s trying R ]I
undertaken? Well, it’s trying RO -R T
undertaken? Well, it’s trying to recognise the fact the share
to recognise the fact the share N LN
to recognise the fact the share Nt LR
to recognise the fact the share of renewables is growing quite
of renewables is growing quite e
of renewables is growing quite significant in Europe, so let’s
significant in Europe, so let’s 1187
significant in Europe, so let’s try to
significant in Europe, so let’s 'R CEYd
significant in Europe, so let’s try to get away
significant in Europe, so let’s A L) A
significant in Europe, so let’s try to get away price setting
try to get away price setting el
try to get away price setting R
try to get away price setting power of fossil fuels because,
power of fossil fuels because, in future, fossil fuels will
in future, fossil fuels will have
in future, fossil fuels will )
in future, fossil fuels will have a declining impact on the
have a declining impact on the cost
have a declining impact on the e
have a declining impact on the cost of electricity generation.
cost of electricity generation. We have to say that at the
We have to say that at the Rt il-i1 e
We have to say that at the R a1 e
We have to say that at the R R A
We have to say that at the moment that is still a very
moment that is still a very e
moment that is still a very significant element, and
significant element, and marginal price power markets
marginal price power markets and
marginal price power markets Ry
marginal price power markets and its an important element
and its an important element T )
and its an important element because what it does is that it
because what it does Is that it 303
because what it does Is that it R
because what it does is that it sets the price
because what it does is that it RGN AR ]S
because what it does Is that it sets the price for everybody
because what it does is that it sets the price for everybody in
sets the price for everybody in )
sets the price for everybody in the market, and
sets the price for everybody in RGP
sets the price for everybody in RN R (A
sets the price for everybody in RGP R G R s
the market, and it allows other technologies that are cheaper
technologies that are cheaper to grow faster, so if you
to grow faster, so if you TR e )
to grow faster, so if you interfere in
to grow faster, so if you R e R
to grow faster, so if you interfere in that process, then
interfere in that process, then )
interfere in that process, then e
interfere in that process, then N SR
interfere in that process, then QSR G E = O (1
interfere in that process, then the risk is that actually you
the risk is that actually you =l
the risk is that actually you RGN EIa e
the risk is that actually you RGBT
the risk is that actually you call the market for renewables,
call the market for renewables, you
call the market for renewables, iR
call the market for renewables, you don’t actually accelerated
you don’t actually accelerated T )
you don’t actually accelerated (TR
you don’t actually accelerated TR U L
you don’t actually accelerated TR U LR
you don’t actually accelerated because they are not getting so
because they are not getting so St 1ile1]
because they are not getting so much for
because they are not getting so iR e
because they are not getting so much for their output and the
much for their output and the ey
much for their output and the e Ta Al N
much for their output and the R RN s
much for their output and the R RN ]
much for their output and the incentive to best in wind and
incentive to best in wind and solar
incentive to best in wind and I
incentive to best in wind and N EE RGeS
incentive to best in wind and N E RN S e N e R
incentive to best in wind and solar is therefore reduced. |
solar is therefore reduced. | I
solar is therefore reduced. | RO
solar is therefore reduced. | IR GRS
solar is therefore reduced. | IR GERVEIAN]
solar is therefore reduced. | guess the war in Ukraine
solar is therefore reduced. | IR GERTE AL RN R
guess the war in Ukraine will YT
guess the war in Ukraine will L E AT
guess the war in Ukraine will probably be pushing demand for
probably be pushing demand for renewables
probably be pushing demand for TN LN
probably be pushing demand for renewables at a different pace
renewables at a different pace as
renewables at a different pace RN
renewables at a different pace as well. Henry, thank you so
as well. Henry, thank you so much for joining us on BBC
much for joining us on BBC ST
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
Ukraine, which has remained a major route for Russian gas
to Europe even after the invasion, said on Tuesday
it would suspend use of a transit point for some
Russian gas headed to Europe, blaming Moscow for the move.
LG R4 redirect the gas
from that transit point,
which is in an area occupied by Russian forces, to another
In China, inflation figures for the month of April
were released just about an hour ago.
LRV [T gl LSO LR AL
UIUICR CEIECE G
higher than March LR AR
but still not as rampant IR N AR R R e alsh
Now to the market in metals,
YN SR L Iah RN AE L
and sanctions on Russia has sent prices across
IRV GO RS T g [
Russia is one of the world’s NI e R R LRG| G
like nickel, platinum and palladium
-kl
materials for new green technologies like batteries
g
So for new sources of these raw materials, countries
dre now looking to resource rich
Africa to fill the gap.
South Africa is currently hosting the continent’s biggest
mining investment summit in Cape Town - with high level
delegations from the US and global industry heavy
weights looking to secure IR IR G R O
But, historically, there have been problems for the sector
in some African nations with concerns of human rights
=TI g0y and pollution.
I’m joined now by Jonathan Molyneux from mining
sustainability consultants ERM.
Jonathan is at that conference in Cape Town.
Jonathan, can Africa replace Russia
Jonathan, can Africa replace AN
Jonathan, can Africa replace Russia as a
Jonathan, can Africa replace LS EE IR 1s1 8
Jonathan, can Africa replace LU EE IR 1o A3
Jonathan, can Africa replace SR ARG
Russia as a supply of rare metals
Russia as a supply of rare G |
Russia as a supply of rare metals needed for
Russia as a supply of rare SR )
Russia as a supply of rare metals needed for the electric
metals needed for the electric 0¥
metals needed for the electric cars? Well,
metals needed for the electric IR LR )
metals needed for the electric IR R R
metals needed for the electric XA R R
metals needed for the electric XA R IR G U
cars? Well, we are well aware of
cars? Well, we are well aware SRy
cars? Well, we are well aware SR a3
cars? Well, we are well aware of the sanctions on Russia has
of the sanctions on Russia has a1\
of the sanctions on Russia has certainly historically been a
certainly historically been a tremendous
certainly historically been a e NIl TR e
certainly historically been a e N IR e N
certainly historically been a tremendous source of critical
tremendous source of critical P& R
tremendous source of critical metals. But |
tremendous source of critical S A R i e
tremendous source of critical N TN ARG € e
tremendous source of critical S ARG € e N
tremendous source of critical metals. But | think there is a
metals. But | think there is a s d
metals. But | think there is a border backdrop
metals. But | think there is a O R G G
metals. But | think there is a O E el L CR ]
metals. But | think there is a border backdrep here which is,
border backdrop here which is, )
border backdrop here which is, B Ela e e el
border backdrop here which is, the International energy
the International energy agency,
the International energy L AT
the International energy agency, just very recently
agency, just very recently highlighted the mismatch
highlighted the mismatch TN
highlighted the mismatch T NEG
highlighted the mismatch T NE G N s Ela )
highlighted the mismatch TN N T
highlighted the mismatch between the demand and supply
between the demand and supply e
between the demand and supply T dugiale]
between the demand and supply for critical metals
between the demand and supply (e M R G
between the demand and supply for critical metals they will
for critical metals they will try
for critical metals they will ("R 1)
for critical metals they will try to support the global
try to support the global transition
try to support the global e iAo e
try to support the global transition to a
try to support the global NIRRT
try to support the global transition to a low carbon
transition to a low carbon g
transition to a low carbon e VN
transition to a low carbon economy and all
transition to a low carbon e L LR G
transition to a low carbon economy and all the green
economy and all the green 1
economy and all the green metals that will
economy and all the green MR G R T
economy and all the green metals that will be required
metals that will be required e
metals that will be required for building out the new, urban
for building out the new, urban il et ey
for building out the new, urban Nl e a1 Ta e |
for building out the new, urban N R R e A
for building out the new, urban environments and societies in
envirenments and societies in N
envirenments and societies in G . N
envirenments and societies in Southeast Asia, so it’s
Southeast Asia, so it’s I s el
Southeast Asia, so it’s important to understand or
important to understand or separate the impacts of the
separate the impacts of the T E]
separate the impacts of the Russia and Ukraine situation
Russia and Ukraine situation Tee I8t
Russia and Ukraine situation TR )
Russia and Ukraine situation TR e e g
Russia and Ukraine situation from the more macro global
from the more macro global e sl
from the more macro global trend towards, this demand and
trend towards, this demand and e\
trend towards, this demand and supply graph, and |
trend towards, this demand and supply graph, and I think this
supply graph, and I think this 3
supply graph, and I think this is where Africa is a tremendous
Is where Africa is a tremendous opportunity
Is where Africa is a tremendous e LA )
Is where Africa is a tremendous opportunity to play. --. Down
opportunity to play. --. Down 7YY
opportunity to play. --. Down Y14
opportunity to play. --. Down - R 13
opportunity to play. --. Down T R LR e
opportunity to play. --. Down I RO LR e e
opportunity to play. --. Down T RO LR e N
here at this conference | have T
here at this conference | have been attending this for ten
been attending this for ten years
been attending this for ten R
been attending this for ten I L A L]
been attending this for ten years now, and we
been attending this for ten AU R LG
been attending this for ten years now, and we are seeing
years now, and we are seeing ey
years now, and we are seeing AN
years now, and we are seeing TN TN
years now, and we are seeing new generation of senior
new generation of senior LI )
new generation of senior LRI
new generation of senior leaders and CEOs taking to the
leaders and CEOs taking to the stage, and, a tremendous vase
stage, and, a tremendous vase FYe L
stage, and, a tremendous vase Y]
stage, and, a tremendous vase about the opportunity that
about the opportunity that F X ]
about the opportunity that Africa has, to generate, play a
Africa has, to generate, play a EIg
Africa has, to generate, play a EIEI Y
Africa has, to generate, play a major role in supplying those
major role in supplying those Ty
major role in supplying those et el
major role in supplying those new critical materials. How
new critical materials. How slailatlid
new critical materials. How difficult will it
new critical materials. How siiilatit R B
new critical materials. How aila iR B e )
new critical materials. How difficult will it be to turn
difficult will it be to turn that
difficult will it be to turn BRI
difficult will it be to turn that vase into action?
IR R R (R (] gy that vase into action? It’s
that vase into action? It’s E[
that vase into action? It’s absolutely always
that vase into action? It’s E[ M EIE R G
E NIV [ challenge, isn’t it,
absolutely always the challenge, isn’t it, and the
challenge, isn’t it, and the industry
challenge, isn’t it, and the LA
challenge, isn’t it, and the industry has a challenging
industry has a challenging history.
industry has a challenging R
industry has a challenging history. | think the thing we
history. | think the thing we have
history. | think the thing we YUl
history. | think the thing we YU N el
history. | think the thing we have noticed most here, is that
have noticed most here, is that )
have noticed most here, is that the conversation
have noticed most here, is that e e N E
have noticed most here, is that the conversation has really
the conversation has really changed on the platform, the
changed on the platform, the industry heavyweights as you
industry heavyweights as you called them, the mining majors,
called them, the mining majors, )
called them, the mining majors, e
called them, the mining majors, AR
called them, the mining majors, TR )
called them, the mining majors, the leaders of the industry,
the leaders of the industry, e
the leaders of the industry, IR IR Y e
the leaders of the industry, their CEQs, their whole focus
their CEOs, their whole focus T
their CEOs, their whole focus YR tac- s ls]
their CEOs, their whole focus Y TR iR R
their CEOs, their whole focus has shifted in the last
has shifted in the last probably two or three years,
probably two or three years, and
probably two or three years, R )
probably two or three years, IR ]
probably two or three years, and we are really hearing loud
and we are really hearing loud and
and we are really hearing loud IR l-Y1s
and we are really hearing loud and clear this year around
and clear this year around e
and clear this year around their understanding, that the
their understanding, that the R
their understanding, that the I )
their understanding, that the markets are looking for these
markets are looking for these Ty
markets are looking for these new materials to be produced in
new materials to be produced in Ty
new materials to be produced in new and sustainable ways.
new and sustainable ways. B30
new and sustainable ways. Investors who
new and sustainable ways. RO W)
new and sustainable ways. Investors who are here at
new and sustainable ways. MR I T R
Investors who are here at the T
Investors who are here at the I )
Investors who are here at the conference, are looking for
conference, are looking for places
conference, are looking for | EI LR 0]
conference, are looking for places to shift their capital
places to shift their capital P
places to shift their capital P
places to shift their capital to, but they
places to shift their capital NS GV R
places to shift their capital to, but they are very keen to
to, but they are very keen to &Y
to, but they are very keen to play a responsible role in
play a responsible role in supporting
play a responsible role in S R L
o Js g RS S N
o Js g RS S transitions, they want
supporting responsible W R G AL L
supporting responsible W R G A IR R
transitions, they want to see e
transitions, they want to see QAN
transitions, they want to see GO N SR EN)
transitions, they want to see G NSRRI
transitions, they want to see QTN ARG T A
transitions, they want to see G T AL T AT Y,
U@L L L i1l
their money being put into new odisle B R ekl
their money being put into new critical material projects,
critical material projects, that
critical material projects, R
critical material projects, G E TR D]
critical material projects, that are being developed
that are being developed against
G ENENCRL N DG against a future mind
against a future mind Y el
against a future mind blueprint, if you like. Thank
blueprint, if you like. Thank you
blueprint, if you like. Thank TR
blueprint, if you like. Thank you so much for joining us.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R N
Game over - why one of the most
profitable computer franchise
LRI G R R RN f
The Pope was shot, G R
that’s the essence of the appalling news from Rome
this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television
commentator put it, terrorism LR i RO R R Z R
The man they called the Butcher of Lyon, Klaus Barbie,
went on trial today in the French town where
he was the Gestapo chief in the Second World War.
Winnie Mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced
to six years in jail.
The judge told Mrs Mandela there was no indication
she felt even the slightest remorse.
The Chinese government has LR R E i e s
to help the victims of a powerful earthquake -
the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
The computer Deep Blue has NI GO LN R
the world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.
IR G R T Ry e T 1) has defeated a reigning world
champion in a classical RG]
America’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking
place in Massachusetts.
This is BBC World News - AR R L S
The US House of Representatives votes overwhelmingly in favour
of providing an additional SN
Tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed
in the Sri Lankan capital Colombo
NG T struggles to contain protests
against the spiralling I EI AN
And it’s full-time between the world football body Fifa
The video games maker YL R
Fifa 23 will be the last LR RGO R
of Fifa-branded football games.
EA has been producing
the game for almost three decades, but says the license
cost was one of the reasons why it ditched the partnership
with Fifa but EA will still be producing football games
and future editions will come TG R A
Joining me now is Piers Harding-Rolls,
research director Ampere Analysis.
Piers - Is this a purely financial decisocion?
| don’t think It is. When you
| don’t think it is. When you look
| don’t think it is. When you &
| don’t think it is. When you Ve R e
| don’t think it is. When you look at what both parties,
look at what both parties, EA and
look at what both parties, EA IR E)
look at what both parties, EA and Fifa wanted to get out of
and Fifa wanted to get out of )
and Fifa wanted to get out of RN
and Fifa wanted to get out of the deal, they
and Fifa wanted to get out of R RGOS AN
and Fifa wanted to get out of the deal, they have clearly
the deal, they have clearly SO RN
the deal, they have clearly O RN AG
the deal, they have clearly O RN G LY S
the deal, they have clearly O RN RGN F I R
diverged over the past few EIEN
diverged over the past few years, Fifa
diverged over the past few N R
diverged over the past few years, Fifa was looking for
years, Fifa was looking for e e e
years, Fifa was looking for e Tl
years, Fifa was looking for more revenue. But also
years, Fifa was looking for e NI N E IR e
more revenue. But also wanted to offer
RS TN T LR UE T T e d
RS TN T LR UE T T to offer less exclusivity under
to offer less exclusivity under )
to offer less exclusivity under the current
to offer less exclusivity under el .
to offer less exclusivity under A Netlan e s Y )
to offer less exclusivity under the current deal. Because its
the current deal. Because its et
the current deal. Because its B
the current deal. Because its aim really is to
the current deal. Because its NG VAR G
the current deal. Because its aim really is to scale its
aim really is to scale its TN
aim really Is to scale its TR ELLEL T
aim really Is to scale its LRGN
aim really Is to scale its licensing business. If you have
licensing business. If you have e )
licensing business. If you have exclusive relationships, it is
exclusive relationships, it is harder
exclusive relationships, It Is ETas e r ]
exclusive relationships, It Is TR [ e o]
exclusive relationships, It Is IR R
exclusive relationships, It Is T E R E Rl Ty
exclusive relationships, It Is I E R E R N
exclusive relationships, it is IR R E AR A
harder to do that. There is a e
harder to do that. There is a s
harder to do that. There is a R R ]
harder to do that. There is a lot of competition coming into
lot of competition coming into )
lot of competition coming into R ElE
lot of competition coming into the football space so | think
the football space so I think 3
the football space so I think HRTE
the football space so | think it was thinking about its
it was thinking about its OIS
it was thinking about its opportunities to do deals with
opportunities to do deals with e
opportunities to do deals with other companies coming into the
other companies coming into the LR
other companies coming into the space. From
other companies coming into the S EIC I R
other companies coming into the space. From the point of
other companies coming into the M IR N N R R
space. From the point of view N
space. From the point of view AT
space. From the point of view of EA, it
space. From the point of view T L)
space. From the point of view AT TR U GRS
space. From the point of view of EA, it would have weighed
of EA, it would have weighed )
of EA, it would have weighed the ongoing
of EA, it would have weighed QNG IG)
of EA, it would have weighed QNGRS R
the ongoing licensing costs, obviously, but it also
GGG RS [ obviously, but it also wanted
obviously, but it also wanted to innovate within
obviously, but it also wanted RN R T R
obviously, but it also wanted to innovate within the game. |
to innovate within the game. | Ty
to innovate within the game. | was thinking
to innovate within the game. | IR GGG
to innovate within the game. | was thinking about introducing
was thinking about introducing ey
was thinking about introducing new monetisation modes, for
new monetisation modes, for example, such as nen-refundable
example, such as non-refundable e
example, such as non-refundable tokens and thinking about
tokens and thinking about additional content
tokens and thinking about s s liale e e la e s a1 4
tokens and thinking about T A e e Ta e s R s
additional content that it wants to
additional content that it NIRRT
additional content that it wants to show within
additional content that it R R R
additional content that it wants to show within the game.
wants to show within the game. I
wants to show within the game. And possibly
wants to show within the game. G I A RS
wants to show within the game. GRS RN R G
wants to show within the game. And possibly even things like
And possibly even things like e
And possibly even things like user generated content. All
user generated content. All ey
user generated content. All these areas
user generated content. All NI R
user generated content. All I LR G R 1)
user generated content. All QI R U LR G )
user generated content. All I RO L LR G VA )
these areas that are really hot i da sl
these areas that are really hot within gaming at the moment.
within gaming at the moment. All
within gaming at the moment. RGN ]
within gaming at the moment. RN e
within gaming at the moment. All these new areas, are they
All these new areas, are they i)
All these new areas, are they too much to handle in what was
too much to handle in what was PN
too much to handle in what was LRIl 8
too much to handle in what was R s A w3 {01
an incredibly successful e )
an incredibly successful TERIMIE ]
an incredibly successful franchise and now we will see
franchise and now we will see 7%
franchise and now we will see T ] 1 3
franchise and now we will see EA Sports and Fifa taking each
EA Sports and Fifa taking each e
EA Sports and Fifa taking each Ol
EA Sports and Fifa taking each other on. Who do you think will
other on. Who do you think will win
other on. Who do you think will Nt g
other on. Who do you think will NN
other on. Whoe do you think will R LR ]
other on. Whoe do you think will win out as to is an interesting
win out as to is an interesting question. |
win out as to Is an interesting I RIS
win out as to Is an interesting question. | think EA Sports
question. | think EA Sports il
question. | think EA Sports will transition
question. | think EA Sports IR e ia e e e
question. | think EA Sports IR R e R R
question. | think EA Sports IR R AR R
will transition to the new brand.
will transition to the new IRl
will transition to the new ISR e )
will transition to the new IS PR e N1 o]
will transition to the new MRl e N s s Rl
will transition to the new brand. The core brand will stay
brand. The core brand will stay )
brand. The core brand will stay ]
brand. The core brand will stay TN T
brand. The core brand will stay RN iai e
brand. The core brand will stay RN
brand. The core brand will stay W N naR (ET
brand. The core brand will stay the same but it will be given
the same but it will be given )
the same but it will be given the freedom
the same but it will be given Rt RO ey
the same but it will be given R BRI e e
the freedem to innovate more U
the freedom to innovate more generally within that
generally within that SN
generally within that -
generally within that experience. And from
generally within that M U RO
generally within that experience. And from the point
experience. And from the point of view
experience. And from the point SR
experience. And from the point of view of Fifa, it
experience. And from the point NI R A E P A
experience. And from the point of view of Fifa, it is sporting
of view of Fifa, it is sporting Y
of view of Fifa, it is sporting a number
of view of Fifa, it is sporting E It le e}
of view of Fifa, it is sporting a number of different games
a number of different games coming into
a number of different games IR G
a number of different games IR CR G N FI
a number of different games coming into the market at the
coming into the market at the moment and talking up the idea
moment and talking up the idea of
moment and talking up the idea S
moment and talking up the idea of a specific simulation game
of a specific simulation game el
of a specific simulation game which competes head on with the
which competes head on with the e )
which competes head on with the e N
which competes head on with the franchise of EA.
which competes head on with the TERIIE R AT W
which competes head on with the franchise of EA_ It’s not
which competes head on with the franchise of EA. It’s not a
franchise of EA. It’s not a given.
franchise of EA. It’s not a PG
franchise of EA. It’s not a given. Not a given out perform
given. Not a given out perform strongly in the market but |
strongly in the market but | think
strongly in the market but | Ty
strongly in the market but | think EA is well-positioned. It
think EA is well-positioned. It T
think EA is well-positioned. It )
think EA is well-positioned. It has a relatively long ramp for
has a relatively long ramp for e
has a relatively long ramp for it to
has a relatively long ramp for TR )
has a relatively long ramp for RN L RG]
has a relatively long ramp for it to be able to get the brand
it to be able to get the brand P g ]
it to be able to get the brand across to
it to be able to get the brand e I R R )
it to be able to get the brand e R R R
it to be able to get the brand across to the consumer. Thank
across to the consumer. Thank you
across to the consumer. Thank TR
across to the consumer. Thank you so much for your analysis.
Now, many people harbour the thought of starting
a business at the back of their minds, but never get
round to it - sometimes it takes a big life event,
Well, that’s exactly
what happened to our next guest, who founded an eye
protection start-up called Ocushield, here’s his story.
protection start-up called Ocushield, here’s his story.
N T ghY
After nearly dying after a IR Iea Y1
After nearly dying after a IR el Yy
After nearly dying after a drowning accident it made me
drowning accident it made me o
drowning accident it made me YN
drowning accident it made me Y IR N R0
drowning accident it made me T IR R N e lalis
drowning accident it made me Y I AR R et la i)
drowning accident it made me realise | have to commit to my
realise | have to commit to my L
realise | have to commit to my R AL
In 2015, | went to Turkey with
In 2015, 1 went to Turkey with TSy
In 2015, | went to Turkey with friends on holiday after my
friends on holiday after my third year
friends on holiday after my WG REEIE N
friends on holiday after my third year at university. We
UGBTI VL INT-T e AR jumped into
(UG R’CE TR VLN Y AR jumped into the sea,
(UG R’CE T LAV NI o R jumped into the sea, slightly
jumped into the sea, slightly L
jumped into the sea, slightly swimming and it was choppy
swimming and it was choppy e
swimming and it was choppy waters. | drowned. While
waters. | drowned. While SN
waters. | drowned. While GO
waters. | drowned. While I o P G E L]
waters. | drowned. While drowning, | had 75% water in my
drowning, | had 75% water in my TN
drowning, | had 75% water in my lungs. Fortunately, someone
lungs. Fortunately, someone CEIE
lungs. Fortunately, someone RN ]
lungs. Fortunately, someone nearby came on a jet ski and
nearby came on a jet ski and e E )
nearby came on a jet ski and e R
nearby came on a jet ski and e RO
nearby came on a jet ski and e R e ]
nearby came on a jet ski and e R R N s e sl
nearby came on a jet ski and took me to the beach and a
took me to the beach and a Al nitld
took me to the beach and a sl e g la s |
took me to the beach and a e T s BTl )
took me to the beach and a e e LRI
doctor and nurse administered CPR, fortunately. After being
CPR, fortunately. After being in
CPR, fortunately. After being T}
CPR, fortunately. After being inacoma
CPR, fortunately. After being ina coma for
CPR, fortunately. After being inacoma for a
CPR, fortunately. After being in a coma for a week | woke up
in a coma for a week | woke up in
in a coma for a week | woke up TRy
in a coma for a week | woke up TR il
in a coma for a week | woke up in the first thing | thought
in the first thing I thought FYe L
in the first thing I thought L INA A
in the first thing I thought about was family and friends.
about was family and friends. As
about was family and friends. LRl
about was family and friends. As well as
about was family and friends. R (R TA
about was family and friends. As well as that, it
about was family and friends. R R G R A A A
about was family and friends. As well as that, it was my
As well as that, it was my LR
As well as that, it was my business. | realised
As well as that, it was my AR LR
CERT LR G o =Y N A R TR Rt 10ls
business. | realised how much )
business. | realised how much T
business. | realised how much the business was
business. | realised how much MR TN R A ]
business. | realised how much the business was on my mind and
the business was on my mind and |
the business was on my mind and T
the business was on my mind and WiE R )
the business was on my mind and | had to execute and it made me
| had to execute and it made me Y
| had to execute and it made me - o]
| had to execute and it made me realise and commit
| had to execute and it made me I s Eee s lat i)
| had to execute and it made me I R iR R ]
realise and commit to the business
realise and commit to the N R
realise and commit to the R ARG R A
realise and commit to the N R G AR
realise and commit to the business that | had to
realise and commit to the N ARG AR R R
realise and commit to the business that | had to see it
business that | had to see it I I
This device may be familiar to many of you.
It may have
accompanied you during workouts or during your commute.
DI AN N SRR R
for Apple’s IPod.
The company - R R D
that its discontinuing the iPod touch , the last model
produced by Apple.
was launched in 2001 and the device has been widely
praised for revolutionising how people listen to music.
Joining me now is Jane Foley, head of FX Strategy,
Jane - do you remember your first ipod?
| do, |
[Tl
RV
| do, | don’t have to remember
| do, | don’t have te remember e
| do, | don’t have te remember it because
| do, | don’t have to remember it because | have
| do, | don’t have to remember TR NI N e
| do, | don’t have to remember it because | have it right
it because | have it right here!
't because | have it right ARG
't because | have it right IR LIS
't because | have it right here! This is probably about 20
here! This is probably about 20 years old and
here! This is probably about 20 R LG
here! This is probably about 20 years old and like many people,
years old and like many people, )
years old and like many people, QR I IG
years old and like many people, the phone really
years old and like many people, QNI CRCE VA
years old and like many people, the phone really has been
the phone really has been taking
the phene really has been taking over and why carry one
taking over and why carry one N
taking over and why carry one RN 16 ]
taking over and why carry one of these around when really the
of these around when really the I
of these around when really the phone does it
of these around when really the R LR (k1
of these around when really the phone does it all? It does not
phone does it all? It does not come as a surprise that they
come as a surprise that they Py
come as a surprise that they PN
come as a surprise that they are now stopping this. At the
are now stopping this. At the S i)
are now stopping this. At the e
are now stopping this. At the R L
are now stopping this. At the time it was incredible. It was
time it was incredible. It was Y
time it was incredible. It was R
time it was incredible. It was a style accessory and
a style accessory and o e
a style accessory and o R - sl
a style accessory and celebrities flocked to be
a style accessory and L TR RO T
celebrities flocked to be seen with
celebrities flocked to be seen G RGEA
celebrities flocked to be seen with that, John Meier, U2,
with that, John Meier, U2, IEL
with that, John Meier, U2, RTINS L
with that, John Meier, U2, Oprah Winfrey and BMW
with that, John Mejer, U2, RTINS LR T A DL
with that, John Mejer, U2, RTINS LR LR DI
Oprah Winfrey and BMW built a Gl
Oprah Winfrey and BMW built a system where you could have it
system where you could have it 3
system where you could have it R
system where you could have it in your cars
system where you could have it LRI L]
system where you could have it LRI LRl
system where you could have it in your cars and it became part
in your cars and it became part of
in your cars and it became part SRy
in your cars and it became part SRRt hetle X4
in your cars and it became part SRRkt XAl
in your cars and it became part of the furniture? It really did
of the furniture? It really did and
of the furniture? It really did L
of the furniture? It really did INLEA
of the furniture? It really did R LEIR E )
of the furniture? It really did R A R R el
of the furniture? It really did and it was so important for
and it was so important for YN
and it was so important for YT R
and it was so important for Apple, the business.
and it was so important for Y R G TH L
and it was so important for Apple, the business. If you
Apple, the business. If you Y
Apple, the business. If you V&
Apple, the business. If you & R
Apple, the business. If you Y E s e
Apple, the business. If you Y R R s
Apple, the business. If you look at the 1980s and 1990s,
look at the 1980s and 1990s, ]
look at the 1980s and 1990s, Y XD
look at the 1980s and 1990s, Apple had a string of failures
Apple had a string of failures N e
Apple had a string of failures NI e R R i )
Apple had a string of failures of devices that no-one really
of devices that no-one really el
of devices that no-one really wanted. This is really
wanted. This is really important
wanted. This is really e a1
wanted. This is really e S IR G
wanted. This is really e S OB
important for them men establish
important for them men e IR e
important for them men establish their brand and
establish their brand and establish
establish their brand and S IR et
establish their brand and EICH R 1
establish their brand and establish them as a fashion
establish them as a fashion 18|
establish them as a fashioen NENB IR
establish them as a fashioen brand as well.
establish them as a fashioen NENLIECR (e
establish them as a fashioen NENECR R
establish them as a fashioen brand as well. It was not
establish them as a fashion brand as well. It was not the
brand as well. It was not the e
brand as well. It was not the first MP3
brand as well. It was not the AL AT e
brand as well. It was not the B AT e 14
brand as well. It was not the TR AT R e i s
brand as well. It was not the TR AT R e R
brand as well. It was not the TR E AT R N R R
first MP3 either but it was the e
first MP3 either but it was the R
first MP3 either but it was the AR R el 4
first MP3 either but it was the TR s R s 0l
first MP3 either but it was the TR R IR T BRI ]
first one that could store P
first one that could store about 1000 songs back on the
about 1000 songs back on the E
about 1000 songs back on the day and that was an awful lot!
day and that was an awful lot! s
day and that was an awful lot! [R5
day and that was an awful lot! IR ELE]
day and that was an awful lot! It was a big revolution for
It was a big revolution for e
It was a big revolution for TR T
It was a big revolution for TR R
It was a big revolution for WL A R
It was a big revolution for TR AL R LG
It was a big revolution for their business as well. And the
their business as well. And the digital music market. It was
digital music market. It was Nl N
digital music market. It was incredible. We had iTunes
incredible. We had iTunes taking out filesharing and is
taking out filesharing and is e e
taking out filesharing and is consolidated the digital music
consolidated the digital music E[ &N
consolidated the digital music E L |
consolidated the digital music application. | want to share
application. | want to share )
application. | want to share one thing with
application. | want to share R GITLRYIG RN
application. | want to share one thing with you, |
application. | want to share R GIGLRY G TRGE L]
one thing with you, | had e ]
one thing with you, | had 3 s|
one thing with you, | had someone stand in
one thing with you, | had someohne stand in that
one thing with you, | had someone stand in that Apple was
someone stand in that Apple was e
someone stand in that Apple was T e o Iga sl
someone stand in that Apple was P e s oo L 0
not concerned about cannibalising its own products
cannibalising its own products in
cannibalising its own products MR a8
cannibalising its own products R et LR 2
cannibalising its own products MBI LR AL
cannibalising its own products in terms of it demise. That’s
in terms of it demise. That’s il
in terms of it demise. That’s right and that’s because anyone
right and that’s because anyone with
right and that’s because anyone AT
right and that’s because anyone ORIl
right and that’s because anyone with a smart phone now know
with a smart phone now know they
with a smart phone now know QA LR
with a smart phone now know QIR R
with a smart phone now know they don’t have to carry around
they don’t have to carry around Y
they don’t have to carry around R G
they don’t have to carry around a portable music device because
a portable music device because your phone does it all. This is
your phone does it all. This is why no-one is
your phone does it all. This Is why no-one is particularly
why no-one is particularly eI
why no-one is particularly surprised at
why no-one is particularly LR OIS
why no-one is particularly L S QN
why no-one is particularly L R QI
why no-one is particularly surprised at this news. | would
surprised at this news. | would Y-\
surprised at this news. | would VLI
surprised at this news. | would VR R L
surprised at this news. | would F VL R I
LR LRI 1 I )
VR LRI I disappointed because
VR LR EIC 1] disappointed because the new
disappointed because the new 1
disappointed because the new iPods, they loock
disappointed because the new iPods, they lock more
disappointed because the new iPods, they look more like
[T PR G AT G TR I iElas
iPods, they look more like smart phones and you
iPods, they look more like UL B S IR =]
iPods, they look more like UL R L IRl
smart phones and you can do video calling on them as well
video calling on them as well as
video calling on them as well Rl
video calling on them as well R B
video calling on them as well as well is e-mailing so for a
as well is e-mailing so for a sl
as well is e-mailing so for a IR i)
as well is e-mailing so for a child who you don’t
as well is e-mailing so for a SRR IR LR T %
as well is e-mailing so for a child who you don’t want to
child who you don’t want to Ty
child who you don’t want to R )
child who you don’t want to YRR
child who you don’t want to have the full capacity of a
have the full capacity of a DN
have the full capacity of a phone, this was a
have the full capacity of a IR IR R LG
phone, this was a alternative and
phone, this was a alternative ]
phene, this was a alternative LRl
phene, this was a alternative R R I
phene, this was a alternative R R IR
phene, this was a alternative and a cheaper one as well but
and a cheaper one as well but e
and a cheaper one as well but T e d
and a cheaper one as well but for most people, this is
for most people, this is LS
for most people, this is perhaps an inevitability that
perhaps an inevitability that this
perhaps an inevitability that TR )
perhaps an inevitability that this Little device has been
this little device has been taken
this Little device has been EI U
this Little device has been taken over. Thank
this little device has been taken over. Thank you so much
taken over. Thank you so much e
taken over. Thank you so much ISLTT
taken over. Thank you so much LIRS
taken over. Thank you so much ISR LR AT
taken over. Thank you so much for joining us. It is breakfast
for joining us. It is breakfast next.
for joining us. It is breakfast IR
for joining us. It is breakfast next. Thank you for joining us
next. Thank you for jeining us e
Tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers -
most of those showers were across Scotland
LR [ e a iR s Elals B
And there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts
of Western Scotland at times - some of these showers quite
heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
For the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy,
rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers
or even longer spells of rain.
Now for Wednesday, this feature could bring some significant
rainfall to parts of England and Wales throughout the day.
Now some of that rain really will be quite heavy
across parts of Wales, south-west England
through Wednesday morning.
And then, that rain will push in towards the Midlands,
parts of eastern England RGO
| think the northern extent of it
LG R E e
area, not further north than that.
But as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards
into East Anglia in the southeast,
it will begin te fragment.
Again another windy day R e A La a0 C1a b
across southern Britain with that rain band.
Quite gusty, as well, Yt LR et e
of Scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
And temperatures will range from around 14-17 Celsius.
Pollen levels on Wednesday, again,
IR g T but maybe not quite as high
across England and Wales as we’ll
Now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move
through Wednesday night, N AR R
Winds will turn a little R TR
but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west
of Scotland in particular.
Now, with the clearer skies, a slightly cooler air mass -
t’ll be a fresher night to come
for Wednesday night, with temperatures down
inte single figures for most.
The pressure chart for Thursday,
then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts
of the UK - so again, it’ll be quite
breezy and showery here, a little bit drier further
So, best of the sunshine for England
and Wales throughout Thursday.
After that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin
Iy
More cloud, though, for Northern England,
Northern Ireland, and Scotland -
there’s the north-west of Scotland,
which will see most NAGER e
and also the strongest ARG
After that cool start, temperatures will reach highs
GEEg R R T e R L G
For Friday, again, weather fronts
bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north
of the UK, but as we head MR L U PR G
of high pressure begins to build in.
It turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential
of some thundery showers across southern
NG o T F LR I s )
So, those temperatures will be building as we head
on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure
starts to esta I RN
And there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine,
but also some heavy showers in the south.
Good morning! It’s Radio 1 Breakfast G RETCLRET
| like listening to Greg FIE RS VA
MUSIC: Sweet Talker by Years & Years and Galantis
SHOUTING: | like listening to Greg IRl
| take the long route to work!
| like listening while teaching my stepdaughter to drive.
# You made me believe... #
While being there for Stephanie.
# Every lie was a beautiful sound. .. #
I}
Hi.
How do you like your Greg RGO LK
It’s all right - I’m on the radio.
# Where are you, where are you now, sweet talker? #
0Ly AN IR G LRV E A
Chris, this is actually the... RO i e e et
other chat shows. Celebrities, but...
BOTH: Celebrity couples. Yes.
And | want the audience to be giving us their shocking...
Their shocking confessions. Yes! Glad we’re on the same page.
OK, let’s do it. IR L LR
We’re actually shooting the trailer. We’ve got an audience here now.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE Oh, all right! Trailer, let’s go.
When you’re a kid, all you want is your mum and dad to be happy,
so when they’re not, it’s really hard to deal with that.
With so many families struggling today,
Joe Wicks finds out how his parents’ mental health shaped him.
I’m lucky you still talk to me.
Ah! Nothing beats the magic and serenity of Italy.
Wait, what was that?
N LR U I
There appears to be a change of plan. Are you ready to rock?
Many of us have questions about who we really are.
Where have | come from? I’m holding my life in my hand.
You might have a lot e e LR A
| don’t look like anybody in my family.
You were in a concentration camp PRI LB
| so want to find you some answers. Oh, my God, Stacey, this is amazing.
Ty T
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Dan Walker and Sally Nugent.
Our headlines today.
A stark warning that 1.5 million households will struggle to pay
energy and food bills, as the Prime Minister
faces pressure to do more to ease the cost of living.
LN DT R Tad [ R (s the Queen’s Speech.
There’s a boost for struggling high streets, and the price cap
on household energy bills will be kept in place for longer -
but did it go far enough to address those soaring prices?
Bowel-cancer campaigner Deborah James speaks to Breakfast
about the time she has left and her hopes for her family.
I know that my kids are going to be...
..more than looked after and surrounded by love.
It doesn’t mean that NI LG
..miss every chance that...| G R e R G R
It’s tight in the title race
as Super Mane comes to Liverpool’s rescue as they beat Aston Villa
to pull level with Manchester City.
Y N N S N i A1
We have a bit of rain this morning 4
We have a bit of rain this morning N i
We have a bit of rain this morning but after a soggy morning for many
but after a soggy morning for many things
but after a soggy morning for many QIR AN
but after a soggy morning for many things are looking brighter as we
things are looking brighter as we Y|
QI EEICR TSGR lals L LR head into
QI EEICR TSGR lals L LR Y- LR R )
QI EEICR TSGR lals L LR TR R i g e o
QI EEICR TSGR lals L LR Y LR R i s |
QI EEICR TSGR lals L LR TR R i Rl
things are looking brighter as we YR R i R e
head into the afternoon. | will have )
head into the afternoon. | will have W sl G
head into the afternoon. | will have the details here on Breakfast.
It’s Wednesday the 11th of May.
Our main story.
The government is facing criticism for not promising more support
to people struggling with the rising IR AU R
yesterday’s Queen’s Speech.
An estimated 1.5 million households will struggle to pay
food and energy bills, and a quarter of a million people
could fall into extreme poverty unless the government does more,
according to the National Institute for Economic and Social Research.
Our political correspendent Nick Eardley has more on yesterday’s
state opening of Parliament.
The State Opening of Parliament is a big deal around Westminster.
It’s colourful - the pomp and ceremony
of the occasion are hard to miss.
But it’s also when we find out the government’s plans
for the coming months.
There was one big difference this year - the Prince of Wales taking
centre stage for the first time, replacing the Queen,
who has been facing mobility issues.
Prince Charles was accompanied by the Duchess of Cornwall,
and his son, the Duke of Cambridge.
Her Majesty’s government’s priority IR LGRSO BN
the economy and help ease the cost of living for families.
There were 38 bills in total, covering everything from energy
security to Brexit, education, sl e mate e
But the big political picture really matters here.
The Prime Minister says the government can’t
just spend its way out of the cost-of-living
crisis - he wants to grow the economy instead.
But Labour and other parties are demanding more action NOW.
Now we tried to help as the opposition, cos it’s
about the country and the people of the country being able to get
by in a very difficult period, R R IR R )
and put suggestions forward.
We’ve done that with £28 billion R RN R RN G A Gl
for ten years to actually have that foundational improvement
In our economy.
We have already put in immediate R R A
with the cost of living, e TR RO AU ) G
are finding it really tough.
And this is why, for example, last month alone, we -
with the help of businesses - RISt I RGN N
the National Living Wage.
Right, so...
We’ve also brought in this energy rebate to help
the majority of households with their energy costs.
And, of course, the fuel-duty cut will help motorists
around the country.
Back in Parliament, a similar call S PRI G SR
Scottish people know the cost of living with Westminster.
We know the price we pay with the Prime Minister
and the price of being stuck with a Tory government
And it’s a price none of us in Scotland - not one of us -
can afford to pay any longer.
Today the Government will publish more details
of its plans for levelling up - ministers have made
L TR Ta [ g8
Controversial reforms to planning laws in England -
unpopular with senior Tories - have been scrapped.
Ministers say local communities will now get more of a say,
including being allowed to vote I RS IS
IR A LR G5
We do now know more about the government’s plans
There’s a lot Boris Johnson wants to do before a general election,
but he faces questions over whether he should be doing more NOW

Citation: BBC News, 00:55 11/05/2022, BBC1 London, 305 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BF4F4B4?bcast=136737282 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)