Elsewhere, a dry day, plenty of sunshine,
those winds will gradually be easing.
It’ll be warm NEOE U R a
with temperatures quite widely in the mid if not high teens.
As we head into Tuesday that area of low pressure finally drifts away
north and eastwards. The isobars become further apart
so the winds will be lighter.
Frontal systems just fringing the far south of England
so we could see some cloud lingering here through the morning.
But for most, a mainly dry day, PR S
Could see some mist and low cloud pushing in
to parts of northeast England and eastern Scotland
but those winds will be much lighter on Tuesday
so where we’ve got the sunshine, temperatures perhaps getting up
to 18, even 19 Celsius across parts of central and southern England.
But then all change again as we move RO BV AN R N GV A
Our next Atlantic system pushing gradually in from the southwest.
Also strengthening the winds, s0 a stronger southeasterly wind.
That’ll also be pushing mist and low cloud along many eastern coasts.
Meanwhile, we’ve got outbreaks of rain and some very gusty winds
pushing into southern and southwest England, Wales and Northern Ireland
and we could see gales along some southern and southwestern coasts
for a time on Wednesday. So a bit of a mixed day.
A slice perhaps of sunshine in-between that cloud
and the band of rain with temperatures here getting up to
but feeling a little bit cooler where we’ve got cloud and the rain.
As we head through from Wednesday inte Thursday this frontal system
is slowly pushing its way G CE G ORI R NG
of high pressure, so a lot of the rain will tend to fizzle out
but we keep some showers across northern England, Scotland, Wales
and southwest England. A lot of cloud for many
but increasing amounts of sunshine from the south as the day wears on
and temperatures still in that range of the mid teens,
perhaps up to 17 or 18 Celsius
across the southern half of England but still frost free overnight.
You can see what’s going to happen as we head through Friday
and into the weekend, this area of low pressure dominating
the situation so there’ll be showers, longer spells of rain,
also some gusty winds as well.
It looks like low pressure
stays in charge as we move
inte the following week.
Iit’s starting dry,
with some stronger winds
and it’s likely we’ll keep
outbreaks of rain and stronger winds
as we head through into the weekend. That’s all from me. Goodbye.
| imagine you’d like to QTR F SR LR
This ain’t what happened! None of this happened!
You wouldn’t believe your eyes.
You have no idea what you’re up against.
They’ll stop at nothing to keep a secret.
Among the pioneers were husband and wife team
I NGVl ] and Ozlem Tureci, who founded
ML T A I«
Speaking to Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg,
the doctor said mRNA is showing promise in cancer studies.
Where patients receive a personalised vaccine
to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
Every step, every patient R AN Ee e Rl
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how
Therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant
to say we will have e llt R d e
We have a number of breakthroughs and we will
continue to work cn them.
But it may be several years before we know if trials
in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really
do live up to the hype.
Covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful
and made billions for BioNTech, but rival firm
Moderna has started legal action for patent infringement
- In essence, claiming key elements of their mMRNA
technology were copied.
BioNTech says it will vigorously defend
against the allegations.
Our innovations are original.
We have spent 20 years of research in developing this
type of treatment and, TR RV [Ty 1
for our intellectual property.
These patent disputes won’t stop the rollout
of Covid vaccines.
MRNA technology came W ELERIR G L
The question now Is can B e o 4
Fergus Walsh, BBC News.
The first European woman to command the International
Space Station has spoken TR R R e
GV ol e ETe g RO UL A
Samantha Cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six moenths
conducting research on the effects of microgravity
on the human cells and other systems.
The Italian astronaut was on her second mission
to the space station but this RN A EE S
IR 5L
IR (F ]
It was great to experience again the re-entry into the
again the re-entry into the atmosphere. It’s quite a wild
atmosphere. It’s quite a wild STy
atmosphere. It’s quite a wild SN Ttd
atmosphere. It’s quite a wild ride but also
atmosphere. It’s quite a wild R I S T
atmosphere. It’s quite a wild ride but also quite amazing.
ride but also quite amazing. I’m obviously very happy to be
I’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones and my
back with my loved ones and my family so
back with my loved ones and my VAL
back with my loved ones and my R PGS
back with my loved ones and my family so | look forward to
family so I look forward to LT
family so | look forward to spending time
family so | look forward to LI R R
family so | look forward to spending time with them.
family so I look forward to spending time with them. And |
spending time with them. And | )
spending time with them. And | AN
spending time with them. And | also like to look
spending time with them. And | I R R &)
spending time with them. And | I AR R R R
also like to look to the future. | mean, it’s
also like to look to the future. I mean, it’s a
future. | mean, it’s a bittersweet moment
future. I mean, it’s a [ e e e e ]e
future. I mean, it’s a bittersweet moment for me. I’m
bittersweet moment for me. I’m =10
bittersweet moment for me. I’m ETIA
bittersweet moment for me. I’m happy to be back, obviously,
happy to be back, obviously, e
happy to be back, obviously, nNnaie
happy to be back, obviously, AR L
happy to be back, obviously, AR L)
happy to be back, obviously, AR LN e e e
happy to be back, obviously, AR LR R TR
but it was also bittersweet to Y-\
but it was also bittersweet to FV R [
but it was also bittersweet to say goodbye to space station,
say goodbye to space station, '
say goodbye to space station, VAN
say goodbye to space station, VAR
say goodbye to space station, my home in space, most
VI R GRS SR G L N my home in space, most likely
my home in space, most likely e
my home in space, most likely TR
my hoeme in space, most likely for the last
my hoeme in space, most likely TR A E -
my hoeme in space, most likely RN IR IR
my hoeme in space, most likely TR IR S R ]
my hoeme in space, most likely for the last time. We are in
for the last time. We are in the
for the last time. We are in (R (-1
for the last time. We are In (R R
for the last time. We are in the process of selecting a new
the process of selecting a new AT
the process of selecting a new I
the process of selecting a new AR e e
the process of selecting a new class of astronauts. A reminder
class of astronauts. A reminder of
class of astronauts. A reminder S
class of astronauts. A reminder IR
class of astronauts. A reminder R E IR
class of astronauts. A reminder R R R I AR
class of astronauts. A reminder of our top story, the United
of our top story, the United S EI
of our top story, the United NI
of our top story, the United States as it is following
States as it is following supports from
States as it is following o Rl A0
States as it is following supports from Evin prison with
supports from Evin prison with urgency, lran
supports from Evin prison with urgency, Iran was fully
urgency, Iran was fully responsible for wrongly
S |G R ]V I
S |G R ]V detained US
S |G R ]V SN R R R P4
responsible for wrongly detained US citizens, the
responsible for wrongly GNP IR Rl - PR G RN
detained US citizens, the US TN
detained US citizens, the US 10 o]
detained US citizens, the US AL RG]
detained US citizens, the US said, and they should be
said, and they should be AT
said, and they should be released immediately.
said, and they should be (LR ELFL AR LG,
released immediately. They Y]
released immediately. They added they were in contact with
added they were in contact with Switzerland which acts as a
Switzerland which acts as a P CTa i 0]
Switzerland which acts as a I Tadf Lo YT
Switzerland which acts as a protecting power for the United
protecting power for the United NI
protecting power for the United States in Iran. That’s all from
States in Iran. That’s all from T
States in Iran. That’s all from R d
States in Iran. That’s all from R I
States in Iran. That’s all from me for this hour.
You can reach me on Twitter.
I’m @LucyEGrey.
And thank you for watching.
The weekend started with plenty N
The weekend started with plenty RN
The weekend started with plenty R T
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and fun
of showers, some heavy and fun to
of showers, some heavy and fun R
of showers, some heavy and fun s
of showers, some heavy and fun to be in places, gusty winds.
-- thundery in places.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, It’ll be dry,
there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
weather in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
-- wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree also
higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower
here and there - cloud may just start to increase
across eastern Scotland, North East England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
A big fire has broken out at Evin prison in the Iranian
capital, Tehran, where hundreds of political priseners
and dozens of dual L EI I e
In videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be
AR R RGN ] TN e R
Britain’s new Chancellor of the Exchequer, Jeremy Hunt,
has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing
unfunded tax cuts last month and that very difficult
economic decisions would A RO R Ul
He’s promised to restore W C IR LR s
to public finances i d RO R nE
China’s President Xi Jinping is expected to cement his grip
on power as a historic Communist Party Congress kicks
IR [ g AR
In a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely
to hand Mr Xi a third term as party chief.
And those are your latest LI
Jeremy Hunt said there was a Al Yd
Jeremy Hunt said there was a clear focus
Jeremy Hunt said there was a Pl 1ol s
Jeremy Hunt said there was a Pl IR el e R
Jeremy Hunt said there was a Pl R eI e Bt e
clear focus on mines of stability.
clear focus on mines of ]G
clear focus on mines of stability. Mr Bailey warned of
stability. Mr Bailey warned of high
stability. Mr Bailey warned of ] RN
stability. Mr Bailey warned of LRI A
stability. Mr Bailey warned of high interest rates ahead more
high interest rates ahead more than previously expected.
than previously expected. Business corresponded Marc
Business corresponded Marc Xl ]
Business corresponded Marc Ashdown has analysis. Smiles
Ashdown has analysis. Smiles and
Ashdown has analysis. Smiles ]
Ashdown has analysis. Smiles IR
Ashdown has analysis. Smiles and a new political phrase,
and a new political phrase, Trussonomics, Liz Truss’s
Trussonomics, Liz Truss’s high-growth, low-wage tax
high-growth, low-wage tax e A
high-growth, low-wage tax N AR L
high-growth, low-wage tax XN AR LS
high-growth, low-wage tax economy. Three weeks later, new
economy. Three weeks later, new chancellor has buried
economy. Three weeks later, new e R e
economy. Three weeks later, new chancellor has buried it. Had
chancellor has buried it. Had you
chancellor has buried it. Had R0
chancellor has buried it. Had you been given a clean slate,
you been given a clean slate, i
you been given a clean slate, T R
you been given a clean slate, could you change elements of
could you change elements of )
could you change elements of sl
could you change elements of GRG0
could you change elements of the mini Budget? Yes. The
the mini Budget? Yes. The fundamental thing the Prime
fundamental thing the Prime IR
fundamental thing the Prime Minister wants
fundamental thing the Prime TR R L R ]
fundamental thing the Prime Minister wants to do and |
fundamental thing the Prime R Eh R B s s
Minister wants to do and | want to
Minister wants to do and | want e s le)
Minister wants to do and | want s
Minister wants to do and | want IR
Minister wants to do and | want to do is be completely honest
to do is be completely honest with
to do is be completely honest R )
to do is be completely honest GRG R
to do is be completely honest with the country. Trussonemics
with the country. Trussonomics N
with the country. Trussonomics reverse, tax
with the country. Trussonemics reverse, tax cuts
with the country. Trussonemics (IR P R AU
reverse, tax cuts likely I El
reverse, tax cuts likely replaced with tax rises, huge
replaced with tax rises, huge N3t
replaced with tax rises, huge investment replaced with a
investment replaced with a spending slowdown. The rethink
spending slowdown. The rethink 3
spending slowdown. The rethink is largely driven by the
is largely driven by the turmoil in the financial
turmoil in the financial R
turmoil in the financial I A ey
turmoil in the financial I A e )
turmoil in the financial I A e R Nt al
turmoil in the financial markets since the mini Budget
markets since the mini Budget announced.
markets since the mini Budget NN e AR
markets since the mini Budget announced. The founders that a
announced. The founders that a e aansl
announced. The founders that a torrid time,
announced. The founders that a s R TR
announced. The founders that a torrid time, the effective cost
torrid time, the effective cost N
torrid time, the effective cost 7T
torrid time, the effective cost of government borrowing sword
of government borrowing sword and
of government borrowing sword R )
of government borrowing sword IR 4
of government borrowing sword LRGN &
of government borrowing sword and the Bank of England had to
and the Bank of England had to step
N
In with an emergency programme
in with an emergency programme LN
in with an emergency programme buying government bonds to
buying government bonds to stabilise the
buying government bonds to e R G A
buying government bonds to stabilise the pension sector.
AELTR GG E B Ta g )
stabilise the pension sector. There is a pressing need to
LG CRERE RGN DI LD R )
There is a pressing need to YA e e a i [ e e
There is a pressing need to YA e e a it e e s s
restore confidence and credibility. The Bank of
credibility. The Bank of England of Andrew Bailey said
England of Andrew Bailey said he
England of Andrew Bailey said R L)
England of Andrew Bailey said he spoke to
England of Andrew Bailey said R CRCRUG
England of Andrew Bailey said he spoke to the Chansley
he spoke to the Chansley A GOEN
he spoke to the Chansley R GOEV RN
he spoke to the Chansley yesterday and had
he spoke to the Chansley R GOEV LR
he spoke to the Chansley R GOEV N R LR LG
yesterday and had an immediate meeting of minds in a speech in
meeting of minds in a speech in Washington had this morning
LN DEG R R R T i Washington had this morning on
Washington had this morning on R e o
Washington had this morning on R R TR Y
Washington had this morning on R A IR i
Washington had this morning on R A T R W
interest rates. We will not hesitate
interest rates. We will not Y E IR
interest rates. We will not IR ORI e e
hesitate to raise interest i1
hesitate to raise interest TR ]
hesitate to raise interest TR
hesitate to raise interest rates to meet inflation targets
rates to meet inflation targets and as
rates to meet inflation targets IR G
rates to meet inflation targets and as things stand today my
and as things stand today my T
and as things stand today my best quess
CL IR G R [ Tk ) (T3 TN
CL IR G R [ Tk ) best guess is inflation
oL VSRR By AN
oL VSRR By IR
oL VSRR By pressures will require
best guess is inflation pressures will require a
pressures will require a stronger response
pressures will require a SN IR G
pressures will require a N DT TR G LR
stronger response than we perhaps thought in
AN DI R G R R perhaps thought in August. The
perhaps thought in August. The current
perhaps thought in August. The et e )
perhaps thought in August. The et IR )
perhaps thought in August. The current base rate is
perhaps thought in August. The e I R R )
current base rate Is to T e
current base rate is to investors expecting a rise of
investors expecting a rise of up
investors expecting a rise of IR
investors expecting a rise of IRCEL]
investors expecting a rise of up to one percentage point in
up to one percentage point in November
up to one percentage point in (Y7 1ol e r e
up to one percentage point in R R
up to one percentage point in November to three point to 5%.
November to three point to 5%. Y3
November to three point to 5%. Most mortgage offers are
Most mortgage offers are I
Most mortgage offers are IR0
Most mortgage offers are I VL L]
Most mortgage offers are currently already around 6% but
currently already around 6% but Y
currently already around 6% but RIS
currently already around 6% but LR R]
currently already around 6% but LR RO
currently already around 6% but a bigger rise in the base rate
a bigger rise in the base rate il
a bigger rise in the base rate (- ad
a bigger rise in the base rate I i e e
a bigger rise in the base rate will affect the economy
will affect the economy N
will affect the economy A e AT
will affect the economy elsewhere. Even with the change
elsewhere. Even with the change of approach the government’s
of approach the government’’s problems
of approach the government’s problems are
of approach the government’s IR O
of approach the government’s I IR U T U
of approach the government’s problems are the same. How to
problems are the same. How to el
problems are the same. How to find tens of hillions
problems are the same. How to find tens of billions of pounds
find tens of billions of pounds 0]
find tens of billions of pounds (I
LT RGN R TIU DN G eIV O I R
LT RGN R TIU DN G eIV O to help people with energy
to help people with energy I
to help people with energy bills and make the sums add up.
bills and make the sums add up. We’re
bills and make the sums add up. NI
bills and make the sums add up. We’re looking at a really
bills and make the sums add up. N R R WA GG ]
We’re looking at a really tough couple of years, we have a very
couple of years, we have a very tough
couple of years, we have a very I Y1
couple of years, we have a very tough economic environment,
tough economic environment, very
tough economic environment, S (Y (o)
tough economic environment, very stretched public finances,
very stretched public finances, |
very stretched public finances, K14
very stretched public finances, RGN
very stretched public finances, I think we’re going to see some
| think we’re going to see some )
| think we’re going to see some even further reversal
| think we’re going to see some TN R it e e B
| think we’re going to see some AT NR e R e R AT
even further reversal of tax Tl
even further reversal of tax R4
even further reversal of tax ARG IR Y
even further reversal of tax RO IR R
even further reversal of tax cuts that we have had an
cuts that we have had an edition published some very
edition published some very tight spending rounds.
edition published some very W[ S G R CTT E
tight spending rounds. The e
OIS LRI AL T AR e [[a s
OIS LRI AL T first verdict will come
tight spending rounds. The first verdict will come when
first verdict will come when financial markets open next
financial markets open next e
financial markets open next week_ |
financial markets open next VN e
financial markets open next week. | don’t expect a dramatic
week. | don’t expect a dramatic et
week. | don’t expect a dramatic AN B e )
week. | don’t expect a dramatic AN R R )
week. | don’t expect a dramatic reversal because the devil
week. | don’t expect a dramatic N R N R Y
reversal because the devil be in
reversal because the devil be TRy
reversal because the devil be RO E
reversal because the devil be NG EH ]
reversal because the devil be NEGE R )]
reversal because the devil be REG LR i da R
reversal because the devil be in the detail and with me find
in the detail and with me find e
in the detail and with me find )
in the detail and with me find e G Sl
in the detail and with me find NE R
in the detail and with me find out the detail of the budget
out the detail of the budget )
RGN R RV kI
RGN R RV e A s o
RGN R RV R A o PR
RGN R RV the 31st October, that’ll be
out the detall of the budget the 31st October, that’ll be a
the 31st October, that’ll be a e
the 31st October, that’ll be a T e N Rl
the 31st October, that’ll be a more holistic judgement made by
more holistic judgement made by financial markets. That’s a
financial markets. That’s a G
financial markets. That’s a fortnight away.
financial markets. That’s a g1 VA
financial markets. That’s a fortnight away. A long time in
fortnight away. A long time in the
fortnight away. A long time in ARy
fortnight away. A long time in AN
fortnight away. A long time in W ANEROF)
fortnight away. A long time in AN R e e . El
the life of a chancellor. Marc Ll
the life of a chancellor. Marc i GL ]
the life of a chancellor. Marc G T
Now on BBC News, The Travel Show.
Ne turning back now.
Ne turning back now.
| just need to get there.
Even if it is just the debris field, | will be very happy,
oENTL T Al e i NEGE R G
So it was just weird, AR RA N .
RADIO: Diver’s comms, Titan was surprised when they made
a turn as they departed the platform, | let them know
he snagged a buoy...
Yeah, roger that, comms.
Just a heads up, it looked like he was heavy and possibly
dropped a thruster because he started spinning really weird
when he came off.
He bounced a bunch of times when he was trying to
leave the platform...
RADIO: Copy.
Which direction did he spin?
So it would have been his starboard thruster?
Checked it and said 1IN
We will find out, we’ll see!
Hungry!
I’m all ready for when they come.
Must be a busy job for you?
Very busy, it Is indeed.
It Is steady.
One meal just rolls MR PRR R e
And especially on dive days, it gets very busy.
But | wouldn’t have it any other way.
Really?
You like it better doing this than on land?
Oh, absolutely, 100%.
Every day is the excitement, is there a dive today,
are they going to make (R E G I R TS AN
who Is going down, when are they coming back?
So some days, like | said, are more challenging
than others but for the most part, every day is great.
Every day is great.
For sure.
So this is like the very first measurement an oceanographer
would make from the site, TR RO R I
of the water throughout QR R O il
=[BT TRy temperature change.
The ocean is getting warmer, it is acidifying, we are seeing
much faster glacial melting, the ice sheets are melting,
there’s huge injections of fresh water that
EICE NGB
Having this kind of information from remote parts of the world
like this is really important to understand those changes.
And we’re going to be able to link this data
to all of the species we document through the video
and through the EDNA, so we can link these species
observations to the environmental conditions
they are found in.
EDNA stands for environmental DNA, and it is DNA that is left
in the environment by all the organisms living there.
You can imagine a fish swimming through the environment
is shedding skin cells and bodily fluids as it moves
around so all about leaves a hit of DNA behind
HBGLR-vilce
This expedition we are (e R T IR G R
bottles, which are hollow tubes with caps on them that can be
closed at particular depths to detect a sample,
and those bottles are attached R e e R
We do have communication with the sub while they are down
there but | don’t believe there R RO S
the bottle at the surface that is closed with the samples.
The first time | dove the sub, | said, "This is amazing,
NI R I {T experience, it is a totally
When you are in the sub, if you didn’t bring it
with you, nobody is bringing it to you.
The sounds are different, what you see is different,
and | thought, more people have to go in subs.
Ll AL |G LIG LS
On the way down we saw a layer RN e |
mesopelagic animals.
LR (G R GELITELS are bioluminescent, you get
flashes of light here and there all through the water column.
We were going very fast down, so it was very difficult to see
with the naked eye, but once in a while a critter went by.
Wow, that was beautiful.
As we went down through the water column it became
darker and darker until past 1,000 metres there are no
photons that get past that layer and it is pitch black.
SN R AR A L o] because for about 2.5 hours
we see nothing but darkness, and then all of a sudden
you see the floor come up to you, the ground come
up to you.
All of a sudden you see the earth come up to you,
and it does feel like it is coming up to you because you
are descending so quickly.
And so even before seeing any part of man-made material
of the ship, seeing the natural bottom of the ocean come up
at you was sort of spectacular, | mean, it was very exciting
just to see dirt and mud.
I LR RV O when you suddenly saw the sand
come up and we were just MBI R |
Seeing the pieces of WIS LI L]
All five of us in the submersible kind
of unofficially had this moment of silence
The first pieces | see looking out of the porthole
are pieces of coal.
And it didn’'t even connect that they were coal at first.
| thought they were just rocks.
And then someone in the sub said "Oh, look, there’s coal”.
And that is the moment that connected me to the humanness
of the Titanic, that people had shovelled this,
people had brought it RN s R r]s
during the sinking it just all spilled out.
And then we began to see other things, we saw a plate,
a big dinner plate just sitting there on its own,
then we saw a wash hand basin with a tap still attached.
We were only about 300 metres apparently from the wreck
at that stage.
| don’t know what is going on, | feel like...
Like what, like it’s thrusters?
Yeah, | don’t know what is going on.
We have a grid map that corresponds with the grid map
that topside has.
(AU CR:- Rl G ][ they tell us which square
TS TN
We had kind of a good idea which square we were in
but we had topside confirm that with us and give us a heading.
Is something wrong with my thrusters?
| am thrusting and nothing is happening.
Range...and bearing...two...
We will find cut.
| don’t recognise that mud out there, do you?
Here is the map!
No, | haven’t been here before.
Am | spinning?
Yes.
Now you are going north.
Oh, my God.
And Scott is Like, "Oh no, we have a problem”.
When we are thrusting forward, R R R R e
s thrusting back right now.
The only thing I can G TR R {0
| was thinking, "We’re not going to make it!"
UL ICRU CIETTe]e metres from Titanic
and although we are in the debris field, we can’t go
anywhere but go in circles.
When | am initiating thrust, | am turning.
L LR A B ]y on the platform.
Oh, God, no, don’t tell me we have to go to surface,
at 300 metres away from the Titanic.
at 300 metres away from the Titanic.
| had Covid a few years ago.
The first Covid, the nasty one, as they say.
And | found, | had lost 80kg RO CAFS S ORI
I had been keeping myself very fit and watching my diet.
One of the things I do is | box every day.
So usually | spend about two or three hours in the gym
but one of them is boxing for an hour, and | was running
| went to see a heart S AR TR
They did a myriad of tests and they found the Covid had
given me sarcoidosis in one of the ventricles in my heart.
So they decided | needed a pacemaker and a defibrillator
immediately, literally within 48 hours.
| went in on a Saturday, he allowed me back in the gym
three days later, and gave me the OK literally that week
People used to say to me, "Oh, you are doing your bucket
List", R NG R 2
No, it makes it more exciting, LR Rl A )
If | had ignored my symptoms R S R R
On the sticks now, the actual sticks, what is left and right?
The right stick, that’s forward, back, turn
left, turn right.
And when he goes forward, he is getting a turn.
Down and up.
1LY,
LGB D
They swapped out one of the IR AR LY
They swapped out one of the OO R LA
They swapped out one of the IS R LA
They swapped out one of the IO R LS AT ]
They swapped out one of the QIR LS AR LR G
thrusters. They put it on the o]
thrusters. They put it on the wrong way? | mean, it is
wrong way? | mean, itis unidirectional.
Yeah, it should be, but something happened.
Yeah, what he can do, so oh the controller
you have the up, down, left, right arrows, and you can set
them so that one was going LR AU L TR
the button, it would go forward.
1y
| hope he knows how to do this.
Hi Jerome.
Stockton on Wendy’s phone.
Just call me back if you got a chance, we’ve got a question.
We’re on the dive right now, just looking for a way to remap
It’s not going to be easy.
If we bring up a picture R R e PR =R st
LU R G press Y, press A, press B.
Yeah, except ut | don’t remember which one is
up and down.
It might be that he could go forward with left and right.
He’d only be able to turn one way, maybe.
Yeah, it would be interesting.
So If that Is the case, LN RS LY
14 G R I E L
When he goes to take a turn to the left, he is going to go
forward starboard, which would be reverse starboard.
It might work, yeah.
Yeah, left and right might be forward and back.
Huh, | don’t know.
Also tracked by 90 degrees.
Try turning right.
Then we go forward, do we?
Go forward, 77.
So
Right Is forward.
NN LR =N to write this down.
Right Is forward.
Great, live with it.
OK, just say rotate e aaa i
It’s a lot easier if you just rotate the controller and then
you’ve got it, because if right IR El e PR G R A o
And we were so happy that we figured it out
that we could just move forward, that we started
clapping going, "Yes, we can go!”
Piece of metal on the right.
Can you bring up more G IR T
One of the early pieces we ran e R R
Not sure what part of QR UG A SR
but you could see the really pretty colours in the painted
The pieces that were intact were pretty phenomenal
because we see colour at the bottom of this ocean.
This is definitely the most challenging piloting
I’ve ever done.
So, bear with me, guys.
N Rl sl A e [F3 8.
Good job, Scott.
N Rl sl A e [F3 8.
Yeah, you’re doing great!
It’s immensely exciting.
You never know what’s going to swim by.
| don’t see the wreckage.
NG
| lost my DVL, my altitude.
| see the wreck on sonar though.
How close are we to the Titanic?
Very close.
R G X
The bow should be visible.
If you guys see anything, you’ve got to let me know, OK?
Yeah, nothing yet.
We’re ten metres away from the bow.
LRS- A1 4
It might be on the right.
It’s gonna be on the right.
You’ve gotta rotate IR
Yes, yes, yes, rotate, rotate!
Bow, bow, bow, bow, bow!
Please send that message.
Oh, my God, you did it!
We are at the bow of the Titanic.
N DEEI QT R BT to make us get here,
Can’t believe it, in real life, it’s ginormous!
It’s really incredible.
I’m lost for words, actually, to be honest.
It’s that good, yes.
I’m just crying.
(W i d
Finally, made it.
How does it feel to get a lifelong dream?
Hard to explain.
Hard to put in words.
She is big.
| mean, to imagine how big she must have been,
there must be 20 feet NA AN RG]
And even like that, what you’re seeing is 20 feet high.
Amazing to realise that you are at Titanic.
It’s no longer a myth for me.
LN IR {1 LR IEIR R
You are so close to it that you can actually touch it.
VLEH BTG VR R G TR T e vy and you start slowly going up
and you can see every portal - some of them are open,
which is one of the things that people are amazed,
that the people left e & N
when all this was going on,
and you’re going up and up and up, and it seems endless.
Because The ship Is huge.
This was a fleating palace.
You can imagine the people walking up and down,
taking in the sun, N N N P (ol
We went down the side and captured the whole anchor.
There is the name of the Titanic on the anchor,
we were able to see that.
So this, sort of, nostalgic view, in a way, and also
a tragic view.
Imagine seeing nothing and then, lights turn
on and you see an entire skyscraper
RGBT RIS T W AR ANy
There is no words to encapsulate the feeling of it.
Seeing the scale of the Titanic is what anchored me
into the realness of that night, of the numbers of lives
Bottom time expired, return.
Then we finally started leaving the site.
It was a sad moment for me RO R R
It was so short, that the time went by so quick.
I’m gonna tell them...
RADIO: INAUD 1A
It’s an incredible experience.
You are in this capsule, just like a spacecraft,
with your other four travellers, and you go
through it and when you come R RN RO S A
the dome, it is just R LA
QISR G of a sudden, you are back
on planet Earth.
Sl A
How are you doing, Jaden?
Hey!
Oh, my gosh.
What a trip.
It feels like I’ve left Earth AN S G OTGIL ]
It feels incredible, thank you.
NGRS CR - R -
In the debris field.
So, we’ve got two samples from the site.
Which makes me happy.
5,800 metres.
There is enough pressure to break the cups.
That’s pretty good.
ILF
Everybody kind of started to go out, and | was trying
to gather myself.
The ship even blew the horn, which was fantastic.
And once | saw Stockton, | started crying.
Happy tears!
Happy tears.
1T
One less dream. Are you crying?
It was like a weight lifted off my shoulders.
| needed to do that to feel complete.
And | feel now complete.
We got it done.
We got it done.
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and fun
-- and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, It’ll be dry,
there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree also
higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower
here and there - cloud may just start to increase
across eastern Scotland, North East England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
I’m Lucy Grey.
Our top stories:
Gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison
in Iran’s capital, Tehran.
State media reports at least eight people are injured.
As the UK’s Prime Minister fights for her job,
the new Chancellor signals he’ll make major changes
to her economic policy.
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead, difficult
decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
=RV LT T G o and I’m going to be asking
all government departments to find additional efficiency
savings.
China’s President Xi Jinping is expected to be given a third
term in office at the Communist Party Congress.
Santiago sees the return ARGV LIER e
after a three-year gap IR Net e e E il IEH
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
We begin in Iran, where RO R R
blazing at Evin prison RO R CHIELE
Hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals
are held in the prison, as well as many protesters
arrested during the past R R R
around the country.
Officials say that eight people have been injured,
and that the situation is now under control.
But recent videos posted online R GRS (WG
and gunfire and sirens Nl
In a tweet the US State Department says:
Jared Genser is a lawyer representing Siamak Namazi
who is a jailed Iranian-American, whose family
say they haven’t heard from him.
We haven’t had contact with him since word came out
about the clashes, gunfire, explosions, etc.
We have no idea where he is or how he is doing
and we would call on the government of Iran
to immediately enable him to call his family
Would you normally be able to speak to him
when you want to? What is contact Like ?
Ordinarily prisoners in Evin prison, if they’re not
being held by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards,
are able to make daily phone & (R R G R
There are certain hours you can make phone calls and late
in the evening, INAUDIBLE, but in the circumstances
of this case, after being sent back to prison after his
one-week, first furlough since his conviction
more than seven years ago, we would urge the government
R RE to let him call his family
as quickly as possible.
| see that the governor of Tehran has been inside
the prison and said (RNl oA L]us
criminals and that IS NG ENETT
What have you heard about what happened inside the prison?
I know nothing more than what everyone else has
heard from public (L gdip
Clearly, what Iran authorities are saying are inaccurate.
L EICREICRS AR {5 burning and gunshots,
as you reported, (WL
| believe what | see with my own eyes, not
what the government of Iran tell me.
The only way to show that Siamak Namazi is OK
B YGILG R R R GRS LR
with his family.
There are several dual nationals in the prison.
| wonder if that will impact how the authorities respond
to events in the prisen. Do you think it would?
I’m worried about what’s going on because all communications
have been cut off from the prison to all different
oLl N R G LR R [ TN LR R .
If things were as calm and straightforward and clear
as authorities claim, why wouldn’t they allow contact
to prisoners, if there is nothing going on,
and let prisoners make calls, INAUDIBLE, that everything
is fine, yet no prisoners are making phone calls out
of there and makes me very concerned that something
more could be going on.
Right now we have no idea.
JEIGD
Jared Genser there.
Well the prison fire appears N R R T 4 I
event since demonstrations began last month.
They were sparked by the death in custody of a young woman
detained for allegedly not wearing her hijab correctly.
More protests have taken place in several cities
across the country as the BBC’s Duncan Kennedy reports.
This is Ardabil, north-west of Tehran, where protesters
have started using rocks to take
on the authorities.
Some are shouting, "Death to the supreme leader.”
A slogan heard a lot R e d e
LSRRl YT N RN
RGN R O [ L
to have the upper hand.
The Iranian government YR el
control of the media, but using a variety
of techniques, N R e
a total of 45 people, including children, who have
died since the protests began.
Many of the demonstrations are still being driven by young
It’s nearly a month since these protests began
following the death in police custody of a 22-year-old woman.
Duncan Kennedy, BBC News.
US President Joe Biden has just been speaking about events
in Iran. Here’s what he said.
The Uranian government is so IR
The Uranian government is so oppressive. Can’t have anything
oppressive. Can’t have anything but an
oppressive. Can’t have anything NN Te e laa i Y
oppressive. Can’t have anything S AN e e 1aa it T e s 00a1d
oppressive. Can’t have anything but an enormous amount of
but an enormous amount of (3J:ud
but an enormous amount of e
but an enormous amount of respect for those people in the
respect for those people in the e
Yol T R (R G R R G [ R )
Yol T R (R G R R G [ R R O]
Yol T R (R G R R G [ streets. | have to admit,
Yol T R (R G R R G [ S R i T |
Yol T R (R G R R G [ streets. | have to admit, | was
streets. | have to admit, | was N
streets. | have to admit, | was surprised, not by the response.
surprised, not by the response. | was
surprised, not by the response. R TR 0]
surprised, not by the response. R TR I R
surprised, not by the response. R TR -G e A )
surprised, not by the response. | was surprised by the courage
| was surprised by the courage of
| was surprised by the courage IR G
| was surprised by the courage IR G
| was surprised by the courage of people and women taking the
of people and women taking the GO
of people and women taking the IR L)
of people and women taking the streets, taking off their
streets, taking off their YT e 1a
streets, taking off their headscarves._ It’s
streets, taking off their LI R TV
streets, taking off their headscarves. It’s really been
headscarves. It’s really been kYR
headscarves. It’s really been EluEr L v 6
headscarves. It’s really been amazing. It’s really been
amazing. It’s really been kYR
amazing. It’s really been amazing. But they are not a
amazing. But they are not a L)
amazing. But they are not a LGN
amazing. But they are not a good group, the government.
We can now speak to Hadi Ghaemi, founder of the Centre
for Human Rights in Iran.
He joins us from New York.
Good of you do, the programme. T4
Good of you do, the programme. IEL SN
Good of you do, the programme. Thank you. | understand that
Thank you. | understand that you
Thank you. | understand that RN
Thank you. | understand that you have close friends in this
you have close friends in this N
you have close friends in this prison. Have
IV LN R L R R 1 prison. Have you had a word
prison. Have you had a word FYe L
prison. Have you had a word YR ]
prison. Have you had a word about how they are? Thank you
about how they are? Thank you e
about how they are? Thank you LI =N
about how they are? Thank you I RV L T
about how they are? Thank you for having me. No, we don’t
for having me. No, we don’t [SE)
for having me. No, we don’t have much information. And
have much information. And I
have much information. And there are many
have much information. And OCEICRUEI A e E
there are many prominent political prisoners, including
political priseners, including )
political prisoners, including the internationally
political prisoners, including AN GO A A
the internationally renowned T a3
the internationally renowned TR s
the internationally renowned directors in there, and the
directors in there, and the country’s
directors in there, and the LT E R )
directors in there, and the country’s top sociologist,
country’s top sociologist, journalists, there are just so
journalists, there are just so many people who have been
many people who have been il
many people who have been iR e
many people who have been iR ]
many people who have been confined there. In addition
many people who have been R - TR AT sl iafe e R a e
confined there. In addition to hundreds of
DT RGNl R hundreds of protesters who
confined there. In addition to hundreds of protesters who have
hundreds of protesters who have TR e
hundreds of protesters who have R e S
hundreds of protesters who have been detained and taken there.
been detained and taken there. I
been detained and taken there. IRl
been detained and taken there. And in addition, thousands of
And in additien, thousands of O
And In addition, thousands of ordinary prisoners,
And In addition, thousands of ordinary priseners, so there
And In addition, thousands of ordinary prisoners, so there is
ordinary prisoners, so there is Y
ordinary prisoners, so there is A
ordinary prisoners, so there is A
ordinary prisoners, so there is a lot of concern
ordinary prisoners, so there is TRl R A e g R el e
ordinary prisoners, so there is a lot of concern what is
a lot of concern what is happening there. The lawyer we
happening there. The lawyer we ey
happening there. The lawyer we Y4
happening there. The lawyer we were just hearing from who has
were just hearing from who has Y
were just hearing from who has el s 4
were just hearing from who has a client at
were just hearing from who has N T )
were just hearing from who has a client at the jail was saying
a client at the jail was saying that prisoners
a client at the jail was saying O N LIRS
a client at the jail was saying that prisoners aren’t being
that prisoners aren’t being allowed
that prisoners aren’t being TSR]
that prisoners aren’t being allowed to make any phone
allowed to make any phone =8
allowed to make any phone = R i F
allowed to make any phone calls. Is that your
allowed te make any phone calls. Is that your experience
calls. Is that your experience as
calls. Is that your experience TRk
calls. Is that your experience as well? well, yes and no.
as well? Well, yes and no. A
as well? Well, yes and no. I ]
as well? Well, yes and no. Some, in one particular ward,
Some, in one particular ward, Ty
Some, in one particular ward, have been
Some, in one particular ward, R T
Some, in one particular ward, have been able to
Some, in one particular ward, N T ML R e
Some, in one particular ward, N TN R R ]
Some, in one particular ward, N N I N RN R s s
have been able to make ten or 20
have been able to make ten or iRl G
have been able to make ten or 22nd calls to their family to
22nd calls to their family to Y-\
22nd calls to their family to say they
22nd calls to their family to A GV
22nd calls to their family to say they are OK, but that’s
say they are OK, but that’s just
say they are OK, but that’s PRI
say they are OK, but that’s just one particular
say they are OK, but that’s TS N E I FIRE R
say they are OK, but that’s just one particular ward. There
Just one particular ward. There are
Just one particular ward. There UG
just one particular ward. There are many wards in the and we
are many wards in the and we Py
are many wards in the and we are hearing very contradictory
are hearing very contradictory (Tl ]g e
are hearing very contradictory reports about what
are hearing very contradictory (LA I
are hearing very contradictory reports about what is really
reports about what is really concerning is
reports about what is really W IR 1)
reports about what is really concerning is the amount of
concerning is the amount of I 0N
concerning is the amount of I T
concerning is the amount of gunshots. Why are they shooting
gunshots. Why are they shooting )
gunshots. Why are they shooting so much? And then residence in
so much? And then residence in )
so much? And then residence in the nearby neighbourhood are
the nearby neighbourhood are telling
the nearby neighbourhood are LGP
the nearby neighbourhood are telling us that people are out
telling us that people are out protesting and security forces
protesting and security forces L
protesting and security forces LG
protesting and security forces going after them. So honestly,
going after them. So honestly, Tehran tonight looks like a war
Tehran tonight looks like a war )
Tehran tonight looks like a war zone and it’s
Tehran tonight looks like a war NI R SR8
Tehran tonight looks like a war zone and it’s very troubling.
zone and it’s very troubling. e
zone and it’s very troubling. LR NG
zone and it’s very troubling. L NG
zone and it’s very troubling. The governor of Tehran spoke to
The governor of Tehran spoke to I
The governor of Tehran spoke to state TV from
The governor of Tehran spoke to R RL AT
The governor of Tehran spoke to R LA AT
The governor of Tehran spoke to state TV from inside the prison
state TV from inside the prison and
state TV from inside the prison Y
state TV from inside the prison IR )
state TV from inside the prison and he said that a
state TV from inside the prison R LR Rl )
state TV from inside the prison and he said that a ride by
and he said that a ride by prisoners and
and he said that a ride by NN
and he said that a ride by prisoners and a wing housing
prisoners and a wing housing iy
prisoners and a wing housing S AnInEl
prisoners and a wing housing petty criminals has
prisoners and a wing housing AN E I
prisoners and a wing housing AN R I R
petty criminals has been put down and a prisoner is
down and a prisoner Is W] Y-8
down and a prisoner Is WGV N
down and a prisoner Is W L R %)
down and a prisoner is QGRS L R L E A
down and a prisoner is completely calm. That is not
completely calm. That is not vty
completely calm. That is not T -]
completely calm. That is not what the people on the ground
what the people on the ground and
what the people on the ground R )
what the people on the ground and the videos coming out are
and the videos coming out are showing.
and the videos coming out are L
and the videos coming out are showing. Of course, for the
showing. Of course, for the I3
showing. Of course, for the (EIR g
showing. Of course, for the past hour are
showing. Of course, for the [E A TR )
showing. Of course, for the [ER A IR R
showing. Of course, for the past hour are kind of dying off
past hour are kind of dying off e
past hour are kind of dying off dl
past hour are kind of dying off but | think we have to wait for
but I think we have to wait for )
but I think we have to wait for ]
but | think we have to wait for the sun to
but | think we have to wait for AR R
but | think we have to wait for the sun to rise to see the
the sun to rise to see the e
the sun to rise to see the I
the sun to rise to see the extent of damage and loss of
extent of damage and loss of life, especially. | would not
life, especially. | would not 14
life, especially. | would not put a
life, especially. | would not I I
life, especially. | would not R R
life, especially. | would not put a dime of trust in what the
put a dime of trust in what the government of Iran tells us.
government of Iran tells us. 57
government of Iran tells us. IS
government of Iran tells us. LGS
government of Iran tells us. They have been lying non-stop
They have been lying non-stop ()]
They have been lying non-stop S0 )|
They have been lying non-stop stop | want to point
They have been lying non-stop SO RRL IR R e
They have been lying non-stop stop | want to point out that
stop | want to point out that Y
stop | want to point out that we have some massacres and high
we have some massacres and high e
we have some massacres and high school girls killed on the
school girls killed on the I IR
school girls killed on the campus. He just reported from
campus. He just reported from )
campus. He just reported from X8
campus. He just reported from GRS A
campus. He just reported from ORI AR el
campus. He just reported from R AR S R GGV
the city of Ardabil yesterday TV Y-y
the city of Ardabil yesterday YW
the city of Ardabil yesterday where a schoolgirl was
where a schoolgirl was NG IR )
where a schoolgirl was murdered. We are seeing
murdered. We are seeing children, up
murdered. We are seeing G R
murdered. We are seeing children, up to 30 killed on
children, up to 30 killed on )
children, up to 30 killed on R
children, up to 30 killed on the street, and hundreds of
the street, and hundreds of high school kids have been
high school kids have been kidnapped and
high school kids have been LN LRI
high school kids have been kidnapped and are being kept in
kidnapped and are being kept in unknown locations are known to
unknown locations are known to e
unknown locations are known to I R
unknown locations are known to QI )
unknown locations are known to QI R RG]
unknown locations are known to QR E I R R U
their parents. So this Is %1\
their parents. So this Is I VAGTY
their parents. So this Is really the government
their parents. So this is really the government of Iran
really the government of Iran declaring war on citizens from
declaring war on citizens from vty
declaring war on citizens from T R )
declaring war on citizens from N R 1)
declaring war on citizens from what we are seeing. It is
what we are seeing. It is extraordinary in the face of
extraordinary in the face of vty
extraordinary in the face of e
extraordinary in the face of what is happening, the people
what is happening, the people Py
what is happening, the people il
what is happening, the people are still turning
what is happening, the people EICES U (RO LE T
what is happening, the people are still turning out, they are
are still turning out, they are still taking
G T T o TV i [ 1 still taking to the streets and
still taking to the streets and people are saying that these
people are saying that these (-1
people are saying that these I I
people are saying that these protests are different, aren’t
UG ST I T G
UG ST I T QA
[ TN Ty T R VR LRTT
[ TN Ty T R they? Do you think that the
they? Do you think that the Chnly
they? Do you think that the regime is genuinely challenged,
regime is genuinely challenged, o[
regime is genuinely challenged, R
regime is genuinely challenged, do you think that real change
do you think that real change could actually happen? | cannot
could actually happen? I cannot predict that
could actually happen? | cannot predict that but | can
could actually happen? | cannot eI R G AR LR
predict that but | can say that,
predict that but | can say IRt}
predict that but | can say IR it LU
predict that but | can say that, from all indications, the
that, from all indicatiens, the beginning
that, from all indications, the beginning and the end of the
beginning and the end of the Islamic republic has happened.
Islamic republic has happened. ey
Islamic republic has happened. Y i)
Islamic republic has happened. Y R la i)
Islamic republic has happened. Y R R ]
Islamic republic has happened. What the time one would be, we
What the time one would be, we R4
What the time one would be, we RO
What the time one would be, we don’t know, but the people
don’t know, but the people 1R
don’t know, but the people don’t seem to
don’t know, but the people R RT iRl ]
don’t know, but the people NN MR R RV
don’t know, but the people don’'t seem to be ready at
don’'t know, but the people don’t seem to be ready at all
don’t seem to be ready at all to
don’t seem to be ready at all [
don’t seem to be ready at all R
don’t seem to be ready at all to go back, and every crime
to go back, and every crime that
to go back, and every crime OEI
to go back, and every crime that gets known, especially the
that gets known, especially the death
that gets known, especially the )
that gets known, especially the LRI GRS R
that gets known, especially the death of young teenage girls,
death of young teenage girls, s
death of young teenage girls, is inflaming the population.
is inflaming the population. )
is inflaming the population. There is a lot of
is inflaming the population. IR XA E L
is inflaming the population. There is a lot of rage and you
There is a lot of rage and you R4
There is a lot of rage and you AR
There is a lot of rage and you R )
There is a lot of rage and you don’t see anyone defending the
don’t see anyone defending the government, really. That’s
government, really. That’s where
government, really. That’s R
government, really. That’s where you see the polarisation
where you see the polarisation N
where you see the polarisation R
where you see the polarisation R
where you see the polarisation of the power holders with guns
of the power holders with guns eI
of the power holders with guns IR )
of the power holders with guns versus the rest
of the power holders with guns AR N A
of the power holders with guns versus the rest of the
versus the rest of the population. OK, thank you for
population. OK, thank you for EIU]
population. OK, thank you for talking to us on BBC News,
talking to us on BBC News, thank you, Hardy Caimi, from
thank you, Hardy Caimi, from )
thank you, Hardy Caimi, frem )
thank you, Hardy Caimi, frem R e e
thank you, Hardy Caimi, frem RO R e Ela]
thank you, Hardy Caimi, frem the Centre for Human Rights
thank you, Hardy Caimi, from the Centre for Human Rights in
the Centre for Human Rights in Iran.
the Centre for Human Rights in IEh
the Centre for Human Rights in Iran. -- Hadi
the Centre for Human Rights in IEHEEER EL IR e e
China’s Communist Party congress is getting under way
in Beijing, with President X Jinping expected to start
his speech shortly.
In a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely
to hand Mr Xi a third term as party chief.
It paves the way for him to become the most powerful
leader since Mao Zedong.
Our correspondent, Celia Hatton, reports on how
he rose I
When he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he’d
become China’'s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
He was supposed to rule alongside these six other
But now, it’s clear that he’s reshaped the Communist Party,
the military and the government, so that he’s
at the top of it all.
Some call him the chairman RSO
So, how did he do 1t?
How did he become so powerful?
He started out with a bold vision - the China Dream.
It unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed
rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed
to revitalise the whole country.
And through viral RTaG R RO
a visit to a Beijing steamed bun shop.
He cultivated a different image for himself, making sure
everyone in China knew NS I L LT A
as the top leader.
He reorganised the military, too.
By ousting hundreds of generals LR ETR RGN R GG
allies, he’s firmly in control.
And let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption
crackdown.
This man, Zhou Yongkang, is the former top security
chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion
in ill-gotten gains.
More than a millien party officials have been punished
under Xi, silencing all rivals.
The campaign’s popular with the public, but it’s
Xi Is at the top of his game but he faces serious challenges
- China’s economy is suffering under tight Covid restrictions
and he’s made quite a few MR R -
China watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate
any responsibilities, sharing the power -
Celia Hatton, BBC News.
Frank Tsai Is the Founder of China Crossroads.
| asked him whether he was expecting any major changes
in policy to be announced during the congress.
Well, I’m here in Shanghal and | can tell you what it
feels like on the ground here so, you know, we’re very
excited in China about Xi’s speech coming up in two hours.
You know, we’re greatly affected, partly because,
you know, we were looking RN E e R B U
which affects our lives greatly.
You know, just recently, O CEUE LTl 4
in cases in Shanghai - E[ I O F
and there’ve been more lockdowns of buildings,
no doubt due to worry about the party Congress and,
you know, don’t want LRG]S
There have been forced closing of bars, more moderating
on social media and innocuous articles deleted, and also
an interesting rumour and | think INAUDIBLE revealing
Covid case counts may have been lowered intentionally
by the government so as to not cause embarrassment and this
may imply a big uptick or lockdown after the party
N DI R
Well, Chinese officials have said they won’t be lifting
the Covid restrictions, haven’t they, speaking ahead
of this conference?
In terms of the ecenomic impact of these Covid restrictions,
are people more generally blaming President Xi for that?
Yeah, | can tell you that that’s an important part
to look for in this coming week - language and economic growth
versus sustainability and common prosperity.
You know, right now, we are forecast to only have
5.2-3.3% growth in China, which is very, very
Another thing to look for, too, is, you know, all the rumours
say that there’ll be no change on zero Covid,
that the party will continue to double down.
Of course, it’s put its entire credibility in Xi Jinping
personally and this is the premiere time to talk
about this because this party congress should be seen
as a statement - the party RN R A R A
and goals.
Kind of like - it’s not like election season in the UK
or the US, it’s more like a party convention platform.
It’s only a one-party state, right?
So in China, the party is INAUDIBLE the state legally
and historically - unlike in the US, UK
NG e e e
Turning to foreign policy, then, President Xi has been
SRS TP R R N recently, talking about Taiwan
and the reunification, as he called it, and saying how
How serious a threat is that in terms of any sort
of military invasion?
Well, in previous party documents, the language got
stronger and stronger on Taiwan.
You know, that’s kind of not very easy to predict INAUDIBLE
Asia or not but certainly R LR G A
we want China unified by 2049, the 100th anniversary
of the founding of the country.
You know, for today’s speech and the next week,
there’s a couple things I think we should be looking for,
especially you in the West, what’s relevant to you.
Number one, look for language suggesting more
concentration of power.
Of course, he’s getting his third term as general
secretary, almost certainly third term as president next
yedr.
He has been affirmed as the INAUDIBLE leader
In party documents.
Number two - very important S RN e da
be an appointed successor.
So, back in 2017, there was INAUDIBLE successor
and if there’s not one now, we may fear in the future some
political instability e R IR
I -I3T Il el F o0
He may die, he may get ill - all these kinds of things.
And finally - and | think and probably most ignored
but important - you know, will Xi Jinping’s own thought
be written in the party charter as Xi Jinping thought,
equalling him to Mao Zedong thought?
It will be a huge signal he is the premier leader,
on par with Mao Zedong in Chinese history.
on par with Mao Zedong in Chinese history.
And just a note - this charter that he’ll be talking
about and which will be revised AU R R U R LG
the Chinese state constitution.
It’s a statement of its own missions and goals.
You know, you at BBC might have a mission statement.
This is @ mission statement, this is the vision of
the Communist Party of China and we’ll be hearing about it
R ol
TR TR e L Jeremy Hunt, has indicated
there’ll be major changes R AT e N Yo e lst e
strategy.
In a round of interviews with broadcasters on Saturday,
Mr Hunt said mistakes had been made by the government
and warned of what he called "very difficult decisions”
He suggested taxes could rise to help restore market
confidence, and also talked about spending cuts.
Mr Hunt was appointed after the Prime Minister
sacked his predecessor, Kwasi Kwarteng.
Here’s our political correspondent, Ben Wright.
Congratulations, Mr Chancellor!
The fourth Chancellor in as many months.
Jeremy Hunt’s job now 3R ELLETO Y
calm financial markets.
He has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk
many of the Prime Minister’s signature policies.
On Wednesday, Liz Truss said she was absolutely not planning
public spending cuts.
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead, difficult
decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
=RV LT T G o and I’m going to be asking
all government departments to find additional efficiency
savings.
ILF
That’s going to be...
One person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
Yes.
During the Tory leadership contest, Liz Truss said
the country couldn’t tax its way to economic
growth, but now...
We’re also going to have TR R U R A
Taxes are not going to come down by as much as people
hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
Then, there was the Prime Minister’s pledge to boost
defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
But the defence department, too, is going to have
to help find efficiencies.
The long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending
will depend on stability in the economic situation
=R R T G TV growing economy.
Spending cuts and tax rises is not what Liz Truss planned
when she entered Number 10 last month, but the economic
and political turmoil that followed her first Chancellor’s
mini Budget has forced a fundamental rethink,
plunging her premiership RGN R
1y
Yesterday, the smiles had gone and the Prime Minister’s
appearance in Number 10 did little to convince her Tory
party critics that she is up to the job.
Some believe her future now hinges on the Chancellor’s
budget at the end of this month.
If that package doesn’t S SR
are still reacting all over the place, then | think
she IS In considerable trouble.
She’s admitted mistakes N R R )
mistakes and puts them right, then I think
she could conceivably get beyond this.
But | emphasise could, because | think it all depends
on that financial statement MEOEERIGRE A e
The opposition said the Prime Minister’s government
was now clinging on.
IS GLR ST EL1e the British economy,
they also clung on.
Clung on as they made the pound sink, clung
on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse,
clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills
of the British public QI RO RS
They did all of this.
Questions?
Liz Truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this
turmoil will subside, A GRS R E T e
R a I SN el A
SR T LUV ol ] mad to try and oust
the Prime Minister already.
Others say keeping her in place would be worse.
Rebuilding her political SO ARG G X
Ben Wright, BBC News.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews and closed
entertainment venues as it tries to stop
the spread of Ebola.
The measures, which will last for three weeks initially,
also include the closing s IR e s Mt ey T e
into and out of the areas affected has been prohibited.
19 people have so far died from the disease.
There have been large protests in the Tunisian capital
against President Kais Saied, denouncing him as an autocrat
who’s reversing the democratic progress in the country.
Mr Saied took on full executive power last year,
but protestors say there’s been ne improvement
in living standards.
One man has died and two others are missing in Greece
after torrential rain caused flash flooding
on the island of Crete.
Emergency workers say the victim had become trapped
LThLIEE
Local media are reporting extensive damage in seaside
villages, where streets have been inundated with water.
Residents have been urged RN T i ol
Russia’s defence ministry says that 11 people were killed
and 15 more wounded at a military training ground
when two citizens of an ex-Soviet state opened fire
on trainees during an exercise.
The authorities described the incident in the Belgorod
region as a terrorist act.
Those killed were described YR I e e R L)
to fight for Russia in Ukraine.
Russia’s defence ministry said the assailants were shot dead.
Elon Musk says his Starlink satellite company will continue
to provide internet to Ukraine for free, despite threatening
to start charging RO
Ukraine has described Starlink as vital, saying it helped
the country survive critical moments during the Russian
V&3 )
For more on this about-turn, RN G NG
Three, two, one. Zero, Ll hN
Three, two, one. Zero, Lol IS
Three, two, one. Zero, ignition. Lift-off. Elon Musk’s
ignition. Lift-off. Elon Musk’s Starlink satellites launching
Starlink satellites launching in 2019, his bed
Starlink satellites launching PRI L R
Starlink satellites launching in 2019, his bed to provide
in 2019, his bed to provide el ls=TaTs|
in 2019, his bed to provide broadband arcund
in 2019, his bed to provide broadband around the
in 2019, his bed to provide broadband arocund the world.
in 2019, his bed to provide L E IR T R R e e s
broadband around the world. A few
broadband around the world. A A1)
breadband around the world. A few years later, it will become
few years later, it will become critical
few years later, it will become fagiale: 1R
few years later, it will become ragiie: R R
few years later, it will become critical to the Ukrainian war
critical to the Ukrainian war e
critical to the Ukrainian war iR
critical to the Ukrainian war i R LR E IS
critical to the Ukrainian war 1 R R L R {0010
effort. The company’s 3000 stations in
effort. The company’s 3000 RN RN R
effort. The company’s 3000 ARG R k]
effort. The company’s 3000 RN RN R B ae]i 8
stations in the wealth orbit have been crucial to
have been crucial to communications by
have been crucial to T A S
have been crucial to communications by trips for the
communications by trips for the past eight months as they
past eight months as they monhitor
past eight months as they e aIe e A s ]
past eight months as they monitoer Russian movements. But
monitor Russian movements. But ]
monitor Russian movements. But on Friday, a
monitoer Russian movements. But on Friday, a different battle
on Friday, a different battle Ty
on Friday, a different battle was raging.
on Friday, a different battle IR LI
on Friday, a different battle was raging. Mr Musk said his
was raging. Mr Musk said his company
was raging. Mr Musk said his S = A1)
was raging. Mr Musk said his company could no longer provide
company could no longer provide )
company could no longer provide RS
company could no longer provide the service, suggesting the
the service, suggesting the Pentagon to
the service, suggesting the DR R e T
the service, suggesting the Pentagon to cover the alleged
Pentagon to cover the alleged $20
Pentagon to cover the alleged L R i E
Pentagon to cover the alleged Y RIS E]
Pentagon to cover the alleged LR R aids]
Pentagon to cover the alleged $20 million a month into that
$20 million a month into that N
$20 million a month into that TR
$20 million a month into that o1 (Y IR VT2
$20 million a month inte that bill. So, why the sudden
bill. So, why the sudden change? It all seemed to start
change? It all seemed to start Y
change? It all seemed to start when he weighed in on Ukraine’s
when he weighed in on Ukraine’s G E1sY
when he weighed in on Ukraine’s military strategy. He asked
military strategy. He asked Twitter
military strategy. He asked I ey
military strategy. He asked I IR e
military strategy. He asked IR AL
military strategy. He asked Twitter users if it should
Twitter users if it should accept territorial losses,
C[ee IO Rl kIR -L) including
accept territorial losses, including Crimea, in the
including Crimea, in the NI A
including Crimea, in the R ]
including Crimea, in the interest of a peaceful end to
interest of a peaceful end to )
interest of a peaceful end to the war.
interest of a peaceful end to R o
interest of a peaceful end to R CI R L
interest of a peaceful end to R EI R LR e
interest of a peaceful end to R LI R R R e
interest of a peaceful end to the war. It was not welcomed by
the war. It was not welcomed by GG
the war. It was not welcomed by Volodymyr Zelensky
the war. It was not welcomed by T I L U S
the war. It was not welcomed by Volodymyr Zelensky or Ukrainian
Volodymyr Zelensky or Ukrainian ambassadors, including one who
ambassadors, including one who tweeted
ambassadors, including one who L]
ambassadors, including one who tweeted a profanity, saying it
tweeted a profanity, saying it 3
tweeted a profanity, saying it 3G
tweeted a profanity, saying it is my very diplomatic reply to
is m yw-y A\ sty L d o =Tl VAL
is my very diplomatic reply to T
is my very diplomatic reply to VIR LTI o}
is my very diplomatic reply to you. In pulling his internet
you. In pulling his internet services,
you. In pulling his internet UL
you. In pulling his internet AL L T 4
you. In pulling his internet services, Mr Musk said he was
services, Mr Musk said he was just following the
just following the recommendation. Now, though,
recommendation. Now, though, )
recommendation. Now, though, the world’s
recommendation. Now, though, R R o ]
recommendation. Now, though, R R R R e
recommendation. Now, though, the world’s richest man has had
the world’s richest man has had T e
the world’s richest man has had another change of heart and
the world’s richest man has had N GG ER LR G R
another change of heart and in T e
GG ER DR R Ta:L Rl R R A
GG ER DR R Ta:L Rl R A LTI
GG ER DR R Ta:L Rl AR A G
GG ER DR R Ta:L Rl R A IR R il
another tweet has said he will e e 418 )
another tweet has said he will e T
another tweet has said he will continue his support. For now
continue his support. For now 1
continue his support. For now e
continue his support. For now at least, Ukraine has one less
at least, Ukraine has one less TR
at least, Ukraine has one less EI iR ]
at least, Ukraine has one less battle to worry about.
Stephanie Prentice, BBC News.
The first European woman to command the International
Space Station has spoken TR R R e
GV ol e ETe g NG N R E A
Samantha Cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six
months conducting research.
The Italian astrenaut says her mission to the space
station is Likely e dr e
It was great to experience again the re-entry
into the atmosphere.
It’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
I’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones
and my family, so | look forward to spending
CHOERE R R Y R OR G
| mean, it’s a bittersweet B
I’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also
bittersweet to say goodbye R R A L P A UG
in space, most likely TR A E -
We are in the process of selecting a new class
N GG
The coronavirus pandemic brought much of the world
But now, as Covid-19 fades somewhat into the background,
things are beginning el RN s E .
In Chile, a popular event making a comeback
| should tell you Tim Allman’s report contains a lot
of make-up, but no real blood.
After three years, the walking AR
After three years, the walking dead have risen once more.
dead have risen once more. R
dead have risen once more. T
dead have risen once more. Y (L T T (A
dead have risen once more. Well, not really. Instead, a
Well, not really. Instead, a e
Well, not really. Instead, a i
Well, not really. Instead, a lot of people dressed up as
lot of people dressed up as zombies
lot of people dressed up as IR g
lot of people dressed up as zombies for a
lot of people dressed up as USRI RI G IR
zombies for a sloping, staggering stroll
zombies for a sloping, SELL ORI (TG
staggering stroll around Santiago. TRANSLATION: It is an
Santiage. TRANSLATION: It is an T
Santiago. TRANSLATION: It is an 0]
Santiago. TRANSLATION: It is an AR R
Santiago. TRANSLATION: It is an AR R
Santiago. TRANSLATION: It is an AN R RN R s
Santiago. TRANSLATION: It is an event we used to do every year.
event we used to do every year. {04
event we used to do every year. TSI
event we used to do every year. But due to
event we used to do every year. I IR R
event we used to do every year. But due to the coronavirus, it
But due to the coronavirus, it Tl
But due to the coronavirus, it FhE -]
But due to the coronavirus, it had been suspended. A family
had been suspended. A family T
had been suspended. A family A R )
had been suspended. A family AR R I L
NIRRT T participates and
event where everyone participates and people show
participates and people show e
participates and people show ORI A
participates and people show their creativity. Zombie walks
their creativity. Zombie walks AR
their creativity. Zombie walks I Nk lo 4
their creativity. Zombie walks date back more than 20 years.
date back more than 20 years. S RG]
date back more than 20 years. Sometimes, they are for a good
Sometimes, they are for a good )
Sometimes, they are for a good |
Sometimes, they are for a good cause and sometimes, they are
cause and sometimes, they are e
cause and sometimes, they are T ]
cause and sometimes, they are TN
cause and sometimes, they are for no real cause at all,
for no real cause at all, YY1
for no real cause at all, o e
for no real cause at all, except for this
for no real cause at all, P IR RGN
for no real cause at all, IR AU NI
for no real cause at all, except for this one, of course!
except for this one, of course! TRANSLATION: | come because it
TRANSLATION: | come because it 3
TRANSLATION: | come because it RN
TRANSLATION: | come because it TR TR - 1s]
TRANSLATION: | come because it TR T R TN e Y
TRANSLATION: | come because it R TR TR R )
TRANSLATION: | come because it is fun. It’s fun because we can
is fun. It’s fun because we can wear
is fun. It’s fun because we can Y 1] -]
is fun. It’s fun because we can wear make up. TRANSLATION: We
wear make up. TRANSLATION: We came
wear make up. TRANSLATION: We ]
wear make up. TRANSLATION: We e R0
wear make up. TRANSLATION: We came here to get out of the
came here to get out of the old Al
came here to get out of the old A - s
came here to get out of the old AN LR
came here to get out of the old routine. And be a
came here to get out of the old AN LR R Al
came here to get out of the old routine. And be a kid again.
routine. And be a kid again. G
routine. And be a kid again. This carnival of glory make up
This carnival of glory make up and
This carnival of glory make up R eg s e )
This carnival of glory make up and indiscriminate groaning has
and indiscriminate groaning has ]
and indiscriminate groaning has R ]
and indiscriminate groaning has been replicated in plenty of
been replicated in plenty of e
been replicated in plenty of e
been replicated in plenty of other cities across the globe.
other cities across the globe. {04
other cities across the globe. But around
other cities across the globe. I Iee T e )
other cities across the globe. But around these parts, they
But around these parts, they il
But around these parts, they will tell you this one is
will tell you this one is oo |8
will tell you this one is special. A real chiller
will tell you this cne is special. A real chiller in
special. A real chiller in G
Tim Allman, BBC News.
- SaillaTe 018
el sl e e 0]
A reminder of our top story, )
A reminder of our top story, the United States as it
A reminder of our top story, RIS e L R A
the United States as it Is G}
the United States as it is ([Tl 1o ]
the United States as it is following report from Evan
following report from Evan g
following report from Evan PR
following report from Evan prison with urgency. The State
prison with urgency. The State Department that Iran was fully
Department that Iran was fully ]
Department that Iran was fully responsible for the safety of
responsible for the safety of e[
responsible for the safety of wrongly detained US citizens
wrongly detained US citizens who,
wrongly detained US citizens Y
wrongly detained US citizens LI IR
wrongly detained US citizens who, it said, should be
who, It said, should be AT
who, It said, should be released immediately. All from
released immediately. All from me for
released immediately. All from R g A
released immediately. All from R AR T
released immediately. All from me for now. You can catch on
me for now. You can catch on Twitter.
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy
and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree also
higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just
start to increase across eastern Scotland, North East
England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
A big fire has broken out at Evin prison in the Iranian
capital, Tehran, where hundreds of political priseners
and dozens of dual L EI I e
In videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be
AR R RGN ] TN e R
Britain’s new Chancellor of the Exchequer, Jeremy Hunt,
has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing
unfunded tax cuts last month and that very difficult
economic decisions would A RO R Ul
He’s promised to restore W C IR LR s
to public finances i d RO R nE
China’s Communist Party congress is getting under way
in Beijing, with President X Jinping due to start
his speech shortly.
Delegates are expected to hand Mr Xi a third term
FE g e[
It paves the way for him to become the most powerful
leader since Mao Zedong.
And those are your latest LI
The Governor of the Bank of England, Andrew Bailey,
has spoken to the new Chancellor, Jeremy Hunt,
and says there was a "clear meeting of minds”
on the importance of stability.
Now Mr Bailey has also warned of the possibility of higher
interest rates ahead, more than previously expected.
Our business correspondent, Marc Ashdown, has this
LRIV
All smiles launching the mini-Budget at the end of
September.
And with it a new political R O =
describing Liz Truss’s vision for a high growth,
high wage, low tax economy.
But just three weeks B P A e L)
Have you been given el NG Y4
Can you change elements of the mini Budget if you want to?
Yes.
And the fundamental thing RN NIRRT E T R T
to do and | need to do (R Y R S A I
with the country.
Trussenomics reversed, then.
Tax cuts likely replaced with tax rises, huge investment
replaced with a spending slowdown.
This rethink has largely been driven by the turmoil
in the financial markets since the mini-Budget was announced.
The pound has had a torrid time.
The effective cost of government borrowing has soared
and the Bank of England had to step in with an emergency
programme - buying up government bonds to stabilise
the pension sector.
There is a pressing need, PR R T
confidence and credibility.
Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey said he spoke
to the new Chancellor yesterday and had an immediate
meeting of minds.
But in a speech in Washington, he had this warning
ARG
We will not hesitate to raise R R RN
the inflation target.
And as things stand today, my best guess is that
inflationary pressures will require a stronger
response than we perhaps GG LY
Investors are expecting a rise of up to one percentage point
in November to 3.25%.
Most mortgage offers are currently already around
6%, but a bigger rise MBI N R i e
the economy elsewhere.
And even with a change of approach, the government’s
problems remain the same - how to find tens of billions
of pounds to help people G RGN A
and make the sums add up.
We’re certainly looking at a really tough couple of years.
We’ve got a very tough e et el ol e ilge e lat - Te @
We’ve got very stretched public finances.
| think we’re going to see some even further reversal
of the tax cuts that we’ve had and, in addition,
probably some very tight spending rounds.
The first verdict will come TR i E ok Bt a4
i I ARV &
| don’t expect a dramatic reversal, because the devil
will be in the detail.
And when we find out the detail of the Budget on the 31st
of October, that will be perhaps a more holistic
judgement being made by financial markets.
That’s a fortnight away - a long time in the life
Marc Ashdown, BBC News.
Now BBC News investigates a new trend on TikTok: Hundreds
of families in refugee camps in Syria, begging for gifts
on TikToek Livestreams.
There’s a new trend on TikTok.
Children in camps in Syria VLR X RN
They’re asking for TikTok gifts that can be withdrawn
FEN G N
But that money isn’t all going to them.
We’ve been following more than 300 accounts going live
on TikTok, trying to work out where that money is going.
TikTok has got a ferocious appetite for growth.
The longer that they spend on the platform, the more
revenue they generate.
How people living in desperate WIS R a1V
have the phones, internet R A & Tans a1
to go live...
TikTok Is creating an enabling an ecosystem that runs
on the exploitation of people’s suffering.
..and why so many of the donors come from the UK.
Over £1,000 would have been put in there and that to them
would have been a lot of money.
We’ve uncovered a network of companies around the world,
including agencies contracted by TikTok in China, all making
money off these displaced families.
Earlier this year, TikTok users in the UK began to notice
something different on the app.
Suddenly, their feeds were full AR R S ]
families living in tents asking for help.
This is the account I’ve been using to follow some of these
IEIIUET R I
And you can see here, all of these accounts
are live right now.
And actually, if you watch some SRR PR R LR
there’s a pattern.
The children seem to be saying the same kind of things.
They’re asking for likes and gifts.
And If you listen closely, sometimes you can hear there’s
a voice off-camera actually telling them what to say.
Over the past five months, we’ve been following hundreds
of TikTok accounts posting RN R A L
to find out who’s behind this trend.
A lot of them are displaced from their homes because
they’re destroyed, because of the war, of what’s...
The last ten years in Syria.
On TikTek, people started flagging them as scams.
I’m sick of scams on Live.
LI ELAl T R W] [T
Unacceptable.
We asked Mohammed, a journalist based in Syria, what he had
Mohammed recognised one RO R ORI
There are hundreds of camps RGN
More than two million AN LG U
forcibly displaced in Syria’s long-running civil war.
When Mohammed got there, he immediately found families
begging for gifts RV RTR
Mona’'s husband was Killed in an air strike._
She now lives with her six daughters.
Sharifa is blind in one eye and has partial sight
in the other.
For the past month, they’ve been going on TikTok Live.
It’s tiring work, but they have limited options to earn
a living in the camp and meet their basic needs.
Mona and her daughters go live for two or three hours
at a time, several times a day.
To go live on TikTok, you need at least 1,000 followers.
Then, when you’re live, users can send digital gifts
OB EI G R0 for content they like.
These gifts are bought with real money, ranging
from roses, which cost a few cents, to lions and universes,
which cost around $500 each.
The gifts are converted to a virtual currency that
you can withdraw as cash.
They’ve got a private jet.
That’s why they’re happy.
They’re really happy. They’re celebrating.
We wanted to find out how people who’ve lost everything
IR T R UV
The person filming Mona’s livestream is Hamid,
CLTOETCVRNTIR R G R[] DR G IR r o 4
to buy the phone.
Now, he works with 12 different families and he’s known
in the camp as FR A Y& ke D
Mohammed asked him how it all worked.
He says he does this to help the families make a living.
TikTok’s algorithm suggests content based on where your SIM
Rt lige i
Hamid told us he buys British SIM cards to get British
viewers, because he says they’re the most generous
gifters.
We found kiosks selling O IR U R
that explains why TikTok users in the UK had been seeing these
livestreams and even joining in.
Big up, my Syrian brother, man. Big up, my brother, man.
Thanks, Abdullah.
Let’s go. Let’s go.
There must have been about 50,000 people that came
on my Live, and the kids seemed so happy.
And even though the man had his legs blown off
and he had his arm blown off, he was the most positive quy
you could ever meet or speak to.
Keith used to be a professional rugby player and has nearly
a millien followers on TikTok.
He donated £300, around $350 in TikTok gifts,
to a family in Syria,
and he encouraged his T R e R Y
| love you.
| love you, thank you.
They was calling me 'Muscle Man’ and stuff
and he was going through Google Translate saying,
"My kids love you.
"They love your hair, love It.”
AU RISV LN T the energy was fantastic.
| probably think over £1,000 would have been put
in there and that, to them, would have been a lot of money.
We got the money!
We asked a charity in Syria about how children are being
The charity said it could help R G R LS
as an alternative to making money from TikTok Live.
Many families don’t receive a fair wage for their work
The first time Dokan went live, he says he wasn’t paid at all,
but he wanted to try again.
He was hoping to make money to pay for his
daughter’s heart surgery.
To find out how much people are spending on TikTok gifts,
we built a program to scrape data from TikTok livestreams.
We tracked dozens of accounts which said they were going live
ORI ER YD
The Lives we saw would sometimes make over $1,000
an hour in gifts.
But people like Dokan say they’re being paid less
than $1 an hour.
So, where’s all the money going?
We asked Hamid, who said TikTok middlemen are getting help
from agencies in China.
Hamid told us he was working with someone who goes
by the name Martha from an agency based in China.
We wanted to find out how these agencies were involved.
So, Mohammed in Syria contacted Martha, saying he lived
Inacamp.
The pictures Martha sent appear to show the offices
QR ELE L QR D T
Agencies like this are a growing part of TikTok’s
business strategy.
They’re independent, but they’re contracted
by TikTok to help TikTokers and TikTok itself make money
from livestreaming on the platform.
Our team in Syria heard of at least five different
agencies working with Syrian families in camps.
So, how much money do these agencies take
We spoke to a number of agencies who say they’re
paid by TikTok to bring livestreamers to the platform.
They told us the longer users NN LRG0
they earn, the more QDN A A E L
We were told by families and middlemen that TikTok takes
50-70% of profits from Live gifts and pays some
of that to agencies.
We asked TikTok about it, but they wouldn’t say how much.
The only way to find out was to try it for ourselves.
So, Mohammed kept chatting to Martha.
Martha set up an account for us and sent us the username
and password.
Then, we got an invitation to join an agency called Giant
Martha contacted us nearly every day, putting pressure
on us to go live.
TikTok’s terms and conditions say you can only go live
with more than 1,000 followers.
V[T T L ET [V four, but Martha said it
would work anyway.
So, Mohammed went to test TR et e Tl dla
of a camp near Idlib.
Let’s buy some coins.
Yep.
We bought $106 - around £90, in TikTok coins.
I’m going to call him and tell him to go
I’m going to call him and tell R YU
I’m going to call him and tell R AU TR
We joined the Live from London and used all our coins
to send him gifts.
We were the only ones on that R R
Yeah, go for it.
Then, Mohammed checked the balance of his account.
PRI L) ]
They’re taking 70%!
Next, Mohammed went to the local money transfer,
where TikTokers cash out their earnings.
The money transfer shop and the SIM card shop are part
of a new economy to help facilitate these transactions.
From the $106 we donated to Mohammed’s account,
TikTok took $73.
The money transfer took 10% of what we had left.
And Hamid told us TikTok middlemen take 35% of what’s
So from $106, Muhammad would have just over $19.
And often, the families we spoke to get much,
much less.
But in the camps, jobs IR e N R e
are few other options.
Kotaneh and her family sell scraps from the rubbish dump
for a Living.
It’s dangerous work, pays next to nothing,
and comes with many health risks.
They also go live on UL S AR O]
They have made money from TikTok, but they know
others are profiting RN R e
We showed the videos to a non-profit called
Access Now, that protects people’s rights online.
Of course, people have QR R T
and share their stories, share the miserable conditions
they’re living in, try to seek support and sympathy.
When | looked at TikTok’s website, they publicly state
that their number one AR R
that their community Is treated with fundamental dignity
CL N Ta LD R L BT saw is exactly the opposite
What responsibility does TikTok have towards these people,
these families, these children?
Well, TikTok has a responsibility under the UN
I [Rdal el 13 on Business and Human Rights.
It’s hard to see, first of all, how TikTok is ensuring
that the rights and dignity N RN at st s
s being ensured.
They state clearly that NI |
to solicit explicitly gifts.
So, this Is a clear violation of their own terms of services
- let alone, of course, the rights of those people.
Most of the accounts we followed regularly went live
LGEGIEL R LD [l T R
TikTok’s guidelines say, "We prohibit activities
"perpetuate the abuse, harm, endangerment,
"or exploitation AR Rl
We reported more than 30 accounts using children
for begging in the app to see what TikTok would
At the time, TikTok said there was no violation
for every single one of them LR R B R R R
Matt Navarra is a social media consultant and analyst.
Why do you think TikTok is placing so much emphasis
TikTok has got a ferocious appetite for growth,
like most social media platforms.
Livestreams inevitably pull people in for longer duration.
The longer that they spend on the platform, the more
revenue they generate for the business, the more
information they glean from its users in terms of how
WG I g T R 3
In your video, it’s obviously prolonging the pain
for somebody that already is in a desperate situation.
We wanted to put these allegations to TikTok and asked
them for an interview.
Instead, they gave us this statement:
TikTok said it removed the accounts that violated
its community guidelines RN e s ae:
with the agency Giant Mina.
We asked Giant MENA, but they didn’t respond.
As for TikTok, they told us they don’t take 70% of profits
from Live gifts, but they Gl e i let R R & s
amount or what commission they pay to agencies.
So, we repeated our experiment with accounts in the UK
and Syria that weren’t signed up to agencies,
and found that TikTok took just under 70% every time.
Most of TikTok’s downloads come from Apple’s App Store
and Google Play.
Both of these have codes of conduct that say apps that
facilitate the exploitation Rl le e 1 )
removed or rejected.
We asked them what they were doing about children begging
on TikTek, but neither Apple nor Google would comment
on our investigation.
Hi, how are you?
Welcome, welcome!
After all of our conversations WER R LR GRS
and I’m sitting here right outside their UK offices now -
I’m still finding videos like this - many, many videos
with children being used to beg for hours.
And it really makes me want to know what will it take
AL S RS CT R G on their platform?
We called Keith again to tell him what we had discovered.
We found that 70% of all of the money donated would have
gone straight into TikTok’s pockets.
Are you kidding me?
It’s very unfair - especially to them families
over in Syria.
You’ve got to have RN LU A
And, you know, to me, G EY RGN A
It’s greed, innit?
LI [Tl
Takaful Alsham said they would support the families we spoke
to with basic supplies for the next three months,
help the children find schools and pay for school expenses.
We asked them how people around the world could
Many people on TikTok are calling these livestreams
scams, but the struggles of the families we met
are very, very real.
People have donated hundreds of thousands
of dollars to them.
But the lion’s share lines R R RIS
and its agencies.
Whilst for these families in Syria, life continues
with no change in sight.
After a showery Saturday, Sunday is looking like a drier
day across much of the UK.
Still a few early showers in Northern England,
Northern Ireland, especially in Scotland, although these
are going to fade away, though still some in
the Northern Isles TR i g e ]
But for much of the UK AR AU LA
It’ll be dry with sunny spells.
Cloud increasing later in the afternoon across southern
England, perhaps south Wales, with uncertainty
about the speed of progression.
Some outbreaks of showery rain Sl R RN
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
I DA ST E S
Very wet in Northern Ireland during the evening.
Wet and windy weather sweeping north and east across the UK
overnight and into Monday morning.
Then on Monday, any early IR W R s
from South East England and East Anglia.
After a much milder start to the day, closer to the area
of low pressure on Monday, TG IR E
will see the strongest winds.
Further showers for Northern Ireland and Northern England
but particularly in Scotland B R I s - e etls 4
of the heaviest downpours, especially north of the central
Perhaps a degree or so higher, the temperature on Monday.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Lucy Grey.
Our top stories:
Gunshots are heard after a huge
fire breaks out at a prison RIELER MR CUIE LR
State media reports at least eight people are injured.
IR WERIC IR
This is live from Beijing as
LR LR i Ty R R RS
L ERER WA (R DR China’s Communist
L ERER WA (R DR China’s Communist Party
China’s Communist Party Congress
China’s Communist Party LI [
China’s Communist Party Congress is under way.
Congress is under way. President Xi Jinping is
President Xi Jinping is I )
President Xi Jinping is expected to secure a third term
expected to secure a third term in
expected to secure a third term L aA
Welcome to BBC News.
We begin in Iran, where a large fire has been blazing at Evin
prison in the capital Tehran.
Hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals
are held in the prison, as well as many protesters
arrested during the past R R R
around the country.
Officials say that eight people have been injured,
and that the situation is now under control,
but information is still trickling out of the country.
Well earlier | spoke to human rights activist
Sussan Tahmasebi who is also one of Iran’s foremost feminist
DS
| asked what she had learned about what’s happening in Evin
prison in Tehran.
There is a lot of speculation and a lot of concern.
We’ve had different stories, people who have
seen the video say that it R R O E O L
seven and eight, seemed to be the wards that have caught
fire, and ward seven they next to
the quarantine section of ward 240 where a lot of protesters
who have been taken prisoner are being held.
It’s a lot of speculation CIR QI
The authorities and government say one thing and people
who are familiar with Evin prison say a different thing,
families who are outside of the prison when the fire
attacked by security gquards and teargas, so they are not
provided with any infermation.
LS AR T clarity into the
situation and it is very frustrating and concerning for
We are not gonna know and | think your previous guest
talked about how it is difficult to trust the Iranian
government what they are FW LRI AL
with what we are seeing.
But they very much regularly lie about what is going on.
Until we can hear from the prisoners inside the prison,
until they are allowed to call, we’re not going to have any
clarity on what’s going on.
More broadly, looking at the protests and how
widespread they are, and how fearless people seem
TR TV Ve 1gE T ET AL R T
have gone on for, looking at the fifth week of protests
now, aren’t we?
We are.
| am more amazed than anything.
| understand the motivations R G G o
I’m not surprised in that sense, but | am
surprised, despite the incredible violence they face,
G R ] R RN AT R TS
street and demand freedom and equality and democracy.
In that sense, | think they are very
determined to get IS GRS
Iran has seen protests before.
Why do you think the regime has been so far unable
to stop these protests?
These protests are a little bit different than previous
protests because, first of all, they were sparked by demand
for women’’s rights and we see I UL R G R G
and leading them more
than any other protests in the past.
The 2009 protests, which were against the presidency
of Ahmadinejad and the last two major protests
in 2017 and 2019, women were present but not
so front and centre.
We also see a lot of young people including high schoolers
s participating RGN RS
but these protests are across the country,
very dispersed, decentralised, organised
locally, in big and small IR RO
we have cities that S Ll E ]
in protests in the past who are participating in these
protests.
They’re intersectional, so you see different
people with different ages, different socio-economic
backgrounds, different G IR D 1=
religions participating in these protests so it’s very
difficult and they are very broad-based so it’s difficult
to quell them even though R AL e
sV R
LRSI D Xi Jingping, has just
begun his address at the opening of China’s
twentieth Communist Party Congress.
We can have a look at some live pictures.
Turkey says people
101 G RV L CREN G
Turkey says people have died in Y
Turkey says people have died in F e Tatle e
Turkey says people have died in FR et i
Turkey says people have died in a combine after a
Turkey says people have died in R CE L R s e}
a combine after a suspected S
a combine after a suspected methane explosion Friday.
methane explosion Friday. e
methane explosion Friday. President Erdogan visited the
President Erdogan visited the ey
President Erdogan visited the T ls|
President Erdogan visited the site and promised a thorough
site and promised a thorough investigation. That’s get more
investigation. That’s get more SR 1 El
investigation. That’s get more SR R
investigation. That’s get more of what is going
investigation. That’s get more A ) SN LGRS
investigation. That’s get more RV SN LG R
investigation. That’s get more of what is going on in China.
In a break of decades-long tradition, delegates are likely
to hand Mr Xi a third term as party chief.
It paves the way for him to become the most powerful
leader since Mao Zedong.
Frank Tsai Is the Founder of China Crossroads.
| asked him what he’ll be watching out for in
the speech.
We were looking for moves RN 8
which affects our lives greatly.
You know, just recently, O CEUE LTl 4
in cases in Shanghai - E[ I O F
and there’ve been more lockdowns of buildings,
no doubt due to worry about the party Congress and,
you know, don’t want LRG]S
There have been forced closing of bars, more moderating
on social media and innocuous articles deleted, and also
LRI LR and | think is flase
is revealing Covid case counts may have been
lowered intentionally
by the government so as to not cause embarrassment and this
may imply a big uptick or lockdown after the party
N DI R
Our correspondent Celia Hatton reports on how Xi Jinping rose
I
When he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he’d
become China’'s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
He was supposed to rule alongside these six other
But now, it’s clear that he’s reshaped the Communist Party,
the military and the government, so that he’s
at the top of it all.
Some call him the chairman RSO
So, how did he do 1t?
How did he become so powerful?
He started out with a bold vision - the China Dream.
It unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed
rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed
to revitalise the whole country.
And through viral RTaG R RO
a visit to a Beijing steamed bun shop.
He cultivated a different image for himself, making sure
everyone in China knew NS I L LT A
as the top leader.
He reorganised the military, too.
By ousting hundreds of generals LR ETR RGN R GG
allies, he’s firmly in control.
And let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption
crackdown.
This man, Zhou Yongkang, is the former top security
chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion
in ill-gotten gains.
More than a millien party officials have been punished
under Xi, silencing all rivals.
The campaign’s popular with the public, but it’s
Xi Is at the top of his game but he faces serious challenges
- China’s economy is suffering under tight Covid restrictions
and he’s made quite a few MR R -
China watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate
any responsibilities, sharing the power -
Celia Hatton, BBC News.
TR TR e L Jeremy Hunt, has indicated
there’ll be major changes R AT e N Yo e lst e
strategy.
In a round of interviews with broadcasters on Saturday
Mr Hunt said mistakes had been made by the government
and warned of what he called "very difficult decisions”
He suggested taxes could rise to help restore market
W[ R LR EIUCT about spending cuts.
Mr Hunt was appointed after the Prime Minister
sacked his predecessor, Kwasi Kwarteng.
Here’s our political correspondent, Ben Wright.
Congratulations, Mr Chancellor!
The fourth Chancellor in as many months.
Jeremy Hunt’s job now 3R ELLETO Y
calm financial markets.
He has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk
many of the Prime Minister’s signature policies.
On Wednesday, Liz Truss said she was absolutely not planning
public spending cuts, but listen to this.
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead, difficult
decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
=RV LT T G o and I’m going to be asking
all government departments to find additional efficiency
savings.
That’s going to be...
One person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
Yes.
During the Tory leadership contest, Liz Truss said
the country couldn’t tax its way to economic
growth, but now...
We’re also going to have TR R U R A
Taxes are not going to come down by as much as people
hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
Then, there was the Prime Minister’s pledge to boost
defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
But the defence department, too, is going to have
to help find efficiencies.
The long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending
will depend on stability in the economic situation
=R R T G TV growing economy.
Spending cuts and tax rises is not what Liz Truss planned
when she entered Number 10 last month, but the economic
and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s
mini Budget has forced a fundamental rethink,
plunging her premiership RGN R
1y
Yesterday, the smiles had gone and the Prime Minister’s
appearance in Number 10 did little to convince her Tory
party critics that she’s up to the job.
Some believe her future now hinges on the Chancellor’s
budget at the end of this month.
If that package doesn’t S SR
are still reacting all over the place, then | think
she IS In considerable trouble.
She’s admitted mistakes N R R )
mistakes and puts them right, N E R T R 0]
conceivably get beyond this.
But | emphasise could, because | think it all depends
on that financial statement MEOEERIGRE A e
The opposition said the Prime Minister’s government
was now clinging on.
IS GLR ST EL1e the British economy,
they also clung on.
Clung on as they made the pound sink, clung
on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse,
clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills
of the British public QI RO RS
They did all of this.
Questions...
Liz Truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this
turmoil will subside, A GRS R E T e
R a I SN el A
SR T LUV ol ] mad to try and oust
the Prime Minister already.
Others say keeping her L ELCR e G R R )
Rebuilding her political SO ARG G X
Ben Wright, BBC News.
A reminder of the headlines:
Uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews and closed
entertainment venues as it tries to stop
the spread of Ebola.
the spread of Ebola.
The measures, which will last for three weeks initially,
also include the closing s IR e s Mt ey T e
into and out of the areas affected has been prohibited.
19 people have so far died from the disease.
There have been large protests in the Tunisian capital
against President Kais Saied, denouncing him as an autocrat
who’s reversing the democratic progress in the country.
Mr Saied took on full executive power last year,
but protesters say there’s been ne improvement
in living standards.
Heavy floods on the Greek island of Crete have claimed
at least one life, swept away cars and flooded
YR R L
Local authorities have evacuated tourists, and asked
QR 16 to "remain vigilant”.
Stefano Fasanoc has more.
Mud and water. People shovelling away the
shovelling away the consequences of
shovelling away the N R A s
shovelling away the consequences of your another
consequences of your another extreme
consequences of your another e R
consequences of your another e NI G
consequences of your another extreme weather event. Heavy
extreme weather event. Heavy L
extreme weather event. Heavy il s
extreme weather event. Heavy G R R
extreme weather event. Heavy G ER G R 4
extreme weather event. Heavy floods in the Greek island of
floods in the Greek island of ()
floods in the Greek island of Crete have wrecked
floods in the Greek island of (S R R E T
floods in the Greek island of Crete have wrecked havoc and
Crete have wrecked havoc and T
Crete have wrecked havoc and followed dozens
Crete have wrecked havoc and T Ry e
Crete have wrecked havoc and T s [ Y R A e
Crete have wrecked havoc and followed dozens of homes on
followed dozens of homes on R OTOEV
followed dozens of homes on Saturday night. A 45-year-old
Saturday night. A 45-year-old P 1e]
Saturday night. A 45-year-old man died after his car was
man died after his car was dragged by currents in the
dragged by currents in the northern
dragged by currents in the NG N E e
dragged by currents in the northern part of the island
northern part of the island where Raines battered towns and
where Raines battered towns and I ELE
where Raines battered towns and villages four hours stop his
villages four hours stop his passenger, woman,
villages four hours stop his passenger, woeman, is
villages four hours stop his passenger, woman, is still
passenger, woman, is still LR
passenger, woman, is still missing. For everyone else, the
missing. For everyone else, the tough
missing. For everyone else, the IR EGY
missing. For everyone else, the LI
missing. For everyone else, the tough job of rebuilding and
tough job of rebuilding and cleaning up is left.
cleaning up is left. TRANSLATION: It all happened in
TRANSLATION: It all happened in X e s
TRANSLATION: It all happened in seconds. | don’t
TRANSLATION: It all happened in A e R kA G
TRANSLATION: It all happened in seconds. | don’t know how long,
seconds. | don’t know how long, Y
seconds. | don’t know how long, NI\
seconds. | don’t know how long, we barely managed to get
we barely managed to get I )
we barely managed to get everyone out at the very last
everyone out at the very last Ry
everyone out at the very last minute when the water reached
minute when the water reached up
minute when the water reached IR
minute when the water reached M RCRGd
minute when the water reached R R UG
minute when the water reached up to their shoulders because
up to their shoulders because everyone
up to their shoulders because A IR
up to their shoulders because everyone was sleeping and had
everyone was sleeping and had no idea what was happening.
no idea what was happening. 13
no idea what was happening. CIR 0]
no idea what was happening. TR RN
no idea what was happening. Cars were swept away to sea.
Cars were swept away to sea. I
1R R o U )R R R And what’s one of the most
And what’s one of the most ETe e I
And what’s one of the most famous tourist destinations in
famous tourist destinatiens in the
famous tourist destinations in RIS o
famous tourist destinations in RIS I
famous tourist destinations in NN I R
the Mediterranean. Now several el
the Mediterranean. Now several T el )
the Mediterranean. Now several vehicles are seen floating in
vehicles are seen floating in e d
vehicles are seen floating in T e R
vehicles are seen floating in T RGN Bk
vehicles are seen floating in front of the island’s features.
front of the island’s features. Firefighters
front of the island’s features. RG] ]
front of the island’s features. Firefighters rescued one woman
Firefighters rescued one woman TG
Firefighters rescued one woman NG
Firefighters rescued one woman AL IR
Firefighters rescued one woman inside her car before
Firefighters rescued one woman NGRS
Firefighters rescued one woman ML R e R
inside her car before it was Tt sl
inside her car before it was ATt E ]
inside her car before it was RO
inside her car before it was A RO I e
switched to see. Authorities Y-\
switched to see. Authorities say they’re investigating more
say they’re investigating more (Tl ]g e
say they’re investigating more (R
say they’re investigating more reports of missing people and
reports of missing people and )
reports of missing people and el s e
reports of missing people and RO RUEN
reports of missing people and the others may have been
QLRGN BV RN LTy trapped in
the others may have been trapped in their cars. The
trapped in their cars. The island’s international airport
island’s international airport Ty
island’s international airport R )
island’s international airport IR 1
island’s international airport was closed as the runway
island’s internatienal airport was closed as the runway was
was closed as the runway was underwater.
was closed as the runway was Tl e 2l TR d
was closed as the runway was T8 2 TR a e s
was closed as the runway was TG TR TR R R
underwater. Tourist on the island were integrated and
island were integrated and YNl da e el
island were integrated and YN 0 TR h |
island were integrated and authorities advised residents
authorities advised residents to
authorities advised residents R R L ET
authorities advised residents to be vigilant. This might just
to be vigilant. This might just )
to be vigilant. This might just R
to be vigilant. This might just be the beginning. Natural
be the beginning. Natural IR
be the beginning. Natural SRR A Y
be the beginning. Natural disasters like flash floods are
disasters like flash floods are expected to intensify injuries
expected to intensify injuries and becoming more frequent as
and becoming more frequent as R )
and becoming more frequent as climate change takes hold.
Stefanc Fasanc, BBC News.
LRSI D Xi Jingping, has just
begun his address at the opening of China’s
20th Communist Party Congress.
We can have a look at some live pictures.
He Is speaking
SRR R R (v
He is speaking to over 2200 delegates that have gathered
delegates that have gathered there
delegates that have gathered e ls|
delegates that have gathered N )
delegates that have gathered TN
delegates that have gathered there and he is expected to
there and he is expected to et
there and he is expected to el Y]
there and he is expected to X el R llesl
there and he is expected to secure a third term
there and he is expected to e RGO E G
there and he is expected to secure a third term as leader
secure a third term as leader and
secure a third term as leader R )
secure a third term as leader and we will Listen to
secure a third term as leader and we will Llisten to what
secure a third term as leader and we will Listen to what he
and we will listen to what he Y- )"
and we will listen to what he says to Congress and bring use
says to Congress and bring use Y
says to Congress and bring use R
says to Congress and bring use EE i E A
says to Congress and bring use EEI L El A A e
says to Congress and bring use EE T E R AU G E L
A reminder of the headlines:
Gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison
in Iran’s capital Tehran.
State media reports at least eight people injured.
As the UK’s Prime Minister fights for her job,
the new chancellor signals he’ll make major changes
to her economic policy.
Russia’s defence ministry says that 11 people were killed
and 15 more wounded at a military training ground
when two citizens of an ex-Soviet state opened fire
on trainees during an exercise.
The authorities described the incident in the Belgorod
region as a terrorist act.
Those killed were described YR I e e R L)
to fight for Russia in Ukraine.
Russia’s defence ministry said the assailants were shot dead.
Elon Musk says his Starlink satellite company will continue
to provide internet to Ukraine for free, despite threatening
to start charging RO
Ukraine has described Starlink as vital, saying it helped
the country survive critical moments during the Russian
V&3 )
For more on this about-turn, RN G NG
MISSION CONTROL: Three, two, one, zero.
Ignition.
s
Elon Musk’s Starlink satellites launching in 2019.
His bid to provide broadband around the world that,
CRSUATE AR I would become critical
The company’s 3,000 stations A R e R A e N ]
crucial to communications by troops for the past eight
months as they monitor Russian movements.
But on Friday, a different battle was raging.
Mr Musk said his company could no longer provide
the service, suggesting the Pentagon to cover
W CRENEL LR YL R Ty FE e B R
So, why the sudden change?
It all seemed to start when he weighed in on Ukraine’s
military strategy, asking Twitter users if it should
accept territorial losses, including Crimea, in
the interest of a peaceful end to the war.
It was not welcomed by Volodymyr Zelensky
or Ukrainian ambassadors, including one who tweeted
a profanity, saying "that is my very diplomatic reply to you™.
In pulling his internet services, Mr Musk said
he was just following R o s A s T
Now, though, the world’s richest man has had another
change of heart and, in another tweet, has said
he’ll continue his support.
And for now at least, Ukraine has one less battle
to worry about.
Stephanie Prentice, BBC News.
hehind che of the most
behind one of the most successful
behind one of the most e e 3NN s we )
behind one of the most successful vaccine say they
successful vaccine say they S
successful vaccine say they R
successful vaccine say they ARG
successful vaccine say they believe the same technology
believe the same technology could
believe the same technology I G )
believe the same technology could help transform cancer
could help transform cancer treatment. They
could help transform cancer R o L ST
could help transform cancer MR R L S T
could help transform cancer R SR LSRRG
treatment. They also said they o
treatment. They also said they would fight claims by a rival
would fight claims by a rival company that
would fight claims by a rival M EI ARG
would fight claims by a rival company that they infringed
company that they infringed WEYad:1get
company that they infringed patterns in their Covid jab.
patterns in their Covid jab. Fergus Walsh reports.
If you have a Covid booster this autumn, whether it’s
the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna jabs, they both rely
on a new type of vaccine technology known as mRNA.
Among the pioneers were husband and wife team
I NGVl ] and Ozlem Tureci, who founded
ML T A I«
Speaking to Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg,
QG (e (X RN EE LRI R R os
studies, where patients receive a personalised vaccine
to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
Every step, every patient R AN Ee e Rl
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how
Therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say
we will have a cure for cancer.
We have a number of breakthroughs and we will
continue to work cn them.
But it may be several years before we know if trials
in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really
do live up to the hype.
Covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful
and made billions for BioNTech, but rival firm Moderna has
started legal action for patent infringement -
in essence, claiming key elements of their mMRNA
technology were copied.
BioNTech says it will vigorously defend
against the allegations.
Our innovations are original.
We have spent 20 years of research in developing this
type of treatment and, TR RV [Ty 1
for our intellectual property.
These patent disputes won’t stop the rollout
of Covid vaccines.
mRNA technology came W ELERIR G L
The question now Is can B e o 4
Fergus Walsh, BBC News.
The first European woman to command the International
Space Station has spoken after arriving back
to Earth on Friday.
Samantha Cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six
months conducting research.
The Italian astrenaut says her mission to the space
station is Likely e dr e
It was great to experience again the re-entry
into the atmosphere.
It’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
I’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones
and my family, so | look forward to spending
CHOERE R R Y R OR G
| mean, it’s a bittersweet B
I’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also
bittersweet to say goodbye R R A L P A UG
in space, most likely TR A E -
We are in the process of selecting a new class
N GG
The coronavirus pandemic brought much of the world
to a halt but now, as Covid-19 fades somewhat
into the background, things are beginning
e iR Nt g1
In Chile, a popular event making a comeback
| should tell you Tim Allman’s report contains a lot
of make-up, but no real blood.
After three years, the walking dead have risen once more.
Well, not really.
Instead, a lot of people dressed up as zombies
for a sloping, staggering stroll around Santiago.
"It is an event we used to do every year," said this man.
"But due to the coronavirus, it had been suspended.
"It’s a family event where everyone participates
"and people show YLl
Zombie walks date back more than 20 years.
Sometimes, they’re for a good cause.
Sometimes, they’re for no real cause at all -
except for this one, of course!
"| come because it’s fun,” said this young zombie.
"It’s fun because we can wear make-up.”
"We came here to get out R GR L IR R G
zombie, "and be a kid again™.
This carnival of gory make-up and indiscriminate groaning has
been replicated in plenty of other cities across the globe.
But round these parts, they’ll tell you this
one Is special.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
It has taken 14 years to get to )
It has taken 14 years to get to e ]
It has taken 14 years to get to the screen but Mexican director
the screen but Mexican director Guillermo del Toro did
the screen but Mexican director Guillermo del Tore did not
the screen but Mexican director Guillermo del Toro did not give
Guillermo del Toro did not give up and has finally seen his
up and has finally seen his Pinocchio
up and has finally seen his MR RO
up and has finally seen his MRG0
up and has finally seen his Pinocchio brought to life. The
Al IR S RN R - e ai e
Pinocchio brought to life. The e e T E ]
Pinocchio brought to life. The director said it
Pinocchio brought to life. The e e IR SN e
Pinocchio brought to life. The e e IR RN e ]
Pinocchio brought to life. The e e I B B R Nt ey
director said it is not a movie made for kids but they could
made for kids but they could watch
made for kids but they could s B e
made for kids but they could watch it if
made for kids but they could e AR e
made for kids but they could IR R G
watch it if their parents e
watch it if their parents talked to them about
LI B R G ET T ) talked to them about the dark
talked to them about the dark themes. Claudia
Redmond reports. It is a story you
Redmond reports. It is a story R
Redmond reports. It is a story T EYA G
Redmond reports. It is a story you may think you know. But you
you may think you know. But you Ak
you may think you know. But you AR
you may think you know. But you don’t. The story of
you may think you know. But you R L S I R RO
you may think you know. But you don’t. The story of the wooden
don’t. The story of the wooden boy. Director
don’t. The story of the wooden boy. Director gea Myrdal
don’t. The story of the wooden boy. Director gea Myrdal Toppo
boy. Director gea Myrdal Toppo LI\
boy. Director gea Myrdal Toppo proudly helds
boy. Director gea Myrdal Toppo proudly holds a model
boy. Director gea Myrdal Toppo proudly holds a medel of
boy. Director gea Myrdal Toppo proudly holds a model of his
proudly holds a model of his A s
proudly holds a model of his A R i
proudly holds a model of his vision of Pinocchio at the
vision of Pinocchio at the el 1a1l8
vision of Pinocchio at the world Amir which was held at
world Amir which was held at )
world Amir which was held at Nl
world Amir which was held at R
world Amir which was held at the BFI film festival
world Amir which was held at NIRRTz B
world Amir which was held at the BFI film festival in London
the BFI film festival in London on Saturday. -- Guillerme
the BFI film festival in London on Saturday. -- Guillermo del
on Saturday. -- Guillermo del Toro.
on Saturday. -- Guillermo del Toroe. The
on Saturday. -- Guillermo del Toro. The story
on Saturday. -- Guillermo del IR L RS IR
on Saturday. -- Guillermo del Toro. The story of the property
Toro. The story of the property i)
Toro. The story of the property became a
Toro. The story of the property e R
Toro. The story of the property RN )
Toro. The story of the property became a real boy comes from
became a real boy comes from )
became a real boy comes from GBI R0
became a real boy comes from QR G R ] AL 118
became a real boy comes from the 18th-century book but in
the 18th-century book but in this stop motion animation
this stop motion animation el s
this stop motion animation AR
this stop motion animation version the much darker tail is
version the much darker tail is 334
version the much darker tail is set against the sombre back
set against the sombre back drop
set against the sombre back I R
set against the sombre back drop of Mussolini’'s
set against the sombre back drop of Mussolini’s Fascist
drop of Mussolini’s Fascist 118
drop of Mussolini’s Fascist LEIELD]
drop of Mussolini’s Fascist ltaly and the
drop of Mussolini’s Fascist Italy and the little boy is
ltaly and the little boy Is )
1EIVRT R G R CR TR more feisty. Yes, |
Iltaly and the little boy is more feisty. Yes, | think
more feisty. Yes, | think Pinocchio is nermally obedient
Pinocchio is normally obedient and
Pinocchio is normally ebedient I It
Pinocchio is normally ebedient and about changing yourself
Pinocchio is normally obedient and about changing yourself to
and about changing yourself to RIS
Gl LT BN BTV NR please what people think you
please what people think you should be but this Pinocchio is
should be but this Pinocchio Is disobedient and that you
should be but this Pinocchio is G L R LS IR
disobedient and that you are Ty
disobedient and that you are R
disobedient and that you are who you are and
disobedient and that you are AT R 0]
disobedient and that you are S T R T L
disobedient and that you are R Tl R VLK)
disobedient and that you are R T R T LR
who you are and you are a real boy
who you are and you are a real (AT
who you are and you are a real ARG IR A1
who you are and you are a real AR E IR e
who you are and you are a real boy no matter what or who you
boy no matter what or who you Py
boy no matter what or who you sl
boy no matter what or who you are and you don’t need
are and you don’t need acceptance, you
are and you don’t need Lo T VR
are and you don’t need acceptance, you need somebody
acceptance, you need somebody to
acceptance, you need somebody R}
acceptance, you need somebody O ELRY T
acceptance, you need somebody to see you for who you are.
to see you for who you are. eI-N (18"
to see you for who you are. Gregory Mann celebrated his
Gregory Mann celebrated his 13th birthday at the premiere
15th birthday at the premiere and
13th birthday at the premiere R )
13th birthday at the premiere IR N el
13th birthday at the premiere NGRS e RG]
13th birthday at the premiere and the newcomer talked about
and the newcomer talked about )
and the newcomer talked about the moment he heard the
and the newcomer talked about I R R G R
the moment he heard the news you
the moment he heard the news R
the moment he heard the news you the role. It
the moment he heard the news TR G AT
VRGN IR T RTae- e -0
VRGN IR T incredible. |
VRGN RN R RIS e e e et el -Ts
VRGN RN R RTse i B st il d
VRGN RN R RISt I R B hi AR E
VRGN RN R RTae Ll R i AR A
incredible. | remember | was at 1)
incredible. | remember | was at my friend’s
incredible. | remember | was at my friend’s house
incredible. | remember | was at A R L !
incredible. | remember | was at my friend’s house and | did not
my friend’s house and | did not have
my friend’s house and | did not )
my friend’s house and | did not R U ICEL
my friend’s house and | did not NI U
my friend’s house and | did not have a phone at the time is my
have a phone at the time is my TSRy
have a phone at the time is my friend’'s mumbled in and she
friend’s mumbled in and she I
friend’s mumbled in and she IR
friend’s mumbled in and she 1R Dl
friend’s mumbled in and she 1L R Tl Dl R
friend’s mumbled in and she said your mum is on the
friend’'s mumbled in and she said your mum is on the phone
said your mum is on the phone e
said your mum is on the phone IR
said your mum is on the phone for you because | was confused
for you because | was confused [T
for you because | was confused because normally you would
because normally you would think
because normally you would i
because normally you would I EI R
because normally you would iR L]
because normally you would think it was a bad thing but it
think it was a bad thing but it gy
think it was a bad thing but it turns cut
think it was a bad thing but it turns out she was calling me
turns out she was calling me M e s ls]
turns out she was calling me R a s [s I 1a o]
turns out she was calling me Pinocchio and |
turns out she was calling me et R R ]
turns out she was calling me Pinocchio and | realised | got
Pinocchio and | realised | got )
Pinocchio and | realised | got R
Pinocchio and | realised | got e ]
Pinocchio and | realised | got e R
Pinocchio and | realised | got R NG R A
the role and | was completely over
the role and | was completely N )
the role and | was completely over the moon. Gregory was
over the moon. Gregory was LG
over the moon. Gregory was INLEEL
over the moon. Gregory was OO LR
over the moon. Gregory was LR R G LR
over the moon. Gregory was joined on the carpet by his
joined on the carpet by his EG IR
joined on the carpet by his father, the
joined on the carpet by his PRGN P (I
father, the woodcarver Geppetto, and
father, the woodcarver Y AR U
father, the woodcarver Geppetto, and other styles from
Geppetto, and other styles from )
Geppetto, and other styles from the film,
Geppetto, and other styles from R 0 P ] )
Geppetto, and other styles from the film, Cate Blanchett and
the film, Cate Blanchett and WIS
the film, Cate Blanchett and Christoph Watts. Del Toro
the film, Cate Blanchett and IR R VR EICETE
Christoph Watts. Del Toro said this was a dream
Christoph Watts. Del Toro said G RETRW IET W [Yad
Christoph Watts. Del Toro said this was a dream project for
this was a dream project for el
this was a dream project for s
this was a dream project for him and certainly
this was a dream project for LR = A
this was a dream project for him and certainly pull the
him and certainly pull the heartstrings of the audience.
heartstrings of the audience. Claudia Redmond, BBC News.
IR BN -0
Time for the weather now with Nick Miller.
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy
and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree also
higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just
start to increase across eastern Scotland, North East
England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
A big fire has broken out at Evin prison in the Iranian
capital, Tehran, where hundreds of political priseners
and dozens of dual L EI I e
In videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be
AR R RGN ] TN e R
Britain’s new Chancellor of the Exchequer, Jeremy Hunt,
has admitted the Government made mistakes when announcing
unfunded tax cuts last month and that very difficult
economic decisions would A RO R Ul
He has promised to restore W IR 18
to public finances i d RO R nE
China’s Communist Party Congress is getting underway
in Beijing, with President X Jinping due to start
his speech shortly.
Delegates are expected to hand Mr Xi a third term
FE g e[
It paves the way for him to become the most powerful
leader since Mao Zedong.
The Governor of the Bank of England, Andrew Bailey,
has spoken to the new Chancellor, Jeremy Hunt,
and says there was a clear meeting of minds on the
importance of stability.
Now Mr Bailey has also warned of the possibility of higher
interest rates ahead, more than previously expected.
Our business correspondent Marc Ashdown has this analysis.
All smiles launching the mini-budget at the end
e
And with it a new political R O =
describing Liz Truss’s vision for a high-growth,
high-wage, low-tax economy.
But just three weeks B P A e L)
Have you been given el NG Y4
Can you change elements of the mini-budget if you want to?
Yes, and the fundamental thing RN IR R T E T R
to do and | need to do (R Y R S A I
with the country.
Trussenomics reversed, then,
tax cuts likely replaced with tax rises, huge investment
replaced with a spending slowdown.
This rethink has largely been driven by the turmoil
in the financial markets since the mini-budget was announced.
The pound has had a torrid time.
The effective cost of Government borrowing has
LN and the Bank of England had
to step in with an emergency programme, buying up
government bonds to stabilise QN A R
There is a pressing need, PR R T
confidence and credibility.
Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey said he spoke
to the new Chancellor yesterday and had an immediate
meeting of minds.
But in a speech in Washington, he had this warning
ARG
We will not hesitate to raise R R RN
the inflation target.
And as things stand today, my best guess is that
inflationary pressures will require a stronger
response than we perhaps GG LY
Investors are expecting a rise of up to one percentage point
iIn November, to 3.25%.
Most mortgage offers are currently already around
6%, but a bigger rise MBI N R i e
the economy elsewhere.
And even with a change of approach, the Government’s
problems remain the same - how to find tens of billions
of pounds to help people G RGN A
and make the sums add up.
We’re certainly looking at a really tough couple of years.
We’ve got a very tough e et el ol e ilge e lat - Te @
We’ve got very stretched public finances.
| think we’re going to see some even further reversal
of the tax cuts that we’ve had and, in addition,
probably some very tight spending rounds.
The first verdict will come TR i E ok Bt a4
i I ARV &
| don’t expect a dramatic reversal, because the devil
will be in the detail.
And when we find out the detail of the Budget on 31
October, that’ll be perhaps a more holistic
judgement being made by financial markets.
That’s a fortnight away - a long time in the life
Marc Ashdown, BBC News.
Now on BBC News: Our World
TV Rain, Russia’s last remaining opposition TV
station, was forced off air in March 2022.
Our World follows senior presenters trying to relaunch
In March, Russia’s last independent TV station
S e
TV Rain opposed Russia’s wore in Ukraine and challenge
the Kremlin’s began N Eles -]
This narrative about massive support of this war is false,
ROk R they have killed us.
The journalists of TV Rain, including senior presenters
Katya and Tikhen, were forced to flee the country.
Our World joins the power couple on their mission
to relaunch the channel TSR
Can they fight the Kremlin?
They believe their weapon is the truth.
It’s June 2022.
With the war in Ukraine, Georgia’s capital, Thilisi,
has swelled with new arrivals.
At this festival, Ukrainian refugees mingle with
Russian emigres.
Among them, Tikhon Dzyadko, from Moscow.
L RN L (gl o) of TV Rain, Russia’'s last
independent TV channel.
His wife is Katya Kotrikadze.
She’s TV Rain’s director S
Having escaped Russia, WAL R G (R ILY3
have found temporary refuge in Georgia.
Everyone here is united by their opposition to the war
and their love for the festival headliners, Okean Elzy.
This is a Ukrainian band.
They’re fighting for the country, just like every
Ukrainian is.
Sometimes | feel that I’m more Ukrainian than Russian.
| want people te understand MEIRON I A
who are against this.
Katya and Tikhon are Russian TV personalities.
For four months, TV R T h e
Now, the plan is to relaunch ORI R DL A8
as possible.
When TV Rain - Dozhd in Russian - launched in 2010,
the channel offered a new, progressive vision of Russia.
Founded by media entrepreneur Natalya Sindeyeva,
its pregramming focused
on Lifestyle and culture.
Optimistic channel.
But that seon changed.
During this period of time, TV Rain has gone through
the biggest events and biggest parts of Russian history.
In 2011, TV Rain exclusively covered mass anti-government
protests in Moscow, while state media self-censored.
Then, in 2013, It broadcast Ukraine’s Maidan uprising.
If you want to follow what is happening in Kyiv,
you should watch Dozhd.
We had a lot - RS A e
By contrast, Kremlin-controlled media portrayed Ukraine’s
SO T Western-backed coup.
To stay on air, the channel switched to viewer
subscriptions.
It’s getting more and more subscribers.
Millions of people who watch YouTube, not television,
On 24 February, Tikhon broke M LA RS
invasion of Ukraine.
The feeling was absolutely astonishing.
Like, you - GASPS...
TV Rain took a firm anti-war position.
After the war has started, it NI R G R R
of the biggest problems B s LR A et A=l
war for Moscow.
We had 25 million views on YouTube daily, which is
a huge amount of people.
This amount of people IR R R IR R e A
about massive support of this war is false.
So that’s why they have killed us.
Meanwhile state media YR R e RN
that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine was just a special
military operation, not a war.
Then, President Putin signed a law that could jail for up
to 15 years anyone who questioned the war.
This law was adopted specifically to get rid
of anyone who would be against this government,
openly and actively.
On 1 March the Kremlin shut down TV Rain’s website.
Katya received a call from a journalist friend.
He said, "Grab your kids and leave the country”.
And | was absolutely Y R E e e e
We understood that it’s impossible to work in such
conditions, and we decided RO R LA
When TV Rain made its last broadcast from Moscow on 3
March, Katya and Tikhon had already left the country.
Staff were wondering whether they would ever
work together again.
Since leaving Russia, Katya and Tikhon have spent
the last four months in Thilisi_
Katya was born here, B LRGN e
when she was ten.
Katya’s mother was one of more than 200 people killed
after bombs destroyed two EI Rl S R LR Ly,
In September 1999.
Chechen militants were blamed IR T T R =)
were credible allegations Russian security services
planted the bombs to justify a war in Chechnya and to assist
Vladimir Putin’s rise to power.
The memory of her mother inspired Katya to pursue her
career in journalism.
There are a lot of theories E[ AT 11
of Vladimir Putin IR XS AT
As a journalist | don’t have evidence, but what | know
about his policy and Russian state policy is that they,
they really want to forget about these people.
NV R GRS in the United States.
| remember every single IR NG
what was going on there,
how they remember - how they say every single name
of the 3,000 people who died.
| was trying to understand what’s wrong with my country,
what is wrong with my President, and what’s wrong
with the whole 20-plus years of his presidency in Russia,
that my mum doesn’t deserve to be remembered?
Before the channel’s official relaunch, Tikhon and Katya have
been producing their own new stream on YouTube,
with the help of Georgia’s Formula TV.
One of the main ideas of Russian propaganda over
these last 20-plus years is to make people not believe
danyone.
When you listen to so many different versions, you think
that there Is no truth, because it could be anything.
This is one of the main parts of the mission that we have,
to reach the guys who CI R OE| VAV R
RO GE 8GN a possibility to talk to them
DR
of the main things that we are working on right now is to find
a tone of voice.
Tikhen has called an important meeting for the staff
TV Rain is due to relaunch, I A R N[
its new headquarters will be in Riga, Latvia,
in the European Union.
Many Russians who have left the country oppose the war,
but the channel must connect R G- R E R )
LR VST R (g1 to the question of language.
While in Georgia, Katya has strived to give her children
a sense of normality but once again, the family
is preparing to move to Latvia, the new
David is sure that this is something very temporary
and he’s gonna be back to Moscow soon,
so, yeah.
We are all very emotional.
It’s not easy to understand that it’s gonna last
for a loeng time.
It’s like my son, David, RO YRR G
back to school in a year, maximum.
There are a lot of colleagues who are saving their hopes
about going back to Russia soon.
If I accept this thought that | am in immigration and I’m
staying in Latvia or in Europe for a while, and maybe for ten
years or 20 years, then, | mean, it’s gonna be harder
to work, it’s gonna be harder to fight.
It’s July 2022, Riga.
It’s the day of TV EIR R il B
The family have been in Latvia for only a week.
With the support from Latvia’s TV3 Group
and independent financial backing, TV Rain has
S ] again.
A reunited team are discussing what will be in the first
vt
| am overexcited and I’m scared and I’m nervous.
| know that Tikhon will be absolutely perfect -
he always Is.
| am praying for everything to be right.
TV Rain is streaming live on YouTube - which,
for now, Is still available in Russia.
Already, tens of QL LR TR E L [ T
We are not on the ground.
We need to find the way to be as honest, as professional
It’s a huge stress and a huge trauma for Russians
to understand, to acknowledge G E RO AT [y 1Y
is on the other side, that their country is
an aggressor, actually.
Right now, the only thing that we can do is to spread
information, fight propaganda, put the facts in front
of people.
| don’t want to be a part R G R
Unfortunately, we are part QRGBT
but it’s not our e RN R e Y
We just wanted to be journalists.
Our mission is to be there for Russian citizens,
for people who live in Russia Y R =l AR
Since its relaunch from Latvia, TV Rain’s audience has grown.
In September, 14 million viewers inside Russia
| think TV Rain can stop Putin.
| think citizens of Russia can stop Putin.
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy
and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree also
higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just
start to increase across eastern Scotland, North East
England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Lucy Grey.
Our top stories:
Gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison
in Iran’s capital, Tehran.
State media reports at least eight people are injured.
This is the scene live in Beijing as China’s Communist
Party Congress gets under way.
President Xi Jinping s expected to secure a third
term in power.
As the UK’s Prime Minister fights for her job,
the new Chancellor signals he’ll make major changes
to her economic policy.
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead, difficult
decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
=RV LT T G o and I’m going to be asking
all government departments to find additional efficiency
savings.
And the husband-and-wife team behind one of the most
successful Covid vaccines believe the same technology
could help transform cancer treatment.
We begin in Iran, where a large fire has been blazing
at Evin Prison in the capital, Tehran.
Hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals
are held in the prison, as well as many protestors
arrested during the past four weeks of unrest.
Officials say that eight people have been injured
and that the situation is now under control,
but information is still trickling out of the country.
The BBC’s Azadeh Moshiri reports.
Flames engulfing Iran’s e ol L
Flames engulfing Iran’s notorious Evin Prison. In
Flames engulfing Iran’s notoricus Evin Prison. In the
notorious Evin Prison. In the e
notorious Evin Prison. In the midst of
notorious Evin Prison. In the IS ) R IR
notorious Evin Prison. In the U R TG
notorious Evin Prison. In the midst of widespread unrest, it
midst of widespread unrest, it s
midst of widespread unrest, it %)
midst of widespread unrest, it TR )
midst of widespread unrest, it is a scene that frightened
s a scene that frightened Iranians both inside and
Iranians both inside and A
Iranians both inside and outside the country. Officials
outside the country. Officials Y-\
outside the country. Officials ]
outside the country. Officials say a riot broke out between
say a riot broke out between RN
say a riot broke out between inmates. What people saw on
inmates. What people saw on ekl
inmates. What people saw on B -]
inmates. What people saw on social media was fires raging
social media was fires raging P g ]
social media was fires raging across the compound, and
across the compound, and I L CETG
across the compound, and gunshots heard in
across the compound, and I CEIG R R T
across the compound, and gunshots heard in the distance.
gunshots heard in the distance. e R A
gunshots heard in the distance. Scenes of riot police
gunshots heard in the distance. R R A - Ly o}
Scenes of riot police and firefighters
Scenes of riot police and RSB RO
Scenes of riot police and G N ERO IR
Scenes of riot police and RGN RO IR R
firefighters rushing to the present did little to calm
DAL R R Rl TG
present did little to calm people’s fears. For the
people’s fears. For the NG
people’s fears. For the inmates’ families, it is pure
inmates’ families, it is pure Tl
inmates’ families, it is pure IR
inmates’ families, it is pure panic. They rushed to Evin,
panic. They rushed to Evin, clogging
panic. They rushed to Evin, ACLBILEGTE
panic. They rushed to Evin, clogging the roads with
clogging the roads with -1 11T
clogging the roads with traffic, trying to
clogging the roads with A TR (g [ R (RN
clogging the roads with traffic, trying to find out if
traffic, trying to find out if e
traffic, trying to find out if R s
traffic, trying to find out if AT SR
traffic, trying to find out if A S R )
traffic, trying to find out if A SRR Ry
traffic, trying to find out if A SR R T
their loved ones were safe. But Evin
their loved ones were safe. But SRS
their loved ones were safe. But Evin is also known for housing
Evin is also known for housing i
Evin is also known for housing MR
Evin is also known for housing hundreds of political
hundreds of political I NN
hundreds of political TN
hundreds of political prisoners, as well as
priseners, as well as SE G EL G R
priseners, as well as dual-nationals, which is what
dual-nationals, which Is what eINIs ]
dual-nationals, which is what prompted this tweet by Ned
prompted this tweet by Ned i
prompted this tweet by Ned Price, the US State
Price, the US State Department’s
Price, the US State Department’s spokesperson.
The incident will Likely
The incident will likely lead
The incident will Likely lead to
The incident will likely lead eRitlad e
The incident will likely lead R G E Es01d1)
The incident will likely lead to further scrutiny from
IR Vg G TV AR Ty Ll
IR Vg G TV AR Ty Y L T
IR Vg G TV AR Ty abroad. This is
IR Vg G TV AR Ty R LR R s
R TG TR abroad. This is what US
abroad. This is what US president
abroad. This is what US AL NS
abroad. This is what US president Joe Biden
abroad. This is what US ICAL NSRRI
abroad. This is what US CAL NS R R L
president Joe Biden said when asked about
president Joe Biden said when I O )
president Joe Biden said when asked about the fire.
president Joe Biden said when IO LRGN LT
asked about the fire. The TERIE]
asked about the fire. The Iranian government is so
Iranian government is so TN
Iranian government is so IR
Iranian government is so oppressive, we can’t have
oppressive, we can’t have anything but
oppressive, we can’t have MGG D]
oppressive, we can’t have anything but an enormous amount
anything but an enermous amount N
anything but an enermous amount e
anything but an enermous amount of respect for
anything but an enormous amount of respect for those people who
of respect for those people who march in the streets. And it
march in the streets. And it il
march in the streets. And it [T |
march in the streets. And it will add to
march in the streets. And it R R
march in the streets. And it will add to the anger within
will add to the anger within )
will add to the anger within G ess
will add to the anger within R
will add to the anger within the country as protests
the country as protests e e 418 )
the country as protests e dla -]
the country as protests e Al T el e
the country as protests e Al TR la e e s la]
the country as protests continue in more than a dozen
continue in more than a dozen i
continue in more than a dozen cities. In this
continue in more than a dozen AR GRS R
continue in more than a dozen cities. In this town, they were
cities. In this town, they were throwing stones
cities. In this town, they were QI RS IR
cities. In this town, they were throwing stones at authorities
GIGAN RS G TG gLt over
throwing stones at authorities N )
throwing stones at authorities over the weekend, shouting
over the weekend, shouting death to that dictator, a
death to that dictator, a T e o)
death to that dictator, a TSR]
death to that dictator, a reference to lran’s
death to that dictator, a SR E R GG
reference to Iran’s supreme L
reference to Iran’s supreme LA
reference to Iran’s supreme leader. The security forces are
leader. The security forces are still camping down
leader. The security forces are S (TG A
leader. The security forces are still camping down on descent,
still camping down on descent, as
still camping down on descent, IG5
still camping down on descent, GG
still camping down on descent, as they are on the scene, also
as they are on the scene, also bhelieved
as they are on the scene, also believed to be in
as they are on the scene, also SR N R
as they are on the scene, also believed to be in that place.
believed to be in that place. i
believed to be in that place. A
believed to be in that place. It has now been
believed to be in that place. [ R st
believed to be in that place. It has now been more than a
It has now been more than a month
It has now been more than a R )
It has now been more than a R R
It has now been more than a UG R - R G R R
It has now been more thana month since the process began.
month since the process began. 57
month since the process began. IS FICR
month since the process began. They are still led by women
month since the process began. LGSR RS AT UL
LIRS AT R R L REL T schoolgirls
They are still led by women and schoolgirls but also involve
schoolgirls but also involve people from all
schoolgirls but also involve P CRIu L ETE NS
schoolgirls but also involve people from all walks of life,
people from all walks of life, and
people from all walks of life, LI
people from all walks of life, and amidst a crackdown by the
and amidst a crackdown by the government
and amidst a crackdown by the E L
and amidst a crackdown by the government and internet back
government and internet back NI
government and internet back L
government and internet back A
government and internet back outs, it is clear the descent
outs, it is clear the descent s
outs, it is clear the descent is far from over. -- dissent.
Well, earlier | spoke to human rights activist
Sussan Tahmasebi, who is also one of Iran’s foremost feminist
DS
| asked what she had learned about what’s happening in Evin
prison in Tehran.
Well, there’s a lot of speculation and a lot
of concern.
People who have seen the video A G M S R QIR )
wards, seven and eight, AR R R EI
that have caught fire.
And ward seven, they say, is next to the quarantine
section of ward 240 where a lot
of the protesters who have been taken prisoner are being held.
But really we don’t know.
It’s a lot of speculation CIR QI
The authorities and government EICEF LR R G
people who are familiar with Evin
Prison say a different thing.
T VATL TR of the prison when the fire
broke out were attacked by security quards and teargas,
so they are not provided with any information.
They can’t provide clarity into the situation,
and it’s 33
frustrating and concerning for us.
We’re not going to know, and | think your previous guest
talked about how it’s difficult to trust the Iranian
government when what they’re FW LRI AL
with what we’re seeing.
They very much regularly lie EL A ET R LN
Until we can hear from the prisoners inside the prison,
until they are allowed to call, we’re not going to have any
clarity on what’s going on.
More broadly, looking at the protests and how
widespread they are, and how fearless people seem
to be, are you surprised at how long they’ve gone on for?
We’re looking at the fifth week of protests now, aren’t we?
Yes, we are.
I’m actually more amazed than anything.
| understand the motivations R G G o
so I’m not surprised in that sense_
But | am surprised, despite the incredible violence
QAT R G E] protesters continue
to go out into the street and demand freedom and equality
ERD I T[T [a’
So in that sense, | think they’re very determined to get
what they want.
Iran has seen protests before.
Why do you think that the regime has been so far
unable to stop these protests?
Well, these protests R R s e e
than previous protests because, first of all,
it started - they were sparked by a demand
RN R oLy [P T [ VR I UL R G R G
and leading them more than any other protests
in the past.
The 2009 protests, which were against the presidency
of Ahmadinejad, and then the last two major protests
in 2017 and 2019, women were present
Ui GRTTT Rt e e
We also see a lot of young people, including high
schoolers now, participating in these
protests.
IS G O are across the country,
very dispersed, decentralised,
organised locally, in big and small cities,
the provinces.
VR 4 S Ll E ]
in protests in the past who are participating
in these protests.
They’re intersectional, so you see different people
with different ages, different socio-economic
backgrounds, different G IR D 1=
religions, participating RGN G o
So it’s very difficult, and they’re very
broad-based so it’s difficult to quell them even though
there is a lot of violence LGILE
Let’s bring you some live pictures now from
the China Party LRI GGR
China’s President, Xi Jinping, is addressing over 2,000
delegates who are in attendance.
In a break in decades-long tradition, it is thought
delegates are likely to hand Mr Xi a third term
FE g e[
In his opening remarks, RGN S AR
the government put people first during the Covid pandemic
and has also spoken about the situation
in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
We improved the system with e 8]
We improved the system with socialism with Chinese
socialism with Chinese characteristics, we will better
characteristics, we will better implement
characteristics, we will better P SuEL S
characteristics, we will better implement a constitution and
implement a constitution and conduct
implement a constitution and o e Tla e a3 atatale e I
conduct constitutional WL
conduct constitutional WY T AT
conduct constitutional W T SRR
conduct constitutional oversight. We will step up
oversight. We will step up legislation
oversight. We will step up ELIS LR
oversight. We will step up legislation in key emerging
legislation in key emerging L
legislation in key emerging TG
legislation in key emerging fields and make
legislation in key emerging TGRSR R d
legislation in key emerging fields and make further headway
fields and make further headway e
fields and make further headway in making these in
fields and make further headway in making these ina
fields and make further headway in making these in a well
in making these in a well el
in making these in a well L]
in making these in a well e NI R st e 4l e
in making these in a well conceived and democratic way in
conceived and democratic way in Y el )
conceived and democratic way in F s e Ta e R i)
conceived and democratic way in Yt e R s R ]
conceived and democratic way in s e e R G RGRE A
conceived and democratic way in accordance with the law. As
conceived and democratic way in Y e R RG]
accordance with the law. As a government administration, we
government administration, we transform government functions,
transform government functions, T IO
transform government functions, improve the government
improve the government L1 Kis
improve the government responsibility system and
responsibility system and ORI
responsibility system and organise additional
organise additional structures. ..
organise additional structures... Let us
organise additional structures. .. Let us hear from
structures... Let us hear from I
structures... Let us hear from Celia Hatton, reporting on how
Celia Hatton, reporting on how 41
Celia Hatton, reporting on how BT
Celia Hatton, reporting on how Xi Jinping rose
Celia Hatton, reporting on how IR LRGIR
Celia Hatton, reporting on how LR R
When he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he’d
become China’'s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
He was supposed to rule alongside these six other
But now, it’s clear that he has reshaped the Communist Party,
the military and the N S R G ELE
13 at the top of it all.
Some call him the chairman RSO
How did he become so powerful?
He started out with a bold vision - the China Dream.
It unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed
rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed
to revitalise the whole country.
And through viral RTaG R RO
a visit to a Beijing steamed bun shop.
He cultivated a different image for himself, making sure
everyone in China knew NS I L LT A
as the top leader.
He reorganised the military, too.
By ousting hundreds of generals LR ETR RGN R GG
allies, he is firmly e aidas B
And let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption
crackdown.
This man, Zhou Yongkang, is the former top security
chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion
in ill-gotten gains.
More than a millien party officials have been punished
under Xi, silencing all rivals.
The campaign is popular with the public, but it has
Xi Is at the top of his game, but he faces sericus
challenges.
China’s economy is suffering under tight Covid restrictions,
and he has made quite a few NI R R R -
China watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate
any responsibilities, sharing the power
Celia Hatton, BBC News.
Ahead of the Congress, MG SR
a letter to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
He expressed willingness RGN R G N R
between China and North Korea, saying he wanted to make
a great contribution R IR R I g[S
and their people with greater happiness, and defending peace
and stability in the region TGRSR R el
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
Uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews as it tries
to stop the spread of Ebola.
The measures include the closing of churches
and restricted movement into NGNS s
19 people have so far died from the disease
There have been large protests in the Tunisian capital
against President Kais Saied, denouncing him as an autocrat
who Is reversing the democratic progress in the country.
Mr Saied took on full executive power last year,
but protestors say there has IR LRGN
One man has died and two others are missing after torrential
rain caused flash-flooding RN e e s
Emergency workers say the victim had become trapped
LThLIEE
Seaside villages have been inundated with water.
TR TR e L Jeremy Hunt, has indicated
there will be major changes to Liz Truss’s
entire economic strategy.
In a round of interviews with broadcasters on Saturday,
Mr Hunt said mistakes had been made by the Government
and warned of what he called very difficult decisions ahead.
He suggested taxes could rise to help restore market
confidence, and also talked about spending cuts.
Mr Hunt was appointed after the Prime Minister
sacked his predecessor, Kwasi Kwarteng.
Here is our political correspondent, Ben Wright.
Congratulations, Mr Chancellor.
The fourth Chancellor in as many months.
Jeremy Hunt’s job now 3R ELLETO Y
calm financial markets.
He has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk
many of the Prime Minister’s signature policies.
On Wednesday, Liz Truss said she was absolutely not planning
public spending cuts, but listen to this.
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead - difficult
decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
=RV LT T G o and I’m going to be asking
all government departments to find additional efficiency
savings.
That’s going to be...
One person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
Yes.
During the Tory leadership contest, Liz Truss said
the country couldn’t tax its way to economic
growth, but now...
We’re also going to have TR R U R A
Taxes are not going to come down by as much as people
hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
Then there was the Prime Minister’s pledge to boost
defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
But the defence department, too, is going to have
to help find efficiencies.
The long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending
will depend on stability in the economic situation
=R R T G TV growing economy.
Spending cuts and tax rises is not what Liz Truss planned
when she entered Number 10 last month, but the economic
and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s
mini-budget has forced a fundamental rethink,
plunging her premiership RGN R
1y
Yesterday, the smiles had gone and the Prime Minister’s
appearance in Number 10 did little to convince her Tory
Party critics that she is up to the job.
Some believe her future now hinges on the Chancellor’s
budget at the end of this month.
If that package doesn’t S SR
are still reacting all over the place, then | think
she IS In considerable trouble.
She’s admitted mistakes, N R R )
mistakes and puts them right, N E R T R 0]
conceivably get beyond this.
But | emphasise "could,” because | think it all depends
on that financial RE NI R e
LR To T [ AN R e T aa a1 Ta s
was now clinging on.
IS GLR ST EL1e the British economy,
they also clung on.
Clung on as they made the pound sink, clung
on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse,
clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills
of the British public QI RO RS
They did all of this.
Questions?
Liz Truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this
turmoil will subside.
But behind her in Parliament sits a fractious,
even mutinous party.
SR T LUV ol ] mad to try and oust
the Prime Minister already.
Others say keeping her L ELCR e G R R )
Rebuilding her political SO ARG G X
Ben Wright, BBC News.
This is BBC News. A reminder of the headlines:
Gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison
in Iran’s capital, Tehran.
State media reports at least eight people injured.
China’s 20th Communist Party Congress has officially opened
in Beijing and is hearing a report by the party leader,
XI Jinping.
Turkey says 41 people are known I R = )
near the Black Sea coast, after a suspected methane
explosion on Friday.
President Erdogan has visited the site
at Amasra and promised a thorough investigation.
Anjana Gadgil reports.
A funeral for one of the miners killed in the blast
in the Black Sea coastal town of Amasra.
Other families waited outside the morgue where their
relatives’ bodies lay.
It’s one of Turkey’s deadliest industrial accidents in years
and left smoke billowing into the sky.
Over 100 people were working there at the time.
More than 70 workers took part in rescue efforts,
which went on throughout QA
Crowds gathered around M TR ARG e
Many were family members of the dead and injured.
It’s believed methane ignited at a depth of 300 metres,
causing a fire in one RGN e
President Erdogan made a visit to the scene and said he hoped
TRANSLATION: Of course, we will find out how this
explosion happened and if there any people are responsible
for it, with the prosecutions which already started.
Turkey suffered its deadliest coal mining disaster in 2014,
when 301 workers died in a blast in the western
R AN T
The local prosecutor’s office said it was treating this
incident at the state-owned coal mine as an accident
and has begun an investigation.
Anjana Gadgil, BBC News.
The footballer Mason Greenwood has been charged with attempted
rape, engaging in controlling DR o R U ENA L
and assault occasioning actual bodily harm.
The 21-year-old Manchester United
striker was first arrested TR
and assault in January,
and was immediately suspended from playing or training
)RRl
He was re-arrested earlier today for allegedly
breaching bail conditions.
Firefighters in the British city of Leeds are battling
a large blaze in a building of the city centre.
The fire broke out on the top floors of a high-rise building
earlier on Saturday evening, prompting the evacuation
of several nearby pubs and restaurants.
The fire service has said the structure was "potentially
unsafe”
Elon Musk says his Starlink satellite company will continue
to provide internet to Ukraine for free, despite threatening
to start charging RO
Ukraine has described Starlink as vital, saying it helped
the country survive critical moments during the Russian
V&3 )
For more on this about-turn, RN G NG
MISSION CONTROL: Three, two, one, zero.
Ignition.
s
Elon Musk’s Starlink satellites launching in 2019.
His bid to provide broadband around the world that,
CRSUATE AR I would become critical
The company’s 3,000 stations A R e R A e N ]
crucial to communications by troops for the past eight
months as they monitor Russian movements.
But on Friday, a different battle was raging.
Mr Musk said his company could no longer provide
the service, suggesting the Pentagon to cover
W CRENEL LR YL R Ty FE e B R
So, why the sudden change?
It all seemed to start when he weighed in on Ukraine’s
military strategy, asking Twitter users if it should
accept territorial losses, including Crimea, in
the interest of a peaceful end to the war.
It was not welcomed by Volodymyr Zelensky
or Ukrainian ambassadors, including one who tweeted
a profanity, saying "that is my very diplomatic reply to you™.
In pulling his internet services, Mr Musk said
he was just following R o s A s T
Now, though, the world’s richest man has had another
change of heart and, in another tweet, has said
he’ll continue his support.
And for now at least, Ukraine has one less battle
to worry about.
Stephanie Prentice, BBC News.
The husband and wife team behind one of the most
successful Covid vaccines say O S RO
technology could help NIRRTl
The couple who founded the German company BioNTech,
also said they would fight claims by a rival company
that they infringed patents in their Covid jab.
Our medical editor Fergus Walsh reports.
If you have a Covid booster this autumn, whether it’s
the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna jabs, they both rely
on a new type of vaccine technology known as mRNA.
Among the pioneers were husband and wife team
I NGVl ] and Ozlem Tureci, who founded
ML T A I«
Speaking to Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg,
QG (e (X RN EE LRI R R os
studies, where patients receive a personalised vaccine
to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
Every step, every patient R AN Ee e Rl
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how
Therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say
we will have a cure for cancer.
We have a number of breakthroughs and we will
continue to work cn them.
But it may be several years before we know if trials
in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really
do live up to the hype.
Covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful
and made billions for BioNTech, but rival firm Moderna has
started legal action for patent infringement -
in essence, claiming key elements of their mMRNA
technology were copied.
BioNTech says it will vigorously defend
against the allegations.
Our innovations are original.
We have spent 20 years of research in developing this
type of treatment and, TR RV [Ty 1
for our intellectual property.
These patent disputes won’t stop the rollout
of Covid vaccines.
mRNA technology came W ELERIR G L
The question now Is can B e o 4
Fergus Walsh, BBC News.
The first European woman to command the International
Space Station has spoken TR R R e
arriving back to Earth RAEA
Samantha Cristoforetti had been on board
for nearly six months conducting research
on the effects of microgravity MR e e
and other systems.
The Italian astronaut was on her second mission
to the space station but this RN A EE S
It was great to experience again the re-entry
into the atmosphere.
It’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
I’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones
and my family, so | look forward to spending
CHOERE R R Y R OR G
| mean, it’s a bittersweet B
I’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also
bittersweet to say goodbye R R A L P A UG
in space, most likely TR A E -
We are in the process of selecting a new class
N GG
Well, it has taken 14 years R R ORI R
but Mexican director Guillermo del Toro didn’t give up and has
finally seen his Pinocchio GG CRN S
The director said it is not a movie made for kids,
but they could watch IR GRS E LS GRG0
Claudia Redmond reports.
VOICE-OVER: It’s a story you may think you know,
but CHUCKLES you don’t.
The story...
..of the wooden boy.
Director Guillermo del Toro proudly holds a model
of his vision of Pinocchio at the world premier,
which was held at the BFI Film Festival in London on Saturday.
The story, based on a wooden I R N e R R R 1)
originated from the 1883 book The Adventure of Pinocchio.
But in this stop motion animation version, the much
darker tale is set against the sombre backdrop
of Mussolini’s Fascist Italy and the little boy is more
feisty.
Yes, | think Pinocchio is - normally Pinocchio is about
obedience and about changing yourself to please what people
think you should be.
But this Pinocchio Is disohedience and that
you are who you are and you are R N A Rl
what or who you are and you R D oo = v
you need somebody to see you for who you are.
Newcomer Gregory Mann celebrated his 13th birthday
IR GRS
He talked about the moment he heard the news that he got
the leading role.
| remember | was at my friend’s house and | didn’t have a phone
at the time, so my friend’s mum walked in and she said,
"Your mum’s on the phone for you" and | was very
confused because normally, you would think that’s a bad
thing, but it turned out she was calling me ‘Pinocchio’
and | realised | got the role and | was completely
over the moon.
Gregory was joined on the red carpet by David Bradley,
who plays his father, QR o - I S S LA o
and other stars from the film, including Cate Blanchett
and Christoph Waltz.
VIR IIGEEI R G IERTE LR R Ry project for him and it
certainly pulled at the heartstrings of the audience.
Claudia Redmond, BBC News.
Let’s go back to the live ORI R U R I LI
Party Congress in Beljing.
China’s President Xi Jinping LI R
2,000 delegates there.
In his opening remarks, RGN S AR
the government put people first during the Covid pandemic
=TI TS L () about the situation in
Hong Kong.
Let’s listen in. Translation -- TRANSLATION: Social Security is
TRANSLATION: Social Security Is PN
TRANSLATION: Social Security Is an important
TRANSLATION: Social Security Is LRl e a1 (BT
TRANSLATION: Social Security Is an important pillar and
an important pillar and RIS E e
an important pillar and international security as
international security as Il ]e
international security as support. We
international security as o I MR Rl
international security as o R LR R &L
support. We will take e A sl
support. We will take co-ordinated steps to ensure
co-ordinated steps to ensure Sassoon
co-ordinated steps to ensure TR w18
co-ordinated steps to ensure Sassoon security internally and
Sassoon security internally and externally, and our own
externally, and our own security
externally, and our own g &l
externally, and our own security and common security.
security and common security. We
security and common security. ||
security and common security. Wwe will both
security and common security. We will both uphold natienal
We will both uphold national security
We will both uphold natienal g &l
We will both uphold natienal security and create
We will both uphold natienal Y R R RO
security and create the conditions
security and create the e i1
security and create the LR TR
S Ta g N T R LI IR TR R
S Ta g N T R conditions for insuring it. We
conditions for insuring it. We il
conditions for insuring it. We will strengthen support for
will strengthen support for security
will strengthen support for g &l
will strengthen support for security and improve
will strengthen support for O U R I R U
STV N R R [ T e - I
STV N R R [ mechanisms. Will bring
security and improve the mechanisms. Will bring you more
mechanisms. Will bring you more of
mechanisms. Will bring you more SRy
mechanisms. Will bring you more SR N
mechanisms. Will bring you more SR NN
mechanisms. Will bring you more SR N N R
mechanisms. Will bring you more of the cause of the day.
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy
and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree
or so higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just
start to increase across eastern Scotland, North East
England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
A big fire has LU N AT LR
in the Iranian capital, Tehran, where hundreds of political
prisoners, and dozens of dual E G I GRS O R
In videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be
AR R RGN ] TN e R
The Chinese leader X L R L L I3
the 20th Communist Party Congress, which has
opened in Beljing.
In a report on the five years since the last congress,
he cited the many accomplishments of the
Communist Party in achieving what he called socialism
RGN - R GG n G [
Britain’s new Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Jeremy Hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes
when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very
difficult economic decisions G A RN R ]
He’s promised to restore W C IR LR s
to public finances i d RO R nE
Now on BBC News, Click.
This week, we are celebrating (ORI R G -N-]: ]
We will look at the secrets behind the broadcasting
technologies that changed the world.
A radio legend talks about legendary radio.
| used to set my R N RO
My favourite pip is always the last one.
I guess the idea is we’re not actually meant to be
In the same place.
And in the quest for greener energy, Omar discovers
a tasteless fluid called water.
It goes in your mouth LRGN Lk
Today we are literally stepping into history.
We are at Alexandra Palace and this place has seen it all.
That’s the studio in there.
2022 marks 100 years NG
Goodness me.
What began with a single radio transmission has transformed
into a global broadcaster.
In that time, It has covered the biggest events
of successive generations, working to inform, educate
and entertain the nation.
And throughout those hundred years, the BBC has been pushing
the boundaries of broadcasting, embracing and sometimes even
creating the latest technology.
100 years of broadcasting.
It is amazing when you think of it.
You don’t look a day over 30.
And this studio in Alexandra Palace has a very special place
in BBC history.
In 1936 the BBC television service was launched right
here on this spot.
Performers and orchestra G E N TR Cee
And a huge camera here!
This is Adele Dixon performing with the BBC Television
She Is singing a song called Television which was written
especially for the opening night of...
Television.
It was broadcast to viewers across London and the home
counties through the NN NT S E
Palace, marking the beginning SR HEIR L LRGeS el
to as high definition LG
Yeah, don’t laugh.
Before that, television was just an odd fuzzy
experiment small, e G e
And behind-the-scenes there was a bit of a battle going on.
See, the BBC had actually opened up two studios
at Alexandra Palace.
This, Studio B was a mechanical system which was made
by John Logie Baird andit produced an image like this.
Meanwhile, in Studio A, QAR Y U]
an electrical system by EMI and what they would do
as they would alternate studios and systems on different days
R G GRy [eE T the results and it turned out
that EMI’s images at 25 frames per second were double
the quality of the Baird system.
It had other advantages too.
The Baird camera was encrmous.
That EMI one was somewhat more portable.
LU VBTV (LT T T RGN I B R CUR
quite a lot of make up too.
Well, this is how it was, playmates.
Black and white, you see?
And a bit of blue down each side of the nose.
Very sexy.
The EMI system on the other hand could capture a well Lit
OG- Te{Ta VA {1 N RGN IR E R
Under the lid of the Emitron was this, a cathode-ray tube
which is basically an old TV LR ROl
the pictures instead of showing them.
It stayed in use without much change for many, many years.
The coronation of King George VIR Rl e R la i)
the cameras were used outside RN e e (R LR Ll |
by about 50,000 viewers.
However, it was the coronation of his daughter that really
brought television RN
70 years later, many millions of us watched the Queen’s
funeral on smart TVs, phones, laptops, or on huge screens
around the country, demonstrating just how far
technology has moved on.
But now, let’s go back before R R ]
to the very beginnings NAGEE L EhR L2
Of course, way before television came radio
and what do you need I D R R )
You are going to need MR e
And one of the most iconic mics ever is the BRC-Marconi
Type A and when | say iconic, it is an icon.
Literally.
One of our colleagues, Joe Leates, really, really
loves this microphone so we sent him to the archives
to see what he could dig up.
Not many are around these days, especially ones that work,
as It became tradition at the corporation to empty
the insides and plate them with gold as leaving
But what a thing to have RN G
The good news, though, is here at the BBC,
UEIEICR Y148
You’ll notice it looks pretty hefty and it’s actually really
big, so it tended to stay in studios and leave the world
travel to its smaller counterparts.
But what it missed in adventure, it made up
for in the circles IR
It played host to filmmaker Alfred Hitchcock, poet TS
Eliot, legendary author HG Wells and that’s Charlie
Chaplin.
British singer and legend Petula Clark began her career
aged nine in front of a Taipel.
Now, lads, it’s time to send EI G E U D
and greetings to you....
It was just to say hello, we are OK, don’t worry
about us, and give them a little bit of home news
During rehearsal there was the most enormous air raid
and the producer asked if one of the kids could come up
and sing a song or say a piece RS R GRE RO BY [Y
So | go up on stage and they put a box so that
| could reach the microphone, it was one of those big BBC
microphones, you know.
SRR RO TRl Te careers and directing
the Second World War the microphene was clearly
doing something right operationally, too.
Eyes had been on the groundbreaking ribbon
microphene invented by RCA, the Radio Corporation
of America but it was a little too expensive.
So in true BBC form, they made their own for less
than 10% of what RCA were charging.
Nice going.
The Taipel stayed in use by the BBC from 1934-
1959, a whole 25 years.
That is a long time when technology was developing
AT [s[ "2
So what about inside?
LI R IR LT R e S
That’s because behind the perforated cover is exactly
that, a ribbon of metal.
With the help of one of the trusty BBC engineering
manuals, we can see that L L R i Rie N
the front or the back and hit the ribbon in the middle.
So thin that it flexes and wiggles when the noise
vibrations in the air hit it, just like your eardrum.
The flexing moves the ribbon through a magnetic field
created by two magnets NN
Doing this generates a very small voltage which is unigue
to the sound it is taking in.
The microphone then connects RO R G LS
amplifies this up to a level that you can hear,
and because the ribbon is a flat piece of metal,
it can interpret vibrations TG EIDE
Finally, of course, we want to hear a bit more
of how the microphone sounds.
Well we can hear it in use by Sir John Snagge, the BBC
voice who made the first annoucement of the D-Day
landings, and who went MR e R A Rl
He specially recorded with the microphone
for this demo tape.
This speech Is recorded from a BBC-Marconi velocity
ribbon microphone, type AXBT.
| will leave it to you then to make up your own mind
For lack of time, it was not possible to STATIC Joe there.
Now, if you are a fan of radio, | mean, really a fan of radio,
then you will know RO
They are called the pips and when you hear them,
you will know it is I G RN
| find them quite soothing.
But have you ever wondered why they exist?
Ships.
The pips tell ships what time it is and help them navigate.
At the height of the British Empire, Britain had a lot more
ships than anyone else anywhere in the world and their maps
all needed to follow a strict format so they could figure out
where they were.
The centre of all British REIAe I R E e R 2Ly
the Greenwich Meridian, O degrees, and each vessel also
kept a fancy clock on board that told them local time
at the Meridian and helped them to calculate their position
really precisely.
But over long journeys, R G R G NG
those clocks accurate RN e s K
Well, to bring in the New Year in 1923, the BBC ran
an experiment to broadcast QRGBSR B R
on the radio.
It was a bonging success and the following year
the first fully accessible time signal, the Greenwich Time
Signal, started to be broadcast every hour and it
hasn’t stopped since.
The pips, as they were known, were generated by a swinging
pendulum fitted with AP asdlo: Mat st n
So now you could have accurate Greenwich Mean Time literally
anywhere that you had a radio.
The pips have become legendary, a symbol of BBC radio,
and who better to tell us about them than another legend
of BBC radio, Tony Blackburn.
ARCHIVE: Welcome along to the Tony Blackburn show this
morning for this Tuesday I GRS AN e
My thanks, as always to John Dunn for swinging us up
The pips have always been a favourite of mine since 1967
when | joined the BBC LR N R IR
ARCHIVE: Good morning everyone, welcome to the exciting news
Everybody else finds it a bit weird that | Like them
On my programmes, | used to promote them, particularly
as my favourite pip B CZ R Y A
LTI R aE slightly extended.
It is very BBC but they were very useful at one time
because before all of these smart watches you would just
have an ordinary watch which used to probably lose
a minute a day or something like that.
So | used to set my watch by the pips.
Nowadays of course with the smart watches and things
like that you don’t need it quite so much but it is still
very BBC and | still like it, BTG hER R R R N4
disappear.
ARCHIVE: And off we go with the next one and what a lovely
The original clock that (IR ORI R (&
in the in the museum at the Royal Observatory.
In the 60s, though, an atomic clock started doing the job
which stayed in use until the 1990s when it
transmitted its last pips from the Royal Observatory.
Ever since then, the BBC has generated its own pips
from its atomic clock buried deep inside Broadcasting House
which uses GPS signals to stay synchronised.
So the next time you hear these, you know that they come
PIPS OK, time for a look RO S R e
First up Mark Zuckerberg has unveiled Meta’s new VR headset
at its annual event held for developers.
With a pricetag of just under $1500, is almost four times
the price of Meta’s et
The British artist Damien Hirst has begun burning hundreds
of his own pictures as as part of an experiment to test
the value of physical paintings versus digital works.
Buyers who bought pieces from his latest collection
were asked to choose either the physical artwork
or the NFT representing it.
Those who chose the NFTs were told their corresponding
physical pieces would be destroyed.
The NFTs all cost £2000 and they all have the possibility
of being traded in for a physical artwork and these
ones are the ones that people e IR T
Could riding on rollercoasters cause phones to call emergency
- a -
According to the Wall Street Journal, six emergency calls
were made at one US amusement park after rides caused
new iPhones to react as though QAP LR G
Apple didn’t deny the fault and says the tech will continue
to improve over time.
And a healthcare company has teamed up with Microsoft
to make health products more accessible for blind people.
In new enhancements to the new Microsoft Seeing Al
app will provide important label information for more
than 1500 everyday products, including toothpaste
=D I IY11d]e ]
Listen to that. OIS i &
VR AR Rl of nature, don’t we?
And programmes like Springwatch, an annual TV show
that watches British wildlife during the changing seasons,
W VR R TR I TEAL 0 MR R AT
For programmes like Springwatch to run,
1LV R T R N Pl I
With over 60 crew and 35 T AR R
the biggest outside broadcasts the BRC offers.
So It needs a lot of power.
But in an effort to be more green, and protect the wildlife
they feature, Springwatch has taken a number of measures
to cut down their emissions.
We turned up to one of their production bases
to see what they are.
This is the big one - the green hydrogen generator.
AR LT green hydrogen?
Because the process of electrolysis used
to separate the hydrogen from water is powered
by solar energy.
If it was powered by fossil fuels then it would be known
as blue or black hydrogen.
NS LY defeats the purpose.
But with solar, you are using clean energy
to make clean energy.
Compared to diesel generators, it is a 3.5-tonne reduction
based on what we normally do with a couple of weeks use.
A couple of weeks, 3.5 tonnes? Yeah.
The only two things that this outputs is heat and brand-new
water, the newest water in the universe.
AR GRS it is brand new.
It’s absolutely pure.
Tastes the weirdest thing, no taste at all.
Nothing to It.
No minerals, no nothing. Nk
No, it’s fine, it just goes in your mouth and disappears.
Massive operation.
This is the site we are working on, 4,000 acres we have access
to, which is a huge area to cover.
So we have been putting fibre across the whole site
and as a way of trying to keep things down,
working on €02, we put fibre e LA
We have nodes up and down MR R R R s
to as we come back and go live.
You must have your favourite name here, right?
I know what my favourite is. N (W R (Tl T
They also have solar-powered cameras they have installed
on sites such as in this beehive here.
SR ORI 1 L S (g across the site to lower
emissions, but also off-site a lot of producers
are now utilising R R st Ea i
way of working so they don’t
spend unnecessary fuel going to sites.
And for the really remote sites, they are using solar
panels to power up the recording set-ups.
There is also one more special thing about this system.
It uses Al to flag a clip when an animal appears,
and tries to identify it.
So this year we have LY G R e
across the site.
All of those need to be monitored and logged
for activity 24 hours a day.
L LR AT S process when it comes
to labour, so BBC R&D have come up with Al tools
that will help identify different forms of wildlife.
They are very accurate.
ST LIN G RGN ) quite distinct, so it’s very
SR RGN R DRI of different shapes
and colours, so it R A
These changes aren’t without cost.
As mentioned earlier, the green hydrogen generator
isn’t normally as cheap as a diesel powered one.
And new ways of working always require some adjustment -
but the team want to do what they can to set an example.
It hasn’t been seamless, but they were very determined
to take advantage of that AR R TN G A G L )
and we pioneered It.
Using new technologies that have been pioneered in science
and bringing them to media is, from my point
of view, really exciting.
And the guys in the van here, RS I R S C
we asked them "was that the male, the female,
"that one, that one™?
Al and all that technology we have got is telling us
Instantaneously.
But we are not going RN R R MO R R IR )
we won’t save the reputation of the media when it comes
tc environment on our own.
We need sport, we need N E I
we need drama, everyone has to buy into this.
Change is never convenient or easy, but the team
here at Springwatch are taking strides forward to help the BBC
reach its goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions
by 2030.
And here’s hoping when it comes to powering our devices,
this is a sign of things to come.
Meanwhile at Manchester’s Science and Industry Museum,
LORY-E TR RGN 2- T R LTl T celebrated with an exhibit
featuring broadcast artefacts, plus a few more
This funky looking box was a prototype which was an early
oEladl RGN 116 research and development
project for storing your data I VY R G R T
was that the device would keep track of
what you are listening to and watching, but that data
LRV ST EN unless you chose
| =R I by a new vision that
Sir Tim Berners-Lee has IR L PR Rl
the ownership of our data.
Back in 2018, he told us about what he
calls a mid-course correction IR GRS LR ]
Imagine a world where before L R R B LR
where do you want to store this data?
All across the data spectrum, you have
complete control over your private and personal data,
which is very exciting, an exciting vision, I think
for those people who get an inkling
of what it’s going to be like.
Right now when we interact with companies over
the Internet, often without even thinking about it,
we give them our data - A
Every website, app or streaming platform gathers information
LRV e ] and age, what we
like to share, our files, photos, in fact all of our
online browsing habits.
Platforms use this data to create recommendations,
improve algorithms, or sometimes just
for the purpose of selling It.
But Tim Berners-Lee’s idea R IR CE R
giving power back RO TN
With Solid, as users travel across the Internet,
all their data is stored in something
LT IRl s
This is an individual’s databank in the cloud
which only they, R GRS
permission to, can see.
So instead of the data freely flowing to
companies when they want to access it, they have to ask
IR GERVE IR gl g
If this is approved they can look into
the pod to view N BIa e gt iAo B
With pods, because you are in control, you can
share what you have watched or listened to on one platform
with the others, something the companies would never want
you to be doing, but it means you could get more personalised
recommendations.
And If you want to stop using a service,
IR R access to your data.
Or you could, even more dramatically, delete the pod,
destroy all the data, IR R
of anything you have ever N R
Yes, it is a big endeavour, but it is not a ridiculously
huge endeavour.
What is exciting right now RIS R LY LN
when we should be broadcasting PR R A VR )
a start-up, Inrupt.
For years on, it is a reality with BBC R&D working
with Inrupt to bring TR CRNR
Charlie, you have invited me to a party but it is
no ordinary party.
No, no it’s not.
It is BBC Together, it’s a watch party,
but the particular difference here is your data is being
protected in any way.
Watch parties allow TN LR R R T
content at the same time, and they have exploded
in the last few years.
Something like a third of under 30s actually had a watch
party in the last 12 months, and it is really growing.
So we have kind AT R L
VLI I E T =D DR L [ ] the data pod element to it.
As users log in, T e R
software creates a pod IO E R
Here we go.
And when you stop watching, this BBC trial shows
you what data has T Re e
We couldn’t do a watch party without storing
some data about you.
The difference here is we are storing that data away from us,
In your pod that you control.
It’s not just about entertainment - this is just
one example of something you could do with this system.
That’s right, exactly.
We have seen interest from healthcare providers,
where your health data is incredibly personal to you,
you don’t want anybody UL R GRS
No, people are more obviously AN N E
Exactly.
There is a project in Flanders happening at the moment
where some of your educational qualifications are being put
into a pod.
Solid is just one of many ideas aiming to help us own our data.
Others, even allowing us to sell it, have failed to take
off at scale - maybe AR TR R T
right.
But that could change.
BBC R&D and Tim Berners-Lee certainly think it might,
and they have both been right before.
And there you have it, 100 years of the BBC in 23
I
Yep, you have been there IR UK R AP R T
Yeah, you’re right.
ARV R G FUR X
Thanks for watching IR R R
you in another hundred years.
Or hopefully sooner, bye!
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy
and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree
or so higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just
start to increase across eastern Scotland, North East
England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
ILIEREN ) e [ I’m Lucy Grey.
Our top stories:
Gun shots are heard I T [-R i [()
breaks out at a prison in Iran’s capital, Tehran.
State media reports at least eight people are injured.
China’s Communist Party NI T LN
with President Xi Jinping expected to be given a third
st BhR i ile-
As the UK’s Prime Minister fights for her job,
the new Chancellor signals he’ll make major changes
to her economic policy.
T a1 1
We have some very difficult
S RV R T T ] decisions
S RV R T T ] AR
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead, difficult
decisions ahead, difficult [ oA a1
decisions ahead, difficult decisions on
decisions ahead, difficult WA RS NG
decisions ahead, difficult decisions on spending, witchery
decisions on spending, witchery s
decisions on spending, witchery is not
decisions on spending, witchery AL
decisions on spending, witchery is not going to rise as much as
s not going to rise as much as TG
s not going to rise as much as people hope. | will be asking
people hope. | will be asking 1R
people hope. | will be asking E|IN T
people hope. | will be asking all government departments to
all government departments to el
all government departments to find additional efficiency
find additional efficiency savings.
And, a chiller in Chile.
Santiago sees the return of the Zombie Walk,
after a 3-year gap IR Net e A E eI
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
prison In the capital, Tehran.
Hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals
are held in the prison, as well as many protesters
arrested during the past four weeks of unrest.
Officials say that eight people have been injured,
and that the situation is now under control,
but information is still trickling out of the country.
The BBC’s Azadeh Moshiri reports.
Flames engulfing Iran’s notorious Evin Prison.
In the midst of widespread unrest, it is a scene that
frightened Iranians both inside and outside the country.
Officials say a riot broke out between inmates_
What people saw on social media was fires raging
across the compound and gunshots heard in the distance.
Scenes of riot police and firefighters rushing
to the prison did little to calm people’s fears.
For the inmates’ families, it was pure panic.
They rushed to Evin, clogging the roads with traffic,
trying to find out if their TSN R
But Evin is also known for housing hundreds
of political prisoners as well as dual-nationals,
which is what prompted this tweet by Ned Price,
the US State Department spokesperson.
The incident will likely lead to further scrutiny
This is what US President Joe Biden said when asked
The Iranian government is 50 oppressive, we can’t have
anything but an enormous amount of respect for those people
T NGB R e
And it will add to the anger within the country as protests
continue in more than a dozen cities.
In Ardabil, they were throwing stones at authorities over
the weekend shouting, "Death to the dictator,”
a reference to Iran’s SRR G
The security forces are still clamping down on dissent
as they are on the scene, I N I LR T e
It has now been more than a month since the process
began.
They are still led by women and schoolgirls, but also
involve people from NIRRT ARTR
And amidst a crackdown by the government and internet
blackouts, it is clear MR AR LR R
Well, earlier, | spoke to human rights activist
Sussan Tahmasebi, who is also one of Iran’s foremost feminist
DS
| asked what she had learned about what’s happening in Evin
prison in Tehran.
Well, there’s a lot of speculation and a lot
of concern.
People who have seen the video A G M S R QIR )
wards, seven and eight, seem to be the wards that
have caught fire.
And ward seven, they say, is next to the quarantine
section of ward 240 where a lot of the protesters who have been
taken prisener are being held.
But really we don’t know.
It’s a lot of speculation CIR QI
The authorities and government EICEF LR R G
people who are familiar with Evin Prison say
a different thing.
T VATL TR of the prison when the fire
broke out were attacked by security quards and teargas,
so they are not provided with any information.
They can’t provide clarity into the situation, and it’s
very frustrating and concerning for us.
We’re not going to know, and | think your previous guest
talked about how it’s difficult to trust the Iranian government
when what they’re saying is not in line with what we’re seeing.
They very much regularly lie EL A ET R LN
Until we can hear from the prisoners inside the prison,
until they are allowed to call, we’re not going to have any
clarity on what’s going on.
More broadly, looking at the protests and how
widespread they are, and how fearless people seem
to be, are you surprised at how long they’ve gone on for?
We’re looking at the fifth week of protests now, aren’t we?
Yes, we are.
I’m actually more amazed than anything.
| understand the motivations R G G o
so I’m not surprised in that sense_
But | am surprised, despite the incredible violence
they face, that protesters IR IR T A
the street and demand freedom and equality and democracy.
So in that sense, | think they’re very determined to get
what they want.
Iran has seen protests before.
Why do you think that the regime has been so far
unable to stop these protests?
Well, these protests R R s e e
than previous protests because, first of all, it started -
they were sparked by a demand for women’’s rights, and we see
women in these protests and leading them more
than any other protests in the past.
The 2009 protests, which were against the presidency
of Ahmadinejad, and then the last two major protests
in 2017 and 2019, women were present but they weren’t
so front and centre.
We also see a lot of young people, including high
schoolers now, participating RGO
IS G O are across the country,
very dispersed, decentralised, organised locally, in big
=N R0 F L AT G
We have cities that never participated in protests
in the past who are participating in these
protests.
They’re intersectional, so you see different people
with different ages, different socio-economic
backgrounds, different G IR D 1=
religions, participating RGN G o
So it’s very difficult, and they’re very broad-based
so it’s difficult to quell them ARG R R R L
of violence being used.
The Chinese leader Xi Jinping has been addressing the 20th
Communist Party Congress.
In a report on the five years since the last congress,
he cited the many accomplishments of the
Communist Party in achieving what he called socialism
with Chinese characteristics T aU S Adzn
On Taiwan, Mr Xi said that separatist tendencies
and foreign influence had been countered, while in Hong Kong
he claimed a high degree SN NAE R CERu I EI
under One Country Two Systems.
His first two terms saw IR O A IR
and a crackdown on dissent, as well as the imposition
of severe controls in Xinjiang and a draconian security law
in Hong Kong.
In a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely
to hand Mr Xi a third term as party chief.
It paves the way for him to become the most powerful
leader since Mao Zedong.
Our Correspondent Celia Hatton reports on how he rose
I
When he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling
he had become China’s new leader, he was a relative
unknown.
He was supposed to rule alongside these six other
But now, it’s clear that he has reshaped the Communist Party,
the military and the government so that he is at the top
Some call him the chairman RSO
You
How did he become so powerful?
He started out with a bold vision - the China Dream.
It unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed
rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed
to revitalise the whole country, And through viral
incidents like this - a visit to a Beijing
steamed bun shop.
He cultivated a different image for himself, making sure
everyone in China knew NS I L LT A
as the top leader.
He reorganised the military, too.
By ousting hundreds of generals LR ETR RGN R GG
allies, he is firmly e aidas B
And let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption
crackdown.
This man, Zhou Yongkang, is the former top security
chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion
in ill-gotten gains.
More than a millien party officials have been punished
under Xi, silencing all rivals.
The campaign is popular with the public, but it has
Xi Is at the top of his game, but he faces sericus
challenges.
China’s economy is suffering under tight Covid restrictions,
and he has made quite a few NI R R R -
China watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate
any responsibilities, sharing the power and also the blame.
Celia Hatton, BBC News.
TR TR e L Jeremy Hunt, has indicated
there’ll be major changes R AT e N Yo e lst e
strategy.
In a round of interviews with broadcasters on Saturday
Mr Hunt said mistakes had been made by the Government
and warned of what he called 'very difficult decisions’
He suggested taxes could rise to help restore market
W[ R LR EIUCT about spending cuts.
Mr Hunt was appointed after the Prime Minister
sacked his predecessor, Kwasi Kwarteng.
Here’s our political correspondent, Ben Wright.
Congratulations, Mr Chancellor.
The fourth Chancellor in as many months,
Jeremy Hunt’s job now 3R ELLETO Y
calm financial markets.
He has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk
many of the Prime Minister’s signature policies.
On Wednesday, Liz Truss said she was absolutely not planning
public spending cuts, but listen to this.
S RV R T T ] decisions ahead - difficult
decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
=RV LT T G o and I’m going to be asking
all government departments to find additional efficiency
savings.
That’s going to be...
One person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
Yes.
During the Tory leadership contest, Liz Truss said
the country couldn’t tax its way to economic
growth, but now...
We’re also going to have TR R U R A
Taxes are not going to come down by as much as people
hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
Then there was the Prime Minister’s pledge to boost
defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
But the defence department, too, is going to have
to help find efficiencies.
The long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending
will depend on stability in the economic situation
=R R T G TV growing economy.
Spending cuts and tax rises is not what Liz Truss planned
when she entered Number 10 last month, but the economic
and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s
mini-budget has forced a fundamental rethink,
plunging her premiership RGN R
1y
Yesterday, the smiles had gone, and the Prime Minister’s
appearance in Number 10 did little to convince her
Tory Party critics that she is up to the job.
Some believe her future now hinges on the Chancellor’s
budget at the end of this month.
If that package doesn’t S SR
are still reacting all over the place, then | think
she IS In considerable trouble.
She’s admitted mistakes, N R R )
mistakes and puts them right, N E R T R 0]
conceivably get beyond this.
But | emphasise "could,” because | think it all depends
on that financial RE NI R e
LR To T [ AN R e T aa a1 Ta s
was now clinging on.
IS GLR ST EL1e the British economy,
they also clung on - clung on as they made the pound
sink, clung on as they took our pensions to the brink
of collapse, clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills
of the British public QI RO RS
They did all of this.
Questions?
Liz Truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this
turmoil will subside.
But behind her in Parliament sits a fractious, even mutinous
WElad’R
SR T LUV ol ] mad to try and oust
the Prime Minister already.
Others say keeping her L ELCR e G R R )
Rebuilding her political SO ARG G X
Ben Wright, BBC News.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews as it tries
to stop the spread of Ebola.
The measures include the closing of churches
and restricted movement into NGNS s
19 people have so far died from the disease.
There have been large protests in the Tunisian capital
against President Kais Saied, denouncing him as an autocrat
who’s reversing the democratic progress in the country.
Mr Saled took on full executive power last year but protestors
say there’s been no improvement in living standards
Turkey says 41 people are known I R = )
near the Black Sea coast, after a suspected methane
explosion on Friday.
President Erdogan has visited the site at Amasra and promised
a thorough investigation.
Anjanna Gadgil reports.
A funeral for one of the miners killed in the blast
in the Black Sea coastal town of Amasra.
Other families waited outside the morgue where their
relatives’ bodies lay.
It’s one of Turkey’s deadliest industrial accidents in years
and left smoke billowing into the sky.
Over 100 people were working there at the time.
More than 70 workers took part in rescue efforts,
which went on throughout QA
Crowds gathered around M TR ARG e
Many were family members of the dead and injured.
It’s believed methane ignited at a depth of 300 metres,
causing a fire in one RGN e
President Erdogan made a visit to the scene and said he hoped
TRANSLATION: Of course, we will find out how this
explosion happened and if there any people are responsible
for it, with the prosecutions which already started.
Turkey suffered its deadliest coal mining disaster in 2014,
when 301 workers died in a blast in the western
R AN T
The local prosecutor’s office said it was treating this
incident at the state-owned coal mine as an accident
and has begun an investigation.
Anjana Gadgil, BBC News.
A reminder of the headlines:
Gun shots are heard I T [-R i [()
breaks out at a prison in Iran’s capital,
State media reports at least eight people injured.
The Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, [ ETR T -G R G R
for further economic development, in his address
to the 20th Communist Party Congress, which has
opened in Beljing.
Heavy floods on the Greek island of Crete have claimed
at least one life, swept away cars and flooded
YR R L
Local authorities have evacuated tourists, and asked
QR 16 to remain vigilant.
Stefano Fasanoc has more.
And people shovelling away the consequences of yet another
SN O G he
Heavy floods on the Greek island of Crete have wrecked
havoc and flooded dozens of homes on Saturday night.
A 45-year-old man died after his car was dragged
by currents in the northern part of the island where rains
battered towns and villages four hours.
His passenger, a woman, is still missing.
For everyone else, the tough job of rebuilding and cleaning
IR
TRANSLATION: It all happened within seconds.
| don’t know how long it happened for.
We just barely managed to get everyone out at the very last
minute when the water reached R R UG
because everyone was sleeping and they had no idea
what was happening.
Cars were swept away to sea in what is one of the most
famous tourist destinations on the Mediterranean.
Now, several vehicles can be seen floating in front of one
of the island’'s famous beaches.
Firefighters rescued one woman trapped inside her car before
it, too, was swept out to sea.
Authorities said they were investigating more reports
ENTEINOIL L ERL R ] others may have been trapped
HEGLE
The island’s international airport was closed as
the runway was underwater.
Tourists on the island were evacuated and authorities
advised residents to remain vigilant.
And this might just be the beginning.
Natural disasters such as flash floods are expected
to intensify in Greece and become more frequent
as climate change takes hold.
Stefanc Fasanc, BBC News.
Russia’s defence ministry says that 11 people were killed
and 15 more wounded at a military training ground
when two citizens of an ex-Soviet state opened fire
on trainees during an exercise.
The authorities described the incident in the Belgorod
region as a terrorist act.
Those killed were described YR I e e R L)
to fight for Russia in Ukraine.
Russia’s defence minstry said the assailants were shot dead.
Elon Musk says his Starlink satellite company will continue
to provide internet to Ukraine for free, despite threatening
to start charging RO
Ukraine has described Starlink as vital, saying it helped
the country survive critical moments during the Russian
V&3 )
For more on this about-turn, RN G NG
MISSION CONTROL: Three, two, one, zero.
Ignition.
s
Elon Musk’s Starlink satellites launching in 2019.
His bid to provide broadband around the world that,
CRSUATE AR I would become critical
The company’s 3,000 stations A R e R A e N ]
crucial to communications by troops for the past eight
months as they monitor Russian movements.
But on Friday, a different battle was raging.
Mr Musk said his company could no longer provide
the service, suggesting the Pentagon to cover
W CRENEL LR YL R Ty FE e B R
So, why the sudden change?
It all seemed to start when he weighed in on Ukraine’s
military strategy, asking Twitter users if it should
accept territorial losses, including Crimea, in
the interest of a peaceful end to the war.
It was not welcomed by Volodymyr Zelensky
or Ukrainian ambassadors, including one who tweeted
a profanity, saying "that is my very diplomatic reply to you™.
In pulling his internet services, Mr Musk said
he was just following R o s A s T
Now, though, the world’s richest man has had another
change of heart and, in another tweet, has said
he’ll continue his support.
And for now at least, Ukraine has one less battle
to worry about.
Stephanie Prentice, BBC News.
The first European woman to command the International
Space Station has spoken after arriving back
I R-Ela N R dlE)E
Samantha Cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six
months conducting research.
The Italian astrenaut says her mission to the Space
station is Likely e dr e
It was great to experience again the re-entry
into the atmosphere.
It’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
I’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones
and my family, so | look forward to spending
CHOERE R R Y R OR G
| mean, it’s a bittersweet B
I’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also
bittersweet to say goodbye R R A L P A UG
in space, most likely TR A E -
We are in the process of selecting a new class
N GG
The husband and wife team behind one of the most
successful Covid vaccines say O S RO
technology could help NIRRTl
The couple who founded the German company BioNTech,
also said they would fight claims by a rival company
that they infringed patents in their Covid jab.
Our medical editor Fergus Walsh reports.
If you have a Covid booster this autumn, whether it’s
the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna jabs, they both rely
on a new type of vaccine technology known as mRNA.
Among the pioneers were husband and wife team
I NGVl ] and Ozlem Tureci, who founded
ML T A I«
Speaking to Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg,
QG (e (X RN EE LRI R R os
studies, where patients receive a personalised vaccine
to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
Every step, every patient R AN Ee e Rl
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how
Therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say
we will have a cure for cancer.
We have a number of breakthroughs and we will
continue to work cn them.
But it may be several years before we know if trials
in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really
do live up to the hype.
Covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful
and made billions for BioNTech, but rival firm Moderna has
started legal action for patent infringement -
in essence, claiming key elements of their mMRNA
technology were copied.
BioNTech says it will vigorously defend
against the allegations.
Our innovations are original.
We have spent 20 years of research in developing this
type of treatment and, TR RV [Ty 1
for our intellectual property.
These patent disputes won’t stop the rollout
of Covid vaccines.
mRNA technology came W ELERIR G L
The question now Is can B e o 4
Fergus Walsh, BBC News.
The coronavirus pandemic brought much of the world
But, now, as Covid-19 fades somewhat into the background,
things are beginning el RN s E .
In Chile, a popular event making a comeback
| should tell you Tim Allman’s report contains a lot
of make-up, but no real blood!
After three years, the walking dead have risen once more.
Well, not really.
Instead, a lot of people dressed up as zombies
for a sloping, staggering stroll around Santiago.
"It Is an event we used to do every year," said this man,
"but due to the coronavirus, it had been suspended.
"It’s a family event where everyone participates
"and people show YLl
Zombie walks date back more than 20 years.
Sometimes, they’re for a good cause.
Sometimes, they’re for no real cause at all -
except for this one, of course!
"| come because it’s fun,” said this young zombie.
"It’s fun because we can wear make-up.”
"We came here to get out R GR L IR R G
zombie, "and be a kid again™.
This carnival of gory make-up and indiscriminate groaning has
been replicated in plenty of other cities across the globe.
But round these parts, they’ll tell you this
one Is special.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
A reminder of Our top stories: A large fire has been blazing
G UL N R R Iranian capital Tehran.
Hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual Nationals
are held in the prison, as well as many protestors
arrested during the past four weeks of unrest.
And, the Chinese leader, IR R T E
the need for further economic development,
DGR GGG Communist Party Congress,
which has opened in Beijing.
On Taiwan, Mr Xi said that separatist tendencies
and foreign influence had been countered, while in Hong Kong
he claimed a high degree SN NAE R CERu I EI
under One Country Two Systems.
In a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely
to hand Mr Xi a third term as party chief.
ILF
That’s all
That’s all from me for now, you ]
That’s all from me for now, you EhI[-
That’s all from me for now, you can get me on Twitter if you
can get me on Twitter if you 'ee
The weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy
and thundery in places, gusty winds.
As one area of low pressure begins to pull away
from the UK, there’ll be fewer I T R (IR LR ]
For much of the UK for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
This is that area of low pressure pulling away.
However, this is another one moving in towards
the south-west later RO E A RO R
some wetter weather pushing north again by Sunday evening.
Let’s look at how Sunday begins.
There’s still some showers around, especially in Scotland
- some heavy ones in the west.
Temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
A cooler night across GG E A u e
LR R R EL T (RN R EL L E
and will still be around the Northern Isles
As you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon,
for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
AL R e LEL Northern Ireland and,
indeed, southern England, South Wales, so you could see
a few showery bursts of rain heading in later
in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much
wetter in Northern Ireland as this moves north.
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
the next few days - EICI LR PR LGSR R EE
Very wet on Sunday evening R et R Eals
We’ll see some wet and windy NG IRGE ad
across the UK overnight and into Monday morning.
The winds picking up again QIR I LT GG E L
coasts and into western Scotland with gales in places.
A much milder night, especially across Wales and England.
Closer to that area of low pressure on Monday, it’s
Northern Ireland and Northern England that could well see
some showers but it’ll be Scotland bearing the brunt
of some heavy downpours once again.
For much in England and Wales in the afternoon, actually,
it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not
as windy as it still will be across the northern half
Temperatures on Monday may well be a degree
or so higher in places.
As we go into Tuesday, UILRE A YR AL
IR IR then there’s a ridge of high
pressure settling things down.
There is another area AR UL
sitting to our south-west.
And whilst on Tuesday, most places are looking dry -
just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just
start to increase across eastern Scotland, North East
England.
LR TCT-F R VR P towards the south-west,
closer to that next area of low NP I R (WG L TR
on Wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain
in from the south-west, whereas many places will
actually have another dry day but wetter weather becoming
more widespread again towards the end of the week.
That’s your forecast.
Bye for now.
A big fire has broken - SO
in the Iranian capital, Tehran, where hundreds of political
ARG SIS IE IR E G N G
In videos posted online,
gunfire and sirens can be VI
AR R RGN ] TN e R
The Chinese leader, IR R T E
the need for further economic development
in his address to the Twentieth Communist Party Congress,
which has opened in Beijing.
President Xi said the country’s new policy would be to "Work
hard to promote high quality development”.
Britain’s new Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Jeremy Hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes
when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very
difficult economic decisions G A RN R ]
He’s promised to restore W C IR LR s
to public finances i d RO R nE
Now on BBC News, The Media Show.
As the war in Ukraine continues to escalate,
what role does journalism play in peacemaking,
in dialling down the rhetoric?
The BBC’s John Simpson, AN IR TS
to interview President Zelensky.
In a moment, we will Y TR
And with me in the studio is another giant of journalism,
Emma Tucker is the editor of the Sunday Times,
only the second woman to have done that job in more
than 100 years.
Emma, welcome to The Media Show.
GG
Presumably the fact that you are able to come
in here on a Wednesday means that Wednesday isn’t the day
when you have to decide what the front page is?
Wednesday is definitely not the day when we decide
on the front page, butitis a day when we are thinking very
1T VR G TR ER O [ pressure when you are editing
a Sunday paper all week TR VIR A e
R GV
SRV BT R [ =L I T in the bag by Wednesday,
you are beginning to panic just a little.
And are you panicking this week, how are you feeling?
Actually, 1 am net, we have got two crackers.
Great, and then, of course, there’s the supplements
Do you sign off all the supplements and the magazines,
So you’ve presumably done them much earlier?
Yes, | make a point of signing off all the supplements so this
morning | should have signed off culture but | was actually
late in and my deputy signed it off for me.
And then tomorrow | will sign off the magazine and Style.
On Friday | sign off Travel R NS L T R Ldla
along the way, | also sign off Property.
It Is a busy time?
It Is a busy week, yeah.
And we will get very excited about your two
SCOOpS coming up.
| am assuming you are not going to tell me anything
OK, more from you, Emma, in a bit, but first let’s turn
to Ukraine and the BBC’s world affairs editor,
John Simpson, he went to Kyiv to interview president
Zelensky, but found himself back on our screens reporting
on Monday’s bombardment by the Russians.
John Simpson was of course a fixture of BBC coverage
from the world’s hetspots for decades.
Earlier today, he crossed the border into Poland
DR G R R E L AN RN N @
A bit like the old days, really.
| mean, | do miss these kind of things.
VI ARGV
People say oh, it is LI NEIN N &L
that kind of slightly boring stuff.
Actually, it’s really interesting to be in a place
where important things are happening and to see them
for yourself and to know what is really going on.
As opposed to, you know, what everybody thinks
or what you read, whatever.
L IR A S ) interesting and that’s
what takes you back to these places again and again.
Of course.
In a bit, | would like to come back to your assessment
of what is happening in Ukraine and the wider continent,
but let’s go back to your interview with President
Zelensky which went out on Friday, and was the point
ORI @Y1 Y AR
Talk us through the circumstances, give us a sense
R TN U DR T LT and the security around him?
VNGRS TR G presidential palace.
But it was very much kind SR Eladlt e s sliare
There were little sandbag emplacements along
the corridors and up the main staircases and so on.
We weren’t even able to take a watch in with us.
Our watches were banned, | suppose for some sort
ST AT g
And, you know, frankly it was a real wartime interview.
No natural light because the windows were all sandbagged up.
And it felt very...
Very tense and very, very exciting and interesting.
And it was noticeable at the start of the interview,
President Zelensky answered in English before switching
to Ukrainian, why was that?
He made a bit of a mistake R A VAR
The beginning of last week, something like that,
when he seemed to say at some Australian conference,
again, not quite clear why R G R N R CR 1
but he seemed to say that the West should stage
pre-emptive strikes against Russia to stop it
using nuclear weapons.
Of course, everybody immediately assumed that meant
he was calling for pre-emptive nuclear strikes on Russia.
RN R RL N N | think, to make absolutely
certain that everybody got the point and we would
definitely use it, that wasn’t his purpose, he wasn’t
talking about anything to do with nuclear strikes,
he wanted a pre-emptive kind of, sort of more sanctions
and that kind of thing.
Do you think he was mistranslated or did
he misspoke?
| think he misspoke, RO SO ERG A R
| think it came tumbling out.
His life is very, very stressful.
And | think he just wasn’t absolutely in command
of what he was saying at that particular moment.
| am sure he didn’t mean he wanted pre-emptive nuclear
strikes against Russia.
That would be pretty crazy.
Of course, nobody would do it anyway.
| noticed during the interview he was wearing an earpiece,
was that simultaneous translation or something?
Yes, usually on these things you get a translator
with you and they kind of whisper in your ear or let
you Know in some way NN O IR WE R R Tl
=T G R ] has been answered.
We tried a new thing, which | think is far,
far better, more advantageous, which is just a translation
that is going on all the time from a couple of translators
RN st s glae o121l
You’ve run the wires out through the doors
and into your ear.
He had, | think it was rather a large earpiece, a lot
larger than mine.
Yours was very discreet, | didn’t notice your one.
Did you feel a responsibility, you always feel
a responsibility to get ORI
but given the escalation, you have seen what it was?
Yes.
There were two or three important issues that
you couldn’t walk away from an interview with
President Zelensky without asking him.
The first one was, did he think that there was going to be
a nuclear attack?
No question more important than that, really.
And for his own reasons, of course, he has got to really
keep our attention MR N ARl
So he wasn’t going to say, no, IERE R G R T
one, but at the same time he doesn’t seem to feel
that is imminent in any way.
So what he tended to do was to say that President Putin
was saying this, because he knows how unpopular the war
is becoming in Russia IR R N R R N s
of aggressive claims to keep the far right wingers,
If we can call them that, N TR L
in his own organisation and his own government,
to keep them, you know, on side.
So those were the kind of questions.
Obviously, you want to ask the kind of questions
which will provide important answers in one way or another.
And though that was one of the key things...
Sorry to interrupt, but how careful did you feel
you have to be?
Did you feel there was a sense you were the journalist
or peacemaker, if you like?
No, | am not really very happy with that notion that you go
there with a purpose.
what they think about what is going on.
Was there anything off the table or could you ask
anything?
I am sure | could have asked anything, | don’t think
there was anything off the table, no.
That is what | always have a bee in my bonnet about,
not to tell the interviewee beforehand, except in
You know, not to let them get away with saying that some
subjects are off the table.
Because how do you assess the control the Ukrainian
government has over how this conflict is reported,
because clearly President Zelensky is a key part
of their media strategy.
During the air raids, he was outside taking a video
on his phone and he is very adept at getting a message out?
He Is, and you have NG AL
You have to know that he wants te manipulate you.
It so happens quite a large proportion of the audience
the interview was being watched and listened to by agree
with him and think he is right, RGN
But you have got to know as the interviewer, he wants
to make himself, his country and his side and his purposes
look good and you are the instrument that he is using
You know, you have got to make it absolutely clear that
you are not on his side because that’s not what we are
paid to do.
And | think that is really, really important.
Let me just say, | have heard quite a lot of interviews
with President Zelensky where people are rather
inclined to say, we are on your side, we think
you are a great guy.
Regardless of what you might think privately, that isn’t
the right approach, G EEG
We have talked on this programme before about
impartiality and whether journalists are being or can be
impartial in a war like this.
And as a journalist who has covered endless conflicts over
the years, do you think this e e e A
I QNI ARGl of the role of journalists?
(LT R T L QM VR T at a conflict Like this,
where there was so much support in my own country for one side.
And that is pretty unusual.
| don’t know, it may be back in the Falklands time,
It probably was.
But since then, so many wars R U R R VI
things | have covered.
You know, the invasion of Iraq in particular,
but also a variety of other things where large numbers
of people back home did not agree with,
In this case, it is different.
There are people who are very strongly against what President
Zelensky stands for and what Ukraine stands for,
IR G IO that many of them.
| think it really is important not to go along with that
feeling, you know, TR (R RIS R
Mr Zelensky.
That doesn’t feel good to me.
That was the BBC’s world affairs editor, John Simpson,
talking to me from the Polish Ukrainian border.
You can see the full interview on the BBC iPlayer.
We are fortunate to have Emma with us today, the editor
of the Sunday Times.
What did you make of what John Simpson was saying
at the end, some journalists in the West have been too keen
to pick a side?
It is really interesting LR AR
for journalists to get caught up in the righteousness
of a war.
The job of our journalists NEG R s
as trusted eyewitnesses.
It makes me think of a particular story we had
with one of our journalists
reporting from an area that had been under Russian occupation
and the Ukrainians ELRI S R
The interesting story she reported was that not
everyone in the villages she went to were happy to see
Of course, some want the Russians to be there?
Yes, but that is the value of having somebody on the ground
acting as an eyewitness and sending back reports that
people can really trust.
Has the Sunday Times had somebody there all the time,
TR R YR TTR T T this conflict?
We haven’t had someone IR G R
because fielding war TN N AR S
SR LIS
We sent Louise Callaghan S AN D R
as the war broke out.
She was there for a while and eventually came out and someone
else took over.
They both did some fantastic reports.
Former Moscow correspondent N NN R R R G RN
As It happens, we haven’t got
but we have got a dispatch coming from Ukraine
because we have built up a good network of stringers
and local reporters.
Christina Lamb, chief IR B S
was on the show in 2021 and she talked back then,
she was grounded because of QN ELL UL G
foreign reporters, she was speculating that Covid
would be used for permanent cutbacks when it comes
to foreign travel, as foreign travel and foreign coverage
S very expensive?
Yes, she wrote these brilliant pieces about a hotel in
Shrewsbury.
She turned it into a book, which turned it into a hotel
RGN G
We are not going to cut back on our foreign coverage,
we are very committed in investing in foreign
business these days
because It Is very expensive.
Is it important for a paper like the Sunday Times to have
staff all over the world RIE I R AR L
ERCI RO D[
We share our correspondents with the Times, we have a pool
of correspondents at the Times which the Sunday Times
can draw on.
But we have a handful of foreign reporters
who are dedicated to the Sunday Times, because that is how
we get the good exclusives R s R s e s B ]s
Sunday.
It makes sense.
Let’s take a step back and look at you and what you want to do
with the Sunday Times.
Let’s start with your own career, when did you decide
you wanted to be a journalist, I LA LK
| sometimes think | fell into it by default.
But then | look back and think, it can’t really be default
because | was proactively doing journalism.
My first foray into journalism was while | was at university.
| was caught up in an incident, | was sitting in my room
and happily minding my own business as a first-year
Suddenly my door flew open and the captain of the rugby
team was thrown into my room completely naked.
There was a marauding mob outside my window making
a noise and | was pretty much put out by this.
And then they carried him upstairs and threw him
inte another rcom, still naked.
RV S GETR R VEED of my college and | said,
And he said, "Emma, TR (N T
That must have got your goat?
| decided to write an article for the Guardian’s women’s page
and they lapped it up.
Presumably you were paid?
Yes, but | used a pseudonym because | didn’t want
to get in trouble.
It taught me the power, if you need to speak truth
to power, like the college authorities, there is a way
QLA
You were foreign correspondent at the FT, joined the Times
and then became only R R R s [ine s
of the Sunday Times, so does being a woman
make any difference?
These days, no, not really.
| imagine my management style TR R e ]
QAT [T
It may not be a gender thing?
A EVR R T NI R g (o
When | was younger, | was asked to cover the soft stories,
the social affairs stories, AR T W LR eI
It 1s not like that now.
Genuinely, my entire newsdesk is run by women.
Although we have just admitted a man onto it
DRI G s R Ry Yl
We have last week’s edition of the Sunday Times.
It does feel so familiar, QR R R R T[S
and familiar and full of magazines.
Something to sit down with over bhreakfast and into lunch.
How long do you think the print edition can exist?
IRGTLLEI AR REIGTT IR A LI
The future is entirely digital T G- o (R L
for the print edition.
I suspect it will be around for quite a lot longer.
Even though all our effort and energy now is focused very
much on digital and how we do journalism for
the digital audience.
In a way, that means the print project has to become even
better, it has to be more heautiful, better laid out
of beauty, we have an excellent
But it needs to be a boutique product, something maybe
we charge a bit more for.
But you think it is going to be all-digital?
Yes, completely.
| wonder if the Sundays will be the last to go as a print
Version.
Because there is a place of sitting around with them
Because there is a place of sitting around with them
oh a Sunday?
Yes, in Britain there is a strong tradition
of Sunday papers.
| suspect you are more likely to see the newspapers
going digital only Monday to Friday.
Not yet, but | think it will happen and maybe
G IR | TR P T R E R U G
want to share the sections and enjoy the physical product.
People talk to me about the physical product
of the Sunday Times although my main focus
s on digital.
Do you have a strategy which is trying to make it
feel like Sunday?
Yes and no.
Yes, in the sense that IR R e e Rz Y
of the Sunday Times, which is it produces great
investigations and exclusives, that is still something that
resonates in digital.
The core mission of what we are LRSS ORI RG]
quality investigative journalism.
That is the same but what we are doing differently
in digital, we think about how we tell the stories,
which audiences we are targeting and we think more
closely about that, because we can and because we know so much
more about the audiences than we used to.
Do you still see it as the job of the Sunday Times to set
the news agenda in Britain?
Yes, | do.
If a Sunday paper isn’t doing that, it is not doing its job.
By the time people get to Sunday, they know
what the news is, they are looking for something different
from us, looking for something distinctive.
They want us to give them G N R R ]
with our own exclusives or they want to have us explain
the news they are O I
| think our role is, in that N MU el
or digital, the business of explaining the news but also
breaking the news is the same.
ERGEICRDE (e do you feel uncomfortable
with the amount of power the British press still holds?
| think it is healthy, RO ISR
| suppose it is good if it is truth to power?
Yes, if we weren’t here...
People complain about the press a lot, but if we were not here,
they would miss us.
No one else is holding power to account and it is something
the Sunday Times has been doing for the last 200 years.
Obviously, not just the Sunday Times.
It is about how you hold that power to account,
some people say, Rupert Murdoch, if they all got
together and they could bring down the government.
Do you think they could?
They could bring down the government if the government
deserved to be brought down.
If you look at the kind of campaigns and the kind
of stories we have done, going back over time,
you can look to some of the famous campaigns
the Sunday Times has run, including uncovering
thalidomide, uncovering O R U1
of Fifa, David Walsh, the journalist, uncovering
Lance Armstrong I (TR |
More recently, we did a series of articles about how
the government mishandled the beginning of the outbreak
QB G ERE ]
If we didn’t tell the stories, AL RS R R R e
and | see our job Is letting people know what decisions
are being made on their behalf by the people
T NI R N
| do remember those SUENOINE AUET
of articles, 38 days REC eI E U
Do you think it marked the beginning of the end
for Boris Johnson?
There was a period every Sunday
you had a scoop about what was going on inside Number Ten?
| suspect that had we not done the Covid story things
wouldn’t necessarily have T LR st A
The important thing about that story, what took me by surprise
was the extent to which it resonated with people and also
| was taken aback by the government’s somewhat
dishonest response to it.
What was that?
On the day that story came out, on the evening that story came
out they issued a 2000 word rebuttal to the story.
ROIL QI ELEG T Y correction it, but it was just
was to try and stop at the people running the story.
We then rebutted their rebuttal and now when you look
CIAUNEI RGN [T Ty inquiries have said
about what the government’s (Y R AR U N
days, it pretty much backs up everything we reported on.
Have you had an audience MR OEI AeRLIRR a
EYCE RS
Did she call you DML (T &
No, at the Conservative Party conference in Birmingham
and | went along for a coffee with my chief political editor.
Does that feel healthy in a democracy, is that right?
half an hour chat.
Obviously, there was quite A SR &
| actually make a point of not going to meet members
of the government too often.
It is very useful as background, but | don’t think
it is helpful as an editor etz R e )
=R RN ] with any of them.
That is not what my job is, my job is to help
LY TR
I guess a lot of what we are talking about in terms
of journalism these days TN G AN R
Do you think the public, TR R TR e e
T oI E L old school, investigative
journalism as you and (WG L RG]
we were children?
Do you think journalism is less appreciated now as a trade
| think in some ways it is less appreciated.
As a society we don’t talk enough about the value
of a free press and the importance of free speech
but also a press that is able RGN L LG
are getting up to.
| think on the one hand, IR D L)
as It was, but the advent of fake news, social media
and the noise that is out there means that people do
still come to the trusted brands.
Whenever there is a big new story, the pandemic,
Ukraine and recently the mini Budget, people come to us
and in a moment of big, big news, people still come to us.
There is still a value, R R RO R T o e Rl
in that Sunday Times masthead.
It is a well worn path, R G E R R L
to editor of the Times, would you want that job?
Why wouldn’t 17
[ RIS g of the times, Tony Gallagher,
he will do a fantastic job.
Some people tell me you are too left wing to be allowed to be
That is annoying trope, | am just a journalist,
I Like good stories and that is what we get on with.
Fantastic and many good stories to come.
That is all we have got time for today, thank you so much
to John Simpsen and Emma Tucker, editor of the Sunday
Times he was here RGN
All editions of the Media Show are on BBRC Sounds and
the IPlayer,
but for now, thank you so much for watching.
Goodbye.
After a showery Saturday, Sunday is looking like a drier
day across much of the UK.
Still a few early showers in Northern England,
Northern Ireland, especially in Scotland, although these
are going to fade away, though still some in
the Northern Isles TR i g e ]
But for much of the UK AR AU LA
It’ll be dry with sunny spells.
Cloud increasing later in the afternoon across southern
England, perhaps south Wales, with uncertainty
about the speed of progression.
Some outbreaks of showery rain Sl R RN
Temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over
I DA ST E S
Very wet in Northern Ireland during the evening.
Wet and windy weather sweeping north and east across the UK
overnight and into Monday morning.
Then on Monday, any early IR W R s
from South East England and East Anglia.
After a much milder start to the day, closer to the area
of low pressure on Monday, TG IR E
will see the strongest winds.
Further showers for Northern Ireland and Northern England
but particularly in Scotland B R I s - e etls 4
of the heaviest downpours, especially north of the central
Perhaps a degree or so higher, the temperature on Monday.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast, with Roger Johnson and Nina
Our headlines today:
The Prime Minister will hold talks her new Chancellor,
Jeremy Hunt, today as the Government tries to salvage its economic
credibility.
It comes as the Governor of the Bank of England,
Andrew Bailey, warns that interest rates may need to rise by more
than previously expected.
The Manchester United forward Mason Greenwood is charged
with attempted rape, controlling and coercive
behaviour, and assault.
The dream start for England at the e
The dream start for England at the Rugby League World Cup.
They open the tournament with a thumping win over Samoa
at St James’s Park in Newcastle.
They became a symbol of a nation’s grief and gratitude
after the Queen’s death, and now hundreds of Paddingtons left
in London’s parks will be donated to charity.
Good morning. Early, blustery AT
Good morning. Early, blustery showers slowly easing on the far
showers slowly easing on the far Y e ds]
showers slowly easing on the far north of
showers slowly easing on the far e R A el
showers slowly easing on the far north of Scotland. Elsewhere, it’s a
north of Scotland. Elsewhere, it’s a GG
north of Scotland. Elsewhere, it’s a quieter story. More sunshine
north of Scotland. Elsewhere, it’s a guieter story. More sunshine coming
quieter story. More sunshine coming I
quieter story. More sunshine coming QI LI
quieter story. More sunshine coming GIILLIEL LRl
quieter story. More sunshine coming through and lighter winds. I’ll have
through and lighter winds. I’ll have 1R
through and lighter winds. I’ll have IRy
through and lighter winds. I’ll have all the details coming up shortly.
It Is Sunday 16 October.
Our main story: The Prime Minister and Chancellor will hold talks today
Our main story: The Prime Minister and Chancellor will hold talks today
as the Government tries to salvage its economic credibility
following three weeks of market turmoil and policy U-turns.
The new Chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, has said he wants growth underpinned
by stability, but some Conservative MPs are privately discussing trying
to eject Liz Truss from office.
Here is our political correspondent Ben Wright
Congratulations, Mr Chancellor.
As
As the new chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, and
As the new chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, R )
As the new chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, NN el )
As the new chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, LRGN N R
As the new chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, and the Prime Minister meet for
and the Prime Minister meet for e
and the Prime Minister meet for talks today, they face a daunting
talks today, they face a daunting task
talks today, they face a daunting AL
talks today, they face a daunting task. There will
talks today, they face a daunting IR R
talks today, they face a daunting LR TR
talks today, they face a daunting LT YR S
talks today, they face a daunting task. There will be a new budget in
task. There will be a new budget in Y
task. There will be a new budget in a fortnight, and the government
a fortnight, and the government VY
a fortnight, and the government needs this one to calm turmoil in
needs this one to calm turmolil in financial
needs this one to calm turmoil in financial markets. By
needs this one to calm turmoil in AL E Pl G O SR G
needs this one to calm turmolil in LN E L FI G Ol SR G R TS
financial markets. By the Governor of
financial markets. By the Governor SR
financial markets. By the Governor RGN E]e
financial markets. By the Governor RGN
financial markets. By the Governor of the Bank of England has warned
of the Bank of England has warned TN
of the Bank of England has warned W TR
of the Bank of England has warned borrowing costs are already likely
borrowing costs are already likely to
borrowing costs are already likely R
borrowing costs are already likely RS
borrowing costs are already likely R R
borrowing costs are already likely to rise. We will not
borrowing costs are already likely R LR S T e )
borrowing costs are already likely R R NS e R ]
to rise. We will not hesitate to Y
to rise. We will not hesitate to R
to rise. We will not hesitate to raise interest rates
to rise. We will not hesitate to AN A R 0]
to rise. We will not hesitate to raise interest rates to reap the
raise interest rates to reap the inflation target. And as things
inflation target. And as things stand today, my best quess
inflation target. And as things stand today, my best guess is that
stand today, my best guess is that i FLO L
stand today, my best guess is that inflationary pressures will require
inflationary pressures will require Y
inflationary pressures will require a stronger response than we perhaps
a stronger response than we perhaps QI
a stronger response than we perhaps QL Al
a stronger response than we perhaps GG LY
a stronger response than we perhaps G LWL A ]
a stronger response than we perhaps GG LY LD L]
a stronger response than we perhaps thought in August. In a statement
thought in August. In a statement last night, Jeremy Hunt said...
It Is clear that he plans to dump
It is clear that he plans to dump )
It is clear that he plans to dump the taxcutting
It is clear that he plans te dump the taxcutting agenda Liz Truss
the taxcutting agenda Liz Truss suggested during the leadership
suggested during the leadership e
suggested during the leadership contest. Fven
suggested during the leadership AT GRS
suggested during the leadership e AT h RGN
suggested during the leadership contest. Even the US president, Joe
contest. Even the US president, Joe N
contest. Even the US president, Joe Biden, said he thought the original
Biden, said he thought the original plan had been a mistake. But
plan had been a mistake. But LT
plan had been a mistake. But N T
plan had been a mistake. But businesses here have defended the
businesses here have defended the Prime Minister. What
businesses here have defended the R I R e s
businesses here have defended the Prime Minister. What she is doing is
Prime Minister. What she is doing Is AR
Prime Minister. What she is doing Is delivering a
Prime Minister. What she is doing is delivering a broader programme. She
delivering a broader programme. She TN Y ol
delivering a broader programme. She TR Y o R
delivering a broader programme. She has reached the conclusion
delivering a broader programme. She TR Yt B N s a1 4
has reached the conclusion that WL
has reached the conclusion that doing all the tax cuts at the same
doing all the tax cuts at the same S i)
doing all the tax cuts at the same e
doing all the tax cuts at the same time is too much for
doing all the tax cuts at the same AR R iR e
doing all the tax cuts at the same time is too much for the markets
doing all the tax cuts at the same AR R R R R R
time is too much for the markets to A&
time is too much for the markets to IS E R
time is too much for the markets to IR R sl 1e
time is too much for the markets to sustain in the short term because
sustain in the short term because )
sustain in the short term because I
sustain in the short term because ]
sustain in the short term because there are so many global
there are so many global I
there are so many global disruptions. We are seeing every
disruptions. We are seeing every e
disruptions. We are seeing every other country with inflationary
other country with inflationary rises and
other country with inflationary A e e ey
other country with inflationary rises and countries with much
other country with inflatienary rises and countries with much higher
rises and countries with much higher interest than we have.
rises and countries with much higher R REGUERE LS
rises and countries with much higher R HREUER R L
rises and countries with much higher interest than we have. This is a
interest than we have. This is a global
interest than we have. This Is a global challenge that we’ll
interest than we have. This is a global challenge that we’ll have to
global challenge that we’'ll have to Sl
global challenge that we’ll have to a1
global challenge that we’ll have to I )
global challenge that we’ll have to tackle. But the Prime Minister’s
tackle. But the Prime Minister’s (LT
tackle. But the Prime Minister’s LR
tackle. But the Prime Minister’s hopes of survival could
tackle. But the Prime Minister’s hopes of survival could hinge on
hopes of survival could hinge on vty
hopes of survival could hinge on what she
hopes of survival could hinge on N A |
hopes of survival could hinge on N RN e
hopes of survival could hinge on what she and her chancellor decide
what she and her chancellor decide over
what she and her chancellor decide N E )
what she and her chancellor decide over the two
what she and her chancellor decide NS U R R e
what she and her chancellor decide MR G R R o
what she and her chancellor decide MR R R R
what she and her chancellor decide over the two weeks. If that package
LIS R GV SR R g B kT & [ doesn’t
over the two weeks. If that package S R 104
over the two weeks. If that package doesn’t work and
over the two weeks. If that package SRR N R
over the two weeks. If that package I ER N R e
over the two weeks. If that package doesn’t work and the markets are
doesn’t work and the markets are still reacting all over the place
still reacting all over the place than | think she is in considerable
than I think she is in considerable e e
than | think she is in considerable trouble. She has admitted mistakes,
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, and
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, L
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, and if she
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, IR
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, N R R e
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, R cR E)
trouble. She has admitted mistakes, R e e R
and If she admits there are mistakes and
and If she admits there are mistakes T
and If she admits there are mistakes R RG]
and if she admits there are mistakes and puts them right
and if she admits there are mistakes R G RG]
and if she admits there are mistakes and puts them right then |
and if she admits there are mistakes and puts them right then I think she
and puts them right then | think she i
and puts them right then I think she could conceivably
and puts them right then I think she ST G R I WY
and puts them right then I think she could conceivably get beyond this.
could conceivably get beyond this. I
could conceivably get beyond this. And many conservative MPs are
And many conservative MPs are TTal LY
And many conservative MPs are furious Liz
And many conservative MPs are e R A A N
And many conservative MPs are furious Liz Truss has led
And many conservative MPs are AN AN A R )
furious Liz Truss has led the government into this chaos and
furious Liz Truss has led the WSO A R GG EE LG
government into this chaos and are EIU]
government into this chaos and are talking privately about trying to
talking privately about trying to test
talking privately about trying to AR N )
talking privately about trying to ARG NN IR e
talking privately about trying to AU NN IR
talking privately about trying to ARG NN IR e T Y
test the Prime Minister out. A T
test the Prime Minister out. A precarious place for Liz Truss to be
precarious place for Liz Truss to be as
precarious place for Liz Truss to be T
precarious place for Liz Truss to be as he heads into
precarious place for Liz Truss to be YA N R e s e
precarious place for Liz Truss to be as he heads into another difficult
as he heads into another difficult Vs
Our political correspendent Pete Saull joins us from London.
We know that Liz Truss and Jeremy Hunt
We know that Liz Truss and Jeremy T )
We know that Liz Truss and Jeremy Hunt are going to have talks today.
Hunt are going to have talks today. i
Hunt are going to have talks today. | was
Hunt are going to have talks today. RN LR
Hunt are going to have talks today. | was going to ask you
Hunt are going to have talks today. RZIL LR SR
Hunt are going to have talks today. R LR SRR
Hunt are going to have talks today. R R G SR R TR e Ya
| was going to ask you If you expect this week
I was going to ask you if you expect this week to be as turbulent as last
this week to be as turbulent as last week,
this week to be as turbulent as last Y Sl 0Ls
this week to be as turbulent as last Y ndl
this week to be as turbulent as last YL ARG Ihe
this week to be as turbulent as last S S A R G S )2
week, but I think everybody probably, apart from their
probably, apart from their opponents,
probably, apart from their G
probably, apart from their opponents, is hoping
probably, apart from their LN RN L R
probably, apart frem their opponents, is hoping it will be a
opponents, is hoping it will be a Hair
opponents, is hoping it will be a little bit calmer. Yes, Roger, |
little bit calmer. Yes, Roger, | Ty
little bit calmer. Yes, Roger, | have long since given up trying to
have long since given up trying to e
have long since given up trying to Qe[ R 1
have long since given up trying to T T
have long since given up trying to predict what is going to happen next
predict what is going to happen next in British politics but certainly
in British politics but certainly they will hope that the relative
they will hope that the relative 0]
they will hope that the relative =l
they will hope that the relative R R G
they will hope that the relative calm of checkers, the Buckingham
calm of checkers, the Buckingham country
calm of checkers, the Buckingham ST Al
calm of checkers, the Buckingham Wt A0
calm of checkers, the Buckingham country hit side today, will allow
country hit side today, will allow them
country hit side today, will allow R
country hit side today, will allow QRO
country hit side today, will allow QIR AL RO
country hit side today, will allow them to ignore the noise. And my
them to ignore the noise. And my hazard in
them to ignore the noise. And my (EFEIG RIS
them to ignore the noise. And my hazard in noisy in Westminster of
hazard in noisy in Westminster of By
hazard in noisy in Westminster of e
hazard in noisy in Westminster of late. -- my, has
hazard in neisy in Westminster of late. -- my, has it been noisy in
late. -- my, has it been noisy in e
late. -- my, has it been noisy in e
late. -- my, has it been noisy in NS aE
late. -- my, has it been noisy in Westminster of late. | think Liz
Westminster of late. | think Liz I
Westminster of late. | think Liz Truss has bought herself a little
Truss has bought herself a little i
Truss has bought herself a little a3
Truss has bought herself a little i e a1]
Truss has bought herself a little bit of time with
Truss has bought herself a little R B R R
Truss has bought herself a little SRR O R UEE
Truss has bought herself a little SRR O R U e
bit of time with the appointment of Jeremy Hunt,
bit of time with the appeintment of Jeremy Hunt, replacing a very
bit of time with the appointment of Jeremy Hunt, replacing a very close
Jeremy Hunt, replacing a very close political ally
Jeremy Hunt, replacing a very close [ el 1A
Jeremy Hunt, replacing a very close political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As
political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As Y
political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As T |
political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As N I R
political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As we heard in Ben’s report,
political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As we heard in Ben’s report, lots
political ally in Kwasi Kwarteng. As we heard in Ben’s report, lots of
we heard in Ben’s report, lots of e LAY
we heard in Ben’s report, lots of e a1
we heard in Ben’s report, lots of conservative MPs now looking to
we heard in Ben’s report, lots of conservative MPs now looking to that
conservative MPs now looking to that G110 8
conservative MPs now looking to that R A Sy
conservative MPs now looking to that statement before deciding how they

Citation: BBC News, 01:20 16/10/2022, BBC1 London, 280 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BFF4F72?bcast=137656305 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)