This is BBC News - I’m Kasia e AR R
Our top stories...
A minute’s silence across the UK - time to reflect
on the life and legacy of Queen Elizabeth II.
The queue for people waiting to pay their respects
and file past the Queen’s coffin lying in state
has reached capacity - and no more are allowed to join.
The Queen this Spring - MR R ilaEll
photographs of Her Majesty TR A N R )
President Biden pays his respects at the lying-in-state
- and later gave this tribute.
Our hearts go out to you.
You were fortunate to have had her for 70 years, we all were.
Hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have
attended a reception at Buckingham Palace
hosted by King Charles, ahead of his mother’s
funeral on Monday.
And I’m Lewis Vaughan-Jones.
In other news:
Welcome to Westminster, where people continue to queue to pay
people continue to queue to pay e
people continue to queue to pay QT e R )
people continue to queue to pay their respects to Her Majesty
their respects to Her Majesty e
their respects to Her Majesty G-
their respects to Her Majesty The Queen. The queue
their respects to Her Majesty A TR L DR
their respects to Her Majesty The Queen. The queue is now
The Queen. The queue is now officially closed and no more
officially closed and no more people
officially closed and no more T GG
officially closed and ne more people are now allowed to
officially clesed and ne more people are now allowed to join
people are now allowed to join )
people are now allowed to join !
people are now allowed to join LR A
people are now allowed to join the end of the queue, so
people are now allowed to join QRO N R )
QRN RO LN VTR [ people who
the end of the queue, so the (L R I
the end of the queue, so the people who are now filing past
people who are now filing past me
people who are now filing past PPN
people who are now filing past NI R )
people who are now filing past IR N
people who are now filing past TR R N R
people who are now filing past R ARG R E
people who are now filing past me are some of the last who
me are some of the last who il
IR R R G R R AU T IR R s et Ne 4
IR R R G R R AU T will have that moment in
will have that moment in e
will have that moment in Westminster Hall in that
Westminster Hall in that R el
Westminster Hall in that historic building, nearly 1000
historic building, nearly 1000 years old, that has witnessed
years old, that has witnessed )
years old, that has witnessed so much history, witnessing it
so much history, witnessing it once again, these
so much history, witnessing it LR ARG XL
so much history, witnessing it once again, these are some of
once again, these are some of )
once again, these are some of AR
once again, these are some of the last people to be able to
the last people to be able to 1y
the last people to be able to file past Her Majesty The
file past Her Majesty The Queen, the late Queen who
file past Her Majesty The PR G EL RO U R P R
Queen, the late Queen who has Nl
Queen, the late Queen who has been lying-in-state for nearly
been lying-in-state for nearly four
been lying-in-state for nearly TaETa sl
been lying-in-state for nearly TN ]
been lying-in-state for nearly R EN
been lying-in-state for nearly four and a half days. That will
four and a half days. That will s
four and a half days. That will a0
four and a half days. That will WML
four and a half days. That will N ok 0]
four and a half days. That will N e E IR E L
four and a half days. That will then end at 6:30am many of
then end at 6:30am many of ey
then end at 6:30am many of R
then end at 6:30am many of these people behind me, they
these people behind me, they have
these people behind me, they T R el
these people behind me, they T R e
these people behind me, they have started at 4pm and they
have started at 4pm and they o e e
have started at 4pm and they o e TR
have started at 4pm and they R Rl
have started at 4pm and they continue to file past and this
continue to file past and this s we
continue to file past and this is we are
continue to file past and this IRVRICR D]l
continue to file past and this IRVRICR A
continue to file past and this is we are right in the
continue to file past and this RGO ARG RIS
s we are right in the middle of
s we are right in the middle SRy
is we are right in the middle of the snake, that moment
RV IR AT R TR gl o U] of the snake, that moment where
of the snake, that moment where people have do zigzag very
people have do zigzag very [ ]
people have do zigzag very compressed in order to
compressed in order to Eral ey
compressed in order to Elal ]
compressed in order to facilitate so many people,
facilitate so many people, thousands of people, tens of
thousands of people, tens of L
thousands of people, tens of thousands, hundreds of
thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. We believe
thousands of people. We believe 1
thousands of people. We believe Al
thousands of people. We believe at least half a million people
at least half a million people il
at least half a million people IR )
at least half a million people will make this journey to file
will make this journey to file I3
will make this journey to file [(EIY -
will make this journey to file past Her Majesty The Queen at
past Her Majesty The Queen at e
past Her Majesty The Queen at Westminster Hall, just a few
Westminster Hall, just a few Rty
Westminster Hall, just a few moments from here, but that
moments from here, but that LG
moments from here, but that LAl
moments from here, but that journey still long, still about
journey still long, still about s}
journey still long, still about IR e
journey still long, still about LR TR
journey still long, still about R R R R )
40 minutes left for these people. So many people have
people. So many people have T
people. Se many people have been passing through and
been passing through and amongst them world leaders,
amongst them world leaders, I [Na 14
amongst them world leaders, I P e s [ Te]
amongst them world leaders, President Biden has been there,
President Biden has been there, he was there with his wife, the
he was there with his wife, the e
he was there with his wife, the A ELA
he was there with his wife, the first Lady, Doctor Jill Biden,
first Lady, Doctor Jill Biden, many other different
many other different dignitaries passing by, paying
dignitaries passing by, paying e
dignitaries passing by, paying their respects. We begin our
their respects. We begin our NI
their respects. We begin our coverage with a Royal
coverage with a Royal T
coverage with a Royal correspondent, Nicholas
correspondent, Nicholas T
It is ten days now since the RN R RN R -l )
The new King, Charles, arriving at Buckingham Palace
earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led
the country’s mourning in the days since.
DR EDER GO R he’d been deeply touched
by the many messages from around the world.
"As we all prepare to say our R G M R
| wanted simply to take this opportunity to say thank
you to all those countless people who have been such
a support and comfort to my family and myself
In this time of grief.”
Among the hundreds of world leaders in London
for the State Funeral, W ERICA L
RGN GIG
IR [ =D R T gV RGN L ARG
A few moments later, President Biden and the First
Lady of the United States, Dr Jill Biden, stood
quietly on a balcony NGRS U
Like so many thousands of others over the past four
days, struck by the intensity SR
| think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all,
the notion of service.
We all owe something, there is something within our
capacity to do that can make things, not just the world
better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better,
your workplace better.
To all the people of the United Kingdom, our hearts
go out to you and you were fortunate to have had her
for 70 years, we all were.
CUR GN NGPE IR T TV Yo R 1 for the State Funeral,
from Camilla, the Queen (I I R G R =
70 years of the Queen’’s reign.
She has been part of our Lives for ever.
NUEN LN UL I L A A
the Queen being there.
It must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman,
there weren’t women prime ministers or women presidents,
she was the only one.
So | think she carved her own role.
I’ll always remember WEIEINIER
You know, that smile ROl N
Many thousands of people R L RN )
a part of this moment.
Some have queued for many hours or placed flowers
in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to London
to absorb the sights and emotions along the route
of the procession and outside O S A G R G
the funeral will take place.
We didn’'t know what exactly to do, but we wanted
to do something.
You know, it felt right to come up and do something
and bring my son here.
You know, | think there’s a lot of people who don’t know
what to do, but feel like they need to do something,
so It just felt like the right thing to do was to come up
here with everybody else.
During the hours of darkness MR R 1 E )
admitted to the lying-in-state at Westminster Hall.
And then in the morning, A NI e R RS G
place of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
So
So these are indeed some of the i
So these are indeed some of the last people who are able to
last people who are able to 1y
last people who are able to file past the
last people who are able to HCY ER RGN
last people who are able to file past the Queen’s coffin.
file past the Queen’s coffin. 5
file past the Queen’s coffin. ILESEA
file past the Queen’s coffin. They still have
file past the Queen’s coffin. IS AR EEIe L
file past the Queen’s coffin. They still have around 40
They still have around 40 I
They still have around 40 minutes or so to wait, but bear
minutes or so to wait, but bear in mind
minutes or so to wait, but bear UL ERGESG
minutes or so to wait, but bear LRGSR
minutes or so to wait, but bear RGOS A
minutes or so to wait, but bear in mind they have been gueueing
in mind they have been queueing Tee I8t
in mind they have been queueing from around three o’clock or
from around three o’clock or four
from around three o’'clock or four o’clock
from around three o’'clock or T Nl el o & ls]
from around three o’'clock or four o’clock in the afternoon,
four o’clock in the afterncon, )
four o’clock in the afterncon, RO
four o’clock in the afterncon, RS A
four o’clock in the afternoon, RGN e
four o’clock in the afternoon, RO AN T
four o’clock in the afternoon, so they have spent so much
four o’clock in the afternocon, so they have spent so much time
so they have spent so much time G
so they have spent so much time together, we have heard so
so they have spent se much time together, we have heard so many
together, we have heard so many stories
together, we have heard so many R
together, we have heard so many stories of people making
stories of people making a3
stories of people making friends and reflecting and at
friends and reflecting and at GG
friends and reflecting and at GBS
friends and reflecting and at midnight just a few moments ago
midnight just a few moments ago Y
midnight just a few moments ago T |
midnight just a few moments ago T e I ]
midnight just a few moments ago T e R
midnight just a few moments ago T R s
midnight just a few moments ago we heard a cheer and when we
we heard a cheer and when we I
we heard a cheer and when we asked what was happening it was
asked what was happening it was %
asked what was happening it was ARG
asked what was happening it was simply that it was midnight
asked what was happening it was A GE IR G [ L ]
simply that it was midnight and they
simply that it was midnight and S A G
simply that it was midnight and they were getting so much
they were getting so much e
they were getting so much closer to paying their
closer to paying their respects.
closer to paying their e [
closer to paying their respects. Earlier today at 8pm
I T N T T CL R Ty )
respects. Earlier today at 8pm R A
respects. Earlier today at 8pm R L]
respects. Earlier today at 8pm R LR T
respects. Earlier today at 8pm there was a minute’s silence
there was a minute’s silence and
there was a minute’s silence R )
there was a minute’s silence and we will
there was a minute’s silence R R L A e
there was a minute’s silence and we will expect a two-minute
and we will expect a two-minute a1t
and we will expect a two-minute RELe e e e s o)
and we will expect a two-minute national silence after the
national silence after the a0
national silence after the e )
national silence after the service late on Monday morning
service late on Monday morning 3
service late on Monday morning in Westminster
service late on Monday morning R ES IR GG
service late on Monday morning in Westminster Abbey itself.
service late on Monday morning R C IR GRS A T )
in Westminster Abbey itself. My colleague, Fergal
Keane, has this report.
The Flowers Of The Forest echoing across a Scottish
mountainside.
A lament for the fallen, played AL Rl - R Rl
And then, on the cusp of silence, in Blackpool,
the going down of lights.
Then out of silence, into the anthem
celebrating a new monarch.
God save the King.
# God save our gracious King.
# Long live our noble King.
# God save the King.
# Send him victorious.
# Happy and glorious.
# Long to reign over us.
# God save the King #.
Across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
For whom the Queen was the unifying symbol.
I’m just paying respects to the Queen and just to mark
the passing of an era.
LIRS G111 the likes of our Queen again.
You know, she’s been AN R R
all our lLives, really.
She was very important to me and I’m starting
to get emotional now.
Because | remember the Coronation.
I’m old enough to remember King George VI and him
dying and the Coronation, and we had a little
12-inch television and all the neighbours came in to watch
the Coronation, so yes, she has been our Queen for a long time
and she served us well.
LR G GRS R respect and affection
Fergal Keane, BBC News.
So
ST NED)Y
So many national moements,
So many national mements, that
So many national moments, that )
So many natienal moments, that e e
So many natienal moments, that IR ey
So many natienal moments, that one minute’s silence after the
one minute’s silence after the ey
one minute’s silence after the service and
one minute’s silence after the A NG R )
one minute’s silence after the X LR i
one minute’s silence after the service and there will be
one minute’s silence after the X NG R T
service and there will be a e ety
service and there will be a two-minute silence, but before
two-minute silence, but before that
two-minute silence, but before UEIRN)
two-minute silence, but before that there is
two-minute silence, but before e ROl
two-minute silence, but before RO N R
IR QR | ([ lying-in-state, the
that there is still the lying-in-state, the Queen is
lying-in-state, the Queen is still lying-in-state
lying-in-state, the Queen is S (WL LRSS
lying-in-state, the Queen is still lying-in-state and behind
still lying-in-state and behind Ty
still lying-in-state and behind R )
still lying-in-state and behind me these people will have the
me these people will have the a8
me these people will have the e LA )
me these people will have the opportunity to file past the
opportunity to file past the o aile]
opportunity to file past the coffin draped with the Royal
coffin draped with the Royal Standard with the imperial
Standard with the imperial S
Standard with the imperial crown on top and then it will
crown on top and then it will officially close, so no more
officially close, so no more people will be able to join,
people will be able to join, e
people will be able to join, NG
people will be able to join, but these people here who have
but these people here who have T
but these people here who have been gueueing for
but these people here who have XTI R R G
but these people here who have been queueing for the afternoon
D IGIEIL R R G LN Gy il
D IGIEIL R R G LN Gy W
D IGIEIL R R G LN Gy NS GEL
been queueing for the afternoon will get that opportunity and
will get that opportunity and )
will get that opportunity and R
will get that opportunity and NN SR
will get that opportunity and N R U S
will get that opportunity and one person who has been doing
one person who has been doing T\
one person who has been doing exactly this is
one person who has been doing I A GIRR T
one person who has been doing S VA GRS
one person who has been doing S RGN R R
SETa VA GIEREE L N W) W (XL I
SETa VA GIEREE L N W) colleagues, Grace, who
exactly this is one of my colleagues, Grace, who you have
colleagues, Grace, who you have Nl
colleagues, Grace, who you have been queueing
colleagues, Grace, who you have VL E
colleagues, Grace, who you have been queueing back, well, you
been queueing back, well, you Al
been queueing back, well, you e
been queueing back, well, you tell me. Since
been queueing back, well, you NI R
been queueing back, well, you I R N Ha e e
been queueing back, well, you tell me. Since three o’clock in
tell me. Since three o’clock in T Nt e e
tell me. Since three o’clock in N Ll e e
tell me. Since three o’clock in Southwark Park and we
tell me. Since three o’clock in Southwark Park and we quickly
Southwark Park and we quickly S )
Southwark Park and we quickly RE U R )
Southwark Park and we quickly established the queue
Southwark Park and we quickly S L R G TR U
established the queue friends in the Little
established the queue friends in the little group we were in.
in the little group we were in. We
in the little group we were in. el
in the little group we were In. R RGN
in the little group we were In. We had people from
in the little group we were in. We had people from Somerset, we
We had people from Somerset, we P
We had people from Somerset, we had somebody
We had people from Somerset, we RG]
We had people from Somerset, we had somebody from Oxford and
had somebody from Oxford and then
had somebody from Oxferd and N E )
had somebody from Oxferd and N R s
had somebody from Oxferd and I NE R ]
had somebody from Oxferd and then we had two sisters
had somebody from Oxferd and MINE R R R ]
then we had two sisters from Y3
then we had two sisters from New York
then we had two sisters from TR R 2]
then we had two sisters from New York who had flown in
New York who had flown in especially for
New York who had flown in VA IR G
New York who had flown in especially for this and
New York who had flown in Y E A IR QI L R G
New York who had flown in especially for this and then we
especially for this and then we just
especially for this and then we TS A0
especially for this and then we PRAAEE
especially for this and then we TSRS E e ]
especially for this and then we just kind of settled in, went
just kind of settled in, went past Tower
TSGR R e L R AR | past Tower Bridge still
just kind of settled in, went past Tower Bridge still feeling
past Tower Bridge still feeling L]
past Tower Bridge still feeling good and then at the London |
good and then at the London | EIE
good and then at the London | IR
good and then at the London | started to get dark, so we kind
started to get dark, so we kind N
started to get dark, so we kind of thought, right, we need to
of thought, right, we need to o)
of thought, right, we need to Nl VN
of thought, right, we need to brace ourselves, but the
brace ourselves, but the marshals at
brace ourselves, but the IR R )
brace ourselves, but the marshals at the London eye had
marshals at the London eye had 10
marshals at the London eye had IR S G
marshals at the London eye had said yesterday at this point
said yesterday at this point people had already been
people had already been ICIEL R PAY
people had already been gueueing 12.5 hours,
people had already been LR PR Y
people had already been gueueing 12.5 hours, so are
people had already been VIR RPN T Y
gueueing 12.5 hours, so are a TN
gueueing 12.5 hours, so are a mere six
queueing 12.5 hours, so are a I &
queueing 12.5 hours, so are a mere six felt OK and then
mere six felt OK and then WAIH
mere six felt OK and then obviously all
mere six felt OK and then NI R
mere six felt OK and then AV IEH (R G R
mere six felt OK and then obviously all the way down the
obviously all the way down the embankment and then here, but
embankment and then here, but )
embankment and then here, but R )
embankment and then here, but the snake has
embankment and then here, but RN N R )
embankment and then here, but RN N R T N Y
embankment and then here, but the snake has been the worst,
the snake has been the worst, 3
the snake has been the worst, e
the snake has been the worst, =Y
the snake has been the worst, (I E LR
the snake has been the worst, T L)
the snake has been the worst, it has gone on and on, so I’m
it has gone on and on, so I’m very pleased to see the end in
very pleased to see the end in A
very pleased to see the end in sight. We hear so much about
sight. We hear so much about )
sight. We hear so much about NI i1 e (e ]
sight. We hear so much about the camaraderie and when we
the camaraderie and when we (Y]
the camaraderie and when we GRS
the camaraderie and when we LR
the camaraderie and when we pulled out, | have
the camaraderie and when we (I T N EVLN
the camaraderie and when we LR SR EVN ()
pulled out, I have got to admit, we pulled you away from
admit, we pulled you away from your queue
admit, we pulled you away from your gueue family, your queue
your queue family, your queue TSy
your queue family, your queue friends and
your queue family, your queue TN R )
your queue family, your queue TN NGRS E
your queue family, your queue friends and there was a
your queue family, your queue NG R G L R TN
friends and there was a big round
friends and there was a big [l
friends and there was a big round of applause
friends and there was a big LR T o ED R
friends and there was a big round of applause and big
N LR R G LRV R round of applause and big hugs.
round of applause and big hugs. ¥
round of applause and big hugs. Real camaraderie, but yes, you
Real camaraderie, but yes, you e |
Real camaraderie, but yes, you TR
Real camaraderie, but yes, you mentioned the snake, this is
mentioned the snake, this is T\
mentioned the snake, this is I a AR TS
mentioned the snake, this is exactly what we are seeing
exactly what we are seeing behind us, this zigzagging,
behind us, this zigzagging, this 40 minutes
behind us, this zigzagging, IR ORI e
behind us, this zigzagging, this 40 minutes or so of
this 40 minutes or so of justice.
this 40 minutes or so of [
this 40 minutes or so of justice. | think maybe
this 40 minutes or so of justice. I think maybe even
Justice. | think maybe even longer.
V(R R G L @ EN R (LR L
V(R R G L @ EN R longer. What is so
justice. | think maybe even longer. What is so deceptive is
longer. What is so deceptive is 1
longer. What is so deceptive is R )
longer. What is so deceptive is YRRt
longer. What is so deceptive is R R R
longer. What is so deceptive is RGO )
longer. What is so deceptive is R R RO i3
at the front there is the first snake
at the front there is the first e ]
at the front there is the first snake and you think that is it
snake and you think that is it and obviously you can see when
and obviously you can see when you
and obviously you can see when R RO
and obviously you can see when you need to be going and then
you need to be going and then you get
you need to be going and then O A
you need to be going and then you get past a certain point
you get past a certain point and
you get past a certain point R ]
you get past a certain point IR N
you get past a certain point LR ]
you get past a certain point NGRS R e o]
you get past a certain point and there is a second snake, so
and there is a second snake, so you
and there is a second snake, so RN
and there is a second snake, so T EV R[4
and there is a second snake, so you have got to
and there Is a second snake, so you have got to have a lot of
you have got to have a lot of stamina to get through the
stamina to get through the e
stamina to get through the T sl
stamina to get through the first and then
stamina to get through the ARG R
stamina to get through the first and then be OK about
stamina to get through the RN E G N R
first and then be OK about the fact
first and then be OK about the Ela G
first and then be OK about the fact that you have
first and then be OK about the (R OIS TR K
first and then be OK about the fact that you have a whole
fact that you have a whole second
fact that you have a whole A R )
fact that you have a whole second snake to get through,
second snake to get through, 4
second snake to get through, but you
second snake to get through, TR
second snake to get through, but you kind of
second snake to get through, NSRRI RGN
second snake to get through, but you kind of know you are
but you kind of know you are reaching the end because there
reaching the end because there Py
reaching the end because there are security anneuncement
are security announcement saying
are security announcement FVL G
are security announcement saying get rid of all
are security announcement FEWLL LR R
are security anneuncement saying get rid of all your food
saying get rid of all your food and
saying get rid of all your food R
saying get rid of all your food and your liquids
saying get rid of all your food EL G B DI L]
saying get rid of all your food and your liquids and proper
and your liquids and proper airport
and your liquids and proper el
and your liquids and proper airport security, so you are
airport security, so you are LN
airport security, so you are encouraged, but equally the
encouraged, but equally the Y1
encouraged, but equally the R4
encouraged, but equally the steak is just relentless. I’m
steak is just relentless. I’m going to
steak Is just relentless. I’m LGRS
steak Is just relentless. I’m going to ask you a personal
going to ask you a personal guestion.
going to ask you a personal question. What
going to ask you a personal I R E L [ ]
going to ask you a personal question. What motivated you to
question. What motivated you to o[
question. What motivated you to do this? | think | have been
do this? | think | have been watching so
do this? I think | have been watching so much of the queue
watching so much of the queue and | thought, should I,
and | thought, should I, AR e
and | thought, should I, shouldn’t |7
and | thought, should I, shouldn’t 17 And |
and | thought, should I, shouldn’t 17 And | just
shouldn’t 17 And I just QI
shouldn’t 17 And | just thought, this won’t happen
thought, this won’t happen again for a long time. We have
again for a long time. We have ELH
again for a long time. We have ET AR I0Le
again for a long time. We have had, out of anything, | want to
had, out of anything, | want to W)Y
had, out of anything, | want to oL N
had, out of anything, | want to pay my respects to the Queen
pay my respects to the Queen and tonight was the last night,
and tonight was the last night, So. .
and tonight was the last night, |
and tonight was the last night, B T
and tonight was the last night, s0... | thought most people
50... | thought most people o
50... | thought most people would come tonight, but
would come tonight, but actually |
would come tonight, but actually I think the last night
actually I think the last night T
actually I think the last night [ EIR
actually I think the last night has put people
actually I think the last night [ EER T Yo |1
actually I think the last night has put people off slightly
has put people off slightly T )
has put people off slightly R
has put people off slightly Y N
has put people off slightly because we have gone round the
because we have gone round the I
because we have gone round the VIR
because we have gone round the IR R Dl Gl
because we have gone round the IR R DGR Gt
because we have gone round the UG DGR OIS
queue much quicker than is people anticipated and we have
people anticipated and we have Tl
people anticipated and we have had an amazing weather, | am
had an amazing weather, 1 am still holding
had an amazing weather, | am still holding my coat, |
still holding my coat, | LFT iR
still holding my coat, | YV kL)
still holding my coat, | haven’t had to put it on yet,
haven’t had to put it on yet, )
haven’t had to put it on yet, R |
haven’t had to put it on yet, R L]
haven’t had to put it on yet, R LR (18
haven’t had to put it on yet, so we had a pretty good
RN R LR TV A B so we had a pretty good queue
so we had a pretty good queue IR
so we had a pretty good queue ST
so we had a pretty good queue experience, as far as queueing
experience, as far as queueing 1o
experience, as far as queueing TR [ TR
experience, as far as queueing back goes. A good queue
back goes. A good queue SR
back goes. A good queue experience, well, listen, we
experience, well, listen, we il
experience, well, listen, we will let
experience, well, listen, we NS
experience, well, listen, we N A7
experience, well, listen, we N ST EL ]
experience, well, listen, we N SRR
experience, well, listen, we NG ST L LR R (Y
experience, well, listen, we will let you go and will try to
will let you go and will try to catch you
IR G ST VR R g ENO Rl
IR G ST VR R g catch you after you
IR G ST VR R g E OB TGS RN G
will let you go and will try to catch you after you have filed
catch you after you have filed past
catch you after you have filed WEI a1
catch you after you have filed past Her Majesty The Queen.
past Her Majesty The Queen. T4
past Her Majesty The Queen. Thank you
past Her Majesty The Queen. =S TR s
past Her Majesty The Queen. Thank you very much for
Thank you very much for L]
Thank you very much for LR
Thank you very much for speaking to us, we
Thank you very much for LR XTI
Thank you very much for LR TR R (W] oy
speaking to us, we will catch up
speaking to us, we will catch TRl
speaking to us, we will catch up with grace after she has
up with grace after she has N
up with grace after she has filed through Westminster Hall
filed through Westminster Hall Y
filed through Westminster Hall Gl
filed through Westminster Hall R
filed through Westminster Hall GRS R )
filed through Westminster Hall N GRS R R
filed through Westminster Hall N GRS R R
with all of these tens of thousands of
with all of these tens of QT R I
with all of these tens of thousands of people who have
thousands of people who have taken
thousands of people who have EI R
thousands of people who have taken the time
thousands of people who have IR R R
thousands of people who have IR RN
thousands of people who have ARG RN N e
thousands of people who have AR R RO N N
taken the time to come here to have
taken the time to come here to YR
taken the time to come here to YV R E B
taken the time to come here to LY R E T et e s
taken the time to come here to RV R I AR R E LY
have that moment. So many e e 4
have that moment. So many NS
have that moment. So many R G P 01
have that moment. So many different reasons, but all of
different reasons, but all of )
different reasons, but all of R G
different reasons, but all of the people here are now the
the people here are now the el
the people here are now the final people to be able to pay
final people to be able to pay s
final people to be able to pay A
final people to be able to pay their respects because, as we
their respects because, as we have been hearing now for the
have been hearing now for the past
have been hearing now for the TR
have been hearing now for the R AT
have been hearing now for the R T IRG
have been hearing now for the TR ARG I
have been hearing now for the past few hours, the queue back
past few hours, the queue back s
past few hours, the queue back is officially closed, but we
is officially closed, but we Py
is officially closed, but we are showing a live stream
are showing a live stream P g ]
are showing a live stream across our
are showing a live stream Fluge il Nl a1.1
are showing a live stream across our BBC platforms for
across our BBC platforms for those who
across our BBC platforms for R R 2
across our BBC platforms for R R Zl ]
across our BBC platforms for those who want to witness
across our BBC platferms for those who want to witness what
those who want to witness what 3
those who want to witness what is happening within Westminster
s happening within Westminster "R
s happening within Westminster SEIEI A
s happening within Westminster S E{N Y V0 S
s happening within Westminster Hall itself, but from me, the
Hall itself, but from me, the IR UG R
Hall itself, but from me, the IR I R
Hall itself, but from me, the queue camaraderie, the queue
queue camaraderie, the queue family, thank you. Thanks very
family, thank you. Thanks very much for giving us a flavour of
much for giving us a flavour of vty
much for giving us a flavour of e
going on
sl R [-Tg-S
President Biden will join around 2,000 other guests -
including some 500 heads of state and foreign
dignitaries - at the Queen’s State Funeral.
It will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty
and politicians the UK has hosted for decades.
They have been paying their respects to the late
Queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon,
Queen and signing the book of condolence,
as our diplomatic correspondent, James
Landale, reports.
Some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
Others came together, rather unusually, on a bus,
but they were all here to honour the Queen in perhaps
the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
There was the King and Queen of Spain.
There was his exiled father, Juan Carles.
There was the president NAIEh N IR i
Leaders from the Gulf.
The King and Queen of Jordan.
Hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay
QLTS LA LGN perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
Others arrived around the back of the palace.
Prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the King
and other members of the Royal Family at
a formal state reception.
LRGN international engagement,
the Princess of Wales even T TRl e e
the First Lady of Ukraine.
Earlier, Joe and Jill Biden had followed other heads of state
and government in stopping off at Lancaster House to sign
A steady flow of the global great and sometimes good,
paying their respects on behalf SR
| so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous
ol Ty [ oIV every good wish
IR RO EH IR
On behalf of the government and people of Barbados that
| record my sincere sympathy to all of Great Britain
and especially to the members of the Royal Family.
We appreciated very much her R R R ORI G ]
UL EE VTR [ ELdo transformation from a nation of
eight countries when she went BRI R
Thank you, Your Majesty, thank you for your dedication.
The people of Fiji will never forget you.
Many also came to see QAL ET S
Not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand
in silence and perhaps some awe before the coffin of
a woman whose reign will outlast their own.
And despite the opposition of some MPs and peers who have
been sanctioned by Beijing, a delegation from China also
came to Westminster Hall, [ OGIL R GRS
on the right, who will attend LRI B e age A
One man who will not be coming to the Abbey tomorrow
Is Saudi Arabia’s crown prince and de facto ruler,
Mohammad Bin Salman, N LR T N oe |
of being involved in the murder of a journalist -
accusations he has denied.
Several leaders, including Canada’s Prime Minister,
also dropped by Downing Street TR hEIE e
said were informal conversations with Liz Truss.
Earlier he paid his own tribute to the Queen.
| first met Her Majesty when | was seven years
old and her presence QI A Y
had been constant, inspiring and graceful.
As Prime Minister, | benefited from her counsel,
her thoughtfulness, SIS
her sense of humour.
Tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders
arrive at Westminster Abbey R R eI e 3
to the monarch they N N e RNt g}
In other news. ..
The Prime Minister of Japan has urged
people to act swiftly R RO A T
as the country is hit by one of the most destructive
typhoons in years.
Fumio Kishida’s warning comes as the authorities urgently
advised 3 million people to leave their homes,
as a huge storm moves across the southern
island of Kyushu.
Our Tokyo correspondent, Rupert Wingfield-Hayes, reports.
Typhoon Nanmadol is a huge and angry storm, the like of
which Japan has rarely, if ever experienced before.
All day it has been battering QRO ESOEH ER R RS T8
with gusts of 150 R
size of the typhoon enveloping R h RGN
For the first time ever, the Japanese government
issued its highest level emergency alert, warning winds
could be strong enough to bring down buildings.
LU RN Rl 11 TR R AN RO R L
that Nanmadol is carrying.
As much as 500 millimetres of rain is expected to fall
in less than 24 hours.
Kyushu is very mountainous IR R It R R i
could unleash landslides IR R
N GENe GG s G
So serious Is the concern that the Japanese Prime Minister
made this appeal for milliens of people to head
for evacuation centres before nightfall.
TRANSLATION: Do not go near dangerous areas.
If you feel you are in danger, R RO ls IR R
Please take early action to save your lives.
Evacuating at night is extremely dangerous.
Many thousands have heeded the call, but many more have
not and have chosen to ride out A
River levels across Kyushu BRI e R I e
rising fast and will peak ROV
All it takes is one breach R R Re Re
inundated in minutes, giving those that have refused
to evacuate no time to escape.
Japanese people are used to dealing with typhoons,
especially here.
But as the global climate changes, the data shows
these sorts of mega-storms are IR
frequent and defences that worked in the past may no
longer be enough.
Rupert Wingfield-Hayes, BBC News, Tokyo.
In Ukraine President Zelensky says investigations
[N R E L R R crimes are continuing
IR R W40 ]
one of several areas back in Ukrainian hands
after significant territorial gains in recent days.
Bodies are being exhumed TR B e R Y
on the edge of the city.
Our Ukraine correspondent, James Waterhouse,
has more from Kyiv.
Since Ukraine forced Russia R R R il e t]
since the invasion and retook territory that was taken,
it now seems to be focusing on investigating what
the invaders did and what Moscow is going to do next.
In the case of the city of Izyum, while bodies continue
to be recovered from a mass grave, the latest claim
from Kyiv is that evidence has been uncovered which suggests
that torture chambers were used by Russian troops.
There are reports of people being tortured and a city
being littered with mines.
There has again today been heavy fighting in the Kharkiv
region, where Ukraine has enjoyed some recent successes,
but on the question of what Russia will look to do
next, well, the thought from the UK Ministry of Defence
LRGN RN G QR more civilian targets
in Ukraine, while it is frustrated on the battlefield.
NS GIENEEL T [ G I R RTESSE] FEG R GG [ LT R GRS
it has hit targets across this vast country to try to exert
influence and undermine Ukrainian morale, but on that
latter point in his latest address President Zelensky has
said, just because we have regained vast swathes
regained swathes
of territory, this does not MR R R R
What Russia will hope is that the very speed
of their retreat will force IEI R N E N
Thanks to James for the update.
One of Russia’s most famous singers has publicly
Alla Poogachova said she wanted to be declared a foreign agent
in solidarity with her husband, who’s another outspoken
Our Russia Editor, SRR G
us the intervention is significant, as Alla
Poogachova is more than just a pop star:
She Is super popular, she is admired, she is adored,
she is respected across Russia and aside from her wonderful
voice, when she has something to say, people tend to sit
up and listen.
The statement that she issued today was more than just
a staunch defence of her husband, it was a stinging
criticism, really, of what the Kremlin still calls
LR N [ &g A I 1A ]g
Some strong language, and at one point she said,
"our lads,” meaning Russian soldiers, "are dying
for illusory aims that make our country a pariah
and the lives of our citizens extremely difficult.”
| reckon that language like that coming from someone
like that, someone as famous as Alla Pugacheva, is going
So | suspect we will see SR R gL
Pugacheva in the state media.
But it’s going to be fascinating to see whether her
public criticism will affect public epinion here and spark
LTI To T 1 [y to the special operation.
Now, you may remember, recently several town
councillors in Russia expressed Il gl a Rl
Vladimir Putin and called R GRS IN
Today, we hear the criticism from Alla Pugacheva.
Is there a pattern here?
I think it is too early to tell, but certainly
the message from the Kremlin IR I R S LG
concerned, everything is going according to plan.
Thanks to Steve Rosenberg for that.
Thanks to Steve Rosenberg for e
Thanks to Steve Rosenberg for that. Let’s bring
Thanks to Steve Rosenberg for that. Let’s bring you
Thanks to Steve Rosenberg for that. Let’s bring you back
Thanks to Steve Rosenberg for that. Let’s bring you back to
that. Let’s bring you back to London
that. Let’s bring you back to R R A
that. Let’s bring you back to London now, we can take your
London now, we can take your Ry
London now, we can take your life to
London now, we can take your KRR e
London now, we can take your RO I a0
London now, we can take your RO I R O R )
life to Westminster to the heart
life to Westminster to the Il
life to Westminster to the heart of London and the queues
heart of London and the queues of
heart of London and the queues IR G
heart of London and the queues of people still there and still
of people still there and still L]
of people still there and still moving through, waiting to head
moving through, waiting to head into
moving through, waiting to head R R
moving through, waiting to head into Westminster Hall, where of
into Westminster Hall, where of e
into Westminster Hall, where of course Queen Elizabeth Il is
course Queen Elizabeth Il is still
course Queen Elizabeth Il is S (WL RIS E IR ST &
still lying-in-state for just a few
still lying-in-state for just a TR
still lying-in-state for just a AR e
still lying-in-state for just a TR R LY
still lying-in-state for just a AN e LT T
still lying-in-state for just a TR e e I
few hours more. These are some of
few hours more. These are some SR
few hours more. These are some RGN
few hours more. These are some of the last people, some of the
of the last people, some of the i
of the last people, some of the last few hours the event their
last few hours the event their own Westminster Hall formally
own Westminster Hall formally Al
own Westminster Hall formally A
own Westminster Hall formally closes at 6:30am in
own Westminster Hall formally A R R R )
own Westminster Hall formally closes at 6:30am in the morning
closes at 6:30am in the morning and
closes at 6:30am in the morning R )
closes at 6:30am in the morning and the queue to join that is
and the queue to join that is officially closed
and the queue to join that is T (R A
and the queue to join that is officially closed now, so these
officially closed now, so these people here are
officially closed now, so these VI RIS
officially closed now, so these people here are amongst the
people here are amongst the i
people here are amongst the last people that will be able
last people that will be able to pay their respects in
to pay their respects in (N
to pay their respects in LI
to pay their respects in R LI
to pay their respects in P I Y ] ]
to pay their respects in person. This is BBC News.
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of
And cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower, but it will largely stay dry.
And | am hopeful that things will remain dry
in Londen and in Windsor R RS G R T e ]
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon, it could give the odd
light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
QIR CES IR charge, that is keeping things
mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud
and the chance for some damp weather first thing
across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west England.
And this band of thick cloud adds the potential for the odd
spot of rain or drizzle, it does tend to push eastwards
as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland will see some good spells of sunshine,
though, Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees,
the winds for most places NS A
Now, through Monday night, we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially LRI e
of rain and drizzle, especially in eastern parts.
Some clear breaks out towards the West may well fill
in with a little bit of mist and fog, a little milder
than it has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme,
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle, but it does look Like the cloud
should tend to turn over and break up a little bit
across some western parts IR R A L
a bit more patchy rain into R R OGI AR A Elsh
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling
Actually, on Wednesday, if we see some sunny spells,
at least for a time, it will feel considerably
warmer than it has of late, temperatures of 17 degrees
in Aberdeen, 21in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing them towards the north-west,
bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make
erratic progress southwards and eastwards through Thursday
and into Friday, some of the rain, actually,
could be quite heavy, AN ]
into the south of England and south Wales.
So, the chance of some rain, particularly later
on in the week and a bit less R G LR R
This is BBC News, they Y5 .
This is BBC News, they Y5 .
The queue to go
The gqueue to go Into
The queue to go into e
The queue to go into Westminster Hall has
The queue to go into I U
Westminster Hall has now Il
Westminster Hall has now closed. Though still in the
closed. Though still in the I
closed. Though still in the IR 3
closed. Though still in the VIR N
closed. Though still in the queue will be able to continue,
queue will be able to continue, though
queue will be able to continue, QIR
queue will be able to continue, though still in Westminster
though still in Westminster A
King Charles is hosting a reception for hundreds
of world leaders at Buckingham R L R AR e
on Monday of his mother, Queen Elizabeth.
Heads of state from around the globe are attending,
including Joe Biden.
The US president earlier paid his respects at the hall
where the late monarch ERVHLRLEI 1N
The prime minister of Japan has urged people to act
swiftly to save their lives as the country is hit
by a destructive typhoon.
The warning comes as the authorities advise
three million people to leave their homes,
and a huge storm moves across the southern
island of Kyushu. across the southern
Now on BBC News, Christian Fraser looks at some
of your tributes to Her Majesty in this special
programme Your Queen.
Hello and welcome to this programme of tributes to Her
programme of tributes to Her LEIEN
programme of tributes to Her Majesty The Queen. For the last
Majesty The Queen. For the last week,
Majesty The Queen. For the last N R
Majesty The Queen. For the last Y PR R )
Majesty The Queen. For the last R R R
Majesty The Queen. For the last week, we have been asking
week, we have been asking people around
week, we have been asking W G LR G
week, we have been asking people around the world and
week, we have been asking I CEIG LR G R U C LAl
people around the world and in )
people around the world and in i
people around the world and in the UK to
people around the world and in A GRS
people around the world and in A GO E R e
people around the world and in R GO e R T e
the UK to share their memories N
the UK to share their memories RN
the UK to share their memories of meeting Her Majesty and to
of meeting Her Majesty and to 513
of meeting Her Majesty and to s
of meeting Her Majesty and to NIRRT
of meeting Her Majesty and to IR R TR
of meeting Her Majesty and to IR I A a o R R
offer their tributes, we will Wil
offer their tributes, we will IR
offer their tributes, we will bring you some of those stories
bring you some of those stories 3 d
bring you some of those stories )
bring you some of those stories RGN S VLS
bring you some of those stories RGN AL I
bring you some of those stories R N A LR IR e
bring you some of those stories RN AL I ]
7R G DI PLN LT T and
7R G DI PLN LT T R )
over the next 25 minutes or so and we start with Emma and Len
and we start with Emma and Len Ty
and we start with Emma and Len R e s
and we start with Emma and Len who told us about
and we start with Emma and Len R R R
and we start with Emma and Len R G R Rl
and we start with Emma and Len who told us about the time they
who told us about the time they met
who told us about the time they S R
who told us about the time they R RO IR
who told us about the time they met the Queen, though we didn’t
met the Queen, though we didn’t o
met the Queen, though we didn’t go quite to plan. It was every
go quite to plan. It was every a1V atLdld
go quite to plan. It was every NI AR
go quite to plan. It was every traumatic event. Their one,
traumatic event. Their one, )
traumatic event. Their one, 2N
traumatic event. Their one, take it from
traumatic event. Their one, R R
traumatic event. Their one, take it from the beginning. It
take it from the beginning. It Ty
take it from the beginning. It L)
take it from the beginning. It -]
take it from the beginning. It was quite a rainy day at the
was quite a rainy day at the deer
was quite a rainy day at the IR IS
was quite a rainy day at the deer park in Windsor great
deer park in Windsor great N
deer park in Windsor great T O]
deer park in Windsor great Y A
deer park in Windsor great EY ST M A ] Y
deer park in Windsor great FT ST R R L
deer park in Windsor great I SRS LR
deer park in Windsor great T AL R R L L R
Park, and I slipped on a hill and
Park, and I slipped on a hill R
Park, and | slipped on a hill EL R A TS
Park, and | slipped on a hill and my holdback was covered in
and my holdback was covered in SIS
and my holdback was covered in mud so
and my holdback was covered in LR R
and my holdback was covered in IR R R |
and my holdback was covered in mud so we started walking back
mud so we started walking back Y1)
mud so we started walking back -]
mud so we started walking back R
mud so we started walking back NN RG - Ne e
mud so we started walking back NG N R 21
mud so we started walking back home and the car was driving
home and the car was driving down
home and the car was driving AR
home and the car was driving down the road and my whole
down the road and my whole family was
down the road and my whole el R R T}
LIV RGN EL IR ol (AL family was confused because
family was confused because ey
family was confused because I A
family was confused because R e
family was confused because there was never really any cars
there was never really any cars )
there was never really any cars ]
there was never really any cars R
there was never really any cars there so the lady was in the
there so the lady was in the car
there so the lady was in the Il
there so the lady was in the N
there so the lady was in the car and she laughed at me and
car and she laughed at me and |
car and she laughed at me and 1
car and she laughed at me and R )
car and she laughed at me and LI L AT
car and she laughed at me and waved at my mum, and
car and she laughed at me and LI O AU AL R G )
car and she laughed at me and waved at my mum, and then when
waved at my mum, and then when )
waved at my mum, and then when the car
waved at my mum, and then when N s e
waved at my mum, and then when the car drove off, this man
the car drove off, this man |
the car drove off, this man walked up to
the car drove off, this man LR RS
the car drove off, this man walked up to us and
the car drove off, this man LR RN R L
the car drove off, this man LR R R R Al
the car drove off, this man LR RGN R R A
walked up to us and said it is e
walked up to us and said it is AN L
walked up to us and said it is not everyday that
walked up to us and said it is e e AU )
walked up to us and said it is not everyday that you get to
not everyday that you get to T
not everyday that you get to AR
not everyday that you get to RO
not everyday that you get to see the Queen on her own my mum
see the Queen on her own my mum []d
see the Queen on her own my mum A
see the Queen on her own my mum got really confused, and my mum
got really confused, and my mum Ty
got really confused, and my mum T R 8 I
got really confused, and my mum R i I s
got really confused, and my mum was confused and said where was
was confused and said where was )
was confused and said where was the car
was confused and said where was N a1 |
was confused and said where was NI R
was confused and said where was N a R Nt la]
was confused and said where was RN R G R LR
was confused and said where was the car and the man pointed at
the car and the man pointed at )
the car and the man pointed at the car
the car and the man pointed at N a1 |
the car and the man pointed at the car and when my mum told me
the car and when my mum told me )
the car and when my mum told me AT ]
the car and when my mum told me the Queen laughed at me, |
the Queen laughed at me, | Tl d
the Queen laughed at me, | burst into
the Queen laughed at me, | AR R
the Queen laughed at me, | IRl R T o
the Queen laughed at me, | SN R T i
burst into tears. So, Lynn, this lady
burst into tears. Seo, Lynn, this lady driving a Jeep
this lady driving a Jeep I
this lady driving a Jeep QIR
this lady driving a Jeep QIO R YT
this lady driving a Jeep QIILL RGNS,
this lady driving a Jeep QIO RO IRl 2T
through the Deer Park? Emma e
through the Deer Park? Emma remembers are many but she was
remembers are many but she was W
remembers are many but she was driving a Jaguar. She was
driving a Jaguar. She was having a dead giggle at Emma’’s
having a dead giggle at Emma’s expense?
having a dead giggle at Emma’s LT o)
having a dead giggle at Emma’s expense? Happy lady smiling
having a dead giggle at Emma’’s expense? Happy lady smiling at
expense? Happy lady smiling at 1
expense? Happy lady smiling at my daughter and my daughter
my daughter and my daughter X
my daughter and my daughter LI
my daughter and my daughter L e
my daughter and my daughter scaled at her and
my daughter and my daughter A S A N
my daughter and my daughter scaled at her and she just
scaled at her and she just laughed and waved like any
laughed and waved like any sl
laughed and waved like any A FI ]
laughed and waved like any normal persen and drive
laughed and waved like any normal person and drive away,
normal person and drive away, e
normal person and drive away, it did not
nermal person and drive away, it did not occur to me
nermal person and drive away, TR e oat i RN
nermal person and drive away, IR R el R E
it did not occur te me it was )
it did not occur te me it was AT
it did not occur to me it was the Queen. Because she did like
the Queen. Because she did like to
the Queen. Because she did like el g ]
the Queen. Because she did like el
the Queen. Because she did like to drive herself around, of
to drive herself around, of I
to drive herself around, of course,. We had seen that royal
course,. We had seen that royal family quite frequently, Prince
family quite frequently, Prince Andrew,
family quite frequently, Prince N [T
family quite frequently, Prince N G AR TET
family quite frequently, Prince Andrew, you see them driving
Andrew, you see them driving around
Andrew, you see them driving Y s Re]
Andrew, you see them driving around in a Range Rover but to
around in a Range Rover but to actually see the
around in a Range Rover but to Ela O (AR ORI O
around in a Range Rover but to Ela O (AR O R DU R
around in a Range Rover but to actually see the Queen, and not
actually see the Queen, and not (DI
actually see the Queen, and not recognise her was quite unusual
recognise her was quite unusual e
recognise her was quite unusual A
recognise her was quite unusual for us. Emma, what has it meant
for us. Emma, what has it meant 0]
for us. Emma, what has it meant to you, these last few days and
to you, these last few days and watching the
to you, these last few days and N RGN 11
to you, these last few days and watching the pictures of
watching the pictures of ol IR
watching the pictures of ol I R 1
watching the pictures of ol R E R
watching the pictures of Scotland, what has it been
watching the pictures of ol IR R R R G LG
Scotland, what has it been like e
Scotland, what has it been like R
Scotland, what has it been like for you? |
Scotland, what has it been like TR AR - 014
Scotland, what has it been like A TEE R - W E
for you? | feel it has connected
for you? | feel it has T el et e
for you? | feel it has et RN
for you? | feel it has T et e T
for you? | feel it has connected me closer. The Queen
connected me closer. The Queen Ty
connected me closer. The Queen ]
connected me closer. The Queen was a frequent, | didn’t get
connected me closer. The Queen was a frequent, | didn’t get to
was a frequent, | didn’t get to T
was a frequent, | didn’t get to N
was a frequent, | didn’t get to ]
was a frequent, | didn’t get to see her a lot so being able to
see her a lot so being able to T
see her a lot so being able to ¥
see her a lot so being able to A YR
see her a lot so being able to R (RO R G
see her a lot so being able to see all these photos for me
see all these photos for me e
see all these photos for me closer to
see all these photos for me AR
see all these photos for me closer to her. |
see all these photos for me IR R e
see all these photos for me AR R €
see all these photos for me closer to her. | think that is
closer to her. | think that is )
closer to her. | think that is R
closer to her. | think that is the point, lots of people talk
the point, lots of people talk FYe L
the point, lots of people talk Y]
the point, lots of people talk about the constancy and the
about the constancy and the Y
about the constancy and the duty on a
about the constancy and the AN RN A
about the constancy and the A AR
about the constancy and the A R U
about the constancy and the duty on a service at the Queen
duty on a service at the Queen gave us but |
duty on a service at the Queen gave us but I think
duty on a service at the Queen gave us but | think it is also
gave us but | think it is also Py
gave us but I think it is also Ela e anlzla1s
gave us but I think it is also a moment when
gave us but I think it is also R R U S 1L )
gave us but I think it is also a moment when everybody just
NN SUL LR I stands
a moment when everybody just el 4
a moment when everybody just stands back with
a moment when everybody just e LN i R -1 g
a moment when everybody just stands back with their own
stands back with their own recollections of
stands back with their own e Il na e el e
stands back with their own recollections of of either
recollections of of either ]
recollections of of either meeting her talking to her or
meeting her talking to her or GG
meeting her talking to her or G R %N
meeting her talking to her or something that she stirs in the
something that she stirs in the past. For us, it was that
past. For us, it was that T Eh TS
past. For us, it was that T
past. For us, it was that ChE e ARG E
past. For us, it was that constancy, | remember going
constancy, | remember going with my
constancy, | remember going G AR
constancy, | remember going with my late father to the
with my late father to the T
with my late father to the O
with my late father to the Jubilee, | was only
with my late father to the Jubilee, 1 was only little
Jubilee, | was only little child myself, and she has
child myself, and she has always
child myself, and she has E[Z ]
child myself, and she has always been there, touring the
always been there, touring the yacht Britannia in Leeds and
yacht Britannia in Leeds and (N
yacht Britannia in Leeds and being from Edinburgh and having
being from Edinburgh and having el
being from Edinburgh and having i R
being from Edinburgh and having watched the procession at the
watched the procession at the 3
watched the procession at the SR
watched the procession at the et i e
watched the procession at the St Giles, it really
watched the procession at the S I AT AT
watched the procession at the St Giles, it really hits home.
St Giles, it really hits home. YiTae]
St Giles, it really hits home. TG RTE
St Giles, it really hits home. With just somebody who has been
With just somebody who has been )
With just somebody who has been there our whole life. Then,
there our whole life. Then, that
there our whole life. Then, G A
there our whole life. Then, L R ei)
there our whole life. Then, that is true for people in
that is true for people in T d
that is true for people in g o)
that is true for people in G e R )
that is true for people in Windsor because the people
Windsor because the people around
Windsor because the people IR
Windsor because the people around the world who perhaps
around the world who perhaps R4
around the world who perhaps don’t know,
around the world who perhaps IR AL
around the world who perhaps R P A
around the world who perhaps SR G T SR
around the world who perhaps SR G A AR Al
don’t know, it is very much part of the town and
don’t know, it is very much R GER DR
don’t know, it is very much part of the town and it is a
part of the town and it is a Mz
part of the town and it is a RN
part of the townand it is a (Y R T ]
part of the townand it is a royal town, and so they feel it
royal town, and so they feel it UG
royal town, and so they feel it UE ]
royal town, and so they feel it USR0S
royal town, and so they feel it perhaps a lot harder than other
perhaps a lot harder than other oElaed
perhaps a lot harder than other IR
perhaps a lot harder than other parts of the country, maybe?
parts of the country, maybe? Absolutely,
parts of the country, maybe? L G AR
parts of the country, maybe? Absolutely, you couldn’t drive
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive down
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive i R
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive i B Re ]
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive S R R ]
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive down the road and not
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive i R R L R G
Absolutely, you couldn’t drive down the road and not know she
down the road and not know she Ty
down the road and not know she N
down the road and not know she was home because the Royal
was home because the Royal S Elgs|
was home because the Royal Standard was there, we took it
Standard was there, we took it e
Standard was there, we took it I )
Standard was there, we took it for granted that she would be
for granted that she would be e
for granted that she would be at home,
for granted that she would be !
for granted that she would be AL B
for granted that she would be A I B R i e
for granted that she would be at home, and she won’t be.
at home, and she won’t be. David Williams was a rugby
David Williams was a rugby T
David Williams was a rugby player at school when he met
player at school when he met Her
player at school when he met S EIEIN Y
player at school when he met Her Majesty and he has been
Her Majesty and he has been L]
Her Majesty and he has been LR
Her Majesty and he has been speaking to my colleague Roz
speaking to my colleague Roz Y
speaking to my colleague Roz Atkins. |
speaking to my colleague Roz A R e
speaking to my colleague Roz R SR
speaking to my colleague Roz Atkins. | met the Queen back
speaking to my colleague Roz X A S R N AR G e dls
Atkins. | met the Queen back in 2002, and this is when she was
2002, and this is when she was Tl ]
2002, and this is when she was touring the country and her
touring the country and her Golden Jubilee and this year
Golden Jubilee and this year happened to coincide with my
happened to coincide with my N
happened to coincide with my school, the King School in
school, the King School in Macclesfield, also celebrating,
Macclesfield, also celebrating, celebrating its 20 centennial
celebrating its 20 centennial =1
celebrating its 20 centennial YCE )
celebrating its 20 centennial I
celebrating its 20 centennial N
celebrating its 20 centennial year, so it was 500 years old,
year, so it was 500 years old, )
year, so it was 500 years old, e
year, so it was 500 years old, A
year, so it was 500 years old, R LR s sl
year, so it was 500 years old, so it was founded in 1502, and
so it was founded in 1502, and 1
so it was founded in 1502, and R I
so It was founded in 1502, and at this time, various peoples
at this time, various peoples ey
at this time, various peoples were invited to
at this time, various peoples AR R e
at this time, various peoples were invited to talk to the
were invited to talk to the )
were invited to talk to the Queen about variocus
were invited to talk to the Queen about various aspects of
Queen about various aspects of e
Queen about various aspects of school life, and white is such
school Life, and white Is such Y
school Life, and white Is such ER L]
school life, and white is such R o TS [ e
school life, and white is such a good memory for me is because
a good memory for me is because '
a good memory for me is because VAT
a good memory for me is because my friend and myself he was
my friend and myself he was )
my friend and myself he was RG]
my friend and myself he was I R R
my friend and myself he was also in that picture
my friend and myself he was E[ R RGO G
my friend and myself he was also in that picture were given
also in that picture were given PN
also in that picture were given an opportunity to talk to the
an opportunity to talk to the )
an opportunity to talk to the Queen about our
an opportunity to talk to the AL R e w11
an opportunity to talk to the Queen about our recent rugby
Queen about our recent rugby g
Queen about our recent rugby tour to
Queen about our recent rugby R CRELEE
Queen about our recent rugby R CREREE |
Queen about our recent rugby R CEEREE TRk
Queen about our recent rugby AR R R T 8
tour to Canada. | can’t really remember
tour to Canada. | can’t really T 10 e
tour to Canada. | can’t really remember too much discussion
remember too much discussion e
remember too much discussion other than
remember too much discussion O IE R
remember too much discussion other than it was probably more
other than it was probably more FYe L
other than it was probably more about British Columbia and
about British Columbia and Vancouver
about British Columbia and VNl e g
about British Columbia and Vancouver rather than
about British Columbia and T N SR R R
about British Columbia and T N A MR E Rl
Vancouver rather than the finer IS
Vancouver rather than the finer IR
Vancouver rather than the finer I R R
Vancouver rather than the finer points of what goes on in the
points of what goes on in the e d
points of what goes on in the T e e ]
points of what goes on in the front row but
points of what goes on in the TR R N
points of what goes on in the front row but she made
points of what goes on in the T R N R E R )
points of what goes on in the front row but she made two very
front row but she made two very nervous 13-year-olds feel
nervous 13-year-olds feel e e 1o )
nervous 13-year-olds feel comfortable in
nervous 13-year-olds feel e e
nervous 13-year-olds feel comfortable in her presence and
comfortable in her presence and that
comfortable in her presence and R
comfortable in her presence and that we had generally been
that we had generally been listened to. Presumably you are
S T R (O T LA TR ]
S T R (O T LA TR feeling the
listened to. Presumably you are feeling the nerves as the
feeling the nerves as the il anl-ta1s
feeling the nerves as the moment arrived? Yes, deftly. |
moment arrived? Yes, deftly. | can’t
moment arrived? Yes, deftly. | AT\
moment arrived? Yes, deftly. | can’t really remember too
moment arrived? Yes, deftly. | can’t really remember toe much
can’t really remember too much FYe L
can’t really remember too much YR a1
can’t really remember too much R R L
can’t really remember too much A hE R LRI
can’t really remember too much about what was said other than
about what was said other than sl
about what was said other than kind of,
about what was said other than LR
about what was said other than kind of, you know, that
about what was said other than L R TR G L AR = )
about what was said other than kind of, you know, that we were
kind of, you know, that we were e I
kind of, you know, that we were TR I o
kind of, you know, that we were N I R )
kind of, you know, that we were YN I R el -]
kind of, you know, that we were nervous at the time. And what
nervous at the time. And what have
nervous at the time. And what YR
nervous at the time. And what have your emotions been in the
have your emotions been in the i
have your emotions been in the last few days after the news of
last few days after the news of her
last few days after the news of YY)
last few days after the news of Y R a 1]
last few days after the news of Y R R e X4
last few days after the news of her death came three? Yes, it
her death came three? Yes, it has
her death came three? Yes, it -l
her death came three? Yes, it has been quite interesting,
has been quite interesting, really, | think some of the
really, | think some of the Aol I
really, | think some of the tributes that
really, | think some of the R R E )
really, | think some of the R R E R e a i)
really, | think some of the tributes that have come through
tributes that have come through have been really quite good.
have been really quite good. Y
have been really quite good. N ]
have been really quite good. R AN
have been really quite good. RGN R
have been really quite good. One of the one that vertically
One of the one that vertically stands
One of the one that vertically AR L
One of the one that vertically REN R TR ]
One of the one that vertically stands out to me
One of the one that vertically e NE e N
One of the one that vertically stands ocut to me is a
One of the one that vertically stands out to me is a quote
stands out to me is a quote Tee I8t
stands out to me is a quote i ld
stands out to me is a quote T e
stands out to me is a quote from Sir Keir Starmer, and his
from Sir Keir Starmer, and his line when
from Sir Keir Starmer, and his (IR R G|
from Sir Keir Starmer, and his line when something like her
line when something like her IR
line when something like her RO
line when something like her loss, the queens of bank debt
loss, the queens of bank debt s
loss, the queens of bank debt L
loss, the queens of bank debt CELLELE
loss, the queens of bank debt LR EY
loss, the queens of bank debt is losing one of this the
loss, the queens of bank debt LR R GERG ERSS
s losing one of this the List ey
s losing one of this the List IR
LRGN [ R R G G R s RLN -l
LRGN [ R R G G R RN |
LRGN [ R R G G R I CRLE I T RG]
LRGIL G NG R GIER G RN points in Britain. | think what
IR I RO UL T in
points in Britain. | think what N o]
points in Britain. | think what MR N4
points in Britain. | think what T h N da
points in Britain. | think what M N AR
points in Britain. | think what in essence it is so important,
in essence it is so important, s
in essence it is so important, not talk
In essence it is so important, TR o e 014
In essence it is so important, R &R
IR [ N
IR [ LT
R L1 Tl g superlatives, he talk about the
superlatives, he talk about the commonality, a
superlatives, he talk about the U A R G )
superlatives, he talk about the commonality, a reference point
commonality, a reference point that
commonality, a reference point R
commonality, a reference point e R
commonality, a reference point GWER R
commonality, a reference point that we all had to her,
commonality, a reference point IR ED R N P
that we all had to her, she Ik
that we all had to her, she IR S
that we all had to her, she wasn’t just a transient
wasn’t just a transient political
wasn’t just a transient U R
wasn’t just a transient political figure or
political figure or e ISR
political figure or T U
political figure or sportsperson, she was someone
sportsperson, she was someone that
sportsperson, she was someone G A
sportsperson, she was someone that is intergenerational,
that is intergenerational, people from all
that is intergenerational, P CRIu L ETE NS
that is intergenerational, people from all walks of life,
people from all walks of life, LN
people from all walks of life, EL AL
people from all walks of life, ages, and backgrounds, have
ages, and backgrounds, have )
ages, and backgrounds, have some memory of her. Yes, she
some memory of her. Yes, she Ty
some memory of her. Yes, she ]
some memory of her. Yes, she was a cohstant
some memory of her. Yes, she was a constant in many people’s
was a constant in many people’s lives. Thank you for speaking
lives. Thank you for speaking to us. That theme coming out
to us. That theme coming out S i)
to us. That theme coming out I s sl
to us. That theme coming out time and again in stories of
time and again in stories of )
time and again in stories of the Queen
time and again in stories of RN R e
the Queen is her thoughtfulness, Stephanie says
thoughtfulness, Stephanie says g
thoughtfulness, Stephanie says TR
thoughtfulness, Stephanie says her father was a
thoughtfulness, Stephanie says R LRI
thoughtfulness, Stephanie says her father was a minister and
her father was a minister and Ty
her father was a minister and LR |
her father was a minister and was invited to preach at
was invited to preach at Balmoral and his favourite
Balmoral and his favourite uEILs
Balmoral and his favourite memory was
Balmoral and his favourite N ATE I |
Balmoral and his favourite memory was being given a lift
memory was being given a Lift back to
memory was being given a lift PN E R
memory was being given a lift back to the palace by the
back to the palace by the Queen.
back to the palace by the I
back to the palace by the Queen. She opened the door of
Queen. She opened the door of )
Queen. She opened the door of the Land Rover and told him to
the Land Rover and told him to hop
the Land Rover and told him to (LRl
the Land Rover and told him to hop in so she could drive him
hop in so she could drive him e
Another tribute we received 3214
Another tribute we received XA
Another tribute we received sent by Jackie Downey from Lee
sent by Jackie Downey from Lee 3
sent by Jackie Downey from Lee in south-east
sent by Jackie Downey from Lee R GRS AR R
sent by Jackie Downey from Lee in south-east London, nay
sent by Jackie Downey from Lee in south-east Lendon, nay 20
in south-east London, nay 20 years ago
in south-east London, nay 20 R G
in south-east Lendon, nay 20 years ago she was chosen to
years ago she was chosen to Y0
years ago she was chosen to present a bouquet to the
years ago she was chosen to present a bouguet to the Queen
present a bouqguet to the Queen and Jackie,
present a bouquet to the Queen GBI )
present a bouquet to the Queen and Jackie, you were saying you
and Jackie, you were saying you P
and Jackie, you were saying you had to curtsy for the first
had to curtsy for the first R
had to curtsy for the first PR GELE
had to curtsy for the first time, that has
had to curtsy for the first W[ IR G R = R A
had to curtsy for the first W IR G A R VA VR ) L
time, that has obviously stayed with you,
time, that has obviously stayed RV Fl e
time, that has obviously stayed with you, what else can you
with you, what else can you remember of meeting her? It was
remember of meeting her? It was Y
remember of meeting her? It was SR
remember of meeting her? It was ERNE R -
remember of meeting her? It was a lovely occasion, | went down
RV [ R G to
a lovely occasion, | went down to Windsor with all my
to Windsor with all my colleagues from the
te Windsor with all my colleagues from the London
colleagues from the London il
colleagues from the London offices and
colleagues from the London e YN E )
colleagues from the London il YN R
colleagues from the London offices and we were all
IR T [ RR VT standing
offices and we were all standing around waiting for the
standing around waiting for the TEI]
standing around waiting for the unveiling of the statue and
standing around waiting for the NGRS RO RS LR L E
unveiling of the statue and she s
unveiling of the statue and she unveiled the
unveiling of the statue and she TR R )
unveiling of the statue and she NIRRT ]
unveiling of the statue and she unveiled the statue and then
unveiling of the statue and she ISR 3 R - el
unveiled the statue and then it Ty
unveiled the statue and then it NI
unveiled the statue and then it was up to me
unveiled the statue and then it RN ol R ()
unveiled the statue and then it was up to me to go forward and
was up to me to go forward and Y0
was up to me to go forward and present her
was up to me to go forward and I Rl
was up to me to go forward and ISR AU RO
was up to me to go forward and present her with the bouquet
present her with the bouquet that |
T IR G R LR TV V) that | was holding. And
that | was holding. And remembering to curtsy and
remembering to curtsy and (I
remembering to curtsy and hoping that | had done it
hoping that | had done it correctly.
hoping that | had done it W ge-ni AN
hoping that | had done it correctly. I’m sure you
hoping that | had done it W g n (AN RV RV Lo
correctly. I’m sure you did, and | can see in the background
and | can see in the background N
and | can see in the background AT
and | can see in the background of that photo
and | can see in the background ARG R GELS
and | can see in the background of that photo that it was a big
of that photo that it was a big gathering, there were a lot of
gathering, there were a lot of people there, did you feel like
people there, did you feel like )
people there, did you feel like the Queen
people there, did you feel like RN
people there, did you feel like QLA A a4
people there, did you feel like the Queen knew exactly who you
the Queen knew exactly who you were? Because
the Queen knew exactly who you YA Y- i d
the Queen knew exactly who you YA R L LR
the Queen knew exactly who you were? Because after all, she’s
were? Because after all, she’s meeting
were? Because after all, she’s WL
were? Because after all, she’s meeting a lot
were? Because after all, she’s meeting a lot of people. Yes,
meeting a lot of people. Yes, i)
meeting a lot of people. Yes, !
meeting a lot of people. Yes, AR e e
meeting a lot of people. Yes, AR e s s
meeting a lot of people. Yes, she had briefed on who
meeting a lot of people. Yes, A RS R el |
meeting a lot of people. Yes, she had briefed on who | was,
she had briefed on who | was, and she was able to let that
and she was able to let that back to
and she was able to let that Pl SRR
and she was able to let that back to me, she knew my name,
back to me, she knew my name, i)
back to me, she knew my name, NG
back to me, she knew my name, R AL
back to me, she knew my name, R GETAVAR
back to me, she knew my name, she knew my job, and how long |
R QLT DGR WL RTL D P
R QLT DGR WL RTL D LR ]
she knew my job, and how long | had been there
she knew my job, and how long | LR RO
she knew my job, and how long | L RO L
she knew my job, and how long | had been there as well, so, we
had been there as well, so, we S
had been there as well, so, we exchanged a lovely couple of
exchanged a lovely couple of words, yes. Were you nervous
words, yes. Were you nervous FYe L
words, yes. Were you nervous about getting
words, yes. Were you nervous EL N e TR 1
words, yes. Were you nervous about getting the right flowers
about getting the right flowers e
about getting the right flowers for her?
about getting the right flowers Al
about getting the right flowers for her? | didn’t
about getting the right flowers T AR )
about getting the right flowers for her? | didn’t have to buy
for her? |1 didn’t have to buy the
for her? | didn’t have to buy the flowers, so that was quite
the flowers, so that was quite LN
the flowers, so that was quite L
the flowers, so that was quite good, | was
the flowers, so that was quite LRI TSI
the flowers, so that was quite good, | was just given the
good, | was just given the I
good, | was just given the LI A
good, | was just given the bouguet, yes. And
good, | was just given the LTS AR - LRl
good, | was just given the LR - LR G
good, | was just given the bouguet, yes. And after she had
bouquet, yes. And after she had Gl
bouquet, yes. And after she had R
bouquet, yes. And after she had spoken to you, | wonder how
spoken to you, | wonder how much state
spoken to you, | wonder how R R e TLd
spoken to you, | wonder how much state but you? Presumably,
much state but you? Presumably, )
much state but you? Presumably, R et
much state but you? Presumably, the memories have remained
the memories have remained still
the memories have remained il [T
the memories have remained still clear. It was a lovely
still clear. It was a lovely occasion for myself and my
occasion for myself and my W (XL I
occasion for myself and my colleagues, we
occasion for myself and my o (T IR
occasion for myself and my colleagues, we were all
colleagues, we were all YR e 01|
colleagues, we were all YR eIl s e
colleagues, we were all honoured to be
colleagues, we were all AR E N R e
colleagues, we were all NI R N R s
colleagues, we were all honoured to be there and it
colleagues, we were all IR N R LR R L
honoured to be there and it was just a lovely day, and |
honoured to be there and it was just a lovely day, and I think
Just a lovely day, and | think "y
Just a lovely day, and | think we have
just a lovely day, and I think e
just a lovely day, and I think we have all remembered it, and
we have all remembered it, and occasions
we have all remembered it, and e R Y
we have all remembered it, and occasions like the
we have all remembered it, and occasions Like the Golden
occasions like the Golden T
occasions like the Golden Jubilee, which is what the
Jubilee, which is what the IS
Jubilee, which is what the statue was
Jubilee, which is what the RO EI R I
Jubilee, which is what the statue was four, and the
statue was four, and the Platinum
statue was four, and the NN BT CER
statue was four, and the Platinum Jubilee, it brings it
Platinum Jubilee, it brings it back to
Platinum Jubilee, it brings it FI ORI
Platinum Jubilee, it brings it back to you through the years,
back to you through the years, and unfortunately now we are
and unfortunately now we are remembering it in slightly
LTyl TR LRIy 1Y e e 4
LTyl TR LRIy 1Y different circumstances,
remembering it in slightly different circumstances, but it
different circumstances, but it s
different circumstances, but it isa
different circumstances, but it R
different circumstances, but it is a memory that
different circumstances, but it RIS AU AU
different circumstances, but it R AU U A G
is @ memory that many people i EIeN
is @ memory that many people i El
is @ memory that many people Y EI I R NG D]
is @ memory that many people share, of spending time with
share, of spending time with 3
share, of spending time with R 0]
share, of spending time with YR
share, of spending time with TP R AL
share, of spending time with RN U AR
share, of spending time with her, even if it was just a few
her, even if it was just a few ML
her, even if it was just a few LS
her, even if it was just a few minutes, like | did. Our
her, even If it was just a few minutes, like | did. Our next
minutes, like | did. Our next 301s%
minutes, like | did. Our next story is
minutes, like | did. Our next SOl AR
minutes, like | did. Our next story is from Brian Scott, a
story is from Brian Scott, a S fiees g
story is from Brian Scott, a I e 1]
story is from Brian Scott, a butcher from Ballater, he met
butcher from Ballater, he met )
butcher from Ballater, he met the Queen
butcher from Ballater, he met RN N
butcher from Ballater, he met RN R s -
butcher from Ballater, he met the Queen because his shop
the Queen because his shop supplies Balmoral Castle. He
supplies Balmoral Castle. He T
supplies Balmoral Castle. He has been
supplies Balmoral Castle. He [ EIN YN RS a4 o}
supplies Balmoral Castle. He EI XN RS o R )
supplies Balmoral Castle. He has been sticking to my
has been sticking to my W (XL
has been sticking to my colleague Annita McVeigh, and
colleague Annita McVeigh, and Y
colleague Annita McVeigh, and R0
colleague Annita McVeigh, and he told her
colleague Annita McVeigh, and R G )
colleague Annita McVeigh, and TR GRS R LG
colleague Annita McVeigh, and he told her he would see Her
he told her he would see Her LEIEN
he told her he would see Her Majesty fairly often when she
Majesty fairly often when she Ty
Majesty fairly often when she was in
Majesty fairly often when she AL LGN e
Majesty fairly often when she was in Aberdeenshire. Yes, we
was In Aberdeenshire. Yes, we AR )
was In Aberdeenshire. Yes, we A SRR A
was In Aberdeenshire. Yes, we A R R R ]
was In Aberdeenshire. Yes, we A ROl ]
was In Aberdeenshire. Yes, we deliver to the estate so on a
deliver to the estate so on a daily basis, we would drive
daily basis, we would drive T )
daily basis, we would drive MR R ]
daily basis, we would drive MR R R
daily basis, we would drive MR R TN e
into the estate and meet the S0
into the estate and meet the LR )
into the estate and meet the SN R
into the estate and meet the ML ENRGE IR
into the estate and meet the Queen on the green, the
Queen on the green, the ELB G
Queen on the green, the grandkids are members of the
grandkids are members of the Royal Family. On a day-to-day
Royal Family. On a day-to-day I
Royal Family. On a day-to-day basis, we
Royal Family. On a day-to-day PR L)
Royal Family. On a day-to-day VLIRS Gl 103 ¢s]
Royal Family. On a day-to-day basis, we would bump inte
Royal Family. On a day-to-day basis, we would bump into them,
basis, we would bump into them, e
basis, we would bump into them, it was
basis, we would bump into them, R
basis, we would bump into them, it was good. And how was the
it was good. And how was the S0
It was good. And how was the Queen treated by locals?
it was good. And how was the Queen treated by locals? When |
Queen treated by locals? When | NG
Queen treated by locals? When | spoke to people there last
spoke to people there last week,
spoke to people there last I 1
spoke to people there last week, they said they very much
week, they said they very much doubt
week, they said they very much 0l Rl
week, they said they very much doubt that connection with
week, they said they very much Nl R R et i R R
doubt that connection with the Royal
doubt that connection with the HZIE 1)
doubt that connection with the Royal estate and felt very
Royal estate and felt very MO
Royal estate and felt very ORI RO
Royal estate and felt very protective of the Royal Family.
protective of the Royal Family. We
protective of the Royal Family. Y e A e Te |
protective of the Royal Family. A R
protective of the Royal Family. Y N A - R R O]
protective of the Royal Family. We considered the Queen as a
We considered the Queen as a local member of the community,
local member of the community, i)
local member of the community, TR e
local member of the community, she was one
local member of the community, AR LR N
local member of the community, she was one of our neighbours
she was one of our neighbours and she was very well
and she was very well respected,
and she was very well (YA
and she was very well respected, not only as
and she was very well (Y A R
and she was very well respected, not only as head of
respected, not only as head of )
respected, not only as head of the monarchy but also,
respected, not only as head of the monarchy but alse, like,
respected, not only as head of the monarchy but also, like, a
the monarchy but also, like, a A
the monarchy but also, like, a IR0
the monarchy but also, like, a R VAT (R G T
the monarchy but also, like, a very, very well-known local to
very, very well-known local to )
very, very well-known local to the village. She could be
the village. She could be I
the village. She could be LG T
the village. She could be L TR G
the village. She could be walking down the street and she
walking down the street and she o
walking down the street and she IR e
walking down the street and she would walk straight past you
would walk straight past you LR R LD G
would walk straight past you and you would never know that
and you would never know that 3
and you would never know that IR EL R -]
't was the Queen just walking past you,
it was the Queen just walking LI BV T 1Y
it was the Queen just walking past you, she was
it was the Queen just walking R TR R 2 LR 18 ]
it was the Queen just walking past you, she was very good at
past you, she was very good at LGN
past you, she was very good at LGRS
past you, she was very good at hiding her disquise, you know,
hiding her disguise, you know, with
hiding her disguise, you know, AT
hiding her disguise, you know, with a headscarf and a tatty
with a headscarf and a tatty sl
with a headscarf and a tatty s
with a headscarf and a tatty ORI
with a headscarf and a tatty kind of waterproof jacket or a
kind of waterproof jacket or a T
kind of waterproof jacket or a VLG
kind of waterproof jacket or a Y SEI G ]
kind of waterproof jacket or a wax jackets, in glasses, you
wax Jackets, in glasses, you QA
wax Jackets, in glasses, you G AR 1)
wax jackets, in glasses, you know, she was
wax jackets, in glasses, you QA N E R A
wax jackets, in glasses, you know, she was very, very good.
know, she was very, very good. So,
know, she was very, very good. 4
know, she was very, very good. So, just very ordinary clothes,
So, just very ordinary clothes, really, that helped her blend
lly, that helped her blend
really, that helped her blend in. And we
really, that helped her blend N GLE )
really, that helped her blend AN R R
really, that helped her blend in. And we are seeing these
in. And we are seeing these WE
in. And we are seeing these lovely photographs, lovely
lovely photographs, lovely images, | should say, of the
images, | should say, of the S0
images, | should say, of the - L D]
images, | should say, of the SICLRL R
images, | should say, of the Queen in your butchers shop.
Queen in your butchers shop. ey
Queen in your butchers shop. What was
Queen in your butchers shop. Y R I u e
Queen in your butchers shop. Y R LR A
Queen in your butchers shop. What was it like chatting to
What was it Like chatting to her?
What was it Like chatting to e
What was it like chatting to YR
What was it like chatting to LR AT (1
What was it like chatting to her? It was really interesting,
her? It was really interesting, i
her? It was really interesting, | wasn’t actually at the
| wasn’t actually at the e
| wasn’t actually at the butcher shop
| wasn’t actually at the I IR L LS
| wasn’t actually at the I IS IR T
| wasn’t actually at the DI SN IR G E R ]
| wasn’t actually at the butcher shop at that time, |
butcher shop at that time, | met the
butcher shop at that time, | NSRRI
butcher shop at that time, | NSRRI
butcher shop at that time, | met the Queen at the golf when
met the Queen at the golf when i
met the Queen at the golf when | was a chef at the golf after
| was a chef at the golf after )
I was a chef at the golf after the floods of 2015, she came in
the floods of 2015, she came In SIS
the floods of 2015, she came in September of
the floods of 2015, she came in S R B
the floods of 2015, she came in September of 2016, and she went
September of 2016, and she went around
September of 2016, and she went I Y
September of 2016, and she went around all the numbers of the
around all the numbers of the LN
around all the numbers of the golf and she shook hands with
golf and she shook hands with everybody,
golf and she shook hands with AL A
golf and she shook hands with everybody, she made everybody
everybody, she made everybody feel at
everybody, she made everybody T )
everybody, she made everybody T RIS -l
everybody, she made everybody feel at ease and calm, she
feel at ease and calm, she !
feel at ease and calm, she Y s Bt
feel at ease and calm, she asked me how
feel at ease and calm, she LR A
feel at ease and calm, she FH LR AR
feel at ease and calm, she EH ORI AR
feel at ease and calm, she asked me how I got on and
feel at ease and calm, she asked me how | got on and how
asked me how | got on and how long
asked me how | got on and how LI
asked me how | got on and how LI
asked me how | got on and how long did it take to clean-up
long did it take to clean-up )
long did it take to clean-up NI
long did it take to clean-up the premises. And what were the
the premises. And what were the T4
the premises. And what were the next stages. She was very
next stages. She was very R
next stages. She was very R
next stages. She was very O EIE R
next stages. She was very influential as well, she wanted
influential as well, she wanted to
influential as well, she wanted el e
influential as well, she wanted N A
influential as well, she wanted NGl A W L
influential as well, she wanted to know what was happening, she
to know what was happening, she wanted
to know what was happening, she s R
to know what was happening, she N RO G
to know what was happening, she wanted to know what was going
wanted to know what was going on
wanted to know what was going onin
wanted to know what was going R
wanted to know what was going on in the community, and
on in the community, and generally,
on in the community, and ALV
on in the community, and generally, I think
on in the community, and generally, | think she
on in the community, and generally, I think she actually
generally, I think she actually PG AL
generally, I think she actually knew what was going on but she
knew what was going on but she just
knew what was going on but she PGl
knew what was going on but she TS RV L Rt 14
knew what was going on but she TSR ZIN L Re YL A
just wanted clarity of everything from
just wanted clarity of ORI
everything from every Yo
everything from every perspective, from
G R Tl Y IR TR LS
G R Tl Y IR I TR G A AT
perspective, from every person 1
perspective, from every person R )
perspective, from every person RGN}
perspective, from every person RGN T T
perspective, from every person RN T R
perspective, from every person at the club. She was asking
at the club. She was asking I )
at the club. She was asking everyone at
at the club. She was asking I IR )
at the club. She was asking everyone at the butchers shop
everyone at the butchers shop vty
everyone at the butchers shop IR ALY
everyone at the butchers shop what was this cut, what was
what was this cut, what was that
what was this cut, what was IR
what was this cut, what was ) oI PR 1 o
what was this cut, what was that cat, what was your
e R LR ] LN
that cat, what was your position, what was your job?
position, what was your job? 3
position, what was your job? iR
position, what was your job? She wanted to
position, what was your job? TR N SRR
position, what was your job? She wanted to interact with
She wanted to interact with everybody,
She wanted to interact with AL A
She wanted to interact with AL IR
She wanted to interact with everybody, she wanted to be a
everybody, she wanted to be a part of it, you know.
everybody, she wanted to be a Ela el IR Tl G U Ag e
part of it, you know. Patricia and James
part of it, you know. Patricia LGB EI R UG
part of it, you know. Patricia and James when from the West
and James when from the West Midlands celebrated their 68th
Midlands celebrated their 68th LI
Midlands celebrated their 68th wedding anniversary in the days
wedding anniversary in the days S
wedding anniversary in the days SR ORI
wedding anniversary in the days before the Queen died. They
before the Queen died. They e |
before the Queen died. They received a card of
I R congratulations
received a card of congratulations from Her
congratulations from Her LEIEN
congratulations from Her Majesty which would have been
Majesty which would have been )
Majesty which would have been the last
Majesty which would have been R
Majesty which would have been the last she sent. Their
the last she sent. Their granddaughter Beth Moore
granddaughter Beth Moore e e Ts |
granddaughter Beth Moore T R N wd P
granddaughter Beth Moore recorded the reaction. |
granddaughter Beth Moore TR e ai TR EL
recorded the reaction. | was delighted to receive the card
delighted to receive the card Tee I8t
delighted to receive the card TR
delighted to receive the card from the Queen, absolutely
from the Queen, absolutely delighted.
from the Queen, absolutely GG LAY R
from the Queen, absolutely GG LA LR AT
from the Queen, absolutely delighted. And very sad by
from the Queen, absolutely GG LR AL A G
delighted. And very sad by the APy
delighted. And very sad by the TR
delighted. And very sad by the R R 1]
delighted. And very sad by the ARG e R
delighted. And very sad by the news that came three that on
news that came three that on )
news that came three that on the lunchtime of
news that came three that on N Tt R R
the lunchtime of the T8
the lunchtime of the anniversary that the family had
anniversary that the family had ]
anniversary that the family had TR h
anniversary that the family had TN
anniversary that the family had TR PR LN T e e e
anniversary that the family had been summoned. The memories we
been summoned. The memories we have
been summoned. The memories we N
been summoned. The memories we have of the
been summoned. The memories we NG R
been summoned. The memories we RGN I R
been summoned. The memories we have of the Queen, we only
been summoned. The memories we R UG TR R VAT
have of the Queen, we only saw e
have of the Queen, we only saw R
have of the Queen, we only saw R
have of the Queen, we only saw R
have of the Queen, we only saw her once, on her Silver
have of the Queen, we only saw HE N ML EEI RSP
her once, on her Silver Jubilee during West Bromwich, but |
her ence, on her Silver Jubilee during West Bromwich, but | was
during West Bromwich, but | was 1
during West Bromwich, but | was R )
during West Bromwich, but | was at the accession, proclamation
at the accession, proclamation 3
at the accession, proclamation in Victoria Square Birmingham
in Victoria Square Birmingham in February
In Victoria Square Birmingham in February 1952,
In Victoria Square Birmingham L IOE AL LY AT
In Victoria Square Birmingham in February 1952, so we both
in February 1952, so we both have full memories of
in February 1952, so we both U R R e R A e
In February 1952, so we both YRR e e A i
have full memories of her full Gl
have full memories of her full reign and | think we were
reign and | think we were ¥l
reign and | think we were saddened and shocked, like so
saddened and shocked, like so many millions, because she had
many millions, because she had Wi\
many millions, because she had only been
many millions, because she had NV
many millions, because she had only been on camera
many millions, because she had VAN E RG]
many millions, because she had only been on camera with the
only been on camera with the e
only been on camera with the new Prime Minister two days
new Prime Minister two days S E
new Prime Minister two days SRR S
new Prime Minister two days before. Sophie Haynes is a
before. Sophie Haynes Is a primary
before. Sophie Haynes is a Il AT
before. Sophie Haynes is a primary school teacher from
primary school teacher from GGl
primary school teacher from london. Back in
primary school teacher from DI F I AL P4 [
primary school teacher from London. Back in 2016, this
Londen. Back in 2016, this S0
London. Back in 2016, this Queen celebrated her 90th
Queen celebrated her 90th birthday and Sophie and her
birthday and Sophie and her By
birthday and Sophie and her IR ol [
birthday and Sophie and her I R oo [ ]
birthday and Sophie and her IR R di -]
birthday and Sophie and her class decided to write to
birthday and Sophie and her I R R di Rl T
class decided to write to Her LEIEN
class decided to write to Her RIS
class decided to write to Her Majesty after learning about
Majesty after learning about SO G ET
Majesty after learning about Buckingham Palace and the
Buckingham Palace and the RS
Buckingham Palace and the IR
Buckingham Palace and the MY
Buckingham Palace and the I LRI R G
Queen’s corgis in their he
Queen’s corgis in their lessons. Here is you
ML R RGN R G Ll lessons. Here is you tell us
lessons. Here is you tell us vty
lessons. Here is you tell us what happened
lessons. Here is you tell us T R N A
lessons. Here is you tell us what happened next. The
what happened next. The il e e
what happened next. The MBI Dl
what happened next. The IR L e
what happened next. The G e R S Ol
children showed her pictures, small
children showed her pictures, Ko
children showed her pictures, small crowns, large grounds.
small crowns, large grounds. 57
small crowns, large grounds. LA
small crowns, large grounds. They wrote a message and they
They wrote a message and they ey
They wrote a message and they ]
They wrote a message and they RN LRGN
were asking interesting SIS
were asking interesting questions, so
were asking interesting IS R )
were asking interesting ISR R R LG
were asking interesting questions, so we asked the
questions, so we asked the S0
questions, so we asked the Queen what is it
questions, so we asked the IR E AR A
questions, so we asked the Queen what is it Like in
Queen what is it like In SO G ET
Queen what is it like in Buckingham Palace
Queen what is it like in L LI EICEE
Queen what is it like in Buckingham Palace and what is
Buckingham Palace and what is e
Buckingham Palace and what is T
Buckingham Palace and what is it like an afternoon
Buckingham Palace and what is it like an afternocon tea?
Buckingham Palace and what is it like an afternoon tea? We
it like an afternoon tea? We put
it like an afternoon tea? We e
it like an afternoon tea? We oI LTI
it Like an afternoon tea? We put all our letters in
it Like an afternoon tea? We D (T S AL RO
it like an afternoon tea? We put all our letters in the post
put all our letters in the post and
put all our letters in the post R )
put all our letters in the post IR |
put all our letters in the post INOR R B a1
put all our letters in the post and we send them off. There
and we send them off. There ey
and we send them off. There were five and six years old.
were five and six years old. I IE]
were five and six years old. And a month went by,
were five and six years old. RO R AR
were five and six years old. And a month went by, two months
And a month went by, two months went
And a month went by, two months AR
And a month went by, two months Y0 AL T
And a month went by, two months went by, has the Queen written?
went by, has the Queen written? I
went by, has the Queen written? YL
went by, has the Queen written? And | was thinking in my heart,
And | was thinking in my heart, )
And | was thinking in my heart, do |
And | was thinking in my heart, AR gy
And | was thinking in my heart, do | write a
And | was thinking in my heart, R ER R e
And | was thinking in my heart, R RR R R
do | write a letter as the S0
do | write a letter as the I L L)
do | write a letter as the Queen and say
do | write a letter as the IO EL R AU
do | write a letter as the Queen and say she has written?
Queen and say she has written? I
Queen and say she has written? And the
Queen and say she has written? R R s lgs|
Queen and say she has written? And the third month went by and
And the third month went by and )
And the third month went by and the school secretary one day
the school secretary one day came running into my room with
came running into my room with Y
came running into my room with AN
came running into my room with AP s
came running into my room with PR SR
came running into my room with a letter on my desk and it
a letter on my desk and it AR
a letter on my desk and it didn’t take
a letter on my desk and it didn’t take long for us to see
didn’t take long for us to see )
didn’t take long for us to see -yl
didn’t take long for us to see the ER sign,
didn’t take long for us to see the ER sign, and the Crown, and
the ER sign, and the Crown, and 3
the ER sign, and the Crown, and T
the ER sign, and the Crown, and it said everyone in class one
it said everyone in class one S,.
it said everyone in class one s,. |
it said everyone in class one R ]
it said everyone in class one R R
it said everyone in class one R L]
it said everyone in class one s,. | opened it in front
it said everyone in class one PR LR LRl
it said everyone in class one R LR R RO
s,. | opened it in front of the children
s,. | opened it in front of the I e ey
s,. | opened it in front of the IR R )
s,. | opened it in front of the children because we thought, it
children because we thought, it s
children because we thought, it is that letters
children because we thought, it TR A R
children because we thought, it is that letters so we waited
is that letters so we waited i
is that letters so we waited BT
is that letters so we waited R )
is that letters so we waited IR R ]
is that letters so we waited till we were in class and very
till we were in class and very b1
till we were in class and very kindly she
till we were in class and very ARG
till we were in class and very kindly she wrote two letters to
kindly she wrote two letters to me and
kindly she wrote two letters to TR ]
kindly she wrote two letters to LR N e
kindly she wrote two letters to me and the other class so we
me and the other class so we e
me and the other class so we i g
me and the other class so we shut ocur own
me and the other class so we shut our own letter.
me and the other class so we shut ocur own letter. |
me and the other class so we shut our own letter. | think
shut our own letter. | think )
shut our own letter. I think the moment
shut our own letter. I think R e
shut our own letter. I think the moment of realisation
AT R R I R R R R oL
the moment of realisation was Y
the moment of realisation was TV YN R I-Y
the moment of realisation was when we did. .. |
the moment of realisation was when we did... | thank you for
when we did... | thank you for )
when we did... | thank you for Nl
when we did... | thank you for the kind words
when we did... | thank you for QLN RO
when we did... | thank you for QLR R TR
when we did... | thank you for LA R R TR R ]
when we did... | thank you for the kind words you sent to me
the kind words you sent to me on
the kind words you sent to me R )
the kind words you sent to me on the occasion
the kind words you sent to me MR e R
the kind words you sent to me MR H N R
the kind words you sent to me on the occasion of my 90th
on the occasion of my 90th birthday. We got a letter from
birthday. We got a letter from e
birthday. We got a letter from her lady in
birthday. We got a letter from (ARG RN G
birthday. We got a letter from her lady in waiting. Having
her lady in waiting. Having just learnt about Buckingham
just learnt about Buckingham [ ETe
just learnt about Buckingham Palace. Everyone in the class.
Palace. Everyone in the class. e
Palace. Everyone in the class. A
Palace. Everyone in the class. The Queen wishes me to write
The Queen wishes me to write and
The Queen wishes me to write N B4
The Queen wishes me to write and thank you for the splendid
and thank you for the splendid handmade card
and thank you for the splendid RN EL R R
and thank you for the splendid RN EL R [ R VI BN
and thank you for the splendid handmade card you have sent on
handmade card you have sent on )
handmade card you have sent on the occasion
handmade card you have sent on e R
handmade card you have sent on W A e
handmade card you have sent on the occasion of Her Majesty’s
the occasion of Her Majesty’s 90th birthday, it was very kind
90th birthday, it was very kind of you to make this card in
of you to make this card in e tld
of you to make this card in honour of
of you to make this card in TR e Tl A e
of you to make this card in honour of her special day and
honour of her special day and Her
henour of her special day and S EIEIN Y
henour of her special day and S EI S -
henour of her special day and Her Majesty greatly appreciated
Her Majesty greatly appreciated )
Her Majesty greatly appreciated ]
Her Majesty greatly appreciated Q1R
Her Majesty greatly appreciated ORI TN
Her Majesty greatly appreciated the care you have taken with
the care you have taken with you elucidations. |
the care you have taken with TR (TG E I T
the care you have taken with you elucidations. | am to send
you elucidations. | am to send you
you elucidations. | am to send R
you elucidations. | am to send you the Queen has backed best
you the Queen has backed best Ty
you the Queen has backed best I |
you the Queen has backed best T SRt E a4
you the Queen has backed best wishes and thank you once again
wishes and thank you once again e
wishes and thank you once again IR
wishes and thank you once again for your thoughts
wishes and thank you once again IR IE G R 1Y
wishes and thank you once again for your thoughts Her Majesty
for your thoughts Her Majesty e
for your thoughts Her Majesty YR a3
for your thoughts Her Majesty at this time.
for your thoughts Her Majesty R G IR s
for your thoughts Her Majesty RGN sEaad
for your thoughts Her Majesty RGN UG ER
for your thoughts Her Majesty at this time. And that was from
at this time. And that was from )
at this time. And that was from the lady in
at this time. And that was from QA EL VAT R
at this time. And that was from the lady in waiting. Now to
the lady in waiting. Now to Henry Ward who painted the
Henry Ward who painted the RS
Henry Ward who painted the Queen’s portrait in 2016 a told
Queen’s portrait in 2016 a told T
Queen’s portrait in 2016 a told me about
Queen’s portrait in 2016 a told LR
Queen’s portrait in 2016 a told me about the experience. It was
me about the experience. It was T
me about the experience. It was quite remarkable. When you’re
quite remarkable. When you’re sitting with the Queen and she
sitting with the Queen and she comes
sitting with the Queen and she ot L e
sitting with the Queen and she G R ATl ]
sitting with the Queen and she comes out wearing Garter robes,
comes out wearing Garter robes, e
comes out wearing Garter robes, it is
comes out wearing Garter robes, AT )
comes out wearing Garter robes, it is quite the most remarkable
it is quite the most remarkable il e
it is quite the most remarkable moment and you had to steel
moment and you had to steel L=
moment and you had to steel TN = T
moment and you had to steel yourself because she had an
yourself because she had an RTse- o lle 1)
yourself because she had an R
yourself because she had an incredible presence about her.
incredible presence about her. il
incredible presence about her. NI ]4
incredible presence about her. T
incredible presence about her. You get a point where you
You get a point where you realise it isn’t going to
realise it isn’t going to assist you if you feel bombed
assist you if you feel bombed by
assist you if you feel bombed A
assist you if you feel bombed by her present
assist you if you feel bombed A S L BT
assist you if you feel bombed S S N LR VI ENG
assist you If you feel bombed A TN LRI EVCR
by her present and you have to Y
by her present and you have to IR
by her present and you have to T R R
by her present and you have to realise that the best way to
realise that the best way to get the
realise that the best way to VR GEYAIETN]
realise that the best way to get the Queen socially just to
get the Queen socially just to e
get the Queen socially just to talk to
get the Queen socially just to C G
get the Queen socially just to G N
get the Queen socially just to EN G TR R )
get the Queen socially just to & UGN S RN
get the Queen socially just to talk to her so we got about two
talk to her so we got about two EIU]
talk to her so we got about two talking very quickly, and
talking very quickly, and eventually,
talking very quickly, and SNOE] (AR
talking very quickly, and eventually, at a certain point,
eventually, at a certain point, you realise that the people
you realise that the people that have
you realise that the people R AR
you realise that the people eI ARG RO
you realise that the people that have assisted this project
that have assisted this project Ty
that have assisted this project CRCE A
that have assisted this project N CRCE s AR ]
that have assisted this project CRCE AR R ]
that have assisted this project R AR T R N
that have assisted this project R AR RN A
into reality, which in my case Ty
into reality, which in my case L]
into reality, which in my case was not just the British Red
was not just the British Red ey
was not just the British Red W R dae]
was not just the British Red Cross who had commissioned the
Cross who had commissioned the a4
Cross who had commissioned the & a |
Cross who had commissioned the N SR
Cross who had commissioned the work and the fundraising
work and the fundraising ey
work and the fundraising et )
work and the fundraising et RN d e s
work and the fundraising committee at the British Red
committee at the British Red I
committee at the British Red Cross, raising
committee at the British Red WML IRV G T
committee at the British Red WM LRV G N
committee at the British Red Cross, raising awareness of the
Cross, raising awareness of the charity, but alse
Cross, raising awareness of the o 1a1 A L N 1
Cross, raising awareness of the charity, but alse my friend and
charity, but also my friend and Her
charity, but alse my friend and Her Majesty’s gentleman Usher,
Her Majesty’s gentleman Usher, he said, look, if she’s wearing
he said, look, Iif she’s wearing )
he said, look, If she’s wearing the Garter
he said, look, If she’s wearing R
he said, look, If she’s wearing QRO R UG
he said, look, If she’s wearing the Garter robes, they are
he said, look, if she’s wearing the Garter robes, they are hot
the Garter robes, they are hot and heavy, and you must ask her
and heavy, and you must ask her both
and heavy, and you must ask her T s t]
and heavy, and you must ask her N GR e
and heavy, and you must ask her T R eI s s
and heavy, and you must ask her BRI s R s
and heavy, and you must ask her both to sit down when you have
both to sit down when you have vty
both to sit down when you have E ST
both to sit down when you have what you she needs and ask her
what you she needs and ask her if
what you she needs and ask her R
what you she needs and ask her AR 0]
what you she needs and ask her R R R
what you she needs and ask her if she would Like to
what you she needs and ask her R R I GE I R e R ey
what you she needs and ask her R TR I GE R R i )
If she would like to remove the e
if she would like to remove the e R
if she would like to remove the R |
if she would like to remove the A I ETILR
if she would like to remove the il I
if she would like to remove the A I I R
Garter robes. | said, | feel uncomfortable doing that, and
uncomfortable doing that, and Y
uncomfortable doing that, and I
uncomfortable doing that, and he said she is there to
uncomfortable doing that, and R CR R GG ]
he said she is there to help IR
he said she is there to help you. That
he said she is there to help AR e
he said she is there to help you. That is a thing that
you. That is a thing that stands
you. That is a thing that AR L
you. That is a thing that stands out in my mind about the
stands out in my mind about the Queen, that she
stands out in my mind about the RO S R =
stands out in my mind about the Queen, that she was so willing
Queen, that she was so willing to
Queen, that she was so willing O
Queen, that she was so willing to help people, she wanted to
to help people, she wanted to put people at ease. When Angela
put people at ease. When Angela A
put people at ease. When Angela Kelly, who was in the room with
Kelly, who was in the room with 1)
Kelly, who was in the room with AN
Kelly, who was in the room with RN
Kelly, who was in the room with WATICEU AN
Kelly, who was in the room with my wife and |, came to remove
my wife and |, came to remove )
my wife and |, came to remove R CEle g
my wife and |, came to remove R
my wife and |, came to remove the Garter robes, it was very
the Garter robes, it was very complex, when she unclipped it,
complex, when she unclipped it, e
complex, when she unclipped it, TR I
complex, when she unclipped it, it was as if
complex, when she unclipped it, TR LR R
complex, when she unclipped it, it was as if the month of the
it was as If the month of the monarchy
IR EEE LR R G R [ G [ UL A
IR EEE LR R G R [ G [ monarchy was removed, ...
it was as if the month of the monarchy was removed, ... You
monarchy was removed,... You went from
monarchy was removed,... You N R it i)
monarchy was removed,... You N R i iR R el
monarchy was removed,... You S R i iR R et E IR
monarchy was removed,... You N R IR R G RO R)
went from the formal to the ¥
went from the formal to the (W]
went from the formal to the NS
went from the formal to the MR
went from the formal to the N U Rl s
went from the formal to the real person as the Garter robes
real person as the Garter robes ]
real person as the Garter robes A
real person as the Garter robes N e
real person as the Garter robes N AR
real person as the Garter robes NI AR L
real person as the Garter robes came off. It was almost as
real person as the Garter robes TN R LI AR
came off. It was almost as If you were
came off. It was almost as if you were sitting with
came off. It was almost as If you were sitting with your
came off. It was almost as if you were sitting with your most
you were sitting with your most favourite grandmother. She was
favourite grandmother. She was wise, magnificent, extremely
wise, magnificent, extremely SN
wise, magnificent, extremely experienced, and
wise, magnificent, extremely S IR s
wise, magnificent, extremely S ML R a1
wise, magnificent, extremely experienced, and for all of Her
experienced, and for all of Her Majesty,
experienced, and for all of Her LETEYS T Y
experienced, and for all of Her Majesty, she wore it with such
Majesty, she wore it with such %1%
Majesty, she wore it with such levity and such unbelievably --
levity and such unbelievably -- unbelievable style, she was
unbelievable style, she was M EEEL
unbelievable style, she was S E VA R
unbelievable style, she was unbelievably beautiful. She
unbelievably beautiful. She would have
unbelievably beautiful. She R N
unbelievably beautiful. She would have sat for
unbelievably beautiful. She R R ]
unbelievably beautiful. She would have sat for some great
would have sat for some great EIN ]
would have sat for some great IR
would have sat for some great EIN AL
would have sat for some great IR IS
would have sat for some great painters in her time, did
would have sat for some great RN R IR R )
painters in her time, did she discuss what
painters in her time, did she IR e
painters in her time, did she IR W R R e |
painters in her time, did she discuss what she wanted to say,
discuss what she wanted to say, S a1 e
discuss what she wanted to say, G
discuss what she wanted to say, whether any instructions at
whether any instructions at all?
whether any instructions at EL kI
whether any instructions at all? No, and | think
whether any instructions at all? No, and I think that
whether any instructions at all? No, and | think that is
all? No, and I think that is where
LI [T R R T LR T S T e
LI [T R R T LR T S where one’s role
LI [T R R T LR T S where one’s role as a
all? No, and | think that is where one’s role as a portrait
LA R RN LR R g Pyl
LA R RN LR R g P iR g
CHEICR R (R LR W]l AR )
CHEICR R (R LR W]l S AR G R 1412
CHEICR R (R LR W]l artist for the monarchy is
CLECR R LR Wi ]1 e artist for the monarchy is very
artist for the monarchy is very o 34
artist for the monarchy is very complex because you can’t ever
complex because you can’t ever Y
complex because you can’t ever VA
complex because you can’t ever really be completely alone in
really be completely alone in )
really be completely alene in N T )
really be completely alene in R LR R
really be completely alene in R LR e
really be completely alene in the creative process in the
the creative process in the LI
the creative process in the studio. Sometimes, you would
studio. Sometimes, you would have
studio. Sometimes, you would R )
studio. Sometimes, you would LY RN a1)
studio. Sometimes, you would YT RN iR
studio. Sometimes, you would LY RN Ry
studio. Sometimes, you would have to come to moments where
have to come to moments where you would have to back out of
you would have to back out of )
you would have to back out of e ls|
you would have to back out of RS eI
you would have to back out of N Re e s
you would have to back out of N RS R R a1 e
you would have to back out of QNG IR IS 1T
there and refocus on what you ey
there and refocus on what you R ]
there and refocus on what you IR LR
there and refocus on what you R ROV
there and refocus on what you were trying to say and move
were trying to say and move e Bl
were trying to say and move forward that
were trying to say and move T LG RG R as]
were trying to say and move T LG R G R AR
were trying to say and move forward that in the knowledge
forward that in the knowledge Tl
forward that in the knowledge that people would be looking at
that people would be looking at 3
that people would be looking at HRid
that people would be looking at it for the
that people would be looking at IR e
that people would be looking at TR R N A
that people would be looking at it for the rest of time.
that people would be looking at IR N R R Y
it for the rest of time. She 10
it for the rest of time. She IR )
it for the rest of time. She said to me after she agreed to
said to me after she agreed to e
said to me after she agreed to e
sald to me after she agreed to unveil it, she said
sald to me after she agreed to N S IR G
unvell it, she said this painting
unveil it, she said this painting needs to be seen. At
painting needs to be seen. At )
painting needs to be seen. At the unveiling,
painting needs to be seen. At GV TR FT
painting needs to be seen. At the unveiling, that must be the
the unveiling, that must be the R
QERTRVEING AR QRIS T R [ most daunting moment? It is
QERTRVEINL A GE T R 1) most daunting moment? It is the
most daunting moment? It is the best
most daunting moment? It is the T
most daunting moment? It is the AT
most daunting moment? It is the TR R 1
most daunting moment? It is the AR TR U
most daunting moment? It is the best part because that is when
best part because that is when your
best part because that is when Rl
best part because that is when R IR
best part because that is when your year of work is when you
your year of work is when you 4
your year of work is when you S
your year of work is when you R R
your year of work is when you R EIL L ETIN]
your year of work is when you get your painting seen by her,
get your painting seen by her, i)
get your painting seen by her, she unveiled it, and it was
she unveiled it, and it was I
she unveiled it, and it was quite wonderful, actually, we
quite wonderful, actually, we YT
quite wonderful, actually, we T s
quite wonderful, actually, we had the press Association
had the press Association there,
had the press Association OO
had the press Association there, they will take those
there, they will take those wonderful photographs of it and
wonderful photographs of it and that was
wonderful photographs of it and eI LR
wonderful photographs of it and that was the best part, the
that was the best part, the R
that was the best part, the most nerve-racking part was...
most nerve-racking part was... Where
most nerve-racking part was... TV PN
most nerve-racking part was... Where is the painting now? In
Where is the painting now? In )
Where is the painting now? In RN
Where is the painting now? In GERE A
Where is the painting now? In the Savoy hotel. Henry Ward,
the Savoy hotel. Henry Ward, W
the Savoy hotel. Henry Ward, lovely to
the Savoy hotel. Henry Ward, EACRES
the Savoy hotel. Henry Ward, WETACRELE )
the Savoy hotel. Henry Ward, lovely to talk to you, thank
lovely to talk to you, thank you for
lovely to talk te you, thank you for sharing your
lovely to talk to you, thank you for sharing your thoughts.
you for sharing your thoughts. Henry had a good conversation
Henry had a good conversation with
Henry had a good conversation R )
Henry had a good conversation R -]
Henry had a good conversation RN e
Henry had a good conversation with the Queen but it
Henry had a good conversation RGN A
Henry had a good conversation RGN R R R e
with the Queen but it is not like that for everyone. Tracy
like that for everyone. Tracy LRI R
like that for everyone. Tracy Marshall met
like that for everyone. Tracy R I e
like that for everyone. Tracy Marshall met her in the 1990s,
Marshall met her in the 1990s, li¢:18’
Marshall met her in the 1990s, Tracy got so tongue-tied her
Tracy got so tongue-tied her T lsl
Tracy got so tongue-tied her friend had
Tracy got so tongue-tied her Ta R e ]
Tracy got so tongue-tied her AN H R s 0]
Tracy got so tongue-tied her TN ROl
Tracy got so tongue-tied her TN RN R
friend had to do all the e\ LN
friend had to do all the talking. We stood in a
friend had to do all the C LIRS GL L AL ER
friend had to do all the E L IR RS GL L AL R LT
talking. We stood in a line and i)
talking. We stood in a line and i)
talking. We stood in a line and she me did | grated a lot of
she me did | grated a lot of us. When it came
she me did | grated a lot of TR R R et
she me did | grated a lot of R LR R IR
she me did | grated a lot of us. When it came to me, she
us. When it came to me, she 10
us. When it came to me, she IR )
us. When it came to me, she IR R -1 o]
us. When it came to me, she said to me, and what is it that
said to me, and what is it that you
said to me, and what is it that Y
said to me, and what is it that R Y Y]
said to me, and what is it that YR L
said to me, and what is It that you do? And | just froze, |
said to me, and what Is it that you do? And | just froze, | was
you do? And | just froze, | was (17
you do? And | just froze, | was totally starstruck, totally and
totally starstruck, totally and a0
totally starstruck, totally and NVl o
totally starstruck, totally and VI S o o
totally starstruck, totally and N VA E LS O AL
utterly starstruck. My mate e
utterly starstruck. My mate Gloria bailed me out and
Gloria bailed me out and Rl
Gloria bailed me out and started speaking to this Queen,
started speaking to this Queen, i)
started speaking to this Queen, AR e )
started speaking to this Queen, AR R )
started speaking to this Queen, AR R ]
started speaking to this Queen, AR RO LR E
started speaking to this Queen, she stood there and was totally
she stood there and was totally =l
she stood there and was totally calm, totally collected, and
calm, totally collected, and i)
calm, totally collected, and she just
calm, totally collected, and PS04
calm, totally collected, and RIS T 1)
calm, totally collected, and she just put me at May’s, but |
she just put me at May’s, but | still
she just put me at May’s, but | Bl
she just put me at May’s, but | still had no words. -- put me
still had no words. -- put me 1
still had no words. -- put me YN
still had no words. -- put me YR T
still had no words. -- put me YA O s
still had no words. -- put me YA O 14
still had no words. -- put me R O i E
at ease. You hear that so often, you have
at ease. You hear that so PRIV R
at ease. You hear that so often, you have to lose your
often, you have to lose your MTa = a [ Ta L]
often, you have to lose your innovations when you are in the
innovations when you are in the T
innovations when you are in the N
Innovations when you are in the presence of royalty. This
Innovations when you are in the NN R RO LA L T
presence of royalty. This girl gave a bunch of flowers. She
gave a bunch of flowers. She LS
gave a bunch of flowers. She joins us now. You were a
joins us now. You were 3 brownie,
joins us now. You were 3 I L}
joins us now. You were 3 brownie, and the Queen
joins us now. You were a brownie, and the Queen of
brownie, and the Queen of e R d
brownie, and the Queen of e R )
brownie, and the Queen of course for the scout, she
course for the scout, she LG
course for the scout, she joined the first Buckingham is
joined the first Buckingham is Dell guides that are farther
Dell quides that are farther created so
Dell quides that are farther R
Dell quides that are farther created so she could speak to
created so she could speak to people.
How that happened.
She came to open our local hospital furnace general
and we would we’d have the day off school to go to see
her as a brownie pack.
And we’d waited all day long, all afternoon long for her
to come out of the hospital.
And | think it was raining.
And when she finally came out, our brownie
leaders like "Go, go, go.”
And so we sort of snuck under the police barriers with these
posies in our hands IR R N e
And yeah, it was (| (TR TaE]
And she took the time to speak to us and she actually
apologised for being late.
And she was she was just lovely.
She asked us about our brownie badges and just her smile,
it jJust made you feel so relaxed.
The local paper said you’d broken through police
That sounds quite dramatic, RN Ry
It was before, | think before they did walkabouts and things.
So yeah, that’s what the local paper said.
But yeah, we definitely G [ N aa I
| moved them out RV R Gl L
so we could get past.
And you talked IR R e
How long do you thank you talk for?
Probably a couple of minutes,
maybe something like that.
It felt like an instant, AU R AR N
because she was just so easy R e
LU GGG R T e E I get the photograph?
Yes.
ST T Yeah.
That’s a pride of mine
Is it really | mean, G E R GRS BN
This is this is all those years ago when you’re a little girl,
but it sticks with you.
O BB
And I’m the first person whenever the Queen came
on telly, or if we went to Buckingham Palace or went
near Windsor, we would say, Oh, I’ve met the Queen,
I’ve met the Queen to anybody who would listen,
because I’m so proud of that.
Really, really proud.
Jolly good.
You still got the brownie badges?
We had a court that had been passed down through the family
from Harrods, and she’s like, R TNG
going to see the Queen, even though we were thinking,
you’ve just got RN G R
So in the picture I’m in this PR R L R e 1 o
from Harrods, which at the time eI
Yeah, keep the coat for best. BT LR
My mum was just the same. BEch
Just the same. IHEI R
You still got the Brownie badges?
LY TR
They’re all sewn on a blanket.
Thank you very much indeed.
Lovely to talk to you.
Lots of people, as | say, (EYEETL R GG RO
thoughts and their tributes to the Queen, including
many people who have sent artwork as well.
This one 1s from Sarah Glover.
She sent in a drawing of the Queen with the simple
message, "Good night, Your Majesty,” she says,
"Sometimes it’s hard to express our feelings with words.
"And at times like that, AR O e
Here’s a quick look at some of the other art that you’ve
created inspired by the Queen.
Well, that’s it for now.
A reminder, you can send your memories into your
YourQueen@bbc.co.uk.
And of course, we’ll AR A VAU
RGN -]
Thanks for watching.
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of
And cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower, but it will largely stay dry.
And | am hopeful that things will remain dry
in Londen and in Windsor R RS G R T e ]
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon, it could give the odd
light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
QIR CES IR charge, that is keeping things
mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud
and the chance for some damp weather first thing
across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west England.
And this band of thick cloud adds the potential for the odd
spot of rain or drizzle, it does tend to push eastwards
as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland will see some good spells of sunshine,
though, Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees,
the winds for most places NS A
Now, through Monday night, we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially LRI e
of rain and drizzle, especially in eastern parts.
Some clear breaks out towards the West may well fill
in with a little bit of mist and fog, a little milder
than it has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme,
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle, but it does look Like the cloud
should tend to turn over and break up a little bit
across some western parts IR R A L
a bit more patchy rain into R R OGI AR A Elsh
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling
Actually, on Wednesday, if we see some sunny spells,
at least for a time, it will feel considerably
warmer than it has of late, temperatures of 17 degrees
in Aberdeen, 21in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing them towards the north-west,
bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make
erratic progress southwards and eastwards through Thursday
and into Friday, some of the rain, actually,
could be quite heavy, AN ]
into the south of England and south Wales.
So, the chance of some rain, particularly later
on in the week and a bit less R G LR R
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
A minute’s silence across R LR R R e
on the life and legacy of Queen Elizabeth the second.
The Queen this spring, MR R ilaEll
photographs of Her Majesty TR A N R )
President Biden pays his respects at the Lying-in-State,
and later gave this tribute.
Our
Our hearts go out to and you ey
Our hearts go out to and you were fortunate to
Our hearts go out to and you R i RO N By
Our hearts go out to and you R i RN - L)
Our hearts go out to and you were fortunate to have had her
were fortunate to have had her e
were fortunate to have had her for 70 years, we
were fortunate to have had her LRI U
were fortunate to have had her for 70 years, we all were
for 70 years, we all were SO
for 70 years, we all were S RGT
for 70 years, we all were stopping the world is better
stopping the world is better e
stopping the world is better e
Hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been
attending a reception at Buckingham Palace hosted
by King Charles, ahead IO T
And | am live in Westminster, this
And | am live in Westminster, G
And | am live in Westminster, IR )
And | am live in Westminster, this is quite near to
And | am live in Westminster, QIR G IR R U
And | am live in Westminster, QT R IR C RO CR 8 2
this Is quite near to the very e d
this Is quite near to the very e e d
this is quite near to the very T e R
this is quite near to the very T R A - A
this is quite near to the very T R R A - o]
this is quite near to the very R RGN R
front of the Queue and these PYTY
front of the Queue and these are some
front of the Queue and these RN
front of the Queue and these IR R R G N
front of the Queue and these are some of the last people to
are some of the last people to pay their
are some of the last people to VRGN e
are some of the last people to pay their respects to Her
pay their respects to Her LEIEN
pay their respects to Her Majesty the Queen.
Welcome to Westminster where | stand that
Welcome to Westminster where | AENGRGE IR 1 El
Welcome to Westminster where | stand that what is close to the
stand that what is close to the very front of
stand that what is close to the R I R G
stand that what is close to the very front of the queue, this
very front of the queue, this legendary queue that people
legendary queue that people Ty
legendary queue that people have been joining for
legendary queue that people have been joining for the past
have been joining for the past four days, spending hours upon
four days, spending hours upon I
four days, spending hours upon hours, tens of thousands of
hours, tens of thousands of TG
hours, tens of thousands of people waiting for their moment
people waiting for their moment to fail past Her Majesty the
to fail past Her Majesty the By
to fail past Her Majesty the late Queen’soften
to fail past Her Majesty the late Queen’soften in
late Queen’soften in e
late Queen’soften in Westminster Hall. The whole has
Westminster Hall. The whole has ]
Westminster Hall. The whole has now officially closed but those
now officially closed but those TG
now officially closed but those people who have been waiting so
people who have been waiting so LG
people who have been waiting so patiently are still
people who have been waiting so NN LR L (LGS
people who have been waiting so patiently are still allowed to
patiently are still allowed to UEIR
patiently are still allowed to PR )
patiently are still allowed to PR G R )
patiently are still allowed to IR RO
patiently are still allowed to remain, these are the last
remain, these are the last TG
remain, these are the last people who will be filing past
people who will be filing past )
people who will be filing past the coffin
people who will be filing past e iR
people who will be filing past N RGN LT
the coffin themselves. There have been so
the coffin themselves. There RN R ET Y
the coffin themselves. There have been s6 many moments
have been so many moments QIO 1d
have been so many moments QIS G
have been so many moments throughout this mourning
throughout this mourning (LR
throughout this mourning I IR
throughout this mourning A IR R
QI QTR TG T T period, the nation coming
period, the nation coming together
period, the nation coming O[S IR
period, the nation coming together to pay their respects
together to pay their respects to Queen Elizabeth, these
to Queen Elizabeth, these amongst some of the a huge
amongst some of the a huge community, a whole host of
community, a whole host of volunteers looking after these
volunteers looking after these people who have
volunteers looking after these T R R N R L
volunteers looking after these people who have spent so
volunteers looking after these people who have spent se many
people who have spent so many ey
people who have spent so many (T I G
people who have spent so many hours queueing. Later, the
hours queueing. Later, the I
hours queueing. Later, the RE Gl
hours queueing. Later, the e R A
hours queueing. Later, the state funeral itself. Earlier
state funeral itself. Earlier Y
state funeral itself. Earlier we had a
state funeral itself. Earlier N e e Ty
state funeral itself. Earlier N L Rt e T A e o)
we had a minutes silence in s
we had a minutes silence in memory of the
we had a minutes silence in YR RGN
It is ten days now A R
The new King, Charles, arriving at Buckingham Palace
earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led
the country’s mourning in the days since.
Among the hundreds MR GRCEG
EEGHGELR the State Funeral,
the President AU RS S
IR [ =D R T gV RGN L ARG
A few moments later, President Biden and the First
Lady of the United States, Dr Jill Biden, stood
quietly on a balcony NGRS U
Like so many thousands of others
over the past four days, struck by the intensity
| think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all,
the notion of service.
We all owe something, there is something within our
capacity to do that can make things,
not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better,
your household better, your workplace better.
To all the people of the United Kingdom, our hearts
go out to you and TR R (N LG
to have had her for 70 R LR e
CUR GN NGPE IR T TV Yo R 1 for the State Funeral,
from Camilla, the Queen Consort,
her reflection on the 70 years of the Queen’s reign.
She has been part of our Lives for ever.
NUEN LN UL I L A A
the Queen being there.
It must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman,
there weren’t women R G
R LRI L) R she was the only one.
So | think she carved her own role.
I’ll always remember WEIEINIER
You know, that smile ROl N
Many thousands of people have wanted
to be a part of this moment.
Some have queued for many hours or placed flowers
in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to London
to absorb the sights and emotions
along the route of the procession
and outside the Abbey Church TR TR TG R R
place.
We didn’t know I T a VAR ]
but we wanted to do something.
You know, it felt right to come up and do something
and bring my son here.
You know, | think there’s a lot of people who don’t know
what to do, but feel RO R R L
something, so it just felt like the right thing
to do was to come up here with everybody else.
During the hours of darkness MR R 1 E )
admitted to the lying-in-state at Westminster Hall.
And then in the morning, A NI e R RS G
place of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
So just ahead of the state el
So just ahead of the state funeral which
So just ahead of the state IR s R il
So just ahead of the state funeral which will be taking
funeral which will be taking I ET
funeral which will be taking o[ FI- Rl
funeral which will be taking o] FIa- R E ]
funeral which will be taking o Fl- R F I Rl
funeral which will be taking place later on on Monday
place later on on Monday morning.
place later on on Monday UG AR 1YY
place later on on Monday G AR TR
place later on on Moenday morning. These are amongst some
morning. These are amongst some of
morning. These are amongst some SRy
morning. These are amongst some RGN
morning. These are amongst some of the last people who will
of the last people who will Ty
of the last people who will VR4
of the last people who will have that opportunity
of the last people who will have that epportunity to pay
have that opportunity to pay e
have that opportunity to pay their respects,
have that opportunity to pay T R )
have that opportunity to pay their respects, to fail past
their respects, to fail past )
their respects, to fail past the coffin in Westminster Hall,
the coffin in Westminster Hall, that historic
the coffin in Westminster Hall, G E TS G G|
the coffin in Westminster Hall, G E TSI T G R4 %1
the coffin in Westminster Hall, that historic building that has
that historic building that has witnessed so much history.
witnessed so much history. IR N G
witnessed so much history. These people are among the
These people are among the el
These people are among the EIR
These people are among the final ones to join what has
final ones to join what has [T e 0 10)
final ones to join what has become a thing in itself, this
become a thing in itself, this WIS
become a thing in itself, this ILCR I
become a thing in itself, this huge queue, people
become a thing in itself, this huge gqueue, people queueing
become a thing in itself, this huge queue, people gueueing for
huge queue, people queueing for ey
huge queue, people queueing for TR )
huge queue, people queueing for hours upon hours
huge queue, people queueing for hours upen hours in the
huge queue, people queueing for hours upon hours in the middle
hours upon hours in the middle of
hours upon hours in the middle SRy
hours upon hours in the middle of the night and they are the
of the night and they are the el
of the night and they are the EIR
of the night and they are the final ones to actually make it
final ones to actually make it through.
final ones to actually make it (T AR T30
final ones to actually make it through. There have been so
through. There have been so many moments throughout these
many moments throughout these past
many moments throughout these TR
many moments throughout these past few days,
many moments throughout these RN N IR )
many moments throughout these R I LG
many moments throughout these RN R IR A
past few days, we are expect two
past few days, we are expect et
past few days, we are expect two minutes silence at
past few days, we are expect I R e )
past few days, we are expect two minutes silence at the end
two minutes silence at the end N
two minutes silence at the end RO e )
two minutes silence at the end RG]
two minutes silence at the end ARG AR e
of the service in Westminster A
of the service in Westminster ST F Y
of the service in Westminster Abbey. Earlier on
of the service in Westminster S LRI EN
of the service in Westminster Abbey. Earlier on Sunday there
Abbey. Earlier on Sunday there Ty
Abbey. Earlier on Sunday there TN )
Abbey. Earlier on Sunday there R -t Ty
Abbey. Earlier on Sunday there was one minutes silence in
was one minutes silence in s
was one minutes silence in memory and respect of Her
memory and respect of Her LEIEN
memory and respect of Her Majesty the Queen.
The Flowers Of The Forest echoing
IR N e B T &I ]
A lament for the fallen, played now in tribute
tc a Queen.
And then, on the cusp of silence, in Blackpool,
the going down of lights.
Then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating
a new monarch.
God save the King.
# God save our gracious King.
# Long live our noble King.
# God save the King.
# Send him victorious.
# Happy and glorious.
# Long to reign over us.
# God save the King #.
Across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
For whom the Queen was the unifying symbol.
I’m just paying respects RO L LTSS
to mark the passing of an era.
LT RS T LSV ARG R A e
Queen again.
You know, she’s been e R )
D IR T T CY1L
She was very important to me and I’m starting
to get emotional now.
Because | remember the Coronation.
I’m old enough to remember King George VI
and him dying and the Coronation,
and we had a little 12-inch television and all
G Gl IV e el ] in to watch the Coronation,
so yes, she has been our Queen for a long time
and she served us well.
LR G GRS R respect and affection
Fergal Keane, BBC News.
And there are so many people Ty
And there are so many people LY
And there are so many people N E N ]
And there are so many people G EER Y R
And there are so many people who have been filing past,
who have been filing past, people continuing to go past in
people continuing to go past in this
people continuing to go past in QI
people continuing to go past in this queue which
people continuing to go past in QIR WS
people continuing to go past in this queue which has almost
this queue which has almost T e8]
this queue which has almost T e e ]
this queue which has almost become a thing in itself, when
become a thing in itself, when Y
become a thing in itself, when R EIe
become a thing in itself, when we talk about the queue, just
we talk about the queue, just bear in mind
we talk about the queue, just T NE R
we talk about the queue, just bear in mind the number
we talk about the queue, just TRt A a0l le e} A
bear in mind the number of TG
bear in mind the number of people that have been helping
people that have been helping to
people that have been helping O
people that have been helping to help these people that have
to help these people that have spent
to help these people that have L X
to help these people that have spent so many hours waiting for
spent so many hours waiting for )
spent so many hours waiting for GRS g hlie
spent so many hours waiting for QR Tl A
spent so many hours waiting for R T AR Z L LS
spent so many hours waiting for the opportunity to walk through
the opportunity to walk through e
the opportunity to walk through Westminster Hall itself. The
Westminster Hall itself. The T
Westminster Hall itself. The volunteers who
Westminster Hall itself. The e R B Y
Westminster Hall itself. The volunteers who have been
volunteers who have been gathering food who will then go
gathering food who will then go to food banks. And then also
to food banks. And then also people just searching, going
people just searching, going I
people just searching, going QIR
people just searching, going through the food itself that
through the food itself that il
through the food itself that RG]
through the food itself that will then go onto the food
will then go onto the food banks, these guys are here for
banks, these guys are here for i
banks, these guys are here for ELhTe
banks, these guys are here for Eh T atd
banks, these guys are here for EGTEiE
banks, these guys are here for | think it the third night. We
| think it the third night. We Py
| think it the third night. We are joined
I think it the third night. We are joined by lzzi and Caitlin,
are joined by Izzi and Caitlin, you
are joined by Izzi and Caitlin, T
are joined by Izzi and Caitlin, you are from
are joined by lzzi and Caitlin, TR
are joined by lzzi and Caitlin, you are from the Queens scouts,
you are from the Queens scouts, and
you are from the Queens scouts, e
you are from the Queens scouts, and how many nights have you
and how many nights have you ]
and how many nights have you Tl ey
and how many nights have you been here at?
and how many nights have you T A T
and how many nights have you been here at? Since Wednesday
been here at? Since Wednesday b
been here at? Since Wednesday night. Wednesday night? And
night. Wednesday night? And you’ve gone through the night?
you’ve gone through the night? Yeah.
you’ve gone through the night? PR
you’ve gone through the night? Yeah. 11 until seven. How has
Yeah. 11 until seven. How has 3
Yeah. 11 until seven. How has it been?
Yeah. 11 until seven. How has Al
Yeah. 11 until seven. How has TR AR
Yeah. 11 until seven. How has it been? It was hard at first
it been? It was hard at first e
it been? It was hard at first dl
it been? It was hard at first but | think because we knew we
but I think because we knew we ey
but I think because we knew we e N ]
but | think because we knew we were on nights right from
but I think because we knew we were on nights right from the
were on nights right from the start
were on nights right from the AR )
were on nights right from the IR N4 ]
were on nights right from the start we kinda got into a
start we kinda got into 4 LIS
start we kinda got into a routine, as the week has gone
routine, as the week has gone )
routine, as the week has gone QUG]S
routine, as the week has gone the general public are kind
routine, as the week has gone QNG T TR LR
the general public are kind of got, they’ve
QLG EE W T LR D [ PR AT L]
QLG EE W T LR D got, they’ve had better
QGG EE WL CR LR got, they’ve had better morale,
got, they’ve had better morale, they kind of know what to
they kind of know what to expect now.
they kind of know what to S AR
they kind of know what to expect now. The first night
expect now. The first night 10
expect now. The first night nobody had any
expect now. The first night noboedy had any idea
expect now. The first night nobody had any idea what to
nobody had any idea what to expect including the people
expect including the people gueueing so
expect including the people IR R
expect including the people gueueing so it was a bit tough
gueueing so it was a bit tough but
queueing so it was a bit tough R
queueing so it was a bit tough NR Y
queueing so it was a bit tough R 0]
queueing so it was a bit tough NG ICR RUEID
queueing so it was a bit tough but there are se many scouts
but there are so many scouts SISl
but there are so many scouts constantly here, everyone is
constantly here, everyone is HELLE
constantly here, everyone is helping, people
constantly here, everyone is E LA CREI
constantly here, everyone is helping, people are queueing so
helping, people are queueing so St 1ile1]
helping, people are queueing so e R e L)
helping, people are queueing so R N4
helping, people are queueing so much because it must be tough
much because it must be tough ]
much because it must be tough RGN
much because it must be tough RO RG]
much because it must be tough on them, they have
much because it must be tough RGOSR G A R R
on them, they have been gueueing for
on them, they have been IR (e}
on them, they have been gueueing for such a long time.
queueing for such a long time. I
queueing for such a long time. TR
queueing for such a long time. And you obviously want to be
And you obviously want to be here.
And you obviously want to be N
And you obviously want to be here. Oh, mixed with the way to
here. Oh, mixed with the way to e
here. Oh, mixed with the way to W17
here. Oh, mixed with the way to our duty for our
here. Oh, mixed with the way to I N A IR R DI
here. Oh, mixed with the way to our duty for our Queen. And who
our duty for our Queen. And who Py
our duty for our Queen. And who E1- Vi
our duty for our Queen. And who are you? You are again part of
are you? You are again part of 1R
are you? You are again part of I3
are you? You are again part of all of this? And you are
all of this? And you are ]
all of this? And you are working through the night as
working through the night as (ke
working through the night as R R G 3|
working through the night as well? Working through
working through the night as R R A GR GG I R 1)
well? Working through the LI
well? Working through the LAY
well? Working through the I | YT )
well? Working through the night, yeah. Are you finding it
night, yeah. Are you finding it ILLE
night, yeah. Are you finding it tough? It was
night, yeah. Are you finding it I R T ER T
night, yeah. Are you finding it tough? It was tough at first
tough? It was tough at first 4
tough? It was tough at first but slowly and getting used to
but slowly and getting used to e
but slowly and getting used to it and
but slowly and getting used to NGRS
but slowly and getting used to N RNLL RS
but slowly and getting used to I RN AT
but slowly and getting used to it and enjoying it. So just
it and enjoying it. So just explain to
LD N[ [ R TR SRR
LD N[ [ R TR explain to me, you
LD N[ [ R TR S RN VLG
1LY R YV explain to me, you are going
explain to me, you are going I IR G
explain to me, you are going through this food, what happens
through this food, what happens to
through this food, what happens i
through this food, what happens A Y
through this food, what happens to it? We are separating
o it? We are separating perishables from
perishables from R
perishables from nen-perishables and
perishables from non-perishables and water
perishables from nen-perishables and water from
non-perishables and water from any
non-perishables and water from A
non-perishables and water from EI RGeS LN
non-perishables and water from VRO LR
non-perishables and water from I RO S LR R
non-perishables and water from any other drinks. We are taking
any other drinks. We are taking 1R
any other drinks. We are taking IRy
any other drinks. We are taking RGN I B G
any other drinks. We are taking all the nenperishables and
all the nonperishables and splitting them
all the nonperishables and ol RGN 0]
all the nonperishables and splitting them up into bags, so
splitting them up into bags, so Y
splitting them up into bags, so we have got small bags for
we have got small bags for individually wrapped suites and
individually wrapped suites and things we can hand out to
things we can hand out to people
things we can hand out to (L EREIGT T
things we can hand out to LI TG R 1)
things we can hand out to people along the queue if they
people along the queue if they need
people along the queue if they ]
people along the queue if they LRI
people along the queue if they need a Sugar rush or something
need a Sugar rush or something to
need a Sugar rush or something GG
need a Sugar rush or something to keep them awake. Also
to keep them awake. Also boosting
to keep them awake. Also S el
to keep them awake. Also boosting morale along the way
boosting morale along the way T )
boosting morale along the way N4
boosting morale along the way N A
boosting morale along the way N N AR
boosting morale along the way because it is so much
boosting morale along the way e N AR R Te-Te
because it is so much nicer Y
because it is so much nicer TR
because it is so much nicer when the general public is all
when the general public is all happy, that is our aim here.
happy, that is our aim here. I
happy, that is our aim here. And we are also donating
And we are also donating anything else to food banks, so
anything else to food banks, so QIO 1d
anything else to food banks, so throughout the days every week
throughout the days every week they
throughout the days every week QAN G
throughout the days every week they have been coming and
they have been coming and collecting loads of stuff that
collecting loads of stuff that e IR e
collecting loads of stuff that I R TR )
collecting loads of stuff that otherwise would have gone to
otherwise would have gone to YT )
otherwise would have gone to waste because
otherwise would have gone to A N R )
otherwise would have gone to waste because there is so
ORIV G RV R waste because there is so much
waste because there is so much Tl
waste because there is so much TR EIR )
waste because there is so much food that we can give to other
food that we can give to other P )
food that we can give to other people rather than just
people rather than just chucking
people rather than just AL
people rather than just o T N3 |
people rather than just chucking it. And what are you
chucking it. And what are you L
chucking it. And what are you going to do tomorrow when you
going to do tomorrow when you finish?
going to do tomorrow when you Al
going to do tomorrow when you finish? I actually planned to
finish? I actually planned to watch
finish? I actually planned to N e R )
finish? I actually planned to watch the funeral tomorrow,
watch the funeral tomorrow, XN
watch the funeral tomorrow, L]
watch the funeral tomorrow, yeah. And then go back to
yeah. And then go back to sleep.
yeah. And then go back to Y TR
yeah. And then go back to RIS
yeah. And then go back to sleep. We are going to join
sleep. We are going to join I )
sleep. We are going to join N L]
sleep. We are going to join everyone and watch it on
sleep. We are going to join A N LR G I IR
everyone and watch it on the W]
everyone and watch it on the G
everyone and watch it on the big screen altogether. That is
big screen altogether. That is Y
big screen altogether. That is R
OESACL NG G LT N a really good point because
big screen altogether. That is a really good point because of
a really good point because of e )
a really good point because of e R Rl
a really good point because of e R R
a really good point because of course there will be lots of
course there will be lots of e e 4
course there will be lots of A Fle
course there will be lots of different places where people
different places where people Ty
different places where people R iR
different places where people R AR
different places where people R k-
different places where people R R R I e
who won’t be at Westminster Y3
who won’t be at Westminster Abbey will
who won’t be at Westminster LSRG
who won’t be at Westminster SR R
who won’t be at Westminster Abbey will be able to watch it.
Abbey will be able to watch it. T4
Abbey will be able to watch it. Thank you
Abbey will be able to watch it. =S TR s
Abbey will be able to watch it. Thank you very much, and sorry
Thank you very much, and sorry |
Thank you very much, and sorry NE
Thank you very much, and sorry N
Thank you very much, and sorry | keep getting in the way
| keep getting in the way really great to join you and we
really great to join you and we il
really great to join you and we T
really great to join you and we LR
really great to join you and we will see you throughout the
will see you throughout the night
will see you throughout the LI A1
will see you throughout the LI 4]
will see you throughout the night is a whole team of
night is a whole team of T
night is a whole team of volunteers helping out, doing
volunteers helping out, doing 1R
volunteers helping out, doing I3
volunteers helping out, doing RS &
volunteers helping out, doing all of this kind of
volunteers helping out, doing IR R G IR s R A a
volunteers helping out, doing IR R G AR R Tta k]
all of this kind of stuff to ensure that
all of this kind of stuff to NN R R
all of this kind of stuff to ensure that the people in the
ensure that the people in the as
ensure that the people in the YRy
ensure that the people in the as the guys
ensure that the people in the EIR G 1)
ensure that the people in the IR G LG L R
ensure that the people in the as the guys are saying, are
GO LG IERET N AT (ET Y
GO LG IERET N AT (ET SN
RGN ICES L VAT happy and content
as the guys are saying, are ETEL Re I e D
as the guys are saying, are happy and content because this
happy and content because this %)
happy and content because this TRt Te 4
happy and content because this TR i R
happy and content because this is a moment that they really
is @ moment that they really e
is @ moment that they really want to
is @ moment that they really N R N
is @ moment that they really N R )
is @ moment that they really N RN ]
is @ moment that they really want to be here and just help,
want to be here and just help, )
want to be here and just help, so that
want to be here and just help, R A
want to be here and just help, R AR
want to be here and just help, so that is the situation
want to be here and just help, R AR A G R
so that is the situation live Tee I8t
so that is the situation live TR LR
[LiE1L @0
LIS RS
Thank you very much indeed, we Py
Thank you very much indeed, we are releasing it from one end
are releasing it from one end N
are releasing it from one end R
are releasing it from one end of the spectrum
are releasing it from one end R RS uag ]y R
are releasing it from one end RO [ R RO
are releasing it from one end SRR e R R ORI L Ce
President Biden will join around 2,000 other guests,
including some 500 heads of state and foreign
dignitaries at the ML R e ]
It will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty
and politicians the UK TR R s [
They have been paying their respects to the late
Queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon,
as our Diplomatic Correspondent James Landale reports.
Some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
Others came together, rather unusually on a bus,
but they were all here R R R A ]
in perhaps the biggest Sy FLdle
wake seen for decades.
There was the King and Queen of Spain.
There was his exiled father, Juan Carles.
There was the president NAIEh N IR i
Leaders from the Gulf.
The King and Queen of Jordan.
Hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay
G {-TYo]Ta and indulge, perhaps,
in a little diplomacy.
Others arrived around the back of the palace.
Prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the King
and other members of the Royal Family at a formal
state reception.
On a day of frantic e la e e I
engagement, the Princess of Wales
even found time to meet OIS EL R RS
Earlier, Joe and Jill Biden had followed other heads
of state and government in stopping
off at Lancaster House AL
A steady flow of the global great and sometimes good,
paying their respects NN N R B AT
I so wish eternal peace R N e iR
generous spirit and of course, every good wish
IR RO EH IR
On behalf of the government and people
of Barbados that R AN
sympathy to all A R e
especially to the members of the Royal Family.
We appreciated very much her R R R ORI G ]
UL EE VTR [ ELdo transformation from a nation
of eight countries TN R -
on to the throne to 56 at the time of her death.
Thank you, Your Majesty, thank you for your dedication.
The people of Fiji will never forget you.
Many also came to see QAL ET S
Not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand
in silence and perhaps I S
the coffin of a woman LN
CUG G R G T S R R G
MPs and peers who have been sanctioned by Beijing,
a delegation TR L R
to Westminster Hall, including the vice president,
on the right, who will attend LRI B e age A
One man who will not be coming to the Abbey tomorrow
s Saudi Arabia’s crown prince and de facto ruler,
Mohammad Bin Salman, who has been
accused of being involved R GER G E R E S &
accusations he has denied.
Several leaders, including Canada’s
Prime Minister, also dropped by Downing Street for
L E (o R were infoermal conversations
Earlier he paid his own tribute to the Queen.
| first met Her Majesty when | was seven years old
and her presence throughout my life had been
constant, inspiring and graceful.
As Prime Minister, BT S Ric s
counsel, her thoughtfulness, NI 1A
her sense of humour.
Tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on held
as the leaders arrive at Westminster Abbey
and the focus returns to the monarch they have
come to mourn.
James Landale, BBC News.
Well,
T L
Well, of course those world leaders
Well, of course those world (T e )
Well, of course those world s el e e e
Well, of course those world leaders have come to London to
leaders have come to Lendon to represent
leaders have come to London to N R G
leaders have come to London to represent their countries.
Well, the death of Queen Elizabeth Il has of course been
followed in great detail by many countries all over
the world, in particular across RO LG
such as Australia, a land with a strong republican
leaning, even if it hasn’t yet turned in to majority support
to lose the monarch YA R A D
Let’s go over to
Let’s go over to Sydney now T )
Let’s go over to Sydney now N 0d
Let’s go over to Sydney now because our correspondent
because our correspondent Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are
Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are ]
Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are ]
Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are MR N
Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are MRS ORIl
Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are MR oA R a
Shaimaa Khalil is there. We are on the eve of what is going to
on the eve of what is going to 1y
on the eve of what is going to ]
on the eve of what is going to R
on the eve of what is going to be a hugely emotional as well
be a hugely emotional as well as
be a hugely emotional as well Y e e il
be a hugely emotional as well as ceremonial occasion. | just
as ceremonial occasion. | just g
as ceremonial occasion. | just s ]
as ceremonial occasion. | just e R G
as ceremonial occasion. | just wonder how Australians are
wonder how Australians are looking at this. Well,
LIl G TR Australians are
LGl G T Australians are waking up to
Australians are waking up to this
Australians are waking up to IR
Australians are waking up to R R VI
Australians are waking up to this of course, as you can
this of course, as you can imagine the national
imagine the national I
imagine the national broadcaster ABC is
imagine the national JOEDIE Y W )
broadcaster ABC is already telling Australians to tune in.
telling Australians to tune in. Almost all of
telling Australians to tune in. AR (S R
telling Australians to tune in. Almost all of the channels will
Almost all of the channels will 1
Almost all of the channels will carry the funeral.
Almost all of the channels will AU RIS LT
Almost all of the channels will carry the funeral. The VLAD is
carry the funeral. The VLAD is playing half-mast here at the
playing half-mast here at the Sydney Harbour Bridge. It will
Sydney Harbour Bridge. It will remain at half asked until
remain at half asked until after
remain at half asked until )
remain at half asked until RO R
remain at half asked until RGN a0 s
after the beautiful in landmarks across
TG R V| landmarks across the
after the beautiful in landmarks across the country.
landmarks across the country. As Australians remember our
As Australians remember our monarch
As Australians remember our R e R aa Lo
As Australians remember our monarch that was
As Australians remember our I EIS R R LR
As Australians remember our monarch that was viewed not
monarch that was viewed not just
monarch that was viewed not M1
monarch that was viewed not TR EIEG0]
monarch that was viewed not just at the Queen of Australia
just at the Queen of Australia and the
just at the Queen of Australia FN R N ]|
just at the Queen of Australia and the head of state but also
and the head of state but also as
and the head of state but also )
and the head of state but also IR
and the head of state but also as a mother, a grandmother and
as a mother, a grandmother and Y
as a mother, a grandmother and RISl
as a mother, a grandmother and a friend of the country. And
a friend of the country. And e
a friend of the country. And it’s people of course. Queen
t’s people of course. Queen Elizabeth Il may the
t’s people of course. Queen Elizabeth 1l may the historic
Elizabeth Il may the historic e
Elizabeth Il may the historic N dhl
Elizabeth Il may the historic visit in 1954, sailing across
visit in 1954, sailing across Sydney
visit in 1954, sailing across S LG AL EIC LS
visit in 1954, sailing across Sydney Harbour Bridge about
Sydney Harbour Bridge about TV Y-y
Sydney Harbour Bridge about where the Opera House is at
SYOLIEEL Bl gl [ RL T8 where the Opera House is at the
where the Opera House is at the moment.
where the Opera House is at the R )
where the Opera House is at the moment. She became
where the Opera House is at the R A N e R )
where the Opera House is at the moment. She became the first,
moment. She became the first, )
moment. She became the first, G0
moment. She became the first, the only reigning monarch to
the only reigning monarch to e
the only reigning monarch to visit Australia stop in total,
visit Australia stop in total, i)
visit Australia stop in total, AR R
visit Australia stop in total, she visited 16 times, her last
she visited 16 times, her last Y4
she visited 16 times, her last i
she visited 16 times, her last R A
she visited 16 times, her last AR A
she visited 16 times, her last biz it was in 2011.
she visited 16 times, her last AR v RGET
she visited 16 times, her last AR L RGN e )
biz it was in 2011. The Prime R
biz it was in 2011. The Prime Minister Anthony Albanese is in
Minister Anthony Albanese is in RGN
Minister Anthony Albanese is in London, he
Minister Anthony Albanese is in L Rl
Minister Anthony Albanese is in BN PR R L R e e=a )
Minister Anthony Albanese is in London, he will attend the
Lendon, he will attend the funeral,
London, he will attend the funeral, he laid flowers
London, he will attend the MG R EIL R G Rl
funeral, he laid flowers In Green
funeral, he laid flowers in Green Park next to an
Green Park next to an Australian Black and said it
Australian Black and said it Ty
Australian Black and said it was an honour to commemorate a
was an honour to commemorate a R
was an honour to commemorate a Rl
was an honour to commemorate a R RRTE
was an honour to commemorate a R AT T
was an honour to commemorate a R AR IR T )
was an honour to commemorate a R AR IR T R
life well lived. When he comes e
life well lived. When he comes back, a national day of
back, a national day of GG
back, a national day of mourning Mac will be observed
mourning Mac will be observed ]
mourning Mac will be observed on Thursday 22 September at a
on Thursday 22 September at a et
on Thursday 22 September at a one-minute silent
on Thursday 22 September at a il ki
on Thursday 22 September at a IR R T
one-minute silent will be N e
one-minute silent will be a1
one-minute silent will be observed at 11am local time.
observed at 1lam local time. Really,
observed at 11am local time. Really, speaking to
LT D IET ET R C T g Really, speaking to regular
Really, speaking to regular N
Really, speaking to regular people, to a former Prime
people, to a former Prime Minister,
people, to a fermer Prime RIS YR
people, to a fermer Prime Minister, you get the
Minister, you get the W N ]
Minister, you get the W N T R G T
Minister, you get the overwhelming feeling that
overwhelming feeling that e e g
overwhelming feeling that whatever the politics is, there
whatever the politics is, there 3
whatever the politics is, there TR a4
whatever the politics is, there is that unanimous feeling
whatever the politics is, there ERGEI AT =N TR - T R
Is that unanimous feeling of Ll
is that unanimous feeling of LR 4N
is that unanimous feeling of goodwill for King Charles, but
goodwill for King Charles, but Py
goodwill for King Charles, but R T e sl
goodwill for King Charles, but R R
goodwill for King Charles, but a feathered loss of the only
a feathered loss of the only )
a feathered loss of the only -
a feathered loss of the only MR
a feathered loss of the only N R E e
a feathered loss of the only IR O ) G
a feathered loss of the only one at that most people knew.
one at that most people knew. il
one at that most people knew. You cannot
one at that most people knew. DR [
one at that most people knew. You cannot get over
one at that most people knew. V(RIS
one at that most people knew. You cannot get over the fact
You cannot get over the fact that this is a staging post and
that this is a staging post and PN
that this Is a staging post and N s I3 e el
that this Is a staging post and an historic staging post.
an historic staging post. People are bound to reflect,
People are bound to reflect, let’s give
People are bound to reflect, XN
People are bound to reflect, SN RI &)
People are bound to reflect, SN TR0
People are bound to reflect, NN R A LN
People are bound to reflect, let’s give it a few weeks, a
G TV B U G few
let’s give it a few weeks, a few months,
let’s give it a few weeks, a A PR
let’s give it a few weeks, a few months, even a
SNV R AT G few months, even a couple of
few months, even a couple of VG
few months, even a couple of IR
few months, even a couple of RO S LG
few months, even a couple of years, they are bound to
years, they are bound to S Yed
years, they are bound to reflect on
years, they are bound to il e R e
years, they are bound to reflect on where they, where
reflect on where they, where Australia
reflect on where they, where I IR
reflect on where they, where Australia sits in
reflect on where they, where I IE R R R
Australia sits in the Commonwealth hierarchy and who
Commonwealth hierarchy and who they really feel is the head of
they really feel is the head of 35
they really feel is the head of R )
they really feel is the head of state. And | would say, not
state. And | would say, not even
state. And | would say, not XN R 14
state. And | would say, not even that long.
state. And | would say, not AL RGEIA G|
state. And | would say, not ARG EIA G IR
state. And | would say, not AR GEIA G LI RGNS ELY
even that long. I think many Australians are
even that long. I think many L IR0
Australians are already reflecting on that. The Queen
reflecting on that. The Queen 3
reflecting on that. The Queen SR
reflecting on that. The Queen R S E
reflecting on that. The Queen 's that has brought a mix of
's that has brought a mix of LN
's that has brought a mix of feelings. A sense of loss as |
feelings. A sense of loss as | TS
feelings. A sense of loss as | LWL
feelings. A sense of loss as | was saying, the First Nations
was saying, the First Nations people said many of them said
people said many of them said e
people said many of them said QIO
people said many of them said it brought up a sense of trauma
it brought up a sense of trauma 1
it brought up a sense of trauma R )
it brought up a sense of trauma at the difficult legacy of
at the difficult legacy of R
at the difficult legacy of imperialism, of colenialism
at the difficult legacy of imperialism, of colonialism in
imperialism, of colonialism in )
imperialism, of colonialism in the world, that the Crown
imperialism, of colonialism in R LG MRGE R GRS D
the world, that the Crown had played in that. It also brought
played in that. It also brought )
played in that. It also brought GG T
played in that. It also brought G I L E G
played in that. It also brought the Republican debate, whether
the Republican debate, whether Australia should have an
Australia should have an Australian head of state. Even
Australian head of state. Even )
Australian head of state. Even R ]
Australian head of state. Even the store just of Republicans,
the store just of Republicans, | spoke to Malcolm
the store just of Republicans, | spoke to Malcoelm Turnbull
the store just of Republicans, | spoke to Malcolm Turnbull the
I spoke to Malcolm Turnbull the e
| spoke to Malcolm Turnbull the T aat T e
| spoke to Malcolm Turnbull the T e NIRRT
| spoke to Malcolm Turnbull the former Prime Minister Anna
former Prime Minister Anna Berry very well-known
Berry very well-known Republican,
Berry very well-known Y SN
Berry very well-known Republican, even he will
Berry very well-known SO R R G
Republican, even he will tell you that Republicans have a
you that Republicans have a sense
you that Republicans have a AN N
you that Republicans have a R
you that Republicans have a sense of respect for the Queen.
sense of respect for the Queen. Yes, somewhere down the line
Yes, somewhere down the line they will look into
they will look into a referendum into
QRTINS (] St s [TTa il e R N
QRTINS (] S i s ITTa il e R e e s
QRTINS (] referendum into whether or not
referendum into whether or not Australia should become a
Australia should become a republic but
Australia should become a I U AL
Australia should become a (I T Ay T
Australia should become a republic but right now is a
republic but right now is a type
republic but right now is a W
republic but right now is a type of reflection and
type of reflection and appreciation
type of reflection and ET G LR {18
type of reflection and appreciation for the
type of reflection and E L R R O R
type of reflection and appreciation for the Queen at
appreciation for the Queen at )
appreciation for the Queen at G any
appreciation for the Queen at the life dedicated
appreciation for the Queen at AN el e
appreciation for the Queen at the life dedicated to duty and
the life dedicated to duty and Xaile -]
the life dedicated to duty and TR (R
the life dedicated to duty and service. Yes, | think Malcolm
service. Yes, | think Malcolm el 011 g
service. Yes, | think Malcolm Turnbull was one who told me he
Turnbull was one who teld me he may not be a
Turnbull was one who told me he may not be a monarch but
Turnbull was one who told me he R CE U E O G
Turnbull was one who told me he may not be a monarch but he was
may not be a monarch but he was a1\
may not be a monarch but he was VAL
may not be a monarch but he was W CI VLRSI
may not be a monarch but he was certainly an Elizabeth Byrne.
certainly an Elizabeth Byrne. An Elizabeth Byrne, absolutely.
An Elizabeth Byrne, absolutely. 13"
An Elizabeth Byrne, absolutely. AL
An Elizabeth Byrne, absolutely. AR )
An Elizabeth Byrne, absolutely. Very good to see you, thank you
Very good to see you, thank you and take
Very good to see you, thank you LR -
In Ukraine, President Zelensky says investigations
into possible Russian war crimes are continuing
IR R W40 ]
one of several areas back in Ukrainian hands
after significant territorial gains in recent days.
Bodies are being exhumed TR B e R Y
on the edge of the city.
Our Ukraine Correspondent James Waterhouse has more from Kyiv.
Since Ukraine forced Russia R R R il e t]
since the invasion E R L R RIS
that was taken, it now seems to be
focusing on investigating what the invaders did
and what Moscow LRGP
In the case of the city of Izyum, while bodies
continue to be recovered from a mass grave,
the latest claim from Kyiv TR R e e R ]
uncovered which suggests G R el N Tat e e
were used by Russian troops.
There are reports of people being tortured
and a city being Har e R B
There has again ORI IEENS |
fighting in the Kharkiv region, where Ukraine has enjoyed
some recent successes, N R ]
question of what Russia will look to do next,
well, the thought from the UK B G E O
LRGN RN G QR more civilian targets
in Ukraine, Y N R A s
on the battlefield.
But this is something Russia has done throughout
this war, it has hit targets across this vast country
to try to exert influence and undermine Ukrainian
morale, but on that latter point
In his latest address A N L O A E LT
just because we have regained vast
swathes of territory, IR R B I R e
What Russia will hope is that the very speed
R G CCE TR force Ukraine to pause.
2 e[
Let’s get back to what will EIe
Let’s get back to what will EI IR
Let’s get back to what will happen in the hours ahead. The
happen in the hours ahead. The Y Ell
happen in the hours ahead. The national papers
happen in the hours ahead. The N E R L
happen in the hours ahead. The I E I )
national papers are already o]
national papers are already putting out
national papers are already e R &G
national papers are already putting out their prints,
natienal papers are already putting out their prints, they
putting out their prints, they have
putting out their prints, they YU
putting out their prints, they LR
putting out their prints, they have done it, they have
have done it, they have S LR
have done it, they have I ARG
have done it, they have S L R LS
have done it, they have published. The photos are
published. The photos are WAIH
published. The photos are obviously the things that
obviously the things that SV I
obviously the things that NS IS
obviously the things that everyone is looking for on the
everyone is looking for on the e d
everyone is looking for on the front pages. Mark Labelle is
front pages. Mark Labelle is Y
front pages. Mark Labelle is el ]
front pages. Mark Labelle is ORI A
front pages. Mark Labelle is R LA ]
front pages. Mark Labelle is with me now, you have been
with me now, you have been a1}
with me now, you have been scouring through, it
with me now, you have been X RGP
with me now, you have been scouring through, it is obvious
scouring through, it is obvious vty
SV o R oIV L P ER ol TV T -]
SV o R oIV L P ER ol TV what the front pages going to
what the front pages going to R LET
what the front pages going to IR N
what the front pages going to be. There is a special picture
be. There is a special picture e
be. There is a special picture a4
be. There is a special picture for us? That’s right, the date
for us? That’s right, the date of
for us? That’s right, the date SR
for us? That’s right, the date SRR
for us? That’s right, the date of the Queen’s
for us? That’s right, the date of the Queen ‘s funeral, the
of the Queen ‘s funeral, the S )
of the Queen ‘s funeral, the style of the
of the Queen’s funeral, the style of the papers reflect the
style of the papers reflect the AR
style of the papers reflect the date that the news of her death
date that the news of her death Ty
date that the news of her death was announced on
date that the news of her death LN e R R
date that the news of her death was announced on the day after
was announced on the day after )
was announced on the day after the news
was announced on the day after LR
was announced on the day after W oA
was announced on the day after M G )
was announced on the day after M GG
the news of her death was announced
the news of her death was Al T Ta e Lo ik us]
the news of her death was announced with black-and-white
announced with black-and-white ER G
announced with black-and-white RGO R LG
announced with black-and-white RGN )
announced with black-and-white mastheads. There is one picture
mastheads. There is one picture that
mastheads. There is one picture GEIR
mastheads. There is one picture OEI R RN
mastheads. There is one picture GEI R RV VR CU R
mastheads. There is one picture G E R R T VR
that was previously unseen, a portrait
that was previously unseen, a Il
that was previously unseen, a portrait of the Queen
that was previously unseen, a (IS R G R AT
that was previously unseen, a portrait of the Queen in May in
portrait of the Queen in May in e
portrait of the Queen in May in Windsor Castle the Buckingham
Windsor Castle the Buckingham P T
Windsor Castle the Buckingham P YN 1
Windsor Castle the Buckingham Palace has just released. The
Palace has just released. The UG ERIE
Palace has just released. The Telegraph go without add to
Telegraph go without add to number
Telegraph go without add to Lol e}
Telegraph go without add to SR e
Telegraph go without add to I R R G P e
Telegraph go without add to I R G P R L
number of other papers. The UG ERIE
number of other papers. The Telegraph says a life of
Telegraph says a life of iR i
Telegraph says a life of AN R - L
Telegraph says a life of selfless service. The Express
selfless service. The Express Y- )"
selfless service. The Express says farewell our glorious
says farewell our glorious Queen.
says farewell our glorious AL
says farewell our glorious Queen. The Mirror also using
Queen. The Mirror also using that
Queen. The Mirror also using GE I N
Queen. The Mirror also using that phote. If you
Queen. The Mirror also using that photo. If you look at
Queen. The Mirror also using that phote. If you lock at the
that photo. If you look at the ILION
that photo. If you look at the IR T]
that phote. If you look at the photo. You see on it
that phote. If you look at the N (R U Gl
photo. You see on it her aguamarine
photo. You see on it her aquamarine and diamond clip
aquamarine and diamond clip I e
aquamarine and diamond clip brooches which were an 18th
brooches which were an 18th birthday present from her
birthday present frem her Bl
birthday present frem her father George VI in 1944. The
father George V1 in 1944. The Queen
father George V1 in 1944. The (AT
father George VI in 1944. The Queen’s Sun
father George VI in 1944. The Queen ‘s Sun King Charles
Queen’s Sun King Charles R
Queen’s Sun King Charles features on
Queen’s Sun King Charles TN R
Queen’s Sun King Charles features on the front page of
features on the front page of the
features on the front page of R
features on the front page of the Times in his audience with
the Times in his audience with 53
the Times in his audience with (7RI
the Times in his audience with Liz Truss, not at things to
AN IR G IR TN
Liz Truss, not at things to come, Charles gives
W AIOE IS QIR come, Charles gives thanks is
come, Charles gives thanks is )
come, Charles gives thanks is W I
come, Charles gives thanks is N I )
come, Charles gives thanks is LI RGN e Y
come, Charles gives thanks is N I R N e )
the headline there because of e )
the headline there because of e i T E
the headline there because of course he was deeply touched up
course he was deeply touched up ten days of messages of
ten days of messages of s e ey
ten days of messages of e s e e o)
ten days of messages of condolences and support. The
condolences and support. The Daily Mail also quoting Charles
Daily Mail also guoting Charles as
Daily Mail also quoting Charles YT
Daily Mail also quoting Charles as move beyond measure by
as move beyond measure by Britain’s
as move beyond measure by I E TR 0|
as move beyond measure by Britain’s outpouring of grief
Britain’s outpouring of grief O] L]
Britain’s outpouring of grief stopped our last farewell, her
stopped our last farewell, her ETe e I
stopped our last farewell, her famous wave at
stopped our last farewell, her IR N
stopped our last farewell, her famous wave at one of hats
famous wave at one of hats featuring prominently. The
featuring prominently. The A )
featuring prominently. The AR Y]
featuring prominently. The tides have a rap like they did
tides have a rap like they did after
tides have a rap like they did )
tides have a rap like they did GRSy
tides have a rap like they did AU N
tides have a rap like they did after the date of death was
after the date of death was announced, | will show you a
announced, | will show you a Y
announced, | will show you a quote from
annoeunced, | will show you a quote from that. Just about
announced, | will show you a quote from that. Just about you
quote from that. Just about you S
quote from that. Just about you WP
quote from that. Just about you do, just reflecting
quote from that. Just about you WIS A LYl ]
quote from that. Just about you do, just reflecting on that.
do, just reflecting on that. So much
do, just reflecting on that. So s N
do, just reflecting on that. So much care goes on to what that
much care goes on to what that o[a 10
much care goes on to what that IR
much care goes on to what that Jla ORI
much care goes on to what that picture is going to be. Isn’t
picture is going to be. Isn’t that right? For all of the
that right? For all of the (I
that right? For all of the (ER LS
that right? For all of the ER R LS
that right? For all of the [E R LR G
that right? For all of the papers. This is the abiding
papers. This is the abiding image that that nation had been
image that that nation had been G
image that that nation had been WGkl
image that that nation had been NI IR
image that that nation had been given on the day of her
given on the day of her e
given on the day of her funeral. Absolutely and it is
funeral. Absolutely and it is the
funeral. Absolutely and it is Wl
funeral. Absolutely and it is WL
funeral. Absolutely and it is MR L s e
funeral. Absolutely and it is TR L XA 1 T s |
funeral. Absolutely and it is LT N L )
funeral. Absolutely and it is the smile. The smile and a look
the smile. The smile and a look 3
the smile. The smile and a look e
the smile. The smile and a look MRS R
the smile. The smile and a look in her eyes. It’s
the smile. The smile and a look RS S .
the smile. The smile and a look S A S R )
in her eyes. It’s not, there Py
in her eyes. It’s not, there IR
in her eyes. It’s not, there MG A G
in her eyes. It’s not, there are many older pictures of when
are many older pictures of when i)
are many older pictures of when she is
are many older pictures of when R
are many older pictures of when she is Gunbower, when she is a
she is Gunbower, when she Is a newly
she Is Gunbower, when she is a newly crowned Queen but this is
newly crowned Queen but this is )
newly crowned Queen but this is the Queen
newly crowned Queen but this is RN )
newly crowned Queen but this is RN Rl
newly crowned Queen but this is the Queen we all remember,
newly crowned Queen but this is RO R L R P
the Queen we all remember, of ey
the Queen we all remember, of course. To quote the tides as
course. To guote the tides as (ke
course. To quote the tides as kAR
course. To quote the tides as kAR
course. To quote the tides as o kR e 4
course. To quote the tides as well? This is what she said
well? This is what she said 2002
It reminds me
IS e
It reminds me of the quote In
It reminds me of the quote in PN
It reminds me of the quote in N Taala Y
It reminds me of the quote in Nl e s e )
It reminds me of the quote in an article online from the
an article online from the e
an article online from the former Archbishop of York who
former Archbishop of York who I
former Archbishop of York who IR
former Archbishop of York who said the Queen was
former Archbishop of York who I RGN R LR
former Archbishop of York who said the Queen was so immersed
said the Queen was so immersed 3
said the Queen was so immersed IOl
said the Queen was so immersed SO R Gl
said the Queen was so immersed IR OIS
said the Queen was so immersed O R U R R L 0L}
in Scripture that she would just
in Scripture that she would TS LY
in Scripture that she would just evangelise naturally, well
just evangelise naturally, well el
just evangelise naturally, well a1 ]
just evangelise naturally, well e OB
just evangelise naturally, well O ERr R
just evangelise naturally, well e O R e R )
just evangelise naturally, well O N.1.e
worth a read on the BBC e
worth a read on the BBC TRl E e
worth a read on the BBC website. Thank you for that. |
website. Thank you for that. | o
website. Thank you for that. | R
website. Thank you for that. | would like to close
website. Thank you for that. | would Like to close with
website. Thank you for that. | T GRN R ORI R i ]
would like to close with a couple of live pictures for you
couple of live pictures for you of
couple of live pictures for you SR IR
couple of live pictures for you of Westminster Hall
couple of live pictures for you SR bR d S
couple of live pictures for you of Westminster Hall as there
of Westminster Hall as there Py
of Westminster Hall as there il
of Westminster Hall as there are still people paying their
are still people paying their respects as they
are still people paying their (N R UG A =T
are still people paying their respects as they passed the
respects as they passed the coffin
respects as they passed the iR e
respects as they passed the IR SR
respects as they passed the coffin there. We can go to
coffin there. We can go to VT er]
coffin there. We can go to Victoria Gardens as well.
Victoria Gardens as well. Getting a bit of a clip on as
Getting a bit of a clip on as they
Getting a bit of a clip on as A
Getting a bit of a clip on as they head towards Westminster
they head towards Westminster Hall. That
they head towards Westminster PRI A
they head towards Westminster Hall. That is the scene, you
Hall. That is the scene, you Py
Hall. That is the scene, you are watching BBC News.
Hall. That is the scene, you are watching BBC News.
Helloe. Many of
Helle. Many of us
Hello. Many of us have
Helle. Many of us have seen
Hello. Many of us have seen increasing
Helle. Many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud
increasing amounts of cloud 3 d
increasing amounts of cloud )
increasing amounts of cloud IR R I hER
increasing amounts of cloud RN R h e
increasing amounts of cloud AR R T I Y G )Y
increasing amounts of cloud over the weekend. Clever play a
over the weekend. Clever play a W]
over the weekend. Clever play a big part in my day’s without
big part in my day’s without story,
big part in my day’s without 018 11\
big part in my day’s without story, possibly thick enough
story, possibly thick enough S i)
story, possibly thick enough R Y
story, possibly thick enough time to get some spot of rain,
time to get some spot of rain, maybe the odd shower. It will
maybe the odd shower. It will largely stay dry. I’m hoping
largely stay dry. I’m hoping things will remain dry in
things will remain dry in London and in winds are for the
London and in winds are for the ST
London and in winds are for the R0
London and in winds are for the MRS e G s R
London and in winds are for the MR e N S LG
London and in winds are for the MR G NS L
Queen’s state funeral. There Is just a chance
Queen’s state funeral. There is TSRO EL X1
Queen’s state funeral. There is just a chance at the cloud
Just a chance at the cloud began
just a chance at the cloud began through the afternoon
began through the afternoon T
began through the afternoon YN N 0|
began through the afternoon here could give the odd shower
here could give the odd shower or
here could give the odd shower R ]
here could give the odd shower RNl
here could give the odd shower or the odd spot of rain or
or the odd spot of rain or lerzdl- N
or the odd spot of rain or drizzle. High pressure is still
drizzle. High pressure is still in
drizzle. High pressure is still LRI
drizzle. High pressure is still in charge, that
drizzle. High pressure is still R EIGER LA
drizzle. High pressure is still RO G A N
in charge, that is keeping things mostly dry but this week
things mostly dry but this week Y
things mostly dry but this week when front is introducing more
when front is intreducing more a0
when front is introducing more cloud and
when front is introducing more I R e el )
when front is introducing more G R e el e N
when front is introducing more I R e E e e e e i)
cloud and the chance of some dab went up bursting across
dab went up bursting across NG
dab went up bursting across R e n oA
dab went up bursting across south-west Scotland, perhaps
south-west Scotland, perhaps e e
south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west England and the bad
north-west England and the bad e
north-west England and the bad thick cloud and the potential
thick cloud and the potential e
thick cloud and the potential TR
thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or
for the odd spot of rain or R laradty
for the odd spot of rain or e larad N
for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push
drizzle does tend to push L e
drizzle does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
eastwards as the day wears on. e eI
eastwards as the day wears on. R Y I Y w e a s ]
eastwards as the day wears on. North-east Scotland was see
North-east Scotland was see L]
North-east Scotland was see good spells of sunshine,
good spells of sunshine, Northern Ireland made but not
Northern Ireland made but not W
Northern Ireland made but not by time,
Northern Ireland made but not A X
Northern Ireland made but not by time, south Wales and the
by time, south Wales and the NG A
by time, south Wales and the south-west of England should
south-west of England should e
south-west of England should seek sunny spells. Temperatures
seek sunny spells. Temperatures Y e ds]
seek sunny spells. Temperatures north to
seek sunny spells. Temperatures T e R e 0hds]
seek sunny spells. Temperatures e RO RN ]
seek sunny spells. Temperatures RO GR W]
seek sunny spells. Temperatures north to south between 12 and
north to south between 12 and 90
north to south between 12 and VLGN
north to south between 12 and 90 degrees. Winds were most
90 degrees. Winds were most places will be fairly light.
places will be fairly Light. Through
places will be fairly light. Through Monday night we will
Through Monday night we will T
Through Monday night we will XA IO
Through Monday night we will I CIO LR L0
Through Monday night we will XA IO L IR
Through Monday night we will see large areas of cloud still
see large areas of cloud still AL
see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of
potentially giving some spot of ATe]
potentially giving some spot of T s |
potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially in
rain and drizzle especially in eastern parts. Some clear
eastern parts. Some clear el
eastern parts. Some clear IR L
eastern parts. Some clear e N LR
eastern parts. Some clear N R N R RGN
eastern parts. Some clear A R QL I ARG
breaks out was the best, they may pull in
breaks out was the best, they uEVA (T
breaks out was the best, they may pull in it with a bit of
may pull in it with a bit of and fog. Milder that has been
and fog. Milder that has been over
and fog. Milder that has been a1
and fog. Milder that has been WY
and fog. Milder that has been NI R R v
over recent nights, 9- 12 W
over recent nights, 9- 12 degrees. Tuesday we stick with
degrees. Tuesday we stick with g
degrees. Tuesday we stick with our cloudy
degrees. Tuesday we stick with I GG AR
degrees. Tuesday we stick with our cloudy bean. This type of
our cloudy bean. This type of cloud giving
our cloudy bean. This type of GG R
our cloudy bean. This type of GG E R
our cloudy bean. This type of WG IR -R G
our cloudy bean. This type of cloud giving rise to some spot
cloud giving rise to some spot of rain and drizzle. But it
of rain and drizzle. But it Y
of rain and drizzle. But it does look
of rain and drizzle. But it I Al
of rain and drizzle. But it does look like the cloud should
does look like the cloud should tend
does look like the cloud should R
does look like the cloud should e Retlgs]
does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and
does look like the cloud should DR R R SN R a1 4
does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and break up
tend to turn over and break up Y
tend to turn over and break up PR ey
tend to turn over and break up a little bit
tend to turn over and break up R g
tend to turn over and break up a little bit over western parts
a little bit over western parts to
a little bit over western parts Y
a little bit over western parts RN
a little bit over western parts IR S )
a little bit over western parts to give some study spells,
to give some study spells, [(E1a1
to give some study spells, patchy rain in
to give some study spells, (E AT RN
to give some study spells, patchy rain in the western
patchy rain in the western A
patchy rain in the western A
patchy rain in the western Isles of Scotland. 17-19,
LI AT R R G R ) Isles of Scotland. 17-19, maybe
Isles of Scotland. 17-19, maybe 20
Isles of Scotland. 17-19, maybe PN T
Isles of Scotland. 17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the
Isles of Scotland. 17-19, maybe PV AN R R T R
Isles of Scotland. 17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south. Bilic
20 degrees in the south. Bilic Y
20 degrees in the south. Bilic PR ey
20 degrees in the south. Bilic PR R El
20 degrees in the south. Bilic a little warmer. Wednesday we
a little warmer. Wednesday we T
a little warmer. Wednesday we R
a little warmer. Wednesday we IR
a little warmer. Wednesday we see some sunny spells at
see some sunny spells at least e
see some sunny spells at least for a time. It
see some sunny spells at least TRl
see some sunny spells at least TR R
for a time. It will feel considerably, that has of late.
considerably, that has of late. Temperatures
considerably, that has of late. IS EREI O
considerably, that has of late. Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen,
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, pil
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, g1l
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, 21 in London. A frontal system
21 in London. A frontal system pushing
21 in London. A frontal system L
21 in London. A frontal system I LR
21 in London. A frontal system LAY
21 in London. A frontal system pushing it was a north-west
oI LI ELRE I [ g dy R [ bringing
pushing it was a north-west MBI E GRS
pushing it was a north-west IR IR
pushing it was a north-west IR RS R T
bringing outbreaks of rain. That will make erratic progress
That will make erratic progress T E sl
That will make erratic progress southward and
That will make erratic progress N LI I I e
That will make erratic progress OV IO L R R e R DT B
southward and eastward Thursday Ty
southward and eastward Thursday into Friday, some
southward and eastward Thursday R E A R
southward and eastward Thursday R AR R G
southward and eastward Thursday R E A R R O R L
into Friday, some of the rain could be quite heavy. Even as a
could be quite heavy. Even as a 134
could be quite heavy. Even as a guest out into the start of
guest out into the start of England and south Wales. The
England and south Wales. The %
England and south Wales. The L 2
England and south Wales. The R R
England and south Wales. The A R R )
England and south Wales. The chat of the the rain
chat of the the rain particularly later on in the
particularly later on in the ir)
particularly later on in the TN
particularly later on in the rate at a
particularly later on in the T R )
particularly later on in the T R R N i
particularly later on in the rate at a little bhit less
rate at a little bit less chilly than it has
rate at a little bit less R G LRI E U
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
The queue to pay last respects to the former Monarch
as she lies in state in Westminster Hall has
AN A R -
Those still in the queue R I s R el ala -7
Preparations are being made RO i el
on Monday, which will begin in Westminster Abbey.
King Charles has hosted a reception for hundreds
of world leaders at Buckingham Palace ahead of the funeral.
Heads of state from around the globe have attended,
including Joe Biden.
The US President earlier paid his respects at the hall
where the late monarch ERVHLRLEI 1N
The Prime Minister of Japan has urged people
to act swiftly to save their lives as the country is hit
by a destructive typhoon.
The warning comes as the authorities advise three
million people to leave their homes - and a huge storm
moves across the southern island of Kyushu.
Those are
Now on BBC News, Click.
Can tech go green?
This week, we are going green,
although other colours NIV L Y
Oh, I can change the colour of my tree.
We discover some highly unusual building materials.
It Is, in a sense, mould in here.
That’s the strangest case of rising damp I’ve ever seen.
No, the whole place is made of it.
And Spencer meets the man behind an icon.
This is your baby.
But as the iPod is laid to rest for good,
we meet the robots built to break down your iPhone.
And also, cats - big ones.
A giant redwood - the largest tree on earth.
And this one’s TN e
with LIDAR technology,
el dlh [ R-RL 1 of the endangered species
so viewers don’t have to physically visit
California’s Sequoia National Park to be inspired.
This digital art exhibition L AR e [ R e
aims to get more people thinking about the
interconnectedness of humans and nature,
the materials we use in day-to-day design,
and how to build cities that are fit for the future.
At a time of extreme climate crisis,
we’ve got to consider all of these things
if we’re going to avoid an apocalyptic fate.
This is one of the e e aee i
The digital technology we have can create a sense
of awe, a sense of wonder and a sense of playfulness,
but, ultimately, it can ignite hope
and ignite a sense of courage to enact change.
What are we doing here?
So, this is, essentially, us dissipating into particles.
We’re looking at our identity
through the lens of fluid ecology.
You’ve done this before, you’re more flowery now than me.
I’ve got that growth energy going on, yeah.
| remember my old drama classes where they said,
"Pretend you’re a tree.”
NIRRT R VR do those classes anymore.
Immersive media that transports RO EIF U N Bl
lets us play games T R
G RN g I Gl[o GG
is not only a joy R
but could help us rethink a world
in which sustainability must come first.
behind some of Apple’s e s il
First, though, Paul Carter’s been to the Netherlands
to look at a new way to try and make sure that these things
don’t keep piling up in the back of your drawer.
It’s estimated that the amount of e-waste generated last year
was over 57 millien tonnes,
and that figure is set to increase year on year.
Although phone recycling IR G R
the majority of handsets still end up in landfill.
Traditional methods YA LI
generally involve shredding IR aaE IRt Ele sl
and then sifting them RN RO RS TR G
or reusable material.
But Apple, who produced over 200 millien iPhones last year,
has devised a modern way of recovering the materials,
and they let me in IR
Most of us are now quite used to the idea
of recycling our phones
when they reach LR AL Han Y
But if you’re anything like me,
you probably don’t think too much about what happens to them
once you send them away.
Here, at a secret location in the Netherlands,
Apple have created Dalsy, this robot behind me.
And It takes the process of recycling these things
I NN - W )
Daisy can completely [ eI e R
from start to finish MBI
The product travels through four modules.
The first step separates G ER (R GG I Y
What’s happening behind me is R IR R e e e
And to do that, it’s using really cold air -
-70 degrees Celsius -
to actually stop the adhesive from working
RGN e can be taken out.
Lol g A ] B
Afterwards, the screws are taken out,
before all the different components
are separated by the machine.
All individual bits and pieces land here
to then be sorted by a human.
Most modern smartphones
contain as many as 30 elements and rare earth materials,
including cobalt, tungsten, gold and tin.
And the World Economic Forum has warned that some elements
may be completely depleted LR RTEIN
Apple claims that new methods AL
like Daisy, could help recover more of these metals
from end-of-life phones, and that its products contain
more recycled materials than ever before.
Rare earth elements and metals require extensive mining
with considerable environmental, social
DR[| Ml e F e )
Our goal is to make all of our products
using only recycled N L eE
Daisy Is helping us with that -
she can do 23 models of IPhone,
she can do 2.4 million units R
and all of that means more material going back around
a circular supply chain
so, ultimately, we can end our reliance on mining.
Daisy concentrates on 14 key materials
which would otherwise be extracted from the earth,
from the rare earth magnets to the aluminium in the housing.
If you take, for example, the main logic boards,
the cameras and the flexes,
one tonne of that has the same amount of material
that we’d have to mine 2.000 tonnes of new material
to get to, so it’s quite important
and also it’s much P deld il
But it’s not just about recovering the materials,
but crucially, getting them back at a purity
where they can be used again.
The brute force traditional methods of recycling can
degrade the recovered materials or miss them entirely,
meaning they can end up in landfill, causing
pollution and environmental damage.
Perhaps, though, the most sustainable solution
of all would be reducing the volume of e-waste
we create in the first place.
Paul there, in the Netherlands,
looking at ways BN R I
Later in the show, Spencer will be talking more
about sustainability with N e i A -G
Now, here in the UK,
W L R [ 1 seeking to protect the earth
and the joy of living things on it.
They’ve gone for TN R ANE G E -]
My daughter’s favourite, I had to come and see them for her.
London Zoo’s best known for protecting endangered animals.
LGN 750 different species here.
Think you might be able IR N ARG R B Y
But today, I’m taking a leafier approach.
I’m going to sow some seeds with my smartphone.
This is the AR AN L))
ML to plant a virtual tree.
OK, so | need to find a big space - that bit’s sorted.
Scan your surreundings
and digital branches unfurl in augmented reality.
Oh, wow, there’s a tree. LRI
LT R I mini games plays out.
Oh, no, it’s on fire.
LR GV Ta S A A L & TR
A heart is drifting to the ground, and tap to grow.
You can design and snap pictures
of your own creations too.
Ooh, I can change the colour of my tree!
But this isn’t just for fun.
The app also tells you Y SR R e e ]
a real tree is going to be planted on your behalf,
giving impact YA 1ae s s B lnie ast LA o B
And to mark the moment,
LIV VT RIS rope in a friend
to take a video of you LRGN a
The app’s creator believes LRI e e s
of art, technology and science can inspire real change.
Martine, tell me about the technical process
behind the AR app.
Eiwaz Tree of Life was essentially made by drones
3D-scanning an ash tree, and then we put it
through the processing software photogrammetry,
and then that essentially takes the 2D photos
Add to that some virtual sculpting
and gameplay VR R
and you get an exciting MO RS G
The essence of this is that | want to empower people,
RIS G R GR IR E they’re part of the solution
and they’re part of a greater movement
in a battle for nature.
Martine has sourced donations to grow 200,000 trees.
140,000 of these will be earthed in the Philippines,
which has lost 50% of its mangroves.
The mangroves are biodiversity superstars.
They provide nursery grounds for local species.
They are vital stocks R I e
and income for communities.
They protect coastlines from damaging floods
and storm surges,
and they also lock vast amounts of carbon into the ground.
Replenishing this kind of natural resource is vital,
even If trees EICH R R IR U113
Animals are great ambassadors TR el
I’m standing here in front R EER LIRS G R
which are always incredibly popular.
However, conservation can be quite an abstract notion.
VLN G LTl to care about things
that are many thousands S E R (IR O]
People are engaging B e
with the climate crisis in particular,
and looking to restore whole ecosystems,
and that’s really where our focus is.
Markers like this one in London Zoo are designed
to grab the attention of passers-by,
and portals have L L R RS
including Oslo, Copenhagen and at the World Expo in Dubai,
although you can play R UICOB RG]
This project isn’t going to fix climate change overnight,
but it was certainly fun
getting my digital fingers green.
That looks less R R
Or whatever other colours | fancied.
L1 ] CEoT 1] 4R
OK, time for this week’s ORI R A
and first up, it’s official - ads are coming to Netflix.
Yep, co-CEO Ted Sarandos has announced the streaming giant
will begin testing a new cheaper tariff option
[ R R L -
if you don’t mind some commercials popping up
while you watch your BN e R o
Medical students at the University of Cambridge
are taking part in what the uni says is a world first -
treating holographic patients.
Through the use of an augmented reality headset,
the students are learning
by practising on virtual people.
It feels very much more
that you’re connected to the scenario.
And when you feel the patient,
you see their neck muscles straining,
and the way they’re breathing,
the trained eye of a doctor will tell a Lot
LI TR o LT 4 chest rises and falls,
and we spend a lot R R ILRCE
that exactly right.
Nasa has launched its first rocket
from a commercial spaceport outside the United States.
It hopes the sub-orbital rocket launched from Australia
LI L) astrophysics studies
that can only take place in the Southern Hemisphere.
And after taking me for a spin last year,
paralysed racing driver et eslat o1 4
has broken new ground by being the first person ever
to complete the hill climb
Gy Goodwood Festival of Speed
using only head N R R e N a7 Y
He achieved the feat in his modified McLaren that
VAN ER LR LTED and a breath-measuring device.
(NI QR ETGI L EL R ) to meet Tony Fadell,
NI TR of Apple’s biggest icons,
which has recently been decommissioned after 20 years.
Can we have a moment of silence, please, for the iPod?
This is your baby. TSR
How do you feel about it?
Oh, it’s obviously sad to see an old friend go,
NI GLND RO RGNS IR GA
technology marches on.
Without the iPod,
the modern-day Apple wouldn’t exist,
and the iPhone, | don’t think, G R S|
Was there any consideration for the green credentials
the disposability,
the renewability of these things -
was that even on the table back then?
No, it wasn’t really highly considered by any means.
Of course, It wasn’t just, go trash things,
but at the same time, it’s very different now.
Do you think we have reached a turning point now,
where companies are more aware, and in fact, it might be good
to market something that can last a few years?
You know, the IPhone IE R A G
e GG CaE LT
You don’t have to necessarily AL IS
In fact, it might be actually more profitable for the company
to ship a lot more services RO R R R O E L
What we should be seeing is more subscription-based
devices, and you get T A A R
device when the company QIR
Maybe it’s the right thing to do for the environment,
maybe for the customer as well.
What’s the next big idea?
I think when we look at our existential problems
on this planet, there are so many ideas that need
to be brought to life.
Something like QR [ LR A
We can use hydrogen to make all kinds of materials,
and make them much more climate-friendly.
And actually for business, they’re actually better
for business, you can make more money.
Agriculture, materials, transportation - we should be
using all of the technology to revolutionise those,
some of the biggest polluters on the planet.
Now all we have to do [N IR LR
But, for his part, Fadell heads a fund that’s made dozens
Although he’s not just I SR R R e P
Virtual reality - discuss.
You can make shoes, you can make furniture,
homes, what have you.
It is the first way to truly hreak the 2D barrier, to 3D.
So, Fadell is backing virtual collaboration,
though the metaverse at large SR T
have him convinced.
Some people are trying to trap us in these kinds of headsets.
It’s a place where you’re going to go socialise,
where we’re going to dance, we’re all going to turn
into cartoon characters, we’ll never even see
each other’s eyes.
Is that a problem we really need to solve?
Let’s park Zuckerberg’s vision for a moment, then,
and ask Tony instead about Apple’s biggest visionary.
Steve moved the whole smartphone industry.
Yes, I’d like to order 4,000 lattes to go, please.
No, just kidding!
LU IR GIR DLV N was he never projected
himself as a real expert of any one thing.
So there was some humility there - it wasn’t just about,
I know everything and I’m right RS-l X4
Absolutely not - he had strong L T X
they were weakly held, if we brought in data
or other things to show him that there was a different way.
And since Steve Jobs, the biggest personality in tech
surely now has to be this guy.
Hope you like what you see.
But what does Fadell make of him?
Without the personalities, without the passion,
without the drive, you wouldn’t see the EV revolution
that we’re having.
You need these personalities that people can
really resonate with.
LI EER LA T who is admittedly a bit
of a character himself, R U R N
one who believes that big tech can clean up.
Adrienne Murray’s been finding AN e RN il &
Each time we upload a selfie, chat online or stream a video,
we’re transmitting data DRI R
and all those files we store (AL GGG
well, there’s a physical backbone, keeping it
all running smoothly - Lo e
This hyperscale facility MR A R O
in Denmark is among a growing number found in the cooler
Nordic countries.
And here, how our internet use is actually helping
to warm people’s homes.
This is one of cur servers.
And If you feel underneath it’s quite...
It’s really hot.
Datacentres are all over Europe, providing services
for all our applications, Facebook, Instagram,
WhatsApp, Messenger, etc.
It is pictures, videos, stories, all of that.
All these servers are running 24/7, and keeping them
ticking over requires huge amounts of energy.
But they also produce A A
At many data centres, the heat given off is lost or wasted.
Here, the hot air is trapped behind the servers
and then it’s put to use.
It really is much SR TR
like stepping inside a sauna.
What happens to the heat that’s coming off these servers?
So the heat goes up to the roof where we have
some cooling units.
When it reaches the rooftop, the hot air flows through
almost 200 heat exchangers.
Oh, gosh. That’s really windy.
We are getting cold water from a district heating
system from the city, and then we give them
warm water back.
It is a heat exchange, so you take one warm element
and then one cold element, and you actually exchange
Residual cool air is left AR RO
and that’s used to help cool IR G e
Across the road is a pump station.
All these different coloured pipes are carrying water.
As you might have guessed, red is hot and blue is cold.
So right here, we have O T SR G
So when we receive it, it’s only 27 degrees Celsius.
But we need it to elevate it to 70 degrees to put it in this
district heating grid.
District heating is a community-wide heating system
that’s common in Scandinavia.
In Odense, which Is the third largest city in Denmark,
we have about 200,000 inhabitants.
That’s about 100,000 s
And this plant can actually provide heat for more
Hello, welcome. Hi, thank you.
Long-time resident Hans TR N AG
What do you get as part of the district heating?
It’s water, it’s heating, ISR GIL R G AT
You don’t have to have a boiler, it’s coming
out of the pipes.
Every household has RGP R U IR
pay for what you use.
from the datacentre is now also providing heat
tc homes in the area?
| mean, the heat is there.
Either you give it to the birds or you make use
of it in cur households.
Other Nordic countries like Sweden have also embraced
the idea of warming homes with recycled heat.
And in Finland, Microsoft and energy firm Fortum are now
planning the world’s biggest project of this kind.
But these companies RS ORI
considering how our buildings could become more sustainable.
This is recycled concrete.
The idea Is that that’ll be the basis of kind
of almost a whole ecosystem.
My name is Martyn Dade-Robertson, I’m professor
of emerging technology at Newcastle University.
We’re sitting in the OME, which is an experimental house
where we’re developing a new generation of
building technolegies.
The way that we build TR IR EINE
it’s polluting, it uses high amounts of energy, and that
really needs to be addressed if we’re to live sustainably.
Just behind me is one of the most significant pieces
of biotechnolegy that we have.
It’s a structure that is initially knitted,
grown with a root network of fungus we call mycelium.
This is black fabric, and the white that you’re
seeing Is all the mycelium.
It Is, in a sense, mould in here, or at least what some
people think of as being mould.
This is a case where we could replace, say,
CRWCT L R T G RE R[N e RN R
This is quite nice, the way you can see the cellulose.
It’s not a stained glass window, it’s a stained
In our different labs, we’re growing different materials.
But in relationship to digital technologies as well.
We’re developing a robot arm to control the way that
materials are deposited in three dimensions.
We’re also developing our own machine that looks a little
bit like a 3D printer.
The main kind of fermentation will be happening here.
The pumps will be located here.
It allows us to program the material for different
outcomes and different material O LN
Imagine the construction of a wall.
You’ve got your bricks, which are cemented together,
often you have insulation material, you have your
plasterboard inside.
We want to do that in one step.
The wall might be able to respond to light by thickening,
maybe giving greater insulation or reducing insulation,
maybe allow a building to sweat in the way that skin does.
That will mean that servicing our buildings are not as heavy,
because we don’t have to make use of heating and
ventilation quite as much.
We use all kinds of different computational models that
CICR GR GG [(dy that we do.
Often, they’re modelling the way in which our biological
systems will respond e R svilge i
We’re even thinking about RN R I
The idea Is that the bacteria can detect the load
on the soils and make crystals that will make
the soll stronger.
We’re not using polluting concrete, and moving the land
s a very energy-intensive e
Artificial intelligence might give us a way to discover these
new biologies and processes that we can’t, as human beings,
on our own, work out.
Some of our technologies are quite near-future.
(NI T for example, being part
of our built environment actually very quickly.
This feels really, CE AN
Some of the work in engineered living materials is
decades and decades away.
There are lots of technical challenges, but also
the construction industry RS R N N IR
so persuading people that this is the future is going to take
Sustainability calls TR et E
technologies that will change QR AUCIR AN
We’ve had the digital revolution, but we see
ourselves as heading up R L N TR
That sense that we’re at the frontier of a completely
new science and technology YA LR
Some great ideas there, although some of it did look
a little bit unusual, I’m not quite sure that it
would fit in with my decor.
Whilst that’s all we’ve got time for this week,
| think I’ll stick around for a wander.
They know how to do it - slower pace of life.
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud
Cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower.
It will largely stay dry.
I’m hoping things will remain dry in London and in Windsor
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower
or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge, that is keeping
things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing
more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first
thing across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west
England and this band of thick cloud and the potential
for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push
eastwards as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland was see good spells of sunshine,
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
Winds for most places NS A
Through Monday night we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain
and drizzle especially RGOl e
Some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull
in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
Milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
Through Monday night we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain
and drizzle especially RGOl e
Some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull
in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
Milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle.
But it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over
CNT R QTR Rl ad(-]1 across some western parts
to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain
into the western Isles of Scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
Feeling a little warmer.
On Wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
It will feel considerably S R i LR A Y
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, 21 in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing RO LRGN e
W Jgh IRy 1] outbreaks of rain.
That will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards
Thursday and into Friday, some of the rain actually
SR - IR IR E - s Bt
the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
Our top stories:
A minute’s silence across R LR R R e
on the life and legacy of Queen Elizabeth II.
The Queen this spring, MR R ilaEll
photographs of Her Majesty TR A N R )
President Biden pays his respects at the Lying-in-State,
and later gave this tribute.
Our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate to have her
you were fortunate to have her 70
you were fortunate to have her IVRY 1
you were fortunate to have her 70 years, we all were. The
JAORE TR LR Ry - iy
70 years, we all were. The R g
70 years, we all were. The R St Rne
70 years, we all were. The R S E N d e
Hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been
attending a reception at Buckingham Palace hosted
AR =T N ahead of his mother’s
funeral on Monday.
And I’m
And I’m live in Westminster very near to
And I’m live in Westminster AR UG
And I’m live in Westminster very near to the front of the
very near to the front of the I
very near to the front of the T 1)
very near to the front of the IR R )
very near to the front of the queue, some of the last people
queue, some of the last people to grow one past the Queen’s
to grow one past the Queen’s Coffin. -- the
to grow one past the Queen’s iR - e
to grow one past the Queen’s Coffin. -- the last people to
Coffin. -~ the last people to file past the
Coffin. -- the last people to HCY ER RGN
Coffin. -- the last people to file past the Queen’s coffin.
In other news:
Fata 110 RV A G
the warning of Japan’s Prime Minister to people living
in the path of a huge typhoon.
Welcome to Westminster, the middle of the night and yet
middle of the night and yet TG
middle of the night and yet people continue to queue. These
people continue to queue. These Py
people continue to queue. These I R i)
people continue to queue. These IR N
people continue to queue. These R N A
people continue to queue. These R AR
people continue to queue. These are some of the final people
are some of the final people Ty
are some of the final people Rl
are some of the final people R )
are some of the final people who will be able to pay their
who will be able to pay their respects as they
who will be able to pay their (ARG AL
who will be able to pay their respects as they file past the
respects as they file past the coffin that lays in state not
coffin that lays in state not 1
coffin that lays in state not ElRig 1]
coffin that lays in state not far from here.
coffin that lays in state not IR e L T
coffin that lays in state not far from here. These people
far from here. These people [SE)
far from here. These people N ]
far from here. These people have been waiting for hours but
have been waiting for hours but as
have been waiting for hours but PR
have been waiting for hours but YR e
have been waiting for hours but YR N A e
have been waiting for hours but YR A A e )
have been waiting for hours but YR R A Gl R R il
as we now know the official I
as we now know the official queue, this
as we now know the official ARG VG
as we now know the official queue, this queue that
as we now know the official IR U R U
queue, this queue that has gl
queue, this queue that has turned into a
queue, this queue that has R R )
queue, this queue that has R R i R e
turned into a bit of a method et
turned into a bit of a method itself, this queue
turned into a bit of a method IR G TR G LS
turned into a bit of a method LR G TR GG
turned into a bit of a method itself, this queue that se many
itself, this queue that so many TG
itself, this queue that so many people have
tself, this queue that so many people have experienced,
people have experienced, i
people have experienced, MR
people have experienced, hundreds of thousands of
hundreds of thousands of N
hundreds of thousands of people, this is it now. These
people, this is it now. These Py
people, this is it now. These I R i)
people, this is it now. These IR N
people, this is it now. These R N A
people, this is it now. These R ARG E
people, this is it now. These are some of the last people.
are some of the last people. G
are some of the last people. IR
are some of the last people. This is what is known as the
This is what is known as the snake period. This is where the
snake period. This is where the people are really concertina at
people are really concertina at together.
people are really concertina at DG RLYe
people are really concertina at OGS A T
people are really concertina at together. Very much crowded
together. Very much crowded together
together. Very much crowded RO
together. Very much crowded together as they
together. Very much crowded G R G E
together. Very much crowded together as they still have
together as they still have )
together as they still have Rl i)
together as they still have some time to go before they
some time to go before they actually get to file past
actually get to file past e
actually get to file past Westminster Hall, that historic
Westminster Hall, that historic building, one of the oldest
building, one of the oldest oElaed
building, one of the oldest IR R R o L)
building, one of the oldest parts of the palace of
parts of the palace of e
parts of the palace of Westminster and pay their
Westminster and pay their respects. Bear in mind
Westminster and pay their (Y IR LRGP R G
Westminster and pay their respects. Bear in mind the huge
respects. Bear in mind the huge a1 4
respects. Bear in mind the huge M e
respects. Bear in mind the huge PR
respects. Bear in mind the huge number of people that have been
number of people that have been L EET
number of people that have been volunteering as well to support
volunteering as well to support 1R
volunteering as well to support I3
volunteering as well to support IR R
volunteering as well to support all of these guys and just bear
all of these guys and just bear 3
all of these guys and just bear in mind all of the security
in mind all of the security services, the
in mind all of the security PR G R
in mind all of the security services, the police force, the
services, the police force, the NO’R
services, the police force, the YA
services, the police force, the Y3 AL LR
services, the police force, the Army, all of the people making
Army, all of the people making this
Army, all of the people making QI U
Army, all of the people making this happen. There
Army, all of the people making QI R LG
Army, all of the people making this happen. There have been so
this happen. There have been so many moments. A
this happen. There have been so I AL U A N I T L
many moments. A correspondence S
many moments. A correspondence looks back on the day.
It is ten days now A R
The new King, Charles, arriving at Buckingham Palace
earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led
the country’s mourning in the days since.
In @ message tonight he said he’d
been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
Among the hundreds MR GRCEG
EEGHGELR the State Funeral,
the President AU RS S
IR [ =D R T gV RGN L ARG
A few moments later, President Biden and the First
Lady of the United States, Dr Jill Biden, stood
quietly on a balcony NGRS U
Like so many thousands of others
over the past four days, struck by the intensity
| think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all,
the notion of service.
We all owe something, there is something within our
capacity to do that can make things,
not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better,
your household better, your workplace better.
To all the people of the United Kingdom, our hearts
go out to you and TR R (N LG
to have had her for 70 R LR e
CUR GN NGPE IR T TV Yo R 1 for the State Funeral,
from Camilla, the Queen Consort,
her reflection on the 70 years of the Queen’s reign.
She has been part of our Lives for ever.
NUEN LN UL I L A A
the Queen being there.
It must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman,
there weren’t women R G
R LRI L) R she was the only one.
So | think she carved her own role.
I’ll always remember WEIEINIER
You know, that smile ROl N
Many thousands of people have wanted
to be a part of this moment.
Some have queued for many hours or placed flowers
in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to London
to absorb the sights and emotions
along the route of the procession
and outside the Abbey Church TR TR TG R R
place.
We didn’t know I T a VAR ]
but we wanted to do something.
You know, it felt right to come up and do something
and bring my son here.
You know, | think there’s a lot of people who don’t know
what to do, but feel RO R R L
something, so it just felt like the right thing
to do was to come up here with everybody else.
During the hours of darkness MR R 1 E )
admitted to the lying-in-state at Westminster Hall.
And then in the morning, A NI e R RS G
place of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
These are indeed scme
These are indeed some of the last people to make that file
last people to make that file past the
last people to make that file RGN DI
last people to make that file ERR G ER = i N
last people to make that file RGN R i PR 1)
past the Queen’s coffin, the I
past the Queen’s coffin, the IR ALY
past the Queen’s coffin, the queue now officially closed.
queue now officially closed. IR N G
queue now officially closed. These people have been here
These people have been here Tee I8t
These people have been here from roughly
These people have been here RO ECOB VD]
These people have been here from roughly eight o’clock we
from roughly eight o’clock we PYTY
from roughly eight o’clock we are hearing
from roughly eight o’clock we are hearing and every
from roughly eight o’clock we F I UL R A L
from roughly eight o’clock we are hearing and every now and
are hearing and every now and again some cheers and some
again some cheers and some claps, people have been through
claps, people have been through R
claps, people have been through S0, SO
claps, people have been through IR Res]
claps, people have been through IR
claps, people have been through so, s6 much as they
claps, people have been through IR R LR O AT !
claps, people have been through so, s6 much as they spend so
s0, S0 much as they spend so many hours
so, s6 much as they spend so many hours together,
many hours together, friendships formed, stories
friendships formed, stories G
friendships formed, stories 0 P 1o
friendships formed, stories told, snacks shared. We’ve been
told, snacks shared. We’ve been hearing this time and time
hearing this time and time again. Bear in mind this has
again. Bear in mind this has ]
again. Bear in mind this has been a phenomenon that has been
been a phenomenon that has been L
been a phenomenon that has been going on for
been a phenemenon that has been going on for four days and it
going on for four days and it s NOW
going on for four days and it is now finally in the final
s now finally in the final ey
s now finally in the final RS e
s now finally in the final R S R )
s now finally in the final hours before the state funeral
hours before the state funeral itcalf.
hours before the state funeral e A \s
hours before the state funeral A R
hours before the state funeral itself. At the end
hours before the state funeral A RGN Re i
hours before the state funeral itself. At the end of the
hours before the state funeral A RGN RO R Ry
itself. At the end of the state funeral,
itself. At the end of the state e TR G
itself. At the end of the state I PR G R A
itself. At the end of the state I PR G R -1
funeral, the service at P i e
funeral, the service at S IS Y
funeral, the service at Westminster Abbey there
funeral, the service at S OIS G S RO R
funeral, the service at Westminster Abbey there will be
Westminster Abbey there will be two
Westminster Abbey there will be et
Westminster Abbey there will be R
Westminster Abbey there will be two minutes of national silence
two minutes of natienal silence and
two minutes of national silence LR e
two minutes of national silence R e s
two minutes of national silence and earlier on Sunday evening
and earlier on Sunday evening Y
and earlier on Sunday evening TN )
and earlier on Sunday evening we also had a
and earlier on Sunday evening W N IR I L
and earlier on Sunday evening we also had a minute’s silence,
we also had a minute’s silence, a1t
we also had a minute’s silence, RELe e e e s o)
we also had a minute’s silence, national silence across the
national silence across the country
national silence across the W Tl AL 1S
national silence across the country for the country to just
country for the country to just T g
country for the country to just TNt e o]
country for the country to just TN IR el
country for the country to just remember and reflect. My
remember and reflect. My colleague
remember and reflect. My W (XL IR g
remember and reflect. My colleague reports on
remember and reflect. My W (XL IR R EL
The Flowers Of The Forest echoing
IR N e B T &I ]
A lament for the fallen, played now in tribute
tc a Queen.
And then, on the cusp of silence, in Blackpool,
the going down of lights.
Then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating
a new monarch.
God save the King.
# God save our gracious King.
# Long live our noble King.
# God save the King.
# Send him victorious.
# Happy and glorious.
# Long to reign over us.
# God save the King #.
Across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
For whom the Queen was the unifying symbol.
I’m just paying respects RO L LTSS
to mark the passing of an era.
LT RS T LSV ARG R A e
Queen again.
You know, she’s been e R )
D IR T T CY1L
She was very important to me and I’m starting
to get emotional now.
Because | remember the Coronation.
I’m old enough to remember King George VI
and him dying and the Coronation,
and we had a little 12-inch television and all
G Gl IV e el ] in to watch the Coronation,
so yes, she has been our Queen for a long time
and she served us well.
LR G GRS R respect and affection
Fergal Keane, BBC News.
And we are indeed expect being Y
And we are indeed expect being R e e ohe)
And we are indeed expect being R IR S e
And we are indeed expect being R e RS e
And we are indeed expect being R IR R e N )
And we are indeed expect being a two-minute silence at the end
a two-minute silence at the end N
a two-minute silence at the end RO e )
a two-minute silence at the end RO e R
a two-minute silence at the end RO i R R EE)
of the service that will take | Elo
of the service that will take place Westminster Abbey later
place Westminster Abbey later ]
place Westminster Abbey later on on
place Westminster Abbey later on oh Monday
place Westminster Abbey later on on Monday morning but before
on on Monday morning but before that people are still
that people are still I 0|
that people are still IR DS
that people are still continuing to queue, to wait
continuing to queue, to wait e
continuing to queue, to wait Eh e
continuing to queue, to wait T e Tt a1
continuing to queue, to wait for their moment to go past the
for their moment to go past the coffin
for their moment to go past the Rl R R
for their moment to go past the coffin itself, to
for their moment to go past the R - PR R e
for their moment to go past the coffin itself, to reflect and
coffin itself, to reflect and Ty
coffin itself, to reflect and VR4
coffin itself, to reflect and have that opportunity
coffin itself, to reflect and have that epportunity to
coffin itself, to reflect and have that oppertunity to walk
have that opportunity to walk I
have that opportunity to walk through that historic
through that historic e
through that historic Westminster Hall.
through that historic I d L EH RS
through that historic Westminster Hall. We have just
Westminster Hall. We have just R
Westminster Hall. We have just IR O (Y
Westminster Hall. We have just IO OE (VA EL
Westminster Hall. We have just heard actually that because
Westminster Hall. We have just IO OE (VA G E L T
heard actually that because of rehearsals going on there has
rehearsals going on there has T
rehearsals going on there has L]
rehearsals going on there has NN
rehearsals going on there has been a pause for 45 minute so
been a pause for 45 minute so ey
been a pause for 45 minute so QTR
been a pause for 45 minute so these guys have just stopped in
these guys have just stopped in e
these guys have just stopped in their tracks and
these guys have just stopped in MR L h
these guys have just stopped in their tracks and | am going to
their tracks and | am going to )
their tracks and | am going to R
their tracks and | am going to do so, you have been gueueing
do so, you have been queueing Tee I8t
do so, you have been queueing TR i El
do so, you have been queueing from what time today. 8:30pm.
from what time today. 8:30pm. 0!
from what time today. 8:30pm. IR i1
from what time today. 8:30pm. IR A E BT AL )
from what time today. 8:30pm. And what motivated you to come
And what motivated you to come here? Wanting to pay my
here? Wanting to pay my (3o [Ju e
here? Wanting to pay my e
here? Wanting to pay my L]
here? Wanting to pay my respects and in my
respects and in my anticipation 3 d
respects and in my anticipation over towards
respects and in my anticipation RO LR -l
respects and in my anticipation RO LR NN
over towards the end that queue YT
over towards the end that queue eI |
over towards the end that queue had died down a so it would be
had died down a so it would be Y
had died down a so it would be P
had died down a so it would be A
had died down a so it would be a hit easier to
had died down a so it would be E I E R G
had died down a so it would be a bit easier to go, but really
a bit easier to go, but really L)
a bit easier to go, but really LG IR YT
a bit easier to go, but really good atmosphere on
a bit easier to go, but really LG IR N Y R R 1
a bit easier to go, but really good atmosphere on the whole
good atmosphere on the whole and
good atmosphere on the whole LIl (1
good atmosphere on the whole LIl OE T Y
good atmosphere on the whole and actually quite enjoyed it
and actually quite enjoyed it to
and actually quite enjoyed it R
and actually quite enjoyed it to be honest with
and actually quite enjoyed it G A IR AU R
and actually quite enjoyed it to be honest with you. You
to be honest with you. You I
to be honest with you. You quite enjoyed the queue? Why?
quite enjoyed the queue? Why? I’ve met some
quite enjoyed the queue? Why? RN X T Y
quite enjoyed the queue? Why? I’ve met some really great
I’ve met some really great TGN
I’ve met some really great people. We’ve been speaking the
people. We’ve been speaking the )
people. We’ve been speaking the W Rl
people. We’ve been speaking the whole time, honestly it has
whole time, honestly it has flown by. It’s been six hours
flown by. It’s been six hours s
flown by. It’s been six hours sl
flown by. It’s been six hours A LR
flown by. It’s been six hours R LR R
flown by. It’s been six hours now and it felt Like two or
now and it felt like two or ey
now and it felt like two or three. And how
now and it felt like two or I I N )
now and it felt like two or three. And how are you doing,
three. And how are you doing, Py
three. And how are you doing, IR
three. And how are you doing, are you tired? My legs are very
are you tired? My legs are very painful but
are you tired? My legs are very I TS N
are you tired? My legs are very painful but yeah, it’s just...
painful but yeah, it’s just... il
painful but yeah, it’s just... NI 0]
painful but yeah, it’s just... You are in the
painful but yeah, it’s just... I IR R )
painful but yeah, it’s just... You are in the snake pit which
You are in the snake pit which |
You are in the snake pit which TR Gl
You are in the snake pit which TR R
You are in the snake pit which TR GEER
You are in the snake pit which IR GEER R
You are in the snake pit which TR GEER G R e d
| am told is the worst bit. 3
| am told is the worst bit. ISR
| am told is the worst bit. It’s moving. Wallet stopped for
It’s moving. Wallet stopped for )
It’s moving. Wallet stopped for the moment because of the
the moment because of the e
the moment because of the rehearsal, well thank you very
rehearsal, well thank you very St 1ile1]
rehearsal, well thank you very much and
rehearsal, well thank you very N )
rehearsal, well thank you very much and we wish you the very
much and we wish you the very best
much and we wish you the very e
much and we wish you the very A E
much and we wish you the very hest of luck. So,
much and we wish you the very best of luck. So, still waiting
best of luck. So, still waiting e
best of luck. So, still waiting TR B s
best of luck. So, still waiting for that moment to
best of luck. So, still waiting TR B Ry
best of luck. So, still waiting for that moment to file past.
for that moment to file past. YN L)
for that moment to file past. Soemebody who
for that moment to file past. Somebody who has as our BBC
Somebody who has as our BBC L0 U
Somebody who has as our BBC journalist Grace. You’ve done
journalist Grace. You’ve done i
journalist Grace. You’ve done LRIl
journalist Grace. You’ve done AT
journalist Grace. You’ve done it, you have been through. How
it, you have been through. How Ty
it, you have been through. How TN
it, you have been through. How el
it, you have been through. How N AR 5
it, you have been through. How was it? It was great. It was
was it? It was great. It was very moving
was It? It was great. It was very moving and you kind
VLRI S VLG R very moving and you kind of go
very moving and you kind of go )
very moving and you kind of go so quickly, it’s really busy
so quickly, it’s really busy and
so quickly, it’s really busy IR
so quickly, it’s really busy and then you
so quickly, it’s really busy RO ELG
so quickly, it’s really busy and then you are in and
so quickly, it’s really busy RGO VIR L B
so quickly, it’s really busy RGN I AR
and then you are inand it is N -
and then you are inand it is silent. It
and then you are inand it is NI
and then you are inand it is silent. It is just such a huge
silent. It is just such a huge e A1 ig a1
silent. It is just such a huge contrast from being
silent. It is just such a huge IR R TR LR
silent. It is just such a huge contrast from being in all this
contrast from being in all this Y
OGRS IR LR R G - sl
OGRS IR LR R G WEEERLILGL
OGRS IR LR R G ARG R [
OGRS IR LR R G WEERLIG R e R
noise and high spirits to NG
noise and high spirits to inside and it is very
noise and high spirits to L ARy A e
inside and it is very sombre and very poignant and it is the
and very poignant and it is the little details, everyone who is
little details, everyone who is wearing a
little details, everyone who Is wearing a hat takes off their
wearing a hat takes off their ¥
wearing a hat takes off their I 04
wearing a hat takes off their LY o)
wearing a hat takes off their R N R e
wearing a hat takes off their hat out of respect. There is so
hat out of respect. There is so St 1ile1]
hat out of respect. There is so e Rl sl )
hat out of respect. There is so much candle wax on
hat out of respect. There is so R R 2 R
hat out of respect. There is so much candle wax on the ground
much candle wax on the ground and
much candle wax on the ground R
much candle wax on the ground and you then have split-second
and you then have split-second e
and you then have split-second moment and | did a Little
moment and | did a little Wilgi3%
moment and | did a little curtsy in my walking boots
curtsy in my walking boots el
curtsy in my walking boots which is an odd thing to have
which is an odd thing to have Al
which is an odd thing to have done but
which is an odd thing to have s e TidLs
which is an odd thing to have done but it just felt like what
done but it just felt like what they
done but it just felt like what QA1)
done but it just felt like what VA ]G L T
done but it just felt like what QAT G T R
done but it just felt like what they should do, so it felt
they should do, so it felt %1\
they should do, so it felt really significant. And you say
really significant. And you say e
really significant. And you say T
really significant. And you say 4RI Ch A
really significant. And you say IR G =11
really significant. And you say it is silent, can you feel,
it is silent, can you feel, T )
it is silent, can you feel, N4
it is silent, can you feel, N A
it is silent, can you feel, because it is such a
it is silent, can you feel, N N AN N e ale
because It is such a historic building,
because it Is such a historic building, that haul itself
because it is such a historic building, that haul itself with
building, that haul itself with )
building, that haul itself with the coffin
building, that haul itself with QX I
building, that haul itself with the coffin just there with the
the coffin just there with the (L
the coffin just there with the royal standard draped
the coffin just there with the (IS LRI E T e R
the coffin just there with the royal standard draped over it,
royal standard draped over it, with
royal standard draped over it, R )
royal standard draped over it, ORGP
royal standard draped over it, with the Imperial State Crown,
with the Imperial State Crown, people are saying
with the Imperial State Crown, S TRV LS
with the Imperial State Crown, (I TR EL DRI
people are saying it is overwhelming. Absolutely, it
overwhelming. Absolutely, it ST
overwhelming. Absolutely, it EL R
overwhelming. Absolutely, it E R L]
overwhelming. Absolutely, it & R N ULV
overwhelming. Absolutely, it takes your breath away when you
takes your breath away when you e
takes your breath away when you G
takes your breath away when you GGl
takes your breath away when you IS S AR
takes your breath away when you SR LRGN
takes your breath away when you SR ARG
takes your breath away when you NS RG L LRI
first get in there and it is I
first get in there and it is MR ZL
first get in there and it is this vast cavernous hall
first get in there and it is MR ER R e UG
first get in there and it is this vast cavernous hall and so
this vast cavernous hall and so beautifully put
this vast cavernous hall and so T (VA S G
this vast cavernous hall and so beautifully put together, every
beautifully put together, every el
beautifully put together, every B
beautifully put together, every detail is just to absolute
detail is just to absolute g Il
detail is just to absolute e LR
detail is just to absolute perfection, like you said
detail is just to absolute UL IR G
perfection, like you said the guardsmen
(g (T[T AU CRTVEE I Ry [ guardsmen standing around
perfection, like you said the guardsmen standing around the
guardsmen standing around the coffin,
guardsmen standing around the iR
guardsmen standing around the coffin, the colours of the
coffin, the colours of the standard and the crown, it
standard and the crown, it feels very kind of enormous,
feels very kind of enormous, the
feels very kind of enormous, RN g18
feels very kind of enormous, WD liVE
feels very kind of enormous, the enormity of it really sinks
the enormity of it really sinks and
the enormity of it really sinks T I a8 |
the enormity of it really sinks and and |
the enormity of it really sinks NSRRI
the enormity of it really sinks and and | felt the more
the enormity of it really sinks NG RR RN e |
the enormity of it really sinks and and | felt the more | got
and and | felt the more | got to
and and | felt the more | got Ry
and and | felt the more | got to the area
and and | felt the more | got RN
and and | felt the more | got to the area of bowing all
to the area of bowing all curtsy in, but it was
curtsy in, but it was fantastic, I’m really pleased
fantastic, I’m really pleased 0]
fantastic, I’m really pleased O]
fantastic, I’m really pleased to have done
fantastic, I’m really pleased O
fantastic, I’m really pleased to have done it. And you’ve
to have done it. And you’ve ]
to have done it. And you’ve Tl ey
to have done it. And you’ve T hE e ey
to have done it. And you’ve been here since the early
been here since the early afternoon. Thank
been here since the early EH R L =L S
been here since the early afternoon. Thank you very much
afternoon. Thank you very much e
afternoon. Thank you very much for coming back to us to speak
for coming back to us to speak 0]
for coming back to us to speak naice
for coming back to us to speak to us. We
for coming back to us to speak R TRT R 1] )
for coming back to us to speak (CRTIRT R L CR
for coming back to us to speak to us. We spoke to Grace just
to us. We spoke to Grace just S
to us. We spoke to Grace just S R e
to us. We spoke to Grace just e L ah]
to us. We spoke to Grace just before she went in to the hall
before she went in to the hall e |
before she went in to the hall NN R
before she went in to the hall R AL
before she went in to the hall itself and now it is lovely
before she went in to the hall tself and now it is lovely to
tself and now it is lovely to e
tself and now it is lovely to Y IR 1
tself and now it is lovely to CEIR G T
tself and now it is lovely to hear that personal reflection.
hear that personal reflection. G
hear that personal reflection. IR
hear that personal reflection. This is exactly
hear that personal reflection. RS (A5
hear that personal reflection. IS E AL L
hear that personal reflection. This is exactly what all of
This is exactly what all of ey
This is exactly what all of R
This is exactly what all of these people behind me will be
these people behind me will be O
these people behind me will be SO LR
these people behind me will be SO R
these people behind me will be experiencing in a little bit
experiencing in a little bit LGl
experiencing in a little bit longer than perhaps they had
longer than perhaps they had anticipated because there is a
anticipated because there is a L
anticipated because there is a rehearsal going on in the hall
rehearsal going on in the hall e
rehearsal going on in the hall e
rehearsal going on in the hall I R
rehearsal going on in the hall N R Nt il s
rehearsal going on in the hall e R et Te T e e
rehearsal going on in the hall N R RN R
tself at the moment so there has
itself at the moment so there IR
itself at the moment so there has been a
itself at the moment so there IR T LW R
itself at the moment so there IR T W R
itself at the moment so there IR T LU R ]
itself at the moment so there R I N E
tself at the moment so there has been a bit of a pause and
has been a bit of a pause and Y
has been a bit of a pause and N Y
has been a bit of a pause and N TR
has been a bit of a pause and N NN A
has been a bit of a pause and we believe it is going to be
we believe it is going to be FYe L
we believe it is going to be 0]
we believe it is going to be about 40 minutes
we believe it is going to be Y ORI R ]
we believe it is going to be about 40 minutes to add on top
about 40 minutes to add on top N
about 40 minutes to add on top R
about 40 minutes to add on top of the many, many hours that
of the many, many hours that 1R
of the many, many hours that I3
of the many, many hours that IR R
of the many, many hours that (R R G R 0
of the many, many hours that all of these people have been
all of these people have been waiting
all of these people have been R LR
all of these people have been waiting for, but these are some
waiting for, but these are some N
waiting for, but these are some R
waiting for, but these are some of the last people that will
of the last people that will Ty
of the last people that will VR4
of the last people that will have that opportunity
of the last people that will have that epportunity to
of the last people that will have that oppertunity to file
have that opportunity to file past Her Majesty’s
have that opportunity to file past Her Majesty’s often
have that opportunity to file past Her Majesty’s often and
past Her Majesty’s often and have
past Her Majesty’s often and YU R
past Her Majesty’s often and have that moment to
past Her Majesty’s often and Y RGeS e
have that moment to reflect Y|
have that moment to reflect T B
have that moment to reflect ahead of the state funeral
ahead of the state funeral et
ahead of the state funeral T L
ahead of the state funeral WL
ahead of the state funeral itself ahead of the coffin then
tself ahead of the coffin then being
itself ahead of the coffin then TR D)
itself ahead of the coffin then ARG R
tself ahead of the coffin then being moved to Westminster
being moved to Westminster A
being moved to Westminster AT
being moved to Westminster Abbey. So much still to come
Abbey. So much still to come Y|
Abbey. So much still to come YR e
Abbey. So much still to come ahead for these people but for
ahead for these people but for )
ahead for these people but for Rl
ahead for these people but for R R
ahead for these people but for the time being David, a bit of
the time being David, a bit of Y
the time being David, a bit of R
the time being David, a bit of a pause and this
the time being David, a bit of R ETE L RO I
the time being David, a bit of a pause and this is central
a pause and this is central London right
a pause and this is central [ENGELEL
a pause and this is central London right now where time to
London right now where time to reflect
London right now where time to S P el
London right now where time to S PRl
London right now where time to S P e s R lat -]
London right now where time to reflect and time to still
London right now where time to S PRl R s (Rl
reflect and time to still wait in
reflect and time to still wait R
reflect and time to still wait in this legendary queue. Where
in this legendary queue. Where NI
in this legendary queue. Where patients is
in this legendary queue. Where NN R
in this legendary queue. Where A Rl O
in this legendary queue. Where A R R
in this legendary queue. Where patients is a virtue of course.
patients is a virtue of course. So
patients is a virtue of course. R
patients is a virtue of course. So it’s a
patients is a virtue of course. SRS
patients Is a virtue of course. So it’s a good job they
patients Is a virtue of course. SRR B RO A
So it’s a good job they got that. Thank you very much
that. Thank you very much |
that. Thank you very much LS|
that. Thank you very much B SR )
that. Thank you very much LSRR Rl
that. Thank you very much LR R
that. Thank you very much L LR R N CE
indeed and we will keep across that
indeed and we will keep across e a2
indeed and we will keep across BRI
President Biden will join around 2,000 other guests,
including some 500 heads of state and foreign
dignitaries at the ML R e ]
It will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty
and politicians the UK TR R s [
They have been paying their respects to the late
Queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon,
as our Diplomatic Correspondent James Landale reports.
Some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
Others came together, rather unusually on a bus,
but they were all here to honour the Queen in perhaps
the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
There was the King and Queen of Spain.
There was his exiled father, Juan Carles.
There was the President NAIEh N IR i
Leaders from the Gulf.
The King and Queen of Jordan.
Hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay
QLTS LA LGN perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
Others arrived around N E g RN Fle-Y
Prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the King
and other members of the Royal Family at a formal
state reception.
LRGN international engagement,
the Princess of Wales even found time to meet
the first lady of Ukraine, BN LR
Earlier, Joe and Jill Biden had followed other heads of state
and government in stopping off at Lancaster House to sign
A steady flow of the global great and sometimes good,
paying their respects NN N R B AT
| so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous
spirit and of course, every good wish to King Charles III.
On behalf of the government and people of Barbados that
| record my sincere sympathy to all of Great Britain
and especially to the members of the Royal Family.
We appreciated very much her R R R ORI G ]
UL EE VTR [ ELdo transformation from a nation
R0 T RV T R A RO R R R e
Thank you, Your Majesty, thank you for your dedication.
The people of Fiji will never forget you.
Many also came to see QAL ET S
Not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand
in silence and perhaps some awe S R N iR sl
whose reign will LR ]
And despite the opposition of some MPs and peers who have
been sanctioned by Beijing, a delegation from China also
came to Westminster Hall, [ OGIL R GRS
on the right, who will attend LRI B e age A
One man who will not be coming to the Abbey tomorrow
s Saudi Arabia’s crown prince and de facto ruler,
Mohammad Bin Salman, N LR T N oe |
of involvement in the murder BTG
accusations he has denied.
Several leaders, including Canada’s Prime Minister,
also dropped by Downing Street for what officials said
were Informal conversations ORI R
Earlier he paid his own tribute to the Queen.
| first met Her Majesty when | was seven years
old and her presence throughout my life had been
constant, inspiring and graceful.
As Prime Minister, | benefited from her counsel,
her thoughtfulness, her S A SN R R e
Tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders
arrive at Westminster Abbey R R eI e 3
to the monarch they N N e RNt g}
James Landale, BBC News.
M
Re: President Biden, he
M MG R G A L
M MG R G A L
Re: President Biden, he said that
Re: President Biden, he said G
Re: President Biden, he said eI R ORI
Re: President Biden, he said that the US would send forces
that the US would send forces to
that the US would send forces eIl
that the US would send forces to defend Taiwan in the event
to defend Taiwan in the event N
to defend Taiwan in the event NFL]
to defend Taiwan in the event of an invasion, with China
of an invasion, with China conducting military
of an invasion, with China W Il (G T AT Gl Y
conducting military exercises in the region. He has not ruled
in the region. He has not ruled e
in the region. He has not ruled )
in the region. He has not ruled R N
in the region. He has not ruled R NI
in the region. He has not ruled out the use of force in what he
out the use of force in what he o T}
out the use of force in what he -- China because the
-- China because the reunification
-- China because the A i [ a2
-- China because the il R AR e
-- China because the i R AR LR s
reunification of Taiwan with )
reunification of Taiwan with the mainland. The White House
the mainland. The White House Y- )"
the mainland. The White House says US policy
the mainland. The White House VRN LA
the mainland. The White House says US policy on Taiwan had
says US policy on Taiwan had e
says US policy on Taiwan had not changed.
In other news: The Prime Minister of Japan has
urged people to act swiftly R RO A T
as the country is hit by one of the most destructive
typhoons in years.
Fumio Kishida’s warning comes as the authorities urgently
advised 3 million people R R e
as a huge storm moves across the southern
island of Kyushu.
Our Tokyo correspondent Rupert Wingfield-Hayes reports.
The typhoon is a huge and angry stone, the like of which Japan
has rarely, if ever M R S G
All day it has been battering QRO ESOEH ER R RS T8
with gusts of 150mph.
This satellite image shows the immense size
This satellite image shows the immense size of the typhoon
covering the whole SR NHERR
For the first time ever, the Japanese government
Issued its highest level emergency alert,
warning winds could be strong enough
to bring dewn buildings.
And an even bigger threat RGN Z I a1 0 la e a
water that Nanmadol is carrying.
YN il R e
s expected to fall NI R GV R
Kyushu is very mountainous and it is
feared the water could unleash landslides,
and swollen rivers could burst their banks.
So serious Is the concern, the Japanese Prime Minister
made this appeal for millions of people to head
for evacuation centres before nightfall.
TRANSLATION: Do not go near dangerous areas.
If you feel you are in danger, do not hesitate
IR IeIG
Please take early action to save your lives.
Evacuating at night is extremely dangerous.
Many thousands have heeded the call,
but many more have not and have chosen
RE R R e s R e ]
River levels across Kyushu BRI e R I e
rising fast and will peak in the next 12 hours.
All it takes is one YRR hn
town can be inundated TN
giving those that S eI R )
evacuate, no time to escape.
Japanese people are used to dealing
with typhoons, especially in Kyushu.
But as the global climate changes,
the data shows these sorts of mega-storms are
are becoming more frequent
and defences that worked in the past
may no longer be enough.
We have a huge day of history on Monday. The papers will
on Monday. The papers will N e d
on Monday. The papers will reflect that. |
on Monday. The papers will i g - -]
on Monday. The papers will reflect that. | am joined by
reflect that. 1 am joined by Marc
reflect that. | am joined by A
reflect that. | am joined by Marc Lobel. A previously
{CTa RO A T L T oY Marc Lobel. A previously unseen
Marc Lobel. A previously unseen ey
Marc Lobel. A previously unseen picture taken in May of the
picture taken in May of the S0
picture taken in May of the I L R
picture taken in May of the M- LRL R e
picture taken in May of the Queen in Windsor Castle.
Queen in Windsor Castle. IEER [T
Queen in Windsor Castle. Telegraph here, a life of
Telegraph here, a life of iR i
Telegraph here, a life of AN R - L
Telegraph here, a life of selfless service. The Express
selfless service. The Express N
selfless service. The Express V]
selfless service. The Express F VI R 1)
selfless service. The Express VRN R R
selfless service. The Express VIR NG R T
NS IR G TRl T grammarian expect
grammarian expect the aquamarine and diamond could
aquamarine and diamond could I e
aquamarine and diamond could IR Y
aquamarine and diamond could brooches were in 80th birthday
brooches were in 80th birthday presents from the Queen’s
presents from the Queen’s B
presents from the Queen’’s IO LY
presents from the Queen’’s IR LS A G
presents from the Queen’’s father. They were also
presents from the Queen’s father. They were also worn for
father. They were also worn for VE
father. They were also worn for AE
father. They were also worn for VE Day, the 75th anniversary.
VARG LA QDI INIEE 1 i
VARG LA QDI INIEE 1 T
VARG LA QDI INIEE 1 It is very
VE Day, the 75th anniversary. It is very vibrant, and a
It is very vibrant, and a wonderful picture from not very
wonderful picture from not very long ago. The photograph was
long ago. The photograph was taken by Ranald McKechnie, who
taken by Ranald McKechnie, who Ty
taken by Ranald McKechnie, who was taken many generations of
was taken many generations of photos. He had all
was taken many generations of L CEL LR
was taken many generations of photos. He had all of them that
photos. He had all of them that DN
photos. He had all of them that QIR
photos. He had all of them that photo. The Queen consort
photo. The Queen consort Camillo
photo. The Queen consort IR
photo. The Queen consort Camillo gave a
photo. The Queen consort I I EY R
photo. The Queen consort Camillo gave a video address to
Camillo gave a video address to )
Camillo gave a video address to N
Camillo gave a video address to the BBC talking about the
the BBC talking about the wonderful blue
the BBC talking about the G O RS
the BBC talking about the wonderful blue eyes, you can
wonderful blue eyes, you can T
wonderful blue eyes, you can AR il
wonderful blue eyes, you can AR R ]
wonderful blue eyes, you can see what she was talking about
see what she was talking about HcE
see what she was talking about s
see what she was talking about e S )
see what she was talking about there. Let me give you a
there. Let me give you a contrast
there. Let me give you a eI
there. Let me give you a e L R A
there. Let me give you a e L R LR GO Ll
contrast here. That was towards )
contrast here. That was towards !
contrast here. That was towards LR A
contrast here. That was towards UL R AU R
contrast here. That was towards UL AU R PR G
contrast here. That was towards the end of the rain, this is at
the end of the rain, this is at )
the end of the rain, this is at QR ELITGIGTE
the end of the rain, this is at the beginning. The Metro, a
the beginning. The Metro, 2 L
the beginning. The Metro, 2 great shot. A
the beginning. The Metro, a I L - WYL
the beginning. The Metro, a great shot. A really striking
great shot. A really striking a1
great shot. A really striking portrait of Queen Elizabeth
portrait of Queen Elizabeth Tee I8t
portrait of Queen Elizabeth from 1954. This is
portrait of Queen Elizabeth T BE L R LR
portrait of Queen Elizabeth from 1954. This is the Italian
from 1954. This is the Italian e i d
from 1954. This is the Italian artist Pietro
from 1954. This is the Italian A GGG
from 1954. This is the Italian artist Pietro Annigoni. And the
artist Pietro Annigoni. And the Guardian has a simple tribute.
Guardian has a simple tribute. Focusing on
Guardian has a simple tribute. LR R
Guardian has a simple tribute. Focusing on the normal --
Focusing on the normal -- e a1 Y
Focusing on the normal -- TR LA
enormous operation choreographed for
IR L) choreographed for the funeral.
choreographed for the funeral. No glitches other than big and
No glitches other than big and s
No glitches other than big and (LTI
No glitches other than big and not chiming around one-minute
not chiming around one-minute N
not chiming around one-minute silence. On Sunday. It’s got to
silence. On Sunday. It’s got to )
silence. On Sunday. It’s got to R o)
silence. On Sunday. It’s got to do 96 chimes as a
silence. On Sunday. It’s got to R R i LR e o1 0h )
silence. On Sunday. It’s got to R R et LR lo 1 0i - s
do 96 chimes as a tribute on Monday. The Parliamentary
Monday. The Parliamentary Siiley
Monday. The Parliamentary il 3G
Monday. The Parliamentary office is urgently
TRV investigating
TRV [TV investigating and
TRV investigating and says it will
investigating and says it will )
investigating and says it will be fine. Fingers crossed that
be fine. Fingers crossed that e
be fine. Fingers crossed that works. The
be fine. Fingers crossed that IR
be fine. Fingers crossed that works. The New York Times, just
works. The New York Times, just to
works. The New York Times, just Y
works. The New York Times, just R
works. The New York Times, just to give you an indication of
to give you an indication of vty
to give you an indication of T -]
to give you an indication of N R Rl a e el
to give you an indication of what the international press is
what the international press is EWLLR
what the international press is saying, the Queen had what was
saying, the Queen had what was 3
saying, the Queen had what was REITA
saying, the Queen had what was I
saying, the Queen had what was in Lux. If you
saying, the Queen had what was LTS AT R
saying, the Queen had what was RS R TR LR E
saying, the Queen had what was TS R TR LR O E VR
in Lux. If you don’t have time to
in Lux. If you don’t have time YD
in Lux. If you don’t have time BRI
in Lux. If you don’t have time to read this opinion piece, the
to read this opinion piece, the T
to read this opinion piece, the answer in
to read this opinion piece, the R dh s
to read this opinion piece, the R AR
to read this opinion piece, the R ahdu LR
answer in our minds Is legitimacy. Although
answer in our minds is legitimacy. Although she had
LRI legitimacy. Although she had no
legitimacy. Although she had no L
legitimacy. Although she had no personal political power, the
personal political power, the I
personal political power, the opposite is true for President
opposite is true for President I
opposite is true for President Putin. He has retained all this
Putin. He has retained all this political power himself but
political power himself but lacking
political power himself but I L[ e
political power himself but lacking legitimacy both on the
lacking legitimacy both on the global stage and in the view of
global stage and in the view of )
global stage and in the view of S
global stage and in the view of the New York Times. Sounds Llike
the New York Times. Sounds like PN
the New York Times. Sounds like GG
the New York Times. Sounds like RN S GG I
the New York Times. Sounds like RN GG O
an interesting discussion. | i
an interesting discussion. | GRS
an interesting discussion. | e GE a1
an interesting discussion. | could see that being an essay
could see that being an essay applied to form students. We
applied to form students. We )
applied to form students. We T
applied to form students. We YRR N
applied to form students. We YR R e
applied to form students. We TR R e T
need to leave it there. Thank you for that. | say that
you for that. | say that T )
you for that. | say that TN
you for that. | say that because | want to give you the
because | want to give you the images, both of Westminster
images, both of Westminster "R
images, both of Westminster EIET
images, both of Westminster Hall and Victoria Gardens to
Hall and Victoria Gardens to i
Hall and Victoria Gardens to AL
Hall and Victoria Gardens to show you the
Hall and Victoria Gardens to ARG R = O
Hall and Victoria Gardens to show you the pictures we’ve got
show you the pictures we’ve got e
show you the pictures we’ve got for you. These other lines,
for you. These other lines, 11
for you. These other lines, TR0
for you. These other lines, SRR
for you. These other lines, WS AN O]
for you. These other lines, SRR R
for you. These other lines, they come to a bit of
for you. These other lines, S AN R IR ]
they come to a bit of a el
they come to a bit of a RN B e Y
they come to a bit of a standstill because there
they come to a bit of a e B RO
they come to a bit of a RN O
standstill because there is a L
standstill because there is a rehearsal taking place in
rehearsal taking place in e
rehearsal taking place in Westminster Hall, they will
Westminster Hall, they will start moving soon enough. The
start moving soon enough. The M
start moving soon enough. The M)
start moving soon enough. The NN
start moving soon enough. The N N R e
start moving soon enough. The lines are no more joining, they
lines are no more joining, they il
lines are no more joining, they IR R
lines are no more joining, they will be finished early in the
will be finished early in the O
will be finished early in the morning, and preparations for
morning, and preparations for )
morning, and preparations for i
morning, and preparations for the funeral will
morning, and preparations for QRN RG]
morning, and preparations for the funeral will go ahead,
the funeral will go ahead, e
the funeral will go ahead, Westminster Hall is readying
Westminster Hall is readying e
Westminster Hall is readying TR Le
Westminster Hall is readying e R R E e
Westminster Hall is readying e R R A E e et L Ta R )
Westminster Hall is readying e B R A E e e s e R il
tself for that moment. We will Y
tself for that moment. We will A
itself for that moment. We will G A
itself for that moment. We will keep across it here
tself for that moment. We will keep across it here on BBC
keep across it here on BBC ST
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud
Cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower.
It will largely stay dry.
I’m hoping things will remain dry in London and in Windsor
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower
or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge, that is keeping
things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing
more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first
thing across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west
England and this band of thick cloud and the potential
for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push
eastwards as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland was see good spells of sunshine,
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
Winds for most places NS A
Through Monday night we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain
and drizzle especially RGOl e
Some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull
in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
Milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle.
But it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over
CNT R QTR Rl ad(-]1 across some western parts
to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain
into the western Isles of Scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
Feeling a little warmer.
On Wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
It will feel considerably S R i LR A Y
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, 21 in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing RO LRGN e
W Jgh IRy 1] outbreaks of rain.
That will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards
Thursday and into Friday, some of the rain actually
could be quite heavy, AN ]
into the south of England and south Wales.
The chance of some rain particularly later on in
the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
indeed and we will keep across BRI
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
The queue to pay last respects to the former Monarch
as she lies in state in Westminster Hall has
AN A R -
Those still in the queue R I s R el ala -7
Preparations are being made RO i el
on Monday, which will begin in Westminster Abbey.
King Charles has hosted a reception for hundreds
of world leaders at Buckingham Palace ahead of the funeral.
Heads of state from around the globe have attended,
including Joe Biden.
The US President earlier paid his respects at the hall
where the late monarch ERVHLRLEI 1N
The Prime Minister of Japan has urged people to act swiftly
LG ATR G T as the country is hit
by a destructive typhoon.
The warning comes as the authorities advise three
million people to leave their homes, and a huge storm
moves across the southern island of Kyushu.
Now on BBC News, Martine Croxall presents a special
programme looking at A TRt e Tl Tt et e
the Royal Family have met the members of the public
in the last week, following RO R ORI
Hello and welcome to this ol ar
Hello and welcome to this Yoo WGl
Hello and welcome to this special programme from BBC
special programme from BBC IS
special programme from BBC AN
special programme from BBC R )
special programme from BBC R R e
special programme from BBC R R S A
special programme from BBC N R R AL I
News. Over the next 25 minutes or
News. Over the next 25 minutes )
News. Over the next 25 minutes Ny
News. Over the next 25 minutes N
News. Over the next 25 minutes LR LR L]
News. Over the next 25 minutes LR LR LI R
News. Over the next 25 minutes or 50 we are going to show you
or so we are going to show you )
or so we are going to show you XN
or so we are going to show you N R
or so we are going to show you some of the many special
some of the many special Rty
some of the many special moments from
some of the many special I Rt R
some of the many special moments from the Royal
moments from the Royal walkabouts, members of Her
walkabouts, members of Her IS
walkabouts, members of Her Majesty’s family have taken
Majesty’s family have taken part in since the Queen died.
part in since the Queen died. To thank the many thousands of
To thank the many thousands of people up and down the UK
people up and down the UK who have
people up and down the UK who YN i)
people up and down the UK who YU R iR 0L
people up and down the UK who have come out to pay their
have come out to pay their (3 [Ja
have come out to pay their respect. We will take you to
respect. We will take you to )
respect. We will take you to iR 00e
respect. We will take you to R g ey
respect. We will take you to the four corners of
respect. We will take you to R e R
respect. We will take you to R E g e RN
respect. We will take you to the four corners of the UK and
the four corners of the UK and Y
the four corners of the UK and we start
G R VIO TR R G R @=L T we start in Aberdeenshire at
we start in Aberdeenshire at Balmoral where senior members
Balmoral where senior members of
Balmoral where senior members SRy
Balmoral where senior members of the Royal Family spent time
of the Royal Family spent time i
of the Royal Family spent time last Sunday seeing the many
last Sunday seeing the many el
last Sunday seeing the many e Rl Ty
last Sunday seeing the many T Ao T ]
last Sunday seeing the many I R N RN e
last Sunday seeing the many floral tributes to Her Majesty.
Staying in Scotland
Staying in Scetland and the
Staying in Scotland and the ST Y
Staying in Scotland and the NS
Staying in Scotland and the Princess Royal, Princess and
Princess Royal, Princess and without meeting people in
without meeting people in Glasgow.
To Northern Ireland where the King and Queen Consort met
King and Queen Consort met well-wishers in Hillshorough.
CROWD: Love you!
Two wins and now
1N R A e R L
Two wins and now we have the e
Two wins and now we have the TRl
Two wins and now we have the TR la - s]
Two wins and now we have the first time in a
Two wins and now we have the AR R a8
Two wins and now we have the first time in a number of
first time in a number of VG
first time in a number of I i
first time in a number of years, princes William
years, princes William and Harry and their
years, princes William and FES LR GRS
years, princes William and Harry and their wives greeted
Harry and their wives greeted TG
Harry and their wives greeted people at Windsor Castle.
ND]p1
Right everyone, you so
Right everyone, you se much.
Right everyone, you so much. T4
Right everyone, you so much. Thank you
Right everyone, you so much. U= S RS s G
Right everyone, you so much. Thank you everyone. APPLAUSE
The new Prince and Princess of Wales William and
The new Prince and Princess of R R aa e e
Wales William and Catherine ey
Wales William and Catherine were also out
Wales William and Catherine R N & [
Wales William and Catherine were also out greeting people
were also out greeting people 3
were also out greeting people in Sandringham in Norfolk.
Meanwhile in Wales on a visit to Cardiff
Meanwhile in Wales on a visit Rl A
Meanwhile in Wales on a visit R R R )
Meanwhile in Wales on a visit R AE R
Meanwhile in Wales on a visit to Cardiff Castle the new King
to Cardiff Castle the new King and
to Cardiff Castle the new King RO -]
to Cardiff Castle the new King A RO - R e e a
to Cardiff Castle the new King and Queen Consort met
and Queen Consort met well-wishers.
To Buckingham Palace now were )
To Buckingham Palace now were s0 many
To Buckingham Palace now were so many thousands
To Buckingham Palace now were UG AU R
To Buckingham Palace now were I AU L R L G
so many thousands of people Tee I8t
so many thousands of people from around the world have
from around the world have el
from around the world have visited in
from around the world have B R
from around the world have BN R D EL s
from around the world have BRGNS
from around the world have visited in the last few days.
visited in the last few days. Yo el i
visited in the last few days. e R
visited in the last few days. Members of the Royal Family
Members of the Royal Family Ty
Members of the Royal Family have been out to
Members of the Royal Family N TR NE e e
Members of the Royal Family have been out to meet him
Members of the Royal Family R T h e
have been out to meet him -- them.
have been out to meet him -- G
have been out to meet him -- A
have been out to meet him -- iSRRI s
have been out to meet him -- them. Let us start with
have been out to meet him -- NI S SRR G R
them. Let us start with the [ZTe 1
them. Let us start with the [ Tl
them. Let us start with the Earl and Countess of Wessex.
How are you doing?
Condolences to you and your family.
Condolences to you and your el AR TS
Condolences to you and your family. CROSSTALK. Have you
family. CROSSTALK. Have you been to Green Park yet? Just
been to Green Park yet? Just L
been to Green Park yet? Just going past? Whereabouts of you
going past? Whereabouts of you come from? Dulwich. Dulwich?
come from? Dulwich. Dulwich? T4
come from? Dulwich. Dulwich? IEL SN
come from? Dulwich. Dulwich? Thank you. Hello there, hello.
Thank you. Hello there, hello. T4
Thank you. Hello there, hello. Thank you for coming all the
Thank you for coming all the e
Thank you for coming all the way, | really appreciated.
Earlier in the week, King e
Earlier in the week, King Charles was
Earlier in the week, King R LR Y
Earlier in the week, King TR LR e R ]
LTI R G R T-T O T Charles was outside the palace
Charles was outside the palace N
Charles was outside the palace meeting mourners.
Thank you, Charles!
Hip hip...
Hooray!
Also in London, the King and Prince William
Also in London, the King and TR IETR R )
Also in London, the King and Prince William have been out
Prince William have been out ]
Prince William have been out meeting some of the hundreds of
meeting some of the hundreds of thousands of
meeting some of the hundreds of QT R I
meeting some of the hundreds of thousands of people who have
thousands of people who have Ml
thousands of people who have lined up for many hours
thousands of people who have R R U E A R )
thousands of people who have lined up for many hours to see
lined up for many hours to see )
lined up for many hours to see AT ]
lined up for many hours to see the Queen lying
lined up for many hours to see GRS R LG RT
lined up for many hours to see the Queen lying in state.
[LiE1L @0
Il @ TR
Thank you so much. CROSSTALK.
You AT
You’ve made me so proud. | hope )
You’ve made me so proud. | hope ]
You’ve made me so proud. | hope the line goes
You’ve made me so proud. | hope QA IR IS
You’ve made me so proud. | hope the line goes fast for you. I’m
the line goes fast for you. I’m (ET Y
the line goes fast for you. I’m happy to wait, I’m happy to
happy to wait, I’m happy to N
happy to wait, I’m happy to AT
happy to wait, I’m happy to AR S
happy to wait, I’m happy to AL ST IR
happy to wait, I’m happy to wait. Thank you so much.
As
LA LT
LR L [ -1
As long as you’re nice and "l
As long as you’re nice and warm. Yes, thank
As long as you’re nice and R IR OISR
As long as you’re nice and warm. Yes, thank you. Fantastic
warm. Yes, thank you. Fantastic LI IR
warm. Yes, thank you. Fantastic job! Good luck with the line.
You
N T e
You are doing really well. VO INe)
You are doing really well. N TN -0 1s-)
You are doing really well. You’re more than halfway. I’m
You’re more than halfway. I’m conscious that | have to go so
conscious that | have to go so you can all move. How are you
you can all move. How are you doing? Are you Man U fans? Yes?
doing? Are you Man U fans? Yes? e
doing? Are you Man U fans? Yes? LB ST
doing? Are you Man U fans? Yes? That’s great. How
doing? Are you Man U fans? Yes? L E L [T A [T
doing? Are you Man U fans? Yes? That’s great. How are you
That’s great. How are you doing?
That’s great. How are you I GEE I
That’s great. How are you doing? Nice to see you. Well
doing? Nice to see you. Well SR
doing? Nice to see you. Well Sl R
doing? Nice to see you. Well NIRRT R
doing? Nice to see you. Well done, all of you. Seriously, 12
done, all of you. Seriously, 12 N4
done, all of you. Seriously, 12 hours? God bless the Prince of
hours? God bless the Prince of A
Well done, you’ve done really well,
Well done, you’ve done really A G
Well done, you’ve done really well, all of you. CROSSTALK.
Yes, you are. Oh, yes!
|
IR e
It’s worth It just to see you,
It’s worth it just to see you, William!
WOMAN: Take care!
That is all for now but a reminder you can
That is all for now but a USRI
reminder you can keep R GG
reminder you can keep IR LR
reminder you can keep up-to-date on the latest of all
up-to-date on the latest of all )
up-to-date on the latest of all N
up-to-date on the latest of all R A EY ]
up-to-date on the latest of all the events relating to the
the events relating to the death
the events relating to the )
the events relating to the N A
the events relating to the death of Her Majesty on the BBC
death of Her Majesty on the BBC website or download ocur
website or download our smartphone
website or download our smartphene app.
website or download our smartphone app. From me,
smartphone app. From me, [ P e ala )
smartphone app. From me, Martine Croxall, thanks for
Martine Croxall, thanks for watching.
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud
Cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower.
It will largely stay dry.
I’m hoping things will remain dry in London and in Windsor
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower
or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge, that is keeping
things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing
more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first
thing across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west
England and this band of thick cloud and the potential
for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push
eastwards as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland was see good spells of sunshine,
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
Winds for most places NS A
Through Monday night we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain
and drizzle especially RGOl e
Some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull
in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
Milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle.
But it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over
CNT R QTR Rl ad(-]1 across some western parts
to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
Feeling a little warmer.
It will feel considerably S R i LR A Y
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, 21 in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing RO LRGN e
W Jgh IRy 1] outbreaks of rain.
That will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards
Thursday and into Friday, some of the rain actually
could be quite heavy, AN ]
into the south of England and south Wales.
The chance of some rain particularly later on in
the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
Welcome to BBC News, R
Our top stories:
A minute’s silence across R LR R R e
on the life and legacy of Queen Elizabeth II.
The Queen this spring, MR R ilaEll
photographs of Her Majesty TR A N R )
President Biden pays his respects at the Lying-in-State,
and later gave this tribute.
Our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate to have had
you were fortunate to have had g
you were fortunate to have had her for 70 years, we all were.
her for 70 years, we all were. e
her for 70 years, we all were. R e e sl
her for 70 years, we all were. TR e R
her for 70 years, we all were. TR B e
her for 70 years, we all were. TR R a1 e
her for 70 years, we all were. The world is better for her.
Hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been
attending a reception at Buckingham Palace hosted
by King Charles, ahead of his mother’s funeral on Monday.
And | am Live in Westminster
And | am live in Westminster among
And | am live in Westminster RN
And | am live in Westminster among some of
And | am live in Westminster LR R R 1)
And | am live in Westminster among some of the last people
among some of the last people to
among some of the last people IR G
among some of the last people to join the queue. The queue
to join the queue. The queue ]
to join the queue. The queue now officially closed. These
now officially closed. These Py
now officially closed. These IRy
now officially closed. These R AL
now officially closed. These are the last people to file
are the last people to file I3
are the last people to file (EIR R
are the last people to file (EH AR
Hello and welcome to S Gl
Hello and welcome to Westminster, where Hello and welcome to Westminster, where the queue
Westminster, where the queue e la al T
Westminster, where the queue LI GIG]
Westminster, where the queue I GG L
Westminster, where the queue IO IR R G FY
Westminster, where the queue I G IR LI & G E RS
continues although at that very moment
continues although at that very i R ey
continues although at that very I R ]
continues although at that very moment there is a 45 minute
moment there is a 45 minute IR )
moment there is a 45 minute pause, we are told, for the
pause, we are told, for the rehearsals that are
pause, we are told, for the U R G EICR EL )
rehearsals that are taking I
rehearsals that are taking place within Westminster Hall
place within Westminster Hall e
place within Westminster Hall AL
place within Westminster Hall itself. The rehearsals ahead
place within Westminster Hall LT R e E L
itself. The rehearsals ahead of )
itself. The rehearsals ahead of the state
itself. The rehearsals ahead of e i
itself. The rehearsals ahead of AR R
itself. The rehearsals ahead of the state funeral that will
the state funeral that will )
the state funeral that will take place in the morning on
take place in the morning on Monday morning. The people
Monday morning. The people behind
Monday morning. The people s Eair:]
Monday morning. The people behind me are amongst some of
behind me are amongst some of )
behind me are amongst some of the final people to file past
the final people to file past *IYd
the final people to file past [ YL IS4
the final people to file past Y EYIS A 1)
the final people to file past Her Majesty the Queen’s
the final people to file past Her Majesty the Queen’s often.
Her Majesty the Queen’s often. e
Her Majesty the Queen’s often. G
Her Majesty the Queen’s often. The queue now
Her Majesty the Queen’s often. L R A S
Her Majesty the Queen’s often. The queue now officially closed
The queue now officially closed 4
The queue now officially closed but like
The queue now officially closed but Like ice a common acute not
but like ice a common acute not L Ln
but like ice a common acute not LI
but like ice a common acute not moving -- like |
but like ice a common acute not UL LIS R EY)A
but like ice a common acute not LG R EF AR {1
but like ice a common acute not moving -- like | say, the queue
moving -~ like | say, the queue s
moving -~ like | say, the queue not moving
there have been so many moments QIO 1d
there have been so many moments throughout the past few days,
throughout the past few days, '
throughout the past few days, my colleague reports now.
It is ten days now A R
The new King, Charles, arriving at Buckingham Palace
earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led
the country’s mourning in the days since.
In @ message tonight he said he’d
been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
Among the hundreds MR GRCEG
EEGHGELR the State Funeral,
the President AU RS S
IR [ =D R T gV RGN L ARG
A few moments later, President Biden and the First
Lady of the United States, Dr Jill Biden, stood
quietly on a balcony NGRS U
Like so many thousands of others
over the past four days, struck by the intensity
| think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all,
the notion of service.
We all owe something, there is something within our
capacity to do that can make things,
not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better,
your household better, your workplace better.
To all the people of the United Kingdom, our hearts
go out to you and TR R (N LG
to have had her for 70 R LR e
CUR GN NGPE IR T TV Yo R 1 for the State Funeral,
from Camilla, the Queen Consort,
her reflection on the 70 years of the Queen’s reign.
She has been part of our Lives for ever.
NUEN LN UL I L A A
the Queen being there.
It must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman,
there weren’t women R G
R LRI L) R she was the only one.
So | think she carved her own role.
I’ll always remember WEIEINIER
You know, that smile ROl N
Many thousands of people have wanted
to be a part of this moment.
Some have queued for many hours or placed flowers
in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to London
to absorb the sights and emotions
along the route of the procession
and outside the Abbey Church TR TR TG R R
place.
We didn’t know I T a VAR ]
but we wanted to do something.
You know, it felt right to come up and do something
and bring my son here.
You know, | think there’s a lot of people who don’t know
what to do, but feel RO R R L
something, so it just felt like the right thing
to do was to come up here with everybody else.
During the hours of darkness MR R 1 E )
admitted to the lying-in-state at Westminster Hall.
And then in the morning, A NI e R RS G
place of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
Nicholas they’re touching upon )
Nicholas they’re touching upon the thousands of
Nicholas they’re touching upon QR QT R R
Nicholas they’re touching upon the thousands of people who are
the thousands of people who are still
the thousands of people who are (R ZhG N
the thousands of people who are still waiting, they are hair,
still waiting, they are hair, they
still waiting, they are hair, GG
still waiting, they are hair, they are still waiting, their
they are still waiting, their weight extended that little bit
weight extended that little bit IS
weight extended that little bit I Y0 Y
weight extended that little bit I T DI
weight extended that little bit longer because of course there
longer because of course there Py
longer because of course there are still
longer because of course there R )
longer because of course there R (R
longer because of course there are still a lot of preparations
are still a lot of preparations taking place within Westminster
taking place within Westminster Hall itself, that historic
Hall itself, that historic building that has seen so much
building that has seen so much 38"
building that has seen so much RSN
building that has seen so much history and is again witnessing
history and is again witnessing this incredible moment for this
this incredible moment for this el
this incredible moment for this REle A\l
this incredible moment for this L.
this incredible moment for this YL RS R )
this incredible moment for this nation. All of these people
nation. All of these people YN
nation. All of these people patient from quiet, it is very
patient from quiet, it is very quiet in
patient from quiet, it is very ISR
patient from quiet, it is very quiet in the past
patient from quiet, it is very ARG EH R
patient from quiet, it is very quiet in the past few moments
quiet in the past few moments Y
quiet in the past few moments RO
quiet in the past few moments R G EEL
quiet in the past few moments when they heard they will have
when they heard they will have two
when they heard they will have nREle
when they heard they will have R B e
when they heard they will have R R e e
when they heard they will have AR R o
when they heard they will have two wait for another 45 minutes
two wait for another 45 minutes as
two wait for another 45 minutes YRy
two wait for another 45 minutes RGO e
two wait for another 45 minutes as this rehearsal takes
two wait for another 45 minutes R I T R E LG L
as this rehearsal takes place 4
as this rehearsal takes place R
as this rehearsal takes place RGNS
as this rehearsal takes place but there is an understanding
but there is an understanding that
but there Is an understanding EIRNY
but there Is an understanding that these are some of the
but there is an understanding BRI I NS A U NE
that these are some of the last people to witness this moment,
people to witness this moment, failing past
people to witness this moement, failing past the coffin itself
failing past the coffin itself and
failing past the coffin itself PR da- s
failing past the coffin itself and then onto
failing past the coffin itself PR R e ]
failing past the coffin itself FNGE R R e ey
and then onto the service little later on on
=LV RGO R G RIS little later on on Monday at
little later on on Monday at e
little later on on Monday at S IR S
little later on on Monday at Westminster Abbey where we
Westminster Abbey where we expect a
Westminster Abbey where we e R R I
Westminster Abbey where we expect a two-minute silence,
expect a two-minute silence, 1l
expect a two-minute silence, e R e
expect a two-minute silence, N IR e s
expect a two-minute silence, NG IR Nl R G R R )
expect a two-minute silence, national silence that we also
national silence that we also witnessed on
national silence that we also ORI )
national silence that we also R L R
national silence that we also witnessed on Sunday as my
witnessed on Sunday as my colleague now reports.
The Flowers Of The Forest echoing
IR N e B T &I ]
A lament for the fallen, played now in tribute
tc a Queen.
And then, on the cusp of silence, in Blackpool,
the going down of lights.
Then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating
a new monarch.
God save the King.
# God save our gracious King.
# Long live our noble King.
# God save the King.
# Send him victorious.
# Happy and glorious.
# Long to reign over us.
# God save the King #.
Across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
For whom the Queen was the unifying symbol.
I’m just paying respects RO L LTSS
to mark the passing of an era.
LT RS T LSV ARG R A e
Queen again.
You know, she’s been e R )
D IR T T CY1L
She was very important to me and I’m starting
to get emotional now.
Because | remember the Coronation.
I’m old enough to remember King George VI
and him dying and the Coronation,
and we had a little 12-inch television and all
G Gl IV e el ] in to watch the Coronation,
so yes, she has been our Queen for a long time
and she served us well.
LR G GRS R respect and affection
Fergal Keane, BBC News.
That moment of silence, that e
That moment of silence, that T el e e
That moment of silence, that R e A a1
That moment of silence, that R R A A RS wds s
moment of natienal reflection and
moment of natienal reflection R )
moment of national reflection and we had such a silent moment
and we had such a silent moment just a few moments ago, didn’t
Just a few moments ago, didn’t vl
Just a few moments ago, didn’t we? And
Just a few moments ago, didn’t XN LR
just a few moments ago, didn’t we? And yet now there has been
we? And yet now there has been Y
we? And yet now there has been A
we? And yet now there has been A
we? And yet now there has been a lot of movement
we? And yet now there has been RIS R R e e )
we? And yet now there has been RS R A R Y
a lot of movement because we )
a lot of movement because we believe that the
a lot of movement because we ARG E R G G
a lot of movement because we believe that the people who
believe that the people who have
believe that the people who TR
believe that the people who have been queueing for so, so
have been gueueing for so, so urll
have been gueueing for so, so many hours,
have been queueing for so, so many hours, most of these guys
many hours, most of these guys have
many hours, most of these guys YN i)
many hours, most of these guys have come from roughly in the
have come from roughly in the IR
have come from roughly in the O RG]
have come from roughly in the O RS S
have come from roughly in the afternoon, they are now moving
afternoon, they are now moving again, once again moving so
again, once again moving so they will have that opportunity
they will have that opportunity to
they will have that opportunity R
they will have that opportunity to experience that
they will have that opportunity R RO
they will have that opportunity to experience that moment of
to experience that moment of failing past the Queen’s often.
failing past the Queen’s often. i)
failing past the Queen’s often. One person
failing past the Queen’s often. O R e R
failing past the Queen’s often. N IR U R E
failing past the Queen’s often. W DR R 2 CRL]
One person who was in e
One person who was In Westminster Hall itself a
Westminster Hall itself a Ry
Westminster Hall itself a R Rt
Westminster Hall itself a o R T
Westminster Hall itself a little bit early on as
Westminster Hall itself a G R N L
little bit early on as my W (XL
little bit early on as my colleague Helen who joins us
colleague Helen who joins us NOW.
colleague Helen who joins us now. We are hearing so much
now. We are hearing so much FYe L
now. We are hearing so much A
now. We are hearing so much about just how immense that
about just how immense that Rt il-i1 e
about just how immense that IR A
about just how immense that moment is, what was it like? We
moment is, what was it Like? We Py
moment is, what was it like? We Y |
moment is, what was it like? We are allowed in
moment is, what was it like? We N L Y
moment is, what was it like? We are allowed in as journalists
are allowed in as journalists to
are allowed in as journalists R RT3
are allowed in as journalists A AT R DL
are allowed in as journalists to sit very quietly at
are allowed in as journalists R A IR IR )
are allowed in as journalists to sit very quietly at the back
to sit very quietly at the back half-an-hour and just observe
half-an-hour and just observe TG
half-an-hour and just observe people as they
half-an-hour and just observe N CE RS AL
half-an-hour and just observe people as they file into the
people as they file into the hall
people as they file into the NG
people as they file into the hall and pay their respect and
hall and pay their respect and IE
hall and pay their respect and WA
hall and pay their respect and NIRRT
hall and pay their respect and gives you more of a sense
gives you more of a sense I
gives you more of a sense hopefully to be able to convey
hopefully to be able to convey vty
hopefully to be able to convey T e
hopefully to be able to convey e A A
hopefully to be able to convey what it’s Like in there rather
what it’s like in there rather than just
what it’s Llike in there rather than just seeing it on
what it’s like in there rather than just seeing it on the
than just seeing it on the television
than just seeing it on the AL ]
than just seeing it on the A R
than just seeing it on the NGB R4
than just seeing it on the television and | think that the
television and | think that the biggest thing about it is
television and I think that the biggest thing about it is how
biggest thing about it is how e e 4
biggest thing about it is how st e e s
biggest thing about it is how different it is from
biggest thing about it is how I B AR R
different it is from the atmosphere that is out here.
atmosphere that is out here. o7t 4
atmosphere that is out here. Out how
atmosphere that is out here. T & AT
atmosphere that is out here. Out how you got the noise,
Out how you got the noise, IS
Out how you got the noise, ] AL
Out how you got the noise, light, and traffic and people
light, and traffic and people chatting and general
s TR T Ty Tl oL ol chatting and general hubbub, a
chatting and general hubbub, a ia
chatting and general hubbub, a R
oIl LAUGHTER
oIl Y0138
LAUGHTE I ¥
In the hall
1 the hall teelf
TR
TR,
In the hall itself it is E[
RGN =LV E[ MG AN
In the hall itself it is absolutely still. Absolutely
absolutely still. Absolutely I
absolutely still. Absolutely quiet, incredibly peaceful and
quiet, incredibly peaceful and e
quiet, incredibly peaceful and Westminster Hall is usually
Westminster Hall is usually very busy,
Westminster Hall is usually A TS
Westminster Hall is usually very busy, it is usually noisy,
very busy, it is usually noisy, echoing,
very busy, it is usually noisy, A LIl
very busy, it is usually noisy, echoing, stuff going on there
echoing, stuff going on there 1R
echoing, stuff going on there IRy
echoing, stuff going on there RS- Rl
echoing, stuff going on there IR R R
echoing, stuff going on there R R L E A
all the time. That is E[
all the time. That Is absolutely not the
all the time. That is AN & (LY
all the time. That is absolutely not the case now,
absolutely not the case now, you’ve got those very, it is
absolutely not the case now, you’ve got those very, itis a
you’ve got those very, it is very
you’ve got those very, it is U8
you’ve got those very, itis a RTINS A G|
you’ve got those very, itis a very sensory thing as
you’ve got those very, itis a AN A G LR
very sensory thing as well. )
very sensory thing as well. There is
very sensory thing as well. I R
very sensory thing as well. TS R R R )
very sensory thing as well. There is the white walls, that
There is the white walls, that very
There is the white walls, that VR EIL S
There is the white walls, that very dark wooden ceiling and
very dark wooden ceiling and then
very dark wooden ceiling and QR
very dark wooden ceiling and then you got that rich splash
then you got that rich splash N
then you got that rich splash of colour
then you got that rich splash w0l la]
then you got that rich splash of colour in the
then you got that rich splash e 0N a -t s [sl )
then you got that rich splash of colour in the middle with
of colour in the middle with )
of colour in the middle with UL
of colour in the middle with the Royal standard, the purple,
the Royal standard, the purple, )
the Royal standard, the purple, W B
the Royal standard, the purple, R I Ta s |
the Royal standard, the purple, the soldiers and guards
the soldiers and guards standing around it and then
standing around it and then that absolute quiet to the
that absolute quiet to the Lilis
that absolute quiet to the IR
that absolute quiet to the R
that absolute quiet to the point where they bang the stick
point where they bang the stick ]
point where they bang the stick ]
point where they bang the stick on the floor to signify
point where they bang the stick IR G LR { IR IR G T
on the floor to signify the change of guards,
on the floor to signify the change of quards, it
on the floor to signify the change of guards, it made me
change of guards, it made me jump a few times. It is that
jump a few times. It is that el
jump a few times. It is that still and
jump a few times. It is that A IR
jump a few times. It is that still and that quiet and |
still and that quiet and | think
still and that quiet and | R 1l
still and that quiet and | R A E
still and that quiet and | TR E R G E [
still and that quiet and | think what that does, you can
think what that does, you can T
think what that does, you can a4
think what that does, you can X N2l
think what that does, you can see it in people’s body
see it in people’s body language and the way
see |t in people’s body language and the way they
language and the way they change from when they walk in
change from when they walk in )
change from when they walk in e ls|
change from when they walk in i EnGh|
change from when they walk in N L
change from when they walk in there and | was trying to work
there and | was trying to work e
there and | was trying to work N
there and | was trying to work out how long people get, | was
out how long people get, | was aYihl]
out how long people get, | was R R T
out how long people get, | was trying to time them for how
trying to time them for how long it
trying to time them for how RGN
trying to time them for how long it took them
trying to time them for how RS G LR G
trying to time them for how RGO RG]
trying to time them for how RGBT
long it took them to get from )
long it took them to get from R )]
long it took them to get from the top of the steps, if it
the top of the steps, if it Ik
the top of the steps, If it wasn’t a change of quard
the top of the steps, if it wasn’t a change of gquard it
the top of the steps, if it wasn’t a change of quard it was
wasn’t a change of guard it was looking
wasn’t a change of guard it was OTS
wasn’t a change of guard it was ORI
wasn’t a change of guard it was ORI
wasn’t a change of guard it was WG TS
looking like four or five e
looking like four or five AL Tt
looking like four or five TR R
looking like four or five T R NN 3 s
looking like four or five minutes but the best way Ike
minutes but the best way lke can
LN T R G LR RV A L can describe it as
LN T R G LR RV A L N et NI R 1
LN T R G LR RV A L NN el N TR E s 1]
can describe it as that time slows
I g R - R G E R slows down a bit.
can describe it as that time slows down a bit. Everything is
slows down a bit. Everything is very
slows down a bit. Everything is R o)
slows down a bit. Everything Is very precise stopping the
very precise stopping the il
very precise stopping the TN el
very precise stopping the N RO R
very precise stopping the movements of the guards, it is
movements of the guards, it is very
movements of the guards, it is A o
movements of the guards, it is very precise, there is nothing
very precise, there is nothing sudden,
very precise, there is nothing Gl
very precise, there is nothing IR
very precise, there is nothing sudden, it is very calming.
sudden, it is very calming. T4
sudden, it is very calming. Thank you so much for painting
Thank you so much for painting such a vivid
Thank you so much for painting R Rl
Thank you so much for painting such a vivid picture of that
such a vivid picture of that experience
such a vivid picture of that -]
such a vivid picture of that experience within Westminster
experience within Westminster A
experience within Westminster Hall itself, and experience
Hall itself, and experience that
Hall itself, and experience el
Hall itself, and experience eI
Hall itself, and experience R RS R
Hall itself, and experience that all of these people who
that all of these people who Py
that all of these people who are failing
that all of these people who EICR EHIT LTS
that all of these people who are failing past behind me will
are failing past behind me will have
are failing past behind me will V-]
are failing past behind me will LYY R )
are failing past behind me will LYY RN e
are failing past behind me will N ARG el e
are failing past behind me will have in the next moments. Thank
have in the next moments. Thank you very much indeed, we will
you very much indeed, we will (G
you very much indeed, we will keep a
you very much indeed, we will [ R
you very much indeed, we will [ R
you very much indeed, we will R TR R VIR LS
keep a cross of course that I
keep a cross of course that IR
keep a cross of course that IR
keep a cross of course that gueue as it gradually dwindles
gueue as it gradually dwindles in
queue as it gradually dwindles in number
queue as it gradually dwindles TRl e ey ]
queue as it gradually dwindles in number now heading on
in number now heading on LI R )
in number now heading on IR e
in number now heading on towards the funeral itself.
in number now heading on IR S B AT,
towards the funeral itself. But )
towards the funeral itself. But the great
towards the funeral itself. But GO
towards the funeral itself. But the great and the good have
the great and the good have ]
the great and the good have LRI
the great and the good have IR EINS
the great and the good have been filing past as well.
President Biden will join around 2,000 other guests,
including some 500 heads of state and foreign
dignitaries at the ML R e ]
It will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty
and politicians the UK TR R s [
They have been paying their respects to the late
Queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon,
as our Diplomatic Correspondent James Landale reports.
Some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
Others came together, rather unusually on a bus,
but they were all here to honour the Queen in perhaps
the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
There was the King and Queen of Spain.
There was his exiled father, Juan Carles.
There was the president NAIEh N IR i
Leaders from the Gulf.
The King and Queen of Jordan.
Hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay
QLTS LA LGN perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
Others arrived around the back of the palace.
Prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the King
and other members of the Royal Family at a formal
state reception.
LRGN international engagement,
the Princess of Wales even found time to meet
the first lady of Ukraine, BN LR
Earlier, Joe and Jill Biden had followed other heads of state
and government in stopping off at Lancaster House to sign
A steady flow of the global great and sometimes good,
paying their respects NN N R B AT
| so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous
spirit and of course, every good wish to King Charles III.
On behalf of the government and people of Barbados that
| record my sincere sympathy to all of Great Britain
and especially to the members of the Royal Family.
We appreciated very much her R R R ORI G ]
UL EE VTR [ ELdo transformation from a nation
R0 T RV T R A RO R R R e
Thank you, Your Majesty, thank you for your dedication.
The people of Fiji will never forget you.
Many also came to see QAL ET S
Not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand
in silence and perhaps some awe S R N iR sl
whose reign will LR ]
And despite the opposition of some MPs and peers who have
been sanctioned by Beijing, a delegation from China also
came to Westminster Hall, [ OGIL R GRS
Wang Qishan, here on the right, R - R i e
tomorrow.
One man who will not be coming to the Abbey tomorrow
Is Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince and de facto ruler,
Mohammad Bin Salman, N LR T N oe |
of being involved in the murder of a journalist -
accusations he has denied.
Several leaders, including Canada’s Prime Minister,
also dropped by Downing Street for what officials said
were Informal conversations ORI R
Earlier he paid his own tribute to the Queen.
| first met Her Majesty when | was seven years
old and her presence throughout my life had been
constant, inspiring and graceful.
As Prime Minister, | benefited from her counsel,
her thoughtfulness, her S A SN R R e
Tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders
arrive at Westminster Abbey R R eI e 3
to the monarch they N N e RNt g}
James Landale, BBC News.
It’s been close to six [l [ R e R N e a s
monarchy symbolically ruled Singapore, but Queen Elizabeth
II’s death still elicited grief and reflection
in the South-east Asian nation DR R e B )
discussion about its colonial past.
Our Asia reporter, Suranjana Tewari, joins me now
live from Singapore.
Haleins
| note that it is scme 50
| note that it is some 50 years
I note that it is some 50 years o)
I note that it is some 50 years e R
I note that it is some 50 years since the Queen
I note that it is some 50 years AR R R )
since the Queen visited Singapore for the first time.
Singapore for the first time. T
Singapore for the first time. How much
Singapore for the first time. SRR el T o
Singapore for the first time. SR Rl T A s s ]
Singapore for the first time. S R s e A A R a e Ta d s
How much interest and attention of
How much interest and attention SRy
How much interest and attention RGN
How much interest and attention RN ]
How much interest and attention AU NGRS
How much interest and attention AN NIRRT I de |
of the last two weeks absorbed Singaporeans? David, there has
Singaporeans? David, there has Nl
Singaporeans? David, there has been a
Singaporeans? David, there has NN ]
Singaporeans? David, there has N R
Singaporeans? David, there has been a period of reflection, |
been a period of reflection, | o
been a period of reflection, | would say
been a period of reflection, | R EG
been a period of reflection, | G A CRL
been a period of reflection, | would say here in Singapore
would say here in Singapore over
would say here in Singapore N )
would say here in Singapore over the Queen’s
would say here in Singapore IR e - F L)
would say here in Singapore over the Queen’s death and
over the Queen’s death and today for
over the Queen’s death and ULV AT
over the Queen’s death and today for her funeral,
over the Queen’s death and UV AT A R T M L
over the Queen’s death and today for her funeral, here at
today for her funeral, here at )
today for her funeral, here at the British
today for her funeral, here at R RO
today for her funeral, here at the British Club, a social club
the British Club, a social club 3
the British Club, a social club in Singapore, they are marking
in Singapore, they are marking )
in Singapore, they are marking R
in Singapore, they are marking N ]
in Singapore, they are marking the event and expecting
in Singapore, they are marking RN N LRSS a )
in Singapore, they are marking the event and expecting a few
the event and expecting a few I
the event and expecting a few hundred people to come to watch
hundred people to come to watch )
hundred people to come to watch i
hundred people to come to watch RIS )
hundred people to come to watch the funeral and also
hundred people to come to watch RN R )
hundred people to come to watch the funeral and also to eat in
the funeral and also to eat in )
the funeral and also to eat in e
the funeral and also to eat in the restaurants here.
the funeral and also to eat in RN el
the restaurants here. All government buildings in
government buildings in Singapore are flying the flag
Singapore are flying the flag 1
Singapore are flying the flag YR FIl
Singapore are flying the flag N A R s
Singapore are flying the flag at half mast in a
Singapore are flying the flag A A ER AR
Singapore are flying the flag R A RN R )
at half mast in a show of respect but largely apart from
respect but largely apart from ey
respect but largely apart from R G
respect but largely apart from these pockets of
respect but largely apart from R G R IR
respect but largely apart from these pockets of areas that are
these pockets of areas that are reflecting and mourning the
reflecting and mourning the Queen, it
reflecting and mourning the I A
reflecting and mourning the Queen, it is business as usual.
Queen, it is business as usual. s
Queen, it is business as usual. a e
Queen, it is business as usual. TR T ]
Queen, it is business as usual. It has been many
Queen, it is business as usual. I NI A L
Queen, it is business as usual. I NI A R L )
It has been many years since Singapore was under British
Singapore was under British T
Singapore was under British N Tals|
Singapore was under British LR ENY
Singapore was under British LRI FI AL
Singapore was under British N R A A o
Singapore was under British rule and many years since she
rule and many years since she Al
rule and many years since she R ]
rule and many years since she visited the city-state as well.
visited the city-state as well. But
visited the city-state as well. i1 R7YeY
visited the city-state as well. But very much a
visited the city-state as well. LN AU RN e e
visited the city-state as well. But very much a part of the
But very much a part of the e lGR
But very much a part of the e G
But very much a part of the Commonwealth. Is that something
Commonwealth. Is that something of importance to your average
of importance to your average Singaporean, if | can put it
Singaporean, if | can put it that way? How much does it
that way? How much does it ey
that way? How much does it feature in Singapore’'s
that way? How much does it feature in Singapore’s life and
feature in Singapore’s life and T
feature in Singapore’s life and AN N
feature in Singapore’s life and sense of its own identity to
sense of its own identity to mark
S N R R A MEI LR
S N R R A mark well, Singapore’s
mark well, Singapore’s Parliament last
mark well, Singapore’s NI A A e
mark well, Singapore’s Parliament last week did
mark well, Singapore’s IR AR V& R b
mark well, Singapore’s Parliament last week did hold a
Parliament last week did hold a il e
Parliament last week did hold a et e e 2
Parliament last week did hold a RS e
Parliament last week did hold a moment of silence during which
moment of silence during which )
moment of silence during which ALY
moment of silence during which BT
moment of silence during which AL R
moment of silence during which AR LY
moment of silence during which ARG N N )
moment of silence during which the Leader of the House did say
the Leader of the House did say that Singapore is a
the Leader of the House did say G E I E IR R
the Leader of the House did say G E I E R R AL )
that Singapore is a very proud member
that Singapore is a very proud T R
that Singapore is a very proud member of the Commonwealth. As
member of the Commonwealth. As e
member of the Commonwealth. As (RO
member of the Commonwealth. As for ordinary people, so many of
for ordinary people, so many of the systems there
for ordinary people, so many of O AR U R
for ordinary people, so many of the systems there are British.
the systems there are British. Politicians point to the
Politicians point to the Y]
Politicians point to the British legal system that
British legal system that allowed Singapore to become a
allowed Singapore to become a very successful former colony
very successful former colony N
very successful former colony of Witton. It is one of the
of Witton. It is one of the wealthiest countries in the
wealthiest countries in the el
wealthiest countries in the world per
wealthiest countries in the G R
wealthiest countries in the world per capita, it’s also
world per capita, it’s also got, a lot
world per capita, it’s also AR LA
world per capita, it’s also got, a lot of the education
got, a lot of the education Gl
got, a lot of the education S
AR OB QRG] S HGUER G
AR OB QRG] system as well as British,
ORI AR QRG] system as well as British, and
system as well as British, and )
system as well as British, and the Singaporean Prime Minister
the Singaporean Prime Minister Gl
the Singaporean Prime Minister did mourn
the Singaporean Prime Minister Rl g e
the Singaporean Prime Minister did mourn the death of
the Singaporean Prime Minister I G R i N R )
did mourn the death of the S0
did mourn the death of the I L L)
did mourn the death of the MU 1]
did mourn the death of the Queen and said she left an
Queen and said she left an incredible mark on history
Queen and said she left an incredible mark on histery and
incredible mark on history and 334
incredible mark on history and S d
incredible mark en history and set her legacy would survive
set her legacy would survive S0
set her legacy would survive SO EE
set her legacy would survive SN AR
set her legacy would survive SN R LRI E
set her legacy would survive beyond her. The president of
beyond her. The president of Singapore is also going to be
Singapore is also going to be attending the funeral later
attending the funeral later today. Halimah Yacob is
today. Halimah Yacob is eV U]
today. Halimah Yacob is travelling to London to show
travelling to London to show Y
travelling to London to show LA T
travelling to London to show how proud this former
travelling to London to show how proud this fermer member
travelling to London to show how proud this former member of
how proud this former member of )
how proud this former member of the Commonwealth
how proud this former member of R E G R
In other news: The Prime Minister of Japan has
urged people to act swiftly R RO A T
as the country is hit by one of the most destructive
typhoons in years.
Fumio Kishida’s warning comes as the authorities urgently
advised 3 million people R R e
as a huge storm moves across the southern
island of Kyushu.
Our Tokyo correspondent Rupert Wingfield-Hayes
(ol lg
Typhoon Nanmadol is a huge and angry storm,
the likes of which Japan has rarely, if ever,
experienced before.
All day it has been battering QRO ESOEH ER R RS T8
with gusts of 150mph.
This satellite image shows the immense size of the typhoon
covering the whole SR NHERR
For the first time ever, the Japanese government
Issued its highest level emergency alert,
warning winds could be strong enough
to bring dewn buildings.
And an even bigger threat RGN Z I a1 0 la e a
water that Nanmadol is carrying.
YN il R e
s expected to fall NI R GV R
Kyushu is very mountainous and it is
feared the water could unleash landslides,
and swollen rivers could burst their banks.
So serious Is the concern, the Japanese Prime Minister
made this appeal for millions of people to head
for evacuation centres before nightfall.
TRANSLATION: Do not go near dangerous areas.
If you feel you are in danger, do not hesitate
IR IeIG
Please take early action to save your lives.
Evacuating at night is extremely dangerous.
Many thousands have heeded the call,
but many more have not and have chosen
RE R R e s R e ]
River levels across Kyushu BRI e R I e
rising fast and will peak in the next 12 hours.
All it takes is one YRR hn
town can be inundated TN
giving those that S eI R )
evacuate, no time to escape.
Japanese people are used to dealing
with typhoons, especially in Kyushu.
But as the global climate changes,
the data shows these sorts of mega-storms
are becoming more frequent
and defences that worked in the past
may no longer be enough.
Rupert Wingfield-Hayes, BBC News, Tokyo.
In Ukraine, President Zelenskyy says investigations
[N R E L R R crimes are continuing
IR R W40 ]
one of several areas back in Ukrainian hands
after significant territorial gains in recent days.
Bodies are being exhumed TR B e R Y
on the edge of the city.
Our Ukraine correspondent James Waterhouse has
more from Kyiv.
Since Ukraine forced Russia R R R il e t]
since the invasion E R L R RIS
that was taken, it now seems to be
focusing on investigating what the invaders did
and what Moscow LRGP
In the case of the city of Izyum, while bodies
continue to be recovered from a mass grave,
the latest claim from Kyiv TR R e e R ]
uncovered which suggests G R el N Tat e e
were used by Russian troops.
There are reports of people being tortured
and a city being Har e R B
There has again ORI IEENS |
fighting in the Kharkiv region, where Ukraine has enjoyed
some recent successes, N R ]
question of what Russia will look to do next,
well, the thought from the UK B G E O
LRGN RN G QR more civilian targets
in Ukraine, Y N R A s
on the battlefield.
But this is something Russia has done throughout
this war, it has hit targets across this vast country
to try to exert influence and undermine Ukrainian
morale, but on that latter point
In his latest address A N L O A E LT
just because we have regained vast
swathes of territory, IR R B I R e
What Russia will hope is that the very speed
R G CCE TR force Ukraine to pause.
One of Russia’s most famous singers has publicly
Alla Pugachova said she wanted to be declared a foreign agent
in solidarity with her husband, who’s another outspoken critic
Our Russia editor Steve Rosenberg told us
the intervention is significant.
She Is super popular, she is admired, she is adored,
she is respected across Russia and aside from her wonderful
voice, when she has G R CETA
people tend to sit up and listen.
The statement that she issued today
was more than just a staunch defence of her husband,
18RRI (I criticism, really,
of what the Kremlin still calls its special military operation.
Some strong language, NI e e
point she said, "our lads,” meaning Russian soldiers,
"are dying for illusionary aims that make our country
a pariah and the lives st ara e
extremely difficult.”
| reckon that language like that
coming from someone like that, LR L L A F)
Pugacheva, is going to infuriate the Kremlin.
So | suspect we will see attempts to discredit
Alla Pugacheva in the state media.
But it’s going to be ALY
to see whether her s i a gy 01}
will affect public opinion here and spark more public
opposition to the Yo R LA
Now, you may remember, recently several town
councillors in Russia expressed public criticism
of Vladimir Putin and called on him to resign.
Today, we hear the criticism from Alla Pugacheva.
Is there a pattern here?
| think it is too early to tell,
but certainly the message RO RN
as far as they are concerned, GG RE
according to plan.
according to plan.
| want to take you back to Victoria Gardens. These are the
Victoria Gardens. These are the people waiting to
Victoria Gardens. These are the IS RN R OV
Victoria Gardens. These are the people waiting to pay their
people waiting to pay their (3o [Ju e
people waiting to pay their respects to the late Queen
respects to the late Queen Elizabeth II.
respects to the late Queen Elizabeth Il. Are
respects to the late Queen Elizabeth IIl. Are moving
respects to the late Queen Elizabeth II. Are moving fairly
Elizabeth II. Are moving fairly quickly
Elizabeth Il. Are moving fairly I AR
Elizabeth Il. Are moving fairly quickly now, given some of the
guickly now, given some of the e
guickly now, given some of the other stages
quickly now, given some of the other stages of long, long wait
other stages of long, long wait and they
other stages of long, long walit and they will soon be in
=L RGTSRIUET T Ny e
=L RGTSRIUET T Ny Westminster Hall.
and they will soon be in N E R
and they will soon be in Westminster Hall. There is
and they will soon be in N I R R
Westminster Hall. There is the e ]
Westminster Hall. There is the e
Westminster Hall. There is the scene now live as the public
scene now live as the public pay their respects.
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud
Cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower.
It will largely stay dry.
I’m hoping things will remain dry in London and in Windsor
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower
or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge, that is keeping
things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing
more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first
thing across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west
England and this band of thick cloud and the potential
for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push
eastwards as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland was see good spells of sunshine,
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
Winds for most places NS A
Through Monday night we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain
and drizzle especially RGOl e
Some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull
in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
Milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle.
But it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over
CNT R QTR Rl ad(-]1 across some western parts
to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain
into the western Isles of Scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
Feeling a little warmer.
On Wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
It will feel considerably S R i LR A Y
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, 21 in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing RO LRGN e
W Jgh IRy 1] outbreaks of rain.
That will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards
Thursday and into Friday, some of the rain actually
could be quite heavy, AN ]
into the south of England and south Wales.
The chance of some rain particularly later on in
the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
The queue to pay last respects to the former Monarch
as she lies in state in Westminster Hall has
AN A R -
Those still in the queue R I s R el ala -7
Preparations are being made RO i el
on Monday, which will begin in Westminster Abbey.
King Charles has hosted a reception for hundreds
of world leaders at Buckingham Palace ahead of the funeral.
Heads of state from around the globe have attended,
including Joe Biden.
The US President earlier paid his respects at the hall
where the late monarch ERVHLRLEI 1N
The Prime Minister of Japan has urged people to act swiftly
LG ATR G T as the country is hit
by a destructive typhoon.
The warning comes as the authorities advise three
million people to leave their homes - and a huge storm
moves across the southern island of Kyushu.
HARDtalk, Stephen Sackur speaks to Maria Pevchikh
QTR R TggTTdL) Foundation founded by jailed
Russian opposition figure Alexei Navalny.
The interview was recorded on September 7th, just hours
before Navalny said he had been banned from communicating
confidentially with his lawyers from prison.
Welcome to HARDtalk. I’m Stephen Sackur.
Since Vladimir Putin launched his all-out invasion
of Ukraine, he’s put a tighter squeeze on Russian civil
society.
Criticism of the war R HRL T
independent media voices IR U G R
and new punishments have been piled on Putin’s most prominent
political opponent, Alexei Navalny.
My guest is Maria Pevchikh, investigations chief
for Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation, which is now
Where does Russia’s anti-Putin movement go from here?
Maria Pevchikh, AR Re L LLhEE
Right now, it seems Vladimir Putin is intent
on crushing all forms of dissent, of opposition
inside Russia.
Do you fear that XL
He’s succeeding for now.
RN VR [T R [ at imposing this fear,
you know, complete fear that goes everywhere -
the fear that you cannot hide from.
But I don’t think that this is a sustainable strategy to do
what he’s doing at the moment.
The opposition moods aren’t going to just disappear
RTINS T T R 1Koy - people are still going
to think what they think - and | guess eventually,
this crackdown will actually backfire on Vladimir Putin.
But fear is a very powerful emotion to instil in
a population and, of course, [El R R R IR ]
W NI AT R =1 happens if you cross red lines
and nobody sort of better symbolises what happens
if you cross red lines than your colleague,
Alexel Navalny.
Now, you’ve worked with him for a good decade or more
LR GER R TegTodl Ty Foundation in Russia.
He, right now, is languishing in a top security prison
in solitary confinement.
Just begin by telling me what you can of his current
LY TR
So, today, he was released from the solitary confinement.
It’s called a standard LGRS
Essentially, it’s R e
You’re there on your own, it’s tiny - two metres by three
metres - and you go there if you’ve done something wrong.
So, he was released this morning and then, within five
minutes, he was re sentenced to an additional 15 days there,
so he was only out for a couple of minutes.
And, for the following two weeks, he will be there again
[l A e R where all you do for the whole
day Is just sit on a stool.
You are allowed to read only one book per term.
You’re allowed to use paper and a pen for one hour a day,
IRV LGRS Elf e L R N
You’re not even allowed to lay down, to use the bed,
because the bed has been R R RO R U L
and it’s only being chained down at the end of the day.
It’s extraordinary to imagine WRGRG I AG R R A
Does he get any exercise?
Is he allowed out at any point during the day?
Well, he Is allowed to walk and walk in his cell,
next to a cell where he’s sat, RO IR ke
have a ceiling.
So, you are still among four walls, you still don’t really
get to see anything, apart from this little tiny
patch of sky above you, and that’s the walk,
that’s the exercise, ARG R R L
How does he get messages out?
Because | follow him on Twitter - so do millions
of other people...
Everybody should!
..and those messages emerge but he, clearly,
does not have any access to communications or a phone,
SR R ] these messages?
He’s writing those messages but he hand writes them
and he passes them on through his lawyers
and then, we just type them up.
So, we would never write anything instead of him.
His social media is still entirely managed by himself.
He is allowed to write letters and he uses this allowance,
he uses this hour a day LI LR R
Instagram and Twitter.
Why do you think they let him do it?
That’s a rhetorical question.
Now they do, tomorrow they won’t.
So, like, so far, let’s just be grateful he can do it now,
because that can stop any minute.
He seems very angry - very angry with the European Union,
with the Americans as well - R O A LR A I
to be serious about imposing tough sanctions on hundreds -
no, thousands of oligarchs, o AR
who surround and - he would say - aid and abet
Putin and his associates in the Kremlin.
Is he angry?
Annoyed, angry - I’m not sure what the right word is -
and | share these emotions.
Because we’ve been talking about sanctions,
about sanctioning oligarchs and those people close
to Putin, to Putin’s regime, for years.
And the level of sanctions that we see today,
which is pretty good - like, these are decent
sanctions, the current packages A SR I
they should have been imposed so long before.
But this list of 6000 that the Anti-Corruption Foundation
has come up with and, you know, the very loaded term
"oligarchs, bribe takers and warmongers” you say,
You tell me what proportion R TR g8
A tiny, tiny proportion.
| can tell you from the richest people in Russia, from 200
richest people in Russia - oligarchs, businessmen,
etc - only 46 were sanctioned.
And that’s exactly the problem, RN A G
being upset because the QO R R
There is no imminence to those o R TR Gk
46 to 200, that is still a good chance to get away, and this
is exactly what we are lobbying for.
We’re saying that there shouldn’t be a way to get away
from those sanctions and they should just be imposed
regularly and strictly and if you work for Putin’s
regime, there shouldn’t be a way, you know, to kind
of sway a little bit LRI Al
You will be punished for that.
The more you push this message that there are oligarchs around
Putin who are currently escaping from sanctions
and that you want the West R R R G RN IR L TR
that message, the more likely it is that those holding
Navalny right now will intensify the level of pain
and punishment inflicted upon him.
There is some logic to that but I do not like that logic
because following that, it means that we just need
to lay low, do nothing and just be quiet, so they don’t do
something bad to Navalny or to other political prisoners
- and there are plenty of those.
This i1s not how we work.
We respond by applying even more pressure on them,
and | think that’s QXN VATZVR GRS
That’s the only way to show Putin that imprisoning Navalny
Is not geing to solve anything.
We are actually investigating and publishing more stories now
than we did when Alexel N I B B Rt la - 1s
of principle for me persenally TS TR G R TS
your plan didn’t work.
"You’ve thrown him into prison.
"We are making more investigations about you.
"You are torturing him in prison and we are getting
your - Vladimir Putin’s yacht arrested in Italy" and that’s
the way | like to operate.
But it was plain after you made a big high-profile
prenouncement about this yacht, Scheherazade, which is held
in Italy and which, S G G EHEIEY
the yacht was impounded by the Italians.
Yes.
VRGN EER G NG G ORI EVEL ) A A Rl
back to the very personal point - do you not have any
difficulty with that?
BV
I might have difficulty with that, but | have put this
difficulty on a faraway shelf and | try not to think about it
because | have a very clear instruction from Alexei Navalny
himself what to do, how to work.
He wants us to continue working and the worst thing that we can
do is kind of change and wobble and do something differently.
We have to be persistent.
It’s a long fight and no-one is going to give it
up halfway through.
| quess I’m really struck by how much risk you are
prepared to take.
If we go back a little bit in the Navalny story
CL TRV @IV 1 with it, he, of course,
was poisoned inside Russia.
Yes.
Miraculously, he survived.
He recuperated in Germany IR R el GO AEE
But it became clear during your investigations that you had
a trail which led you, (R RGN ) G
who perpetrated the poisoning EL T RV [ R R 0148
with documentary makers...
Yes.
..you and others to try to tell this story.
Why did you believe it was important to go so very
public - even to the point of you and Navalny making
CRe (G OR G D D UL DT oL T to have placed the poisoned
underpants in Navalny’s room which had the Novichok on them
- why did you decide it was so important to go public
with all of that when you must have known that would simply
make you a personal target for Russian intelligence?
Well, because there are things that are bigger than me in this
life, and this story - the story about this poisoning,
the story about the fact that Vladimir Putin uses chemical
weapons - just think about it for a second,
chemical weapons that are forbidden, they shouldn’t
exist, but he uses them against his opponents,
his, like, personal enemies.
That story is so embarrassing for Putin.
This is something that S A NGO S e
This is something that hopefully one day he will be
prosecuted for and | would love to be part of that process
because, well, I’ve LR I RO R e
I think that this is a very scary and dangerous crime that
he’s committing with these o I R TG I G
and this whole system that he runs of this,
you know, operations that just needs to be stopped and we made
this big film that is available on BBC iPlayer, recommended.
Here, | mean, here we sit in London and you clearly
are a person who lives in exile, but you are very well
aware of the names of Litvinenkeo, of Skripal.
Yes.
You know the reach ARG YA N e
services Is long.
You have a target on your back.
Perhaps.
| don’t think there’s any doubt about that, is there?
How do you, those close to you, live with that?
It’s not that difficult AR iR
Sometimes, you just - PR DRI OG5
in your life when you’re scared - objectively dangerous
situations - but in those situations, you can make
It’s a very deliberate, very rational and cold-hearted
choice in a dangerous RN R el P
Personal issues are one thing.
There’s also the more e s I
Recently, The Guardian newspaper reported on a former
Navalny staffer, somebody that presumably worked alongside
you — a young man, Mikhail Sokolov - who says
that he first volunteered for Navalny in 2017.
He was then approached by the FSB and was paid to be
an informer inside your organisation.
Do you fear that the reach Sl A R e e
does actually go inside the Anti-Corruption Foundation?
We assume it does and we act LRV RGN O R T )
inside the office or in any work environment can be leaked,
can be published, and R VRl [\
We aren’t doing anything that we wouldn’t -
we would be concerned doing publicly, so that’s the only
way to live your life in this sort of situation so,
yes, probably we are targets of some sort of, you know,
strange people running around Europe undercover and not
cover, illegals, you know, this sort of secret services
branch, but what can TR L R 44
You just have to be reasonably careful and,
yeah, that’s all.
Most, pretty much all, independent media now has been
shut down inside Russia, so you don’t have that outlet
HIR’IAN 1 8
So, how do you reach the Russian people right now?
Through YouTube.
Our channels haven’t changed.
So, there was a big - there is a hig YouTube channel
that we use to publish investigations.
So this is, for example, when people could have seen
Putin’s Palace - our biggest investigation.
So we use the same N E R N T
that Alexel Navalny was the presenter.
And now Iinstead of Navalny, (LA O
colleagues, and we do very similar investigations
and they are watched by the same amount of people.
Are they really, though?
Yes.
| mean, inside Russia today...
Yeah, absolutely.
..let us be realistic about what happens -
It is a surveillance society.
Russia is a society which we, at the very beginning of this
conversation discussed, was - is gripped by fear right now.
Do you think Russians, given that your organisation
s outlawed inside the country, S L R e
organisation, do you think Russians feel comfortable
viewing materials that you put up on YouTube -
even If they’re lucky enough to be able to get around
all of the different internet censorship which the Russian
administration tries to impose?
YouTube is still fully accessible in Russia -
for unknown to me reasons, but it is - and Russian people
have a good experience with samizdat and other
Soviets, you know, sort of techniques of overcoming
these things so yes, | - our numbers have not changed,
so there is definitely the same N R Al R R R
to investigations, and we are very happy about it.
What seems to be part of Navalny’s plan, maybe your
plan too, is to put so much pressure on the Russian elite,
the oligarchs, the people EI LR AR = R L]
basically ferment split and disruption within
the inner circle.
But I’ve spoken to many other people well-versed in how
Russia under Putin works who say this is completely
unrealistic.
The oligarchs are not RN R
He’s basically done a deal OGRS A AL
of politics, they’re free to make money, but they are not
in politics, and they are not in a position to move
against or launch some sort of palace coup against Vladimir
(AN EIER (RGNS that might happen?
| don’t think it’s naive and | don’'t think the assessments
that you just spoke to, IR G G e R
s entirely correct.
We don’t really know, because now, the sanctions
against oligarchs aren’t imminent, and there are still
people who can get away and who can think that,
"Oh, maybe | can wait on the side and nothing
will happen to me.”
I think that those oligarchs are very crucial to Putin’s
regime and if you...
Really?
'Cause | spoke to Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who of course
used to be one of the uber oligarchs not so very long
ago in Russia.
He said it’s completely S (R R R ]
kind of putsch coming from the elite, from the oligarchs
against Putin, and the FT just RO ER O R E) A
there is Little sign that o N R
the oligarchs into contemplating a palace coup.
Instead, they are scrambling for ways to cling
Many are now resigned to a life inside Russia.
But if they don’t work, why is Usmanov and Aven -
there was an article today about them going
through Hungary, asking the Hungarian Prime Minister,
Orban, to cross them off QS S RGO
i wi
So If sanctions aren’t IR AR G EL
WL
I need to interject just to make clear that all
the individuals you’ve named deny that they are oligarchs
involved in propping up Putin or supporting a war
or anything else.
So, let just be clear Y R e e T N
important to get that on the record.
| jJust wonder if we change the perspective from thinking
about the oligarch to thinking about the Russian people,
are you and Alexel Navalny, are you disappointed
in the Russian people, GEIR QLTI E LR
haven’t, in the last six N TR LG R R R
When Navalny tweeted out, "we should not be a nation
of frightened cowards,” he urged people to conduct
daily protests against the war.
That hasn’t happened.
LRGN disappeintment it didn’t
happen?
Perhaps, yes.
Do | understand and get completely why it hasn’t
happened?
Also, yes, and | will never ever dare to blame Russian
people for not going into the streets right now
because | understand the level SRS ARk I
Do you think some Russians might listen to this interview
and wonder whether you have not become, in a highly
natienalistic atmosphere in Russia right now,
worry whether you have become a puppet for Russia’s enemies?
There are allegations IR R L
over years, has taken money TR ISR e
| think Russia Today recently pointed out
that your contributions through cryptocurrency have
gone through the roof, and they say, "Ah-ha!"
That’s a means by which they hide the fact that they are
being sponsored by Western governments, rich Westerners
Just to make it very clear - we are not being sponsored
by Western governments and we have never been,
and that line of argument that RGO RCN
it is just pure propaganda line.
If we ever were caught with - | don’t know - dealing
with foreign governments or anything like that in some
sort of dodgy way, that GRS UL
STRVL TR LRIV, your money from?
It’s entirely - we are entirely crowd funded.
From inside Russia?
Um, from inside Russia, we are - we have almost stopped
receiving any donations apart from actually cryptocurrency
because It’s too dangerous.
We don’t want to expose our AR e R R N
TR T T organisation, we are
on the same list with al-Qaeda, Isis, etc, so giving us money
directly right now is not a good idea.
But we have had time to reroute our fundraising
a little bit to diasporas, to Russian people who live
abroad, to Russian people who have foreign bank accounts,
because that solves the problem, that’s not
reachable for the Russian authorities, and also,
we use some crowdfunding platforms that also make
you untraceable in terms of where the payment comes from.
You are Russian.
Yes.
Do you worry that in the current climate,
with everything that’s going on with the Ukraine war,
there’s a danger that some in the United States and Europe
and the West are becoming N AL R a1 e
than anti-Putin?
Yes, it’s a big problem, and every time | see it,
| feel very upset and | feel very concerned because | don’t
OIS UEI G CROR- Rd ) (e of collective responsibility.
Don’t you?
No.
SN =L R R e NIRRT
LR GTRCT N Tl [ Rl o1 of the Kyiv Independent
recently, Olga Rudenko, and she said, "Listen -
Russians aren’t a normal nation who got lost and turned
the wrong way.
"No, they turned the wrong way many times until the country
became finally what it is today R AT
a mix of aggressors and their E[ RIS (ol Tatwo ]y o (oL
When you hear Ukrainians say that this isn’t a Putin
problem, this is a Russia problem,
do you think they’re wrong?
| understand why they’re saying this.
| understand where the Ukrainians are at the moment,
and this war and what’s happening with their country,
what’s Russia doing to their country is...is
heartbreaking and it’s probably the biggest catastrophe that
happened in the world in a very long time.
| would understand every emotion that they feel
towards the Russians right now and | understand how
it’s possible to...
But her point really is that the governance you have
in Russian couldn’t happen in Ukraine because Ukraine does
not have this sort of latent deep desire for strongman rule
that she thinks is part NAT WA AR R
(RIS IR ER- R shallow understanding
Well, if it’s shallow, RS EI R R LA L
question - how is Russia going to change and convince
people like her that it can change?
I won’t be able to give you a timeline and | won’t be
able to give you a step-by-step quide, you know, this is what’s
going to happen in February, or this is what’s going
to happen in May or in June.
We know and we’ve seen how it works.
Do you remember how forever SNSRI R R
how it seemed indestructible and how engaged people
were into building socialism, etc, etc?
And it collapsed overnight.
These very strong regimes that are led by one person,
one dictator like Vladimir Putin, they seem to be strong
when you look at them, but the point is that they can
break and crumble overnight.
But is it your contention that it’s not the palace coup
we should look to, but people power?
Because we don’t see it right now.
OK, we can spend a lot of time assigning probabilities to this
scenario, so is it going to be N E BRI IR R
going to be a revolution or is Putin simply going
toc die tomorrow?
Which is also possible.
It’s not a constructive way to spend your time.
A constructive way to spend your time is trying to break
through Russian propaganda, try to educate the Russian
population, try to talk about the war, about what’s
happening, spreading the truth, etc, etc.
That’s the way we deal with It.
And we, I’m afraid, I RN LRI
But Maria Pevchikh, it’s been a pleasure having
you on HARDtalk.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
111918
Many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud
Cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s weather story,
possibly thick enough at times IR RS R TR
maybe the odd shower.
It will largely stay dry.
I’m hoping things will remain dry in London and in Windsor
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower
or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge, that is keeping
things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing
more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first
thing across south-west Scotland, perhaps north-west
England and this band of thick cloud and the potential
for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push
eastwards as the day wears on.
North-east Scotland was see good spells of sunshine,
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time,
south Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
Winds for most places NS A
Through Monday night we will see large areas
of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain
and drizzle especially RGOl e
Some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull
in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
Milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle.
But it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over
CNT R QTR Rl ad(-]1 across some western parts
to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain
into the western Isles of Scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
Feeling a little warmer.
On Wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
It will feel considerably S R i LR A Y
Temperatures of 17 in Aberdeen, 21 in Norwich and in London.
But a frontal system pushing RO LRGN e
W Jgh IRy 1] outbreaks of rain.
That will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards
Thursday and into Friday, some of the rain actually
could be quite heavy, AN ]
into the south of England and south Wales.
The chance of some rain particularly later on in
the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
This is BBC News - welcome, if you’re watching
here in the UK or around the globe.
Our top stories:
A minute’s silence across R LR R R e
on the life and legacy of Queen Elizabeth II.
The Queen, this spring, MR R ilaEll
photographs of Her Majesty TR A N R )
pays his respects at the Lying-in-State,
and later gave this tribute.
Our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate
to have had her for 70 R LR e
Hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been
attending a reception at Buckingham Palace hosted
by King Charles, ahead of his mother’s funeral on Monday.
And | am live in Westminster among some of the last people
to join the queue.
These are the last people to file
past the Queen’s coffin.
past the Queen’s coffin.
Welcome to Westminster, scenes Y
Welcome to Westminster, scenes we have been watching for the
we have been watching for the last
we have been watching for the EYI R 00e
we have been watching for the last four days and nights, it
last four days and nights, it s
last four days and nights, it is the middle
last four days and nights, it TR RGN
last four days and nights, it TR NI R R
last four days and nights, it is the middle of the night here
is the middle of the night here and
is the middle of the night here R )
is the middle of the night here IR ]
is the middle of the night here and we are finally seeing the
and we are finally seeing the il
and we are finally seeing the end of the
and we are finally seeing the R R ORI
and we are finally seeing the end of the queue, this
end of the queue, this phenomenon that has become a
phenomenon that has become a thing
phenomenon that has become a iRl
phenomenon that has become a thing in itself,
phenomenon that has become a QIR L GG
phenomenon that has become a thing in itself, hundreds of
thing in itself, hundreds of thousands of
thing in itself, hundreds of QT R I
QI E RV T G thousands of people waiting
thousands of people waiting patiently
thousands of people waiting [E N A T
thousands of people waiting patiently since Wednesday,
patiently since Wednesday, waiting patiently to file past
waiting patiently to file past )
waiting patiently to file past the coffin of
waiting patiently to file past R iR
waiting patiently to file past the coffin of the Queen, this
the coffin of the Queen, this 3
the coffin of the Queen, this TR L4
the coffin of the Queen, this TR L R ]
the coffin of the Queen, this is what we’re looking at some
s what we’re looking at some of
s what we’re looking at some SRy
Is what we’re looking at some SRGRiLE
Is what we’re looking at some of the final people who will
of the final people who will Y
of the final people who will make that walk past Her Majesty
make that walk past Her Majesty )
make that walk past Her Majesty R
make that walk past Her Majesty the Queen’s Koppen, will be
the Queen’s Koppen, will be 1
the Queen’s Koppen, will be )
the Queen’s Koppen, will be RGO
the Queen’s Koppen, will be able to file through
able to file through e
able to file through Westminster Hall.
CLGCRGR IR G Westminster Hall. The queue now
Westminster Hall. The queue now N
Westminster Hall. The queue now R )
Westminster Hall. The queue now e e
Westminster Hall. The queue now of course is closed, we have
of course Is closed, we have Nl
of course Is closed, we have been watching
of course Is closed, we have VRN LS
of course Is closed, we have VRN T DR I
of course Is closed, we have been watching as these people
been watching as these people have
been watching as these people TR
been watching as these people have been waiting
been watching as these people YR RN R
been watching as these people have been waiting for many,
have been waiting for many, urll
have been waiting for many, many hours. Finally here,
many hours. Finally here, e dle
many hours. Finally here, R ol le et Te1
many hours. Finally here, MR el st s el d
many hours. Finally here, historic moment for them
many hours. Finally here, R TR e et Ta i R s
many hours. Finally here, MR e i R B
historic moment for them and us as
historic moment for them and us IR
histoeric moment for them and us as well, monitoring all of
as well, monitoring all of this, friendships made, stories
this, friendships made, stories i El R
this, friendships made, stories I EICO RGO
this, friendships made, stories shared, this is
this, friendships made, stories I IR GG
this, friendships made, stories IR GG TR
shared, this is quite an a1l el
shared, this is quite an emotional moment to
shared, this is quite an LA E Bt R e ]s
shared, this is quite an emotional moment to bear in
emotional moment te bear in LA
emotional moment te bear in LR s
emotional moment to bear in R E IR
emotional moment to bear in mind, what we have been
mind, what we have been G R
mind, what we have been witnessing over the past days
witnessing over the past days as
witnessing over the past days LR
witnessing over the past days CIN VR L EET T
witnessing over the past days as my colleague now reports.
It is ten days now A R
The new King, Charles, arriving at Buckingham Palace
earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led
the country’s mourning in the days since.
In @ message tonight he said he’d
been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
Among the hundreds MR GRCEG
EEGHGELR the State Funeral,
the President AU RS S
IR [ =D R T gV RGN L ARG
A few moments later, President Biden and the First
Lady of the United States, Dr Jill Biden, stood
quietly on a balcony NGRS U
Like so many thousands of others
over the past four days, struck by the intensity
| think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all,
the notion of service.
We all owe something, there is something within our
capacity to do that can make things,
not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better,
your household better, your workplace better.
To all the people of the United Kingdom, our hearts
go out to you and TR R (N LG
to have had her for 70 R LR e
CUR GN NGPE IR T TV Yo R 1 for the State Funeral,
from Camilla, the Queen Consort,
her reflection on the 70 years of the Queen’s reign.
She has been part of our Lives for ever.
NUEN LN UL I L A A
the Queen being there.
It must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman,
there weren’t women R G
R LRI L) R she was the only one.
So | think she carved her own role.
I’ll always remember WEIEINIER
You know, that smile ROl N
Many thousands of people have wanted
to be a part of this moment.
Some have queued for many hours or placed flowers
in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to London
to absorb the sights and emotions
along the route of the procession
and outside the Abbey Church TR TR TG R R
place.
We didn’t know I T a VAR ]
but we wanted to do something.
You know, it felt right to come up and do something
and bring my son here.
You know, | think there’s a lot of people who don’t know
what to do, but feel RO R R L
something, so it just felt like the right thing
to do was to come up here with everybody else.
During the hours of darkness, MR R 1 E )
admitted to the lying-in-state at Westminster Hall.
And then in the morning, A NI e R RS G
place of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
So
So much to look ahead to,
Soe much te look ahead to, the
So much to look ahead to, the I
So much to look ahead to, the RE Gl
So much to look ahead to, the e R R
So much to look ahead to, the state funeral itself taking
state funeral itself taking place in the next hours, a
place in the next hours, a Hair
place in the next hours, a little bit later on Monday.
place in the next hours, a little bit later on Moenday. So
little bit later on Monday. So much
little bit later on Moenday. So much still to
little bit later on Moenday. So NGB A (RO
little bit later on Moenday. So much still to come, look at
much still to come, look at this,
much still to come, look at TR )
much still to come, look at this, we have reached the end
this, we have reached the end N
this, we have reached the end R
this, we have reached the end of the queue, these are the
of the queue, these are the i
of the queue, these are the last who will be witnessing
last who will be witnessing G G|
last who will be witnessing something so historical,
something so historical, I
something so historical, walking past the casket of the
walking past the casket of the Queen, and
walking past the casket of the UL R OIS
walking past the casket of the Queen, and this is it. How long
Queen, and this is it. How long Ty
Queen, and this is it. How long have you
Queen, and this is it. How long R R )
Queen, and this is it. How long have you been waiting for?
have you been waiting for? STy
have you been waiting for? NGk
have you been waiting for? i i
have you been waiting for? i i
have you been waiting for? Since half nine. All of
have you been waiting for? AR RS R
Since half nine. All of these people waiting for such a long
people waiting for such a long iy
people waiting for such a long time. Nearly there. Nearly
time. Nearly there. Nearly HcE
time. Nearly there. Nearly there. Tiring. Very, very close
there. Tiring. Very, very close (A
there. Tiring. Very, very close R
there. Tiring. Very, very close A AR Rl
there. Tiring. Very, very close now, we will let you get on. We
now, we will let you get on. We have
now, we will let you get on. We TR
now, we will let you get on. We have been watching
now, we will let you get on. We (EN R RN T R (]
now, we will let you get on. We have been watching for the last
have been watching for the last four days how people have just
four days how people have just felt
four days how people have just L)
four days how people have just R LR
four days how people have just felt compelled to come, to
felt compelled to come, to 1y
felt compelled to come, to share this, to
felt compelled to come, to i F IR TR R )
felt compelled to come, to share this, to be together to
share this, to be together to iRl
share this, to be together to IR
share this, to be together to share stories, reminisce and
share stories, reminisce and reflect, and, this is the final
reflect, and, this is the final SR
reflect, and, this is the final moment of this historic queue,
moment of this historic queue, in itself. Let’s get more now
in itself. Let’s get more now Tee I8t
in itself. Let’s get more now N
in itself. Let’s get more now from my colleague Fergal Keane.
The Flowers Of The Forest echoing
IR N e B T &I ]
A lament for the fallen, played now in tribute
tc a Queen.
And then, on the cusp of silence, in Blackpool,
the going down of lights.
Then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating
a new monarch.
God save the King.
# God save our gracious King.
# Long live our noble King.
# God save the King.
# Send him victorious.
# Happy and glorious.
# Long to reign over us.
# God save the King #.
Across the land, it was a gathering of strangers.
For whom the Queen was the unifying symbol.
I’m just paying respects RO L LTSS
to mark the passing of an era.
LT RS T LSV ARG R A e
Queen again.
You know, she’s been e R )
D IR T T CY1L
She was very important to me and I’m starting
to get emotional now.
Because | remember the Coronation.
I’m old enough to remember King George VI
and him dying and the Coronation,
and we had a little 12-inch television and all
G Gl IV e el ] in to watch the Coronation,
so yes, she has been our Queen for a long time
and she served us well.
LR G GRS R respect and affection
Fergal Keane, BBC News.
So
ST NED)Y
So many moments that this country has experienced, this
country has experienced, this s
country has experienced, this is something that has become a
s something that has become a phenemenon in itself,
phenomenon in itself, the IR
phenomenon in itself, the queue, the queue that has been
queue, the queue that has been bringing
queue, the queue that has been ARG ELY
queue, the queue that has been bringing people here, the queue
bringing people here, the queue where friendships have been
where friendships have been made, the
where friendships have been [ FL IR G I
where friendships have been made, the queue where people
made, the queue where people have
made, the queue where people VR
made, the queue where people have spent hours
made, the queue where people VR U
made, the queue where people have spent hours and hours
have spent hours and hours waiting.
have spent hours and hours Eh ARG
have spent hours and hours waiting. This is
have spent hours and hours N AR LR (T
have spent hours and hours waiting. This is the end of it,
waiting. This is the end of it, ey
waiting. This is the end of it, )
waiting. This is the end of it, NI RG]
waiting. This is the end of it, N IR G
waiting. This is the end of it, I R R E I e et 1 Ta
waiting. This is the end of it, IR i E IR e e e s
these are the final moments and )
these are the final moments and s0 many
these are the final moments and so many different
these are the final moments and SREIN R R e
these are the final moments and so many different moments, this
so many different moments, this gentleman has caught our
gentleman has caught our attention with
gentleman has caught our R i
gentleman has caught our R I R e i
attention with his bowler hat. i
attention with his bowler hat. Tell us about
attention with his bowler hat. I L Y
attention with his bowler hat. Tell us about why you
attention with his bowler hat. I L N A A VLG
attention with his bowler hat. Tell us about why you are here
Tell us about why you are here and
Tell us about why you are here R )
Tell us about why you are here IR N
Tell us about why you are here LRGN E A R
Tell us about why you are here and the hat? Well we had
Tell us about why you are here LRGN A IR N LR
and the hat? Well we had been meaning to come all week but
meaning to come all week but )
meaning to come all week but GRS g hlie
meaning to come all week but GRS i ATl 1Y
meaning to come all week but QR ol AL E I
the opportunity finally arose tonight
the opportunity finally arose LN
the opportunity finally arose tonight when we managed to get
tonight when we managed to get )
tonight when we managed to get N d
tonight when we managed to get one of our
tonight when we managed to get NN R el laTe]
tonight when we managed to get R R Rl sl e Rlaee]
tonight when we managed to get R E Rl e Rla e e Ts|
one of our children into bed and
one of our children into bed NI
one of our children into bed and said let’s make a dash for
and said let’s make a dash for i
and said let’s make a dash for TRy
and said let’s make a dash for (R R )
and said let’s make a dash for it, we were listening to the
it, we were listening to the news and
it, we were listening to the T LR
it, we were listening to the news and it seems like it might
news and it seems like it might )
news and it seems like it might be able
news and it seems like it might L RG]
news and it seems like it might TN RO R )
news and it seems like it might be able to make it before
news and it seems like it might TN RO R A S R
be able to make it before the cut-off
be able to make it before the e il
be able to make it before the e LR )
be able to make it before the i el T RN [T 4
be able to make it before the cut-off and we just managed to
cut-off and we just managed to o[
cut-off and we just managed to R T
cut-off and we just managed to R LR )
cut-off and we just managed to R LR R )
cut-off and we just managed to do so. As we were leaving my
do so. As we were leaving my "oy
do so. As we were leaving my e
do so. As we were leaving my I RV
do so. As we were leaving my wife said you should
do so. As we were leaving my T R R [+ 18] Gl s 1
do so. As we were leaving my wife said you should put your
wife said you should put your howler
wife said you should put your o a1 s
wife said you should put your bowler hat on
wife said you should put your I Eia l |
wife said you should put your bowler hat on | only usually
bowler hat on | only usually put
bowler hat on | only usually I ad
bowler hat on | only usually put it on
bowler hat on | only usually IR
bowler hat on | only usually DN SN Eh
put it on for Remembrance Sunday but this seems like an
Sunday but this seems like an E I L)
Sunday but this seems like an appropriate time to do so and
appropriate time to do so and M)
appropriate time to do so and NI
appropriate time to do so and I’m hoping that the guards are
I’m hoping that the guards are L
I’m hoping that the guards are going to be providing
I’m hoping that the guards are IR RCR R LI R G
going to be providing the s
going to be providing the a1
going to be providing the R )
going to be providing the W RN )
going to be providing the colour as we go through, |
colour as we go through, | TN L]
colour as we go through, | L RN TSI
colour as we go through, | LRI E L LR ]
colour as we go through, | received a message from the
received @ message from the regiment, from the operations
regiment, from the operations Siile g
regiment, from the operations officer who
regiment, from the operations e eI
regiment, from the operations e IR
regiment, from the operations e ORI
regiment, from the operations officer who said he is standing
officer who said he Is standing down
officer who said he is standing a1 o
officer who said he is standing SN
officer who said he is standing I E LR
officer who said he is standing IR R R
officer who said he is standing down at 6am, if we get down
down at 6am, if we get down iRl
down at 6am, if we get down R
down at 6am, if we get down share -- if we get there by six
share -- if we get there by six |l
share -- if we get there by six we will be looking down to see
we will be looking down to see that.
we will be looking down to see eI
we will be looking down to see R 0]
we will be looking down to see LR LE IR LGRS
we will be looking down to see that. That would be amazing and
that. That would be amazing and you
that. That would be amazing and RN
that. That would be amazing and you have just under an hour
you have just under an hour left_
you have just under an hour left. That is
you have just under an hour iR LR R e
left. That is our understanding.
L M IS NI understanding. You probably
understanding. You probably PG
understanding. You probably Pl R g
understanding. You probably know better than us. That
know better than us. That Tl
know better than us. That X NI EL
know better than us. That sounds encouraging. You felt
sounds encouraging. You felt o ]
sounds encouraging. You felt compelled to
sounds encouraging. You felt LR
sounds encouraging. You felt compelled to be here? It’s a
compelled to be here? It’s a wonderful thing to be able to
wonderful thing to be able to R
wonderful thing to be able to 1]
wonderful thing to be able to do, and we feel
wonderful thing to be able to RN R R Rl
wonderful thing to be able to do, and we feel very privileged
do, and we feel very privileged to
do, and we feel very privileged R
do, and we feel very privileged e e ]
do, and we feel very privileged N RN
do, and we feel very privileged I R A )
do, and we feel very privileged R AR
do, and we feel very privileged to be some of the last people,
to be some of the last people, to
to be some of the last people, R
to be some of the last people, R
to be some of the last people, to be able to pay our spec. One
to be able to pay our spec. One N
to be able to pay our spec. One R
to be able to pay our spec. One of the wonderful things was
of the wonderful things was that, a
of the wonderful things was IR S
of the wonderful things was that, a week ago, | was up and
that, a week ago, | was up and Stanley, and we
that, a week ago, | was up and N AL R R
that, a week ago, | was up and Stanley, and we were dancing
Stanley, and we were dancing until six o’clock in the
until six o’clock in the NG
until six o’clock in the morning on the
until six o’clock in the morning on the day the Queen
morning on the day the Queen LR
morning on the day the Queen died. And so
morning on the day the Queen I MR
morning on the day the Queen S MR )
morning on the day the Queen S A R R R R 18
died. And so we were possibly )
died. And so we were possibly XN
died. And so we were possibly N R
died. And so we were possibly NSRRI
died. And so we were possibly IR U E I
died. And so we were possibly some of the last people to send
some of the last people to send )
some of the last people to send W E e
some of the last people to send e Al Ta | e e e ]
some of the last people to send e e Tt e
some of the last people to send the national anthem to ocur
the national anthem to our Queen, so that was also a very
Queen, so that was also a very ol ar
Queen, so that was also a very e
Queen, so that was also a very o I R
Queen, so that was also a very special moment. We have
Queen, so that was also a very o W L R LR
special moment. We have held you up
special moment. We have held R R A
special moment. We have held R R AR
special moment. We have held TR R R L
special moment. We have held you up now so we will let you
you up now so we will let you go on.
you up now so we will let you R RN
you up now so we will let you go on. Thank you for speaking
go on. Thank you for speaking to us. Anybody else who would
to us. Anybody else who would like to
to us. Anybody else who would R ey
to us. Anybody else who would like to share their
like to share their reflections. Everybody getting
reflections. Everybody getting very
reflections. Everybody getting A
reflections. Everybody getting AN U]
reflections. Everybody getting AN RS QR
reflections. Everybody getting AN S G R |
reflections. Everybody getting very shy at the moment, | gquess
very shy at the moment, | guess 3
very shy at the moment, | guess s
very shy at the moment, | guess T
very shy at the moment, | guess it is quite an overwhelming
it is quite an overwhelming il e
it is quite an overwhelming moment to
it is quite an overwhelming RN
it is quite an overwhelming R R e
it is quite an overwhelming NN N DR (R
it is quite an overwhelming MR N LR (Bl
moment to be here. Yes, madam. M es
moment to be here. Yes, madam. R
moment to be here. Yes, madam. Don’t lose your place. Good
Don’t lose your place. Good yIniLee
Don’t lose your place. Good UG
Don’t lose your place. Good morning, how are
Don’t lose your place. Good UG TR
ML R QGBI o T M el 1o o} morning, how are you doing.
morning, how are you doing. -
morning, how are you doing. Rl
T TP TR TR LTI LT o R R U
T TP TR TR LTI LT o R Over ten hours, gueueing,
T ARG L [ Over ten hours, gueueing, but
Over ten hours, queueing, but R
Over ten hours, queueing, but IR AR e N
Over ten hours, queueing, but IR AR e R e
Over ten hours, queueing, but IR R R A e
almost there to show our respect to our
almost there to show our (Y R R LS
almost there to show our respect to our dear Queen, and,
respect to our dear Queen, and, Y
respect to our dear Queen, and, 10
respect to our dear Queen, and, IR A
respect to our dear Queen, and, we are very, very happy in
we are very, very happy in support of
we are very, very happy in oL la keI R
we are very, very happy in support of our Queen
we are very, very happy in R R IR DU R
we are very, very happy in I R R R DU RS
support of our Queen and very (ET Y
support of our Queen and very happy to be here. Thank you
happy to be here. Thank you very much for sharing. A
very much for sharing. A beautiful
very much for sharing. A IR
very much for sharing. A beautiful T-shirt. We
very much for sharing. A eI R e il
very much for sharing. A IR TR - A
beautiful T-shirt. We will let you get
beautiful T-shirt. We will let RN
beautiful T-shirt. We will let you get on. Like |
beautiful T-shirt. We will let D[S R YV
beautiful T-shirt. We will let you get on. Like I say just
you get on. Like I say just Rty
you get on. Like I say just L R )
you get on. Like I say just moments where you have what we
moments where you have what we have
moments where you have what we TR
moments where you have what we have been watching
moments where you have what we (EN R RN T R (]
moments where you have what we have been watching for so many
have been watching for so many days now, you have
have been watching for so many A TR N R
have been watching for so many days now, you have the last,
days now, you have the last, el
days now, you have the last, final people who will be filing
final people who will be filing past the casket of Her Majesty,
past the casket of Her Majesty, Y
past the casket of Her Majesty, a historic moment, then of
a historic moment, then of e R )
a historic moment, then of course we have the rest
a historic moment, then of A R N R N A
a historic moment, then of course we have the rest of the
course we have the rest of the preparations
course we have the rest of the I R
course we have the rest of the N EIC R R ELG
course we have the rest of the preparations to take place
preparations to take place ahead
preparations to take place T B
preparations to take place ahead of the
preparations to take place T LR R R e i)
preparations to take place ahead of the service itself,
ahead of the service itself, el
ahead of the service itself, e R i
ahead of the service itself, R T
ahead of the service itself, which will be taking place at
which will be taking place at e
which will be taking place at S IR S
which will be taking place at Westminster Abbey we know
Westminster Abbey we know EIE
Westminster Abbey we know ECEL AT
Westminster Abbey we know LA UL
Westminster Abbey we know already so many dignitaries
already so many dignitaries Tee I8t
already so many dignitaries e
already so many dignitaries from all over the world have
from all over the world have come, right now this moment is
come, right now this moment is FYe L
come, right now this moment is YR )
come, right now this moment is about these people, the end of
about these people, the end of )
about these people, the end of N
about these people, the end of ORI
about these people, the end of the queue. The thousands,
the queue. The thousands, I
the queue. The thousands, IR
the queue. The thousands, I LR R I s Y
the queue. The thousands, hundreds of thousands of people
hundreds of thousands of people Ty
hundreds of thousands of people LY
hundreds of thousands of people LG EIERGITY
hundreds of thousands of people who have given up so much of
who have given up so much of e
who have given up so much of e
who have given up so much of their time and who have, well,
their time and who have, well, RiET Y
their time and who have, well, made it to here at Westminster.
made it to here at Westminster. A very long day ahead. Worth
A very long day ahead. Worth pointing
A very long day ahead. Worth LR &G
A very long day ahead. Worth pointing out the Metropolitan
pointing out the Metropolitan e
pointing out the Metropolitan Police say 10,000 officers and
Police say 10,000 officers and X&)
Police say 10,000 officers and staff will
Police say 10,000 officers and ReELnATIETY
Police say 10,000 officers and RENAET Y]
Police say 10,000 officers and staff will be on duty in London
staff will be on duty in London I
staff will be on duty in London through Monday to oversee the
through Monday to oversee the I
through Monday to oversee the eIz
The security operation is the biggest in British history.
Our home affairs correspondent, Daniel Sandord, has been
watching the final preparations.
Tonight there is an army R e 1e
Tomorrow, more than 10,000 will be working to protect
Every force in the UK is involved in what has been
LRGN GG LR G o] Westminster, armed officers
with binoculars and telescopes were already watching
Every lamp post and traffic light is being taken apart,
searched for hidden explosive devices
and carefully sealed again.
7L W T TR U o} MR NAI N L YL e e
And this is where it’s all being run from,
the Metropolitan Police’s special operations room.
Here they’ll be able to access every CCTV camera.
They’ll be able to communicate with officers at every step
aloeng the route.
And then there’ll be specialist desks for things like firearms
and for handling real time intelligence.
But despite all the technology and the thousands of officers,
police are asking people in the crowds tomorrow
to be their eyes and ears.
Members of the public who are coming please engage
with the officers because you will see things,
you will hear things that police officers might not.
And if there is anything that you see that you think is out
of the ordinary, please speak to one of the police officers
so we’ll be able to respond and deal with it appropriately.
The biggest VIP protection operation the police have ever
mounted in Lendon is already up and running,
with President Biden’s motorcade shuttling
WSO R T Y T LRGN L e RN T s
President, Emmanuel Macron, coming to pay his respects
Tomorrow, all the heads of state will be in one place,
an 800-year-old church with no permanent security perimeter.
There have been bumps along the road, like when a roller
blader nearly ran into the King’s convoy, officers say
the plan has been decades in development and they should
be able to keep everyone safe.
Daniel Sandford, BBC News, Westminster.
The queues to see the Queen’s coffin over the last few days
have become a familiar sight, and are likely to remain among
the abiding images of this period of national mourning.
So what does this say about Britain’s attitude
to the monarchy - and people’s desire to be part of a moment
of historical change?
Nick Robinson has been finding out.
I R A
Like "the Queen”, no IR O N L
You were, it seemed at times, either in it, or watching it.
At the last count, 7.5 million people had tuned into the live
feed to watch an estimated 750,000 walk
past the coffin.
We’ve never seen anything like it
TR LU P
Except those old enough NI RGN E
NEWSREEL: Through the night the people wait, silent
and patient.
Their night rest they give to the King...
(CUEIR VIR0 T is extraordinary.
It isn’t though, new.
In fact, it’s a flawless replica
of what happened 70 years ago when the Queen’s father,
King George VI, died, and he lay in state.
Britain has changed dramatically, of course.
There are 17 million e A
Our population is so much more diverse.
Back then there was just the one TV
channel, in black and white.
111918
For so many here, what matters IR GEI PR
being In the gqueue.
In this era of selfies and emojis and online posts,
(1 170 B E1 N R R e
is the advantages of being social without the media,
because the queue, for many people,
is as much about this journey as it is about the destination.
NEWSREEL: The night ends, the doors
IR oo the Hall of Kings,
the Great Hall of Westminster, passes the long, silent column.
So many people, but so Little noise.
The silence not just o)
of the noises R R RET
N ai[d 40T} and beeping of mobile
phones, not even the silence of an ancient cathedral.
Thick, deep piled carpet on the stone floor absorbs
almost every sound.
That tap-tap, for the changing of the guard.
Another signals the lowering of weapons.
After a third tap-tap, YL R e
NEWSREEL: Of George VI it will be written,
this was a King his people loved.
So little has changed e A
mourned a menarch and yet so much has changed.
Gone are the Sunday best suits, the ties and the hats,
of course, but we are still mourning together.
Not everybody, of course.
There are some who are E L REI R R (TS
LR ICRT G CR T R (=X ] that the monarchy has remnants
of empire, of hierarchy, of deference, of class.
So what does explain the willingness
of so many to queue for so long for so short a glimpse
of a coffin?
People in the queue feel they are not alone.
LS I socially distanced.
They are not behind et o
They are together with strangers
who share that desire AR R GL L
To remember, to respect and to be here, in the queue.
Nick Robinson, BBC News.
Well, for a look EI R OL BV AR E T
I’m joined now by TE AN
LW
A really big day for them to R )
A really big day for them to IR e
A really big day for them to R R e st Te1d
A really big day for them to R R e et e e e
A really big day for them to make their moment on history
make their moment on history and
make their moment on history LR
make their moment on history LR
make their moment on history and set the scene.
make their moment on history R R e N L)
make their moment on history R e LS
make their moment on history R R e N L N
and set the scene. There is one enduring image but before that,
enduring image but before that, just
enduring image but before that, TR
enduring image but before that, P& EN
enduring image but before that, just come off Nick’s
enduring image but before that, just come off Nick’s report
enduring image but before that, just come off Nick’s report and
PRy LR B (S SR N K7
just come off Nick’s report and I’ve been standing by
just come off Nick’s report and RN B EL GBI A G
just come off Nick’s report and I’ve been standing by the queue
I’ve been standing by the queue e
I’ve been standing by the queue T aE eIt
I’ve been standing by the queue for about five days
for about five days broadcasting and it had not
broadcasting and it had not uatlgg sl
broadcasting and it had not Yuatigt- R
broadcasting and it had not occurred to me, go to
broadcasting and it had not IR R RO
broadcasting and it had not occurred to me, go to page 21
occurred to me, go to page 21 of
occurred to me, go to page 21 SRy
occurred to me, go to page 21 of the Daily Mail, and there
of the Daily Mail, and there you
of the Daily Mail, and there IR LR
of the Daily Mail, and there you go. Page
of the Daily Mail, and there T[T
of the Daily Mail, and there you go. Page 21, after six
you go. Page 21, after six E
you go. Page 21, after six YR L0
you go. Page 21, after six CEV IR R
you go. Page 21, after six days, there you go, after six
days, there you go, after six days, the end of the Elizabeth
days, the end of the Elizabeth e
days, the end of the Elizabeth ML R e
days, the end of the Elizabeth ML SR G ERT
days, the end of the Elizabeth ML R L R A
line. That’s what we should Ty
line. That’s what we should N
line. That’s what we should R B
line. That’s what we should R LR
line. That’s what we should have called it all along, not
have called it all along, not )
have called it all along, not N
have called it all along, not the queue. Very good, very
the queue. Very good, very good.
the queue. Very good, very LA
the queue. Very good, very good. If you stick with the
good. If you stick with the Daily Mail and go to page four
Daily Mail and go to page four and five. ..
Daily Mail and go to page four and five... You are working
and five... You are working hard
and five... You are working TRy
and five... You are working hard this morning. This is how
hard this morning. This is how )
hard this morning. This is how the Daily Mail calls the
the Daily Mail calls the reception of
the Daily Mail calls the (IR R U
the Daily Mail calls the (IR R R
the Daily Mail calls the reception of the century. This
reception of the century. This WIS
reception of the century. This huge gathering of world
huge gathering of world leaders, and look at the
leaders, and look at the L I
leaders, and look at the footwear, they are very
footwear, they are very interested
footwear, they are very M e 3R s
footwear, they are very e AR
footwear, they are very e R ENE G Y d
footwear, they are very e L ENE R de
interested in the wear of e
interested in the wear of President Macron and his wife,
President Macron and his wife, they
President Macron and his wife, QSRS
President Macron and his wife, QAT d18
President Macron and his wife, QA GOl A
President Macron and his wife, QA GO A R Gl
they kept security on their toes
they kept security on their A
they kept security on their toes by visiting
they kept security on their R
they kept security on their toes by visiting on foot. There
ICTE R RN R R (T S | L 3
ICTE R RN R R (T S | L Y
ICTE R RN R R (T S | L YR
toes by visiting on foot. There is Joe Biden as
toes by visiting on foot. There YL LR
toes by visiting on foot. There is Joe Biden as well. The times
is Joe Biden as well. The times I
is Joe Biden as well. The times I
is Joe Biden as well. The times IR AEE]
s Joe Biden as well. The times Says it is a very tricky summit
Says it is a very tricky summit )
Says it is a very tricky summit IR
Says it is a very tricky summit e IR NG
Says it is a very tricky summit because you have all these
because you have all these el
because you have all these world leaders from lots of
world leaders from lots of e e ey
world leaders from lots of countries that
world leaders from lots of e R )
world leaders from lots of countries that have many
T LR G R L RN TR ) MG
countries that have many disputes between themselves
countries that have many N R R U R U I AN L,
disputes between themselves and 4
disputes between themselves and kings and
disputes between themselves and O EELLE TG
disputes between themselves and LG T RG]
disputes between themselves and kings and queens with all sorts
kings and queens with all sorts of
kings and queens with all sorts S a1t
kings and queens with all sorts of historical disputes. They
of historical disputes. They e
of historical disputes. They want to
of historical disputes. They o R Rt 1]
of historical disputes. They T R e e e )
of historical disputes. They N R R N R )
want to come because the I
want to come because the viewing figures around this
viewing figures around this el
viewing figures around this G S
viewing figures around this funeral are predicted to be 4
funeral are predicted to be 4 IS
funeral are predicted to be 4 billion people. The main
billion people. The main picture,
billion people. The main G
billion people. The main - G
billion people. The main picture, let me show
billion people. The main O ARG RO
picture, let me show you the telegraph now, in the UK papers
telegraph now, in the UK papers on
telegraph now, in the UK papers R )
telegraph now, in the UK papers on the day of the Queen’s
on the day of the Queen’s funeral, a previously unseen
funeral, a previously unseen LT
funeral, a previously unseen portrait of
funeral, a previously unseen PR G
funeral, a previously unseen portrait of the Queen. The
portrait of the Queen. The UG ERIE
portrait of the Queen. The Telegraph go with the headline
Telegraph go with the headline Y
Telegraph go with the headline a life of selfless service. It
=R R T o 3
=R R T o TSN
=R R T o is in The
a life of selfless service. It is in The Express In the
a life of selfless service. It ANRLE TR LRGN ELY,
s In The Express In the Daily Mirror
s In The Express In the Daily i
iIs in The Express In the Daily R R
iIs in The Express In the Daily R IR A
RO R RPN R G R T Mirror as well. This was taken
Mirror as well. This was taken in May by the photographer
in May by the photographer Ranald Mackechnie. Also, the
Ranald Mackechnie. Also, the ST
Ranald Mackechnie. Also, the Queen’s aguamarine brooch,
Queen’s aguamarine brooch, present
Queen’s aquamarine brooch, present from her parents in
present from her parents in 1944
present from her parents in LYV
present from her parents in YY)
present from her parents in 1944 but the point is, this
1944 but the point is, this photographer are taken family
photographer are taken family 0
photographer are taken family LGS
photographer are taken family NG CREIIY
photographer are taken family NG R EVA N
photographer are taken family photo after family photo, so
photographer are taken family NG EL VA I O R
photo after family photo, so in 2016
photo after family phote, so in 2016 for example, the Queen,
2016 for example, the Queen, Prince Charles, Prince William
Prince Charles, Prince William and
Prince Charles, Prince William R e
Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince George, and was a
and Prince George, and was a 90th birthday at the time.
90th birthday at the time. We’ve been discussing this
AR I TN R G [ S
We’ve been discussing this before, this
We’ve been discussing this [ (TR G R
We’ve been discussing this before, this is a
We’ve been discussing this PRGN G
We’ve been discussing this before, this is a woman who has
before, this is a woman who has T
before, this is a woman who has TR
before, this is a woman who has TR
before, this is a woman who has AR I R
before, this is a woman who has been put at ease. The power of
been put at ease. The power of familiarity with your subject,
familiarity with your subject, Tk
familiarity with your subject, isn’t it? She certainly seems
isn’t it? She certainly seems very comfortable. And very
very comfortable. And very (ET Y
very comfortable. And very happy which is a nice picture.
happy which is a nice picture. e
happy which is a nice picture. A
happy which is a nice picture. The Queen consort, Camilla,
The Queen consort, Camilla, I EIL]
The Queen consort, Camilla, I
The Queen consort, Camilla, remarking on her blue eyes
remarking on her blue eyes HcE
remarking on her blue eyes e
remarking on her blue eyes there. | think this phote
there. | think this photo %1\
there. | think this photo really brings this out. Let us
really brings this out. Let us i
really brings this out. Let us AL
really brings this out. Let us ARG
really brings this out. Let us AR (R
really brings this out. Let us show you ‘the i, the world’s
show you ‘the I’, the world’s farewell
show you ‘the I’, the world’s farewell to Elizabeth. This is
farewell to Elizabeth. This Is the
farewell to Elizabeth. This is R LIS
farewell to Elizabeth. This is R EINEL
farewell to Elizabeth. This is the walk and that is how
farewell to Elizabeth. This is R LN RO A R A e
the walk and that is how people Py
the walk and that is how people are lining up their to pay
are lining up their to pay e
are lining up their to pay their respects. If
are lining up their to pay T o R
are lining up their to pay their respects. If we show
are lining up their to pay T R R A L
their respects. If we show you )
their respects. If we show you L
their respects. If we show you the Metro, my favourite image,
the Metro, my favourite image, this
the Metro, my favourite image, G
the Metro, my favourite image, this is from the
the Metro, my favourite image, QIR (T R RN RG]
the Metro, my favourite image, this is from the beginning of
this is from the beginning of g
this is from the beginning of (AR
this is from the beginning of (A A
this is from the beginning of YR Iy A T 1
this is from the beginning of her reign, or close to the
her reign, or close to the LG
her reign, or close to the COIGLLERS
her reign, or close to the beginning of her
her reign, or close to the ORI R I e
her reign, or close to the beginning of her reign, from
beginning of her reign, from 1954, a
LB LIRDEG I A gy 1954, a strike imported by
beginning of her reign, from 1954, a strike imported by the
1954, a strike imported by the Italian artist Pietro Annigoni,
Italian artist Pietro Annigoni, T
Italian artist Pietro Annigoni, I CE]
Italian artist Pietro Annigoni, quite a fitting and striking
quite a fitting and striking wal e
quite a fitting and striking tribute. Thank you, Mark, for a
tribute. Thank you, Mark, for a Y
tribute. Thank you, Mark, for a V&
tribute. Thank you, Mark, for a & R
tribute. Thank you, Mark, for a look at the papers. With the
look at the papers. With the ST
LI 1 G EL IR G R G [ Queen’s passing,
With the Queen’s passing, questions are being raised over
being raised over
the future of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Her ceremonial role has helped bind the group
of 54 nations together.
Out of all of Britain’s former colonies in Asia,
Singapore has seen the most dramatic development
since independence.
It’s also seen as one of the Commonwealth’'s success
stories, and accordingly, the prosperous city-state tends
RGN L G R LT A LR
as Nick Marsh reports.
Singapore Is
Singapore is synonymous with
Singapore Is synenymous with ML
Singapore is synonymous with modernity but look around and
modernity but look around and L
modernity but look around and LR
modernity but look around and signs of the past
signs of the past reveal NI
signs of the past reveal N LS
signs of the past reveal NI LT A
signs of the past reveal themselves. The late Queen
themselves. The late Queen immortalised in a
[y e UG R R forwardthinking
immortalised in a forwardthinking city. When she
forwardthinking city. When she e
forwardthinking city. When she AR ]
forwardthinking city. When she TR N e ]
forwardthinking city. When she first came here in 1972,
first came here in 1972, Singapore was an ambitious
Singapore was an ambitious young nation, keen to show its
young nation, keen to show its e
young nation, keen to show its former colonial master
young nation, keen to show its T e R R EI R R e
young nation, keen to show its former colonial master it could
former colonial master it could o)
former colonial master it could go it
former colonial master it could L IS
former colonial master it could go it alone. She visited this
go it alone. She visited this G-
go it alone. She visited this estate, pioneering public
estate, pioneering public LT
estate, pioneering public housing that Singapore is now
housing that Singapore is now famous for. It’s something that
famous for. It’s something that |
famous for. It’s something that IBaTe]'e
famous for. It’s something that IEGIGTR
famous for. It’s something that I think we wanted
famous for. It’s something that IBGINTR R e E ]
famous for. It’s something that I think we wanted to show. ..
| think we wanted to show... Joe Lim was seven when the
Joe Lim was seven when the Queen was
Joe Lim was seven when the AR LR
Joe Lim was seven when the Queen was invited into his
Queen was Invited inte his parents
Queen was invited into his parents flat. That is me,
parents flat. That is me, HcE
parents flat. That is me, LS
parents flat. That is me, O L EI SR TTE
parents flat. That is me, there. That’s you? That is me
there. That’s you? That is me with my back to the camera you
with my back to the camera you ]
with my back to the camera you can see
with my back to the camera you R
with my back to the camera you can see me picking out in this
can see me picking out in this N
can see me picking out in this T O]
can see me picking out in this picture. So it’s really
can see me picking out in this T R R SR (VA G
o[ IR SR CE R G T AL
picture. So it’s really the GG
picture. So it’s really the highlight of my childhood. Even
highlight of my childhood. Even e
for my parents, they do still =11
for my parents, they do still &I & e 014
for my parents, they do still talk about the visit
for my parents, they do still &R R e s ]
for my parents, they do still talk about the visit and they
talk about the visit and they Y-\
talk about the visit and they VA
talk about the visit and they F VRIS R O
talk about the visit and they say it’s the highlight
talk about the visit and they VSR G
talk about the visit and they say it’s the highlight of their
VARG go R4 Ll lives
say It’s the highlight of their lives. Singapore’s
say It’s the highlight of their lives. Singapore’s native Malay
lives. Singapore’s native Malay population was colonised 200
population was colonised 200 years ago
population was celonised 200 LD L
population was celonised 200 years ago but most
population was colonised 200 years ago but most present-day
years ago but most present-day Singaporeans have their roots
Singaporeans have their roots in China.
Singaporeans have their roots R
Singaporeans have their roots in China. Their ancestors came
in China. Their ancestors came after
in China. Their ancestors came )
in China. Their ancestors came RGN
in China. Their ancestors came after the British, looking for
after the British, looking for bhetter
after the British, looking for better opportunities. For
better opportunities. For Singapore’s Foreign Minister,
Singapore’s Foreign Minister, continuing
Singapore’s Foreign Minister, I ILGRL
Singapore’s Foreign Minister, continuing in the Commonwealth
continuing in the Commonwealth s
continuing in the Commonwealth is also about furthering
is also about furthering e OhlA
is also about furthering opportunity. To
is also about furthering el RN
oppertunity. To him, Singaporean history
opportunity. To him, Singaporean history isn’t a
Singaporean history isn’t a 301s%
Singaporean history isn’t a story of
Singaporean history isn’t a SR UG R
Singaporean history isn’t a SRR G R
Singaporean history isn’t a SO U R T R G
Singaporean history isn’t a story of Dominion. We have no
story of Dominion. We have no baggage. We’re not to
baggage. We’re not to relitigate the past. We
relitigate the past. We acknowledge the
relitigate the past. We Eld QI EL LR G LI
relitigate the past. We acknowledge the past, we give
acknowledge the past, we give o
acknowledge the past, we give e IR ie
acknowledge the past, we give ot R e
acknowledge the past, we give credit for the institutions
credit for the institutions that
WL TR G RN T R
WL TR G RN T e i
WL TR G RN T LI N e R )
WL R G R T that are inherited. We admire
that are inherited. We admire e A a]
that are inherited. We admire Y R s e e e
that are inherited. We admire British understatement. We
British understatement. We believe
British understatement. We A S LR e
British understatement. We A RS LR etlde e 4
believe even our current Y aaglo 10t
believe even our current Y gl Nt R
believe even our current attributes of being pragmatic
attributes of being pragmatic and sensible and reasonable, it
and sensible and reascnable, it )
and sensible and reasonable, it IR ey
and sensible and reasonable, it I R R
and sensible and reasonable, it I R e R A e |
also reflects that shared history.
also reflects that shared IS Y A 1§
also reflects that shared history. It’s pragmatism that
history. It’s pragmatism that I
history. It’s pragmatism that allows Singapore to wear its
allows Singapore to wear its e G
allows Singapore to wear its colonial past so lightly. This
colonial past so lightly. This 1%
colonial past so lightly. This PO A G
colonial past so lightly. This RGNS
colonial past so lightly. This PO A R )
colonial past so lightly. This A G
colonial past so lightly. This luxury hotel is to be the
luxury hotel is to be the ¥ AL
luxury hotel is to be the British military headquarters
British military headquarters >4
British military headquarters Far East Command, built on
British military headquarters FIE A T EL A T R ]
Far East Command, built on top of
Far East Command, built on top SRy
Far East Command, built on top of the hill
Far East Command, built on top SRR
Far East Command, built on top RGBT
Far East Command, built on top RGBSR
Far East Command, built on top of the hill in case of a
Far East Command, built on top RGBT R R e ]
of the hill in case of a local uprising. You
of the hill in case of a local LR TR ]k
of the hill in case of a local LR TR EL R T
of the hill in case of a local uprising. You can’t say there
uprising. You can’t say there s
uprising. You can’t say there L
uprising. You can’t say there is any real controversy
uprising. You can’t say there A N S AL
uprising. You can’t say there A N NN S A SRl
Is any real controversy here in Singapore over old buildings or
Singapore over old buildings or RG]
Singapore over old buildings or RGN
Singapore over old buildings or statues or place names. The
statues or place names. The SeEll
statues or place names. The e es R
statues or place names. The e R R
statues or place names. The arrival of the British
statues or place names. The O R R O R S
arrival of the British helped to
arrival of the British helped Rt gat]
arrival of the British helped RN e R
arrival of the British helped RIS R R E sl
arrival of the British helped to transform this island into
arrival of the British helped RN R GICREA R R o
to transform this island into a global trading hub but, by the
global trading hub but, by the )
global trading hub but, by the same token, ever since the
same token, ever since the e A a]
same token, ever since the Y R a 8
same token, ever since the Y RS dl]
same token, ever since the Y R A R )
same token, ever since the British left in the 1960s,
British left in the 1960s, Singapore has hardly looked
Singapore has hardly looked e 4 1)
Singapore has hardly looked Lt
Singapore has hardly looked back. The new head of the
back. The new head of the € e i a iy hds]
back. The new head of the G E
back. The new head of the R
back. The new head of the Commonwealth last came to
Commonwealth last came to Singapore five years ago. When
Singapore five years ago. When Y
Singapore five years ago. When R Ol
Singapore five years ago. When he returns, the crowds might
(CECOTG AR G R LER Tl s
(CECOTG AR G R LER Tl o)
he returns, the crowds might not be as
(CECOTG AR G R LER Tl not be as big
he returns, the crowds might not be as big as they were for
not be as big as they were for his
not be as big as they were for R e
not be as big as they were for R k0]
not be as big as they were for NSO ETEIS
not be as big as they were for his mother 50 years ago that he
his mother 50 years ago that he il
his mother 50 years ago that he IR
his mother 50 years ago that he will be welcomed
his mother 50 years ago that he R R il e )
his mother 50 years ago that he will be welcomed because here,
will be welcomed because here, )
will be welcomed because here, QR
will be welcomed because here, the past isn’t something to be
the past isn’t something to be dwelled on
the past isn’t something to be I s R d
the past isn’t something to be dwelled on for too
the past isn’t something to be LG R R E LG R
the past isn’t something to be dwelled on for too long. Nick
dwelled on for too long. Nick Marsh, BBC
dwelled on for too long. Nick R T
dwelled on for too long. Nick Marsh, BBC News, Singapore.
Puerto Rico’s entire AYadglai A O E I
knocked out by Hurricane Fiona,
which has made landfall on the island’s southwest coast
with sustained winds of 140km/h.
The US territory’s population of 3.3 million
s without power and the US National Hurricane Centre says
eI CR (D[R (Gl v is expected.
It comes just five years after the island was devastated
by Hurricane Maria.
President Biden has approved an emergency declaration,
allowing the federal authorities to provide disaster
One of Russia’s most famous singers has publicly condemned
Alla Pugachova said she wanted to be declared a foreign agent
in solidarity with her husband, who’s another outspoken critic
Our Russia Editor, Steve Rosenberg, told us
the intervention is significant, as Alla Pugacheva
Is more than just a pop star:
She Is super popular, she is admired, she is adored,
she is respected across Russia and aside from her wonderful
voice, when she has G R CETA
people tend to sit up and listen.
The statement that she issued today
was more than just a staunch defence of her husband,
18RRI (I criticism, really,
of what the Kremlin still calls its special military operation.
Some strong language, NI e e
point she said, "our lads,” meaning Russian soldiers,
"are dying for illusionary aims that make our country
a pariah and the lives st ara e
extremely difficult.”
| reckon that language like that
coming from someone like that, LR L L A F)
Pugacheva, is going to infuriate the Kremlin.
So | suspect we will see attempts to discredit
Alla Pugacheva in the state media.
But it’s going to be ALY
to see whether her s i a gy 01}
will affect public opinion here and spark more public
opposition to the Yo R LA
Now, you may remember, recently several town
councillors in Russia expressed public criticism
of Vladimir Putin and called on him to resign.
Today, we hear the criticism from Alla Pugacheva.
Is there a pattern here?
| think it is too early to tell,
but certainly the message RO RN
as far as they are concerned, GG RE
according to plan.
Martine Croxall presents a special programme looking
at the numerous moments QLS EIRE A R
the members of the public IR R E ST SR (G
Hello and welcome to this special programme from BBC
News.
Over the next 25 minutes or 50 we are going to show
you some of the many special moments from the Royal
walkabouts, members of Her Majesty’s family have
taken part in since the Queen died.
To thank the many thousands of people up and down the UK
who have come out to pay their respects.
We will take you to the four corners of the UK and we start
in Aberdeenshire at Balmoral Y Y - Na e 1l Ta e e
of the Royal Family spent time last Sunday seeing the many
floral tributes to Her Majesty.
Staying in Scotland and the Princess Royal,
Princess Anne, went out meeting people in Glasgow.
To Northern Ireland where the King and Queen Consort met
well-wishers in Hillsborough.
CROWD: Love you!
To Windsor now where TR R ARy
In a number of years, princes William and Harry
and their wives greeted people at Windsor Castle.
Right, everyone, thank you so much.
Thank you, everyone.
The new Prince and Princess of Wales, William
and Catherine, were also out greeting people
in Sandringham in Nerfolk.
Meanwhile, in Wales on a visit to Cardiff Castle,
the new King and Queen Consort R BT e
WOMAN SHOUTS IN DISTANCE: God save the King!
To Buckingham Palace now, YN EI R G I
of people from around R R R Ts|
In the last few days.
Members of the Royal Family R T hE e e n
We start with the Earl and Countess of Wessex.
She is gorgeous. Take care.
How are you doing?
My condolences to you and your family.
I’m so
N SR
I’m so sorry for your loss. I’m )
I’m so sorry for your loss. I’m LG
I’m so sorry for your loss. I’m LT 1]
I’m so sorry for your loss. I’m so grateful, thank you very
so grateful, thank you very much.
so grateful, thank you very S e s P L)
so grateful, thank you very much. Have you been to Green
much. Have you been to Green PP
much. Have you been to Green Park yet?
Just going past?
Whereabouts have you come from?
111918
Hello there, hello.
Thank you for coming CR G RV A BT
El Dl R 8
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for all your support. T4
Thank you for all your support. Thank you
Thank you for all your support. =S TR s
Thank you for all your support. Thank you very much. Thank you
Thank you very much. Thank you )
Thank you very much. Thank you so much.
[LiE1L @0
LIS RS
Thank you very much, everybody.
Earlier in the week, King Charles was outside
the Palace, meeting mourners.
ALL: Long live the king!
WOMAN: | think he Is, because the car stopped.
WOMAN: | can’t see anything.
WOMAN: God save the King!
We wish you success.
A D
VLA Ui D R
Very kind of you. Thank
LA DR R TR L EL LG
Thank you, Charles!
Thank you, Charles.
God bless you, Charles. You’ve got
God bless you, Charles. You’ve Al
God bless you, Charles. You’ve ML
God bless you, Charles. You’ve got big shoes to fill. You are
got big shoes to fill. You are L
got big shoes to fill. You are going to be a fantastic King.
going to be a fantastic King. sl
going to be a fantastic King. AU
going to be a fantastic King. Good luck, Charlie! Long live
Good luck, Charlie! Long live )
Good luck, Charlie! Long live QAL
Good luck, Charlie! Long live the King! God bless you. Thank
the King! God bless you. Thank IR
the King! God bless you. Thank you. All the best.
Can
LR R (IR
Can | kiss you? Please!
I
Ik
| am so sorry for your loss.
So
ST RS Idg’a
Hip hip...
Hooray!
Hip hip...
Hooray!
Also in London, the King and Prince William have been
out meeting some of the hundreds of thousands
of people who have queued for many hours to see the Queen
lying In state.
Thank you so much.
| hope
T To IR TN
| hope you’re toes and O]
| hope you’re toes and AU
| hope you’re toes and AEUNL IR
| hope you’re toes and everything are OK. It
| hope you’re toes and A NP IR Lo T
| hope you’re toes and everything are OK. It was a
everything are OK. It was a o sl
everything are OK. It was a LI
everything are OK. It was a cold night last night.
Your hands are quite warm, el
Your hands are quite warm, which is good! Maybe you are
which is good! Maybe you are 1R
which is good! Maybe you are all thawing out. | was praying
all thawing out. | was praying Y
all thawing out. | was praying we were going to have some warm
we were going to have some warm nights. Lovely to see you guys.
You’ve made me so proud.
LR
| don’t even know you.
| hope the queue goes fast for you.
I’m happy to wait, I’m happy to wait.
Thank you so much.
Bless you. Thank you so much.
| hope
T To IR TN
| hope you’re keeping warm. We
I hope you’re keeping warm. We o
I hope you’re keeping warm. We Y- IR o ]
| hope you’re keeping warm. We are. You must be thinking how
are. You must be thinking how much
are. You must be thinking how T AN Y
are. You must be thinking how much longer is this... It’s
much loenger is this... It’s T
much longer is this... It’s LR R
Good job there, sir!
He Is whizzing
He is whizzing down! So quick! Hope
He is whizzing down! So quick! SR
He is whizzing down! So quick! Hope it was
He is whizzing down! So quick! SRR
He is whizzing down! So quick! Hope it was all right last
Hope it was all right last b
Hope it was all right last Il
Hope it was all right last night. It was a cold night,
sl A L LR L I [ 1884
sl A L LR L I [ L 18
night. It was a cold night, LR 1
night. It was a cold night, L T
night. It was a cold night, sorry about that. As long as
sorry about that. As long as you
sorry about that. As long as T
sorry about that. As long as IR )
sorry about that. As long as you are nice and warm. You have
you are nice and warm. You have )
you are nice and warm. You have some hice
you are nice and warm. You have R R )
you are nice and warm. You have some nice people around you?
some nice people around you? You will make some friends for
You will make some friends for B
You will make some friends for life. You
You will make some friends for RN
You will make some friends for life. You are doing a grand
Life. You are doing a grand LR
Life. You are doing a grand job. So
Life. You are doing a grand L1 AL R0
life. You are doing a grand job. So sorry for your loss.
ARG A S I TS Fantastic
job. So sorry for your loss. Fantastic job
ARG A S I TS Fantastic job over the
J[ARTEI (A IS I TS Fantastic job over the past
Fantastic job over the past Vs
Good luck with the queue.
You are doing really well.
You’re more than halfway.
I’m conscious that | have to go so you can all move.
I hT
IR
| am going as quick as | can. W
| am going as quick as | can. Lovely to
| am going as quick as | can. NE VAR
| am going as quick as | can. Lovely to see you.
How are you doing?
Are you Man U fans?
That’s great.
KN
Lovely to see you guys.
How are you doing?
LNl 4
Nice to see you, guys.
Well done, all of you.
Seriously, 12 hours?
MAN SHOUTS: God bless the Prince of Wales!
Yes, we have come well-prepared.
Well done - you’ve done really well, all of you.
MAN SHOUTS: God bless the Prince of Wales!
KL
| saw the temperature last b
| saw the temperature last night. Thank you. Yes, you are!
night. Thank you. Yes, you are! T4
night. Thank you. Yes, you are! Thank you so much. | hope
Thank you so much. I hope all '8
Thank you so much. I hope all OK. You
Thank you so much. | hope all OK. You have your trainers on?
OK. You have your trainers on? We
OK. You have your trainers on? Y )
OK. You have your trainers on? We do OK
OK. You have your trainers on? We do 0K last
OK. You have your trainers on? We do OK last night?
-- were you OK last night?
IR 5L
It was worth it! It was worth it
It’s worth it just to see you, William!
Best wishes! Take care!
That’s all for now but, a reminder you can keep
up to date on the latest of all the events relating
to the death of Her Majesty on the BBC website or download
our smartphone app.
From me, Martine Croxall, G ENER TR O T
Many of us have seen increasing R T R R e e
the weekend and cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s
weather story - possibly thick enough at times to give some
spots of rain, maybe the odd shower - but it will largely
stay dry and | am hopeful that things will remain dry
in Londen and in Windsor R RS G R T e ]
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon, it could give the odd light
shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge - that’s keeping
things mostly dry - but this weak warm front
is introducing more cloud RGO E R R I Rl
LRGSR G| across South West Scotland,
perhaps North West England and this band of thick cloud
and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does
tend to push eastwards RO A e LR Ul
North East Scotland will see some good spells
of sunshine, though.
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time.
South Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
The winds for most places NS A
Now, through Monday night, we’ll see large areas of cloud
still potentially giving some spots of rain and drizzle,
especially in eastern parts.
Some clear breaks out RO e
They may well fill in with a little bit of mist and fog.
A little milder than it has been over recent nights
- 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle but it does look Like the cloud
should tend to turn over and break up a little bit
across some western parts IR R A LR
A bit more patchy rain into the western Isles of Scotland.
17 to 19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling
17 to 19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling
And actually, on Wednesday, if we see some sunny spells,
at least for a time, it will feel considerably
Temperatures of 17 degrees in Aberdeen, 21in Norwich
But a frontal system pushing in towards the north-west,
bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make
erratic progress southwards and eastwards through Thursday
and into Friday.
Some of the rain actually could be quite heavy,
SN IR G ) into the south of England
So, the chance of some rain, particularly later
on in the week, and a bit less R G LR R
I’m Sally Bundock with
the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
The final goodbye to a much-loved Queen -
the funeral of Elizabeth R R DI
In Westminster Abbey in a few hours’ time.
Prince George and Princess 0 EN RN
the procession of the Royal Family, following the coffin
The last of the hundreds of thousands
of people who have queued to see the Queen lying-in-state,
as preparations for the funeral begin.
And I’m calcium Madeira
And I’m calcium Madeira live in e
And I’m calcium Madeira live in N IR R )
And I’m calcium Madeira live in Westminster where those final
Westminster where those final people are still waiting to
people are still waiting to 1y
people are still waiting to file past two Majesty’s casket,
file past two Majesty’s casket, 11
file past two Majesty’s casket, they are
file past two Majesty’s casket, USRI
file past two Majesty’s casket, they are the last people to do
they are the last people to do So.
Hundreds of world leaders and foreign dignitaries
attended a reception hosted by King Charles at Buckingham
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau paid tribute
| first met Her Majesty when | Ty
| first met Her Majesty when | Wwas seven
| first met Her Majesty when | was seven years old, and her
was seven years old, and her ]
was seven years old, and her presence throughout my life has
presence throughout my life has T
presence throughout my life has been constant, inspiring, and
been constant, inspiring, and graceful.
More than 10,000 police officers will be on duty
in London to oversee the funeral -the biggest single
gathering of global statesmen and women in living memory.
Welcome to Westminster. The el
Welcome to Westminster. The final people
Welcome to Westminster. The LG G
Welcome to Westminster. The final people are filing through
final people are filing through the
final people are filing through W TEI
final people are filing through the queue we
final people are filing through O R NG
final people are filing through the queue we have been watching
the queue we have been watching e
the queue we have been watching ]
the queue we have been watching for so many
the queue we have been watching SR EIN A BV A
the queue we have been watching for so many days here, they are
for so many days here, they are s
for so many days here, they are T R
for so many days here, they are now the final people to get to
QIR TR IR CR G e
QIR TR IR CR G Westminster Hall, to make
QIOVRG TR (IR CR G [ Westminster Hall, to make that
Westminster Hall, to make that el
Westminster Hall, to make that final journey, past the casket
final journey, past the casket of
final journey, past the casket A
final journey, past the casket of Her Majesty.
final journey, past the casket N S EI S AR
final journey, past the casket of Her Majesty. This is the
of Her Majesty. This is the i
of Her Majesty. This is the last moment of, the part that
last moment of, the part that T
last moment of, the part that has become
last moment of, the part that TR e N A e ]
last moment of, the part that has become known as
last moment of, the part that TR Rl NG R
last moment of, the part that has become known as the snake,
has become known as the snake, that really compact
has become known as the snake, OGE - R a1 [ [ f oo
has become known as the snake, that really compact part of
has become known as the snake, OEIR AL e R R )
that really compact part of the IR G
that really compact part of the IR G
that really compact part of the IR U RUEIN
that really compact part of the queue, where so many hundreds
queue, where so many hundreds of thousands of
queue, where so many hundreds RGO R I
queue, where so many hundreds of thousands of people have
of thousands of people have made the many, many hours of
made the many, many hours of this journey, now we are seeing
this journey, now we are seeing )
this journey, now we are seeing !
this journey, now we are seeing LR A
this journey, now we are seeing the end of that queue as we now
the end of that queue as we now P g
the end of that queue as we now R e
the end of that queue as we now s N s
the end of that queue as we now await the end of the
await the end of the formal part of
await the end of the formal IR
await the end of the formal part of the lying and state for
part of the lying and state for )
part of the lying and state for R0 (o
part of the lying and state for the public, the doors then will
the public, the doors then will )
the public, the doors then will Rl
the public, the doors then will R L
the public, the doors then will TR TSR]
the public, the doors then will be closed as the final people
be closed as the final people o[
be closed as the final people W
be closed as the final people do go past, go through
do go past, go through e
do go past, go through Westminster Hall
do go past, go through I d EU T )
do go past, go through Westminster Hall and then onto
Westminster Hall and then onto )
Westminster Hall and then onto a4
Westminster Hall and then onto the next part the proceedings.
the next part the proceedings. We await the service itself
We await the service itself el
We await the service itself e R i
We await the service itself which will take place at
which will take place at e
which will take place at S IR S
which will take place at Westminster Abbey as
which will take place at S IS G- S
Westminster Abbey as my colleague, Nicholas Twitchell,
colleague, Nicholas Twitchell, Tl
colleague, Nicholas Twitchell, IR TR
It is ten days now A R
The new King, Charles, arriving at Buckingham Palace
earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led
the country’s mourning in the days since.
In @ message tonight he said he’d
been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
Among the hundreds MR GRCEG
EEGHGELR the State Funeral,
the President AU RS S
IR [ =D R T gV RGN L ARG
A few moments later, President Biden and the First
Lady of the United States, Dr Jill Biden, stood
quietly on a balcony NGRS U
Like so many thousands of others
over the past four days, struck by the intensity
| think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all,
the notion of service.
We all owe something, there is something within our
capacity to do that can make things,
not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better,
your household better, your workplace better.
To all the people of the United Kingdom, our hearts
go out to you and TR R (N LG
to have had her for 70 R LR e
CUR GN NGPE IR T TV Yo R 1 for the State Funeral,
from Camilla, the Queen Consort,
her reflection on the 70 years of the Queen’s reign.
She has been part of our Lives for ever.
NUEN LN UL I L A A
the Queen being there.
It must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman,
there weren’t women R G
R LRI L) R she was the only one.
So | think she carved her own role.
I’ll always remember WEIEINIER
You know, that smile ROl N
Many thousands of people have wanted
to be a part of this moment.
Some have queued for many hours or placed flowers
in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to London
to absorb the sights and emotions
along the route of the procession
and outside the Abbey Church TR TR TG R R
place.
We didn’t know I T a VAR ]
but we wanted to do something.
You know, it felt right to come up and do something
and bring my son here.
You know, | think there’s a lot of people who don’t know
what to do, but feel RO R R L
something, so it just felt like the right thing
to do was to come up here with everybody else.
During the hours of darkness, MR R 1 E )
admitted to the lying-in-state at Westminster Hall.
And then in the morning, A NI e R RS G
place of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
Nicholas Witchell, BBC News.
VI
M INgle s dg T¢I
During thoese hours
During those hours of darkness e B
During those hours of darkness Nicholas was reflecting on we
Nicholas was reflecting on we have
Nicholas was reflecting on we VRl
Nicholas was reflecting on we EYCES ST
Nicholas was reflecting on we have spent night with
Nicholas was reflecting on we ENES Gl S R 11
have spent night with final TG
have spent night with final people who are in that queue,
people who are in that queue, )
people who are in that queue, the thing that
people who are in that queue, QR GIDRGEIEER
people who are in that queue, the thing that has become a
the thing that has become a phenomenon in
the thing that has become a phenomenen in itself,
the thing that has become a N L LT R W L AR T T
phenomenon In itself, waiting, still
phenomenon In itself, waiting, S (RZh ]
phenomenon in itself, waiting, still waiting but now finally
still waiting but now finally Y
still waiting but now finally we see the end of
still waiting but now finally N Y R R R R )
still waiting but now finally we see the end of the queue,
we see the end of the queue, and
we see the end of the queue, R ST
we see the end of the queue, RS DX
we see the end of the queue, and it’s quite a touching
and it’s quite a touching Rt il-i1 e
and it’s quite a touching moment when we see some
and it’s quite a touching IR R R
and it’s quite a touching IR R N T AL
moment when we see some of the el
moment when we see some of the final people who will be filing
final people who will be filing past the casket of the Queen,
past the casket of the Queen, becoming
past the casket of the Queen, I
past the casket of the Queen, becoming -- is
past the casket of the Queen, IR IEERER T
past the casket of the Queen, becoming -- is the final part
becoming -~ is the final part of
becoming -~ is the final part SRy
becoming -- is the final part RG]
becoming -- is the final part SR s
becoming -- is the final part AN I NEEN R )
becoming -- is the final part of the Lline and state is
of the line and state Is A
of the line and state Is concluded. It’s not
of the line and state is concluded. It’s not just the
concluded. It’s not just the people behind me who have been
people behind me who have been waiting
people behind me who have been Eh LR
people behind me who have been waiting in this queue, there
waiting in this queue, there Py
waiting in this queue, there are also around Westminster and
are also around Westminster and around
are also around Westminster and EICI LI G T
are also around Westminster and around Buckingham palace trying
around Buckingham palace trying to secure
around Buckingham palace trying R e R e
around Buckingham palace trying to secure their place
around Buckingham palace trying R E LR )
around Buckingham palace trying to secure their place to watch
to secure their place to watch )
to secure their place to watch the moment
to secure their place to watch R R
to secure their place to watch the moment the funeral Cortes
the moment the funeral Cortes goes
the moment the funeral Cortes AN
the moment the funeral Cortes goes by and my colleague spent
goes by and my colleague spent )
goes by and my colleague spent QT
goes by and my colleague spent GG R
goes by and my colleague spent the night with people along the
the night with people along the R
the night with people along the IR i R )
the night with people along the wall. With the sun setting
LI RV GRSV RS ey Te behind
LI RV GRSV RS ey Te TR )
LI RV GRSV RS ey Te behind those at
LI TR O B G LRV R e dly T behind those at Buckingham
behind those at Buckingham palace
behind those at Buckingham I Fl RG]
behind those at Buckingham oF | Fl R O A L
behind those at Buckingham palace they prepared for a
palace they prepared for a night
palace they prepared for a LG
palace they prepared for a G ARG
palace they prepared for a G ARG
palace they prepared for a night in the open. What have we
night in the open. What have we got here? Hot chocolate? It is
got here? Hot chocolate? It is SIS
got here? Hot chocolate? It is ST ]
got here? Hot chocolate? It is duly’s second night on the
duly’s second night on the 1
duly’s second night on the 2 Y T
duly’s second night on the (Y R E i e
duly’s second night on the wall, she wasn’t taking any
wall, she wasn’t taking any ik |
wall, she wasn’t taking any i R 2
wall, she wasn’t taking any iE e IR 2l ]
wall, she wasn’t taking any chances. | want to see
wall, she wasn’t taking any iER e L I N RN R Y
chances. | want to see the S0
chances. | want to see the Queen go
chances. | want to see the MY
chances. | want to see the Queen go up for the last time
Queen go up for the last time and pass Buckingham palace for
and pass Buckingham palace for g
and pass Buckingham palace for her final journey to Windsor to
her final journey to Windsor to )
her final journey to Windsor to R il
her final journey to Windsor to TR R ey
her final journey to Windsor to be with Prince Philip and that
be with Prince Philip and that Ty
be with Prince Philip and that Y ]
be with Prince Philip and that means a big deal
be with Prince Philip and that UEENIER G CEIR
be with Prince Philip and that means a big deal to me stop
means a big deal to me stop )
means a big deal to me stop I L)
means a big deal to me stop I S N C R
means a big deal to me stop N S N e R UG
means a big deal to me stop some depended on more than a
some depended on more than a s )
some depended on more than a e R0
some depended on more than a candle to keep them
some depended on more than a EH R G RO SR s
candle to keep them warm. N
candle to keep them warm. Others on
candle to keep them warm. QRN
candle to keep them warm. SRR
candle to keep them warm. Others on years of military
Others on years of military SN
Others on years of military R
Others on years of military experience. We set that between
experience. We set that between )
experience. We set that between R ]
experience. We set that between R R
experience. We set that between R R i e
experience. We set that between R R N
the two tents. A bit of e e les
the two tents. A bit of cardboard. Got
the two tents. A bit of el e e PRI )
the two tents. A bit of cardboard. Got two gas stoves.
cardboard. Got two gas stoves. el
cardboard. Got two gas stoves. Tl
cardboard. Got two gas stoves. Got all my food. It will be
Got all my food. It will be 10
Got all my food. It will be said day
Got all my food. It will be K EVAMI ]
Got all my food. It will be IR ALK
Got all my food. It will be IR AL R G
Got all my food. It will be said day with all the military,
sald day with all the military, )
said day with all the military, I
said day with all the military, there are flags for the boss.
there are flags for the boss. )
there are flags for the boss. I R LR )
there are flags for the boss. There was some trial and error.
There was some trial and error. o1:1!
There was some trial and error. Oh! Going backwards. Just like
Oh! Going backwards. Just Like that. Stage
Oh! Going backwards. Just like that. Stage right stop this
that. Stage right stop this impromptu campsite
QLI RO S G R YT impromptu campsite given the
impromptu campsite given the Mz
impromptu campsite given the royal seal
impromptu campsite given the Oz T N
impromptu campsite given the OV R W G
impromptu campsite given the OV T W T O R ]
impromptu campsite given the royal seal of approval with a
royal seal of approval with a Y
royal seal of approval with a wave from the past thinking and
wave from the past thinking and )
wave from the past thinking and Queen Consort. It is all high
Queen Consort. It is all high o lldie
Queen Consort. It is all high spirits everyone is friendly
spirits everyone is friendly wanting
spirits everyene Is friendly wanting to talk, tomorrow
spirits everyone is friendly wanting to talk, tomorrow when
wanting to talk, temorrow when e
wanting to talk, temorrow when it’s over
wanting to talk, tomorrow when T e
wanting to talk, tomorrow when TR Y
wanting to talk, tomorrow when it’s over it will be completely
it’s over it will be completely N
it’s over it will be completely S R
it’s over it will be completely SR O R
it’s over it will be completely SR R )
it’s over it will be completely different, which is to be
different, which is to be expected, isn’t it really. It’s
LT LN R ST 8- ey
LT LN R ST 8- A
expected, isn’t it really. It’s Ry R
expected, isn’t it really. It’s R ARG ]
expected, isn’t it really. It’s Ry ARG R )
expected, isn’t it really. It’s R RO R R
nice now, there is a sense of unity with everyone. There was
unity with everyone. There was Y
unity with everyone. There was R
unity with everyone. There was LRl
unity with everyone. There was a change in atmosphere as the
a change in atmosphere as the crowd obhserved
a change in atmosphere as the crowd observed a minute of
crowd observed a minute of ey
crowd observed a minute of silence for
crowd observed a minute of I e R R
crowd observed a minute of silence for the late Queen, the
silence for the late Queen, the i\
silence for the late Queen, the VAT
silence for the late Queen, the AL BRI
silence for the late Queen, the only sound came from
silence for the late Queen, the AL R IR G G
silence for the late Queen, the only sound came from the hum of
only sound came from the hum of generators
only sound came from the hum of G al]
only sound came from the hum of generators powering the
generators powering the LG
generators powering the floodlights. As is the way with
floodlights. As is the way with LIS
floodlights. As is the way with IR L]
floodlights. As is the way with queues and crowds these days,
queues and crowds these days, e
queues and crowds these days, new friendships
queues and crowds these days, AU L
queues and crowds these days, new friendships are being
new friendships are being forged
new friendships are being O
new friendships are being G IR
new friendships are being O EG RIS R
new friendships are being forged as people from Durham
forged as people from Durham and from tom-tom find
RO Rl e (Rl N
and from tom-tom find themselves side-by-side. Ever
themselves side-by-side. Ever o)
themselves side-by-side. Ever e
themselves side-by-side. Ever since we found out that
themselves side-by-side. Ever AN R R )
themselves side-by-side. Ever e R R G R R A
since we found out that she was poorly we had this uneasy
poorly we had this uneasy N
poorly we had this uneasy feeling, and we felt was we
feeling, and we felt was we just had
feeling, and we felt was we P4 =GR)
feeling, and we felt was we just had to do something. Just
Just had to do something. Just [Eh
Just had to do something. Just had to
just had to do something. Just had to come down. | do a lot of
had te come down. | do a lot of outdoor
had to come down. | do a lot of outdoor swimming
had te come down. | do a lot of outdoor swimming so |
had to come down. | do a lot of outdoor swimming so | bought
outdoor swimming so | bought )
outdoor swimming so | bought N
outdoor swimming so | bought RGN ey
outdoor swimming so | bought one of those drive robes just
RGBT R LI to
RGBT R LI )]
RGBT R LI to step in,
IR R QLR R (] [V RGBS GE
IR R QLR R (] [V GG ARG ER Gt
IR R QLR R (] [V GRS OER U IR
VRO R QTR (V R BRSO U N R U
to step in, other than that and probably
to step in, other than that and O EVE]
to step in, other than that and probably a three o’clock in the
probably a three o’clock in the uInihh
probably a three o’clock in the morning singsong. As with
probably a three o’clock in the morning singsong. As with the
morning singsong. As with the Y
morning singsong. As with the NEI Y
morning singsong. As with the lion state the fun
morning singsong. As with the R - R R -Tals|
morning singsong. As with the lion state the fun and buzz
lion state the fun and buzz EIEEIC
lion state the fun and buzz generated by people coming
generated by people coming together will
generated by people coming G E ELC
generated by people coming together will make way for
together will make way for I nli%
together will make way for sublimity is the funeral
sublimity is the funeral I
sublimity is the funeral A R
sublimity is the funeral procession passes here later
procession passes here later today. Strangers that have
today. Strangers that have T e8]
today. Strangers that have become friends, all here to pay
become friends, all here to pay e
become friends, all here to pay their final respects and with
their final respects and with )
their final respects and with one thing in common, bidding
one thing in common, bidding EeEi
one thing in common, bidding farewell to their Queen. Good
farewell to their Queen. Good bl
farewell to their Queen. Good night. Tom McGuire, BBC News,
night. Tom McGuire, BBC News, Buckingham palace. There are
Buckingham palace. There are images like that across the
images like that across the g}
images Like that across the i N
images Like that across the centre of London, just outside
centre of London, just outside where
centre of London, just outside T TRy
centre of London, just outside R P
centre of London, just outside T R - - R )
centre of London, just outside where we are, we are just in
where we are, we are just in e d
where we are, we are just in e e d
where we are, we are just in front of Westminster, the
front of Westminster, the palace, there are
front of Westminster, the e F - G LR
front of Westminster, the palace, there are so many
palace, there are so many TG
palace, there are so many people that have spent the
people that have spent the night
people that have spent the i
people that have spent the night he not just in
people that have spent the G ST ARG
people that have spent the night he not just in the queue
night he not just in the queue sl
night he not just in the queue e
night he not just in the queue behind me but also in places
behind me but also in places where they are waiting to see
where they are waiting to see )
where they are waiting to see a4
where they are waiting to see the next moments, the next
the next moments, the next ]
the next moments, the next IR 1
the next moments, the next IR = Rl
the next moments, the next procession that will take
procession that will take place. Of course, the funeral
place. Of course, the funeral ey
place. Of course, the funeral Rl
place. Of course, the funeral e R IR
place. Of course, the funeral R IR R an e s
Cortes will leave Westminster A
Cortes will leave Westminster Hall to
Cortes will leave Westminster SRR B )
Cortes will leave Westminster SRR R R il Te
Cortes will leave Westminster Hall to make the short distance
Hall to make the short distance to
Hall to make the short distance R NG
Hall to make the short distance RTINS A
Hall to make the short distance R U R A
to Westminster Abbey, people EIE
to Westminster Abbey, people already spending the night
already spending the night P et ]
already spending the night across different parts of
across different parts of central
across different parts of oA M i
across different parts of central London, we saw as John
central London, we saw as John Ty
central London, we saw as John was reporting
central London, we saw as John LRI I G
central London, we saw as John was reporting people along the
was reporting people along the el
was reporting people along the W RG]
was reporting people along the E R GILEG
was reporting people along the wall trying to make
was reporting people along the (RGN EL R
was reporting people along the wall trying to make sure they
wall trying to make sure they have
wall trying to make sure they RE R
wall trying to make sure they have the place stop it has not
have the place stop it has not T
have the place stop it has not T
have the place stop it has not LR sl
have the place stop it has not been as cold tonight. -- Mall.
been as cold tonight. -- Mall. We have seen the people we have
We have seen the people we have ]
We have seen the people we have been speaking to, so many
been speaking to, so many TG
been speaking to, so many people who have spent hours and
people who have spent hours and ey
people who have spent hours and (IR GR
people who have spent hours and hours gueueing, they
people who have spent hours and hours queueing, they have
hours queueing, they have LG
hours queueing, they have joined together, made friends
joined together, made friends and friendships, shared stories
and friendships, shared stories and snacks,
and friendships, shared stories DB o L e
and friendships, shared stories and snacks, it has been guite a
and snacks, It has been quite a touching
and snacks, it has been quite a I BRIl
and snacks, it has been quite a LR L A
and snacks, it has been quite a touching moment in quite an
touching moment in quite an G
touching moment in quite an HEGLEh
touching moment in quite an insight into why
touching moment in quite an G AT R R
touching moment in quite an RGN CR R AL
touching moment in quite an insight into why so many felt
insight inte why so many felt )
insight into why so many felt S e ]
insight into why so many felt so compelled to come here. And
so compelled to come here. And )
so compelled to come here. And AR
so compelled to come here. And the last people behind me, the
the last people behind me, the people queueing up they are the
people gueueing up they are the el
people queueing up they are the HOE L N
people queueing up they are the final people, the queue we have
final people, the queue we have been watching for the last 4.5
been watching for the last 4.5 days will be coming to an end,
days will be coming to an end, vty
days will be coming to an end, iRl
days will be coming to an end, what will they see when they
what will they see when they 4
what will they see when they get to
what will they see when they AR CRTE N
what will they see when they get to Westminster Hall, the
get to Westminster Hall, the el
get to Westminster Hall, the IRt e Ts | ]
get to Westminster Hall, the final moments of the Queen
final moments of the Queen lying
final moments of the Queen WL
final moments of the Queen (WLLELES E1 N
final moments of the Queen lying in state. One person who
lying in state. One person who Ty
lying in state. One person who was able to go into the call is
was able to go into the call is '
was able to go into the call is my colleague Helen Katz who
my colleague Helen Katz who LS
my colleague Helen Katz who LG
my colleague Helen Katz who joins me now. Explain to me are
joins me now. Explain to me are o
joins me now. Explain to me are ] )
joins me now. Explain to me are ] R0
joins me now. Explain to me are you able to go in and just what
you able to go in and just what Ty
you able to go in and just what T
you able to go in and just what was it like? Journalists have
was It like? Journalists have ]
was it like? Journalists have T L )
was it like? Journalists have been able to
was it like? Journalists have XN CR
was it like? Journalists have been able to go in and stand
been able to go in and stand very
been able to go in and stand R I8
been able to go in and stand very quietly back
been able to go in and stand R A IS ]
been able to go in and stand very quietly back and just
very quietly back and just ey
very quietly back and just e e
very quietly back and just observe for a
very quietly back and just O RNt
very quietly back and just e RN e Tt 8
very quietly back and just e RNl 1Y
very quietly back and just observe for a bit but as people
observe for a bit but as people Py
observe for a bit but as people are coming in too far past the
are coming in too far past the coffin to
are coming in too far past the ROV
are coming in too far past the MR S AT e
are coming in too far past the RN AT e o]
are coming in too far past the RN S AT e RO
coffin to pay respects on the idea
coffin to pay respects on the RN e Talsl
coffin to pay respects on the idea behind it
coffin to pay respects on the BEER LR A
coffin to pay respects on the RN s B AR
coffin to pay respects on the idea behind it is so hopefully
idea behind it is so hopefully Y
idea behind it is so hopefully we can
idea behind it is so hopefully N R ad
idea behind it is so hopefully SR e
idea behind it is so hopefully N AR e e s s |
idea behind it is so hopefully we can sort of add some
we can sort of add some explanation to what the
explanation to what the atmosphere
explanation to what the S GRS
explanation to what the atmosphere is like, add to what
atmosphere is like, add to what you can
atmosphere is like, add to what RN
atmosphere is like, add to what you can see on
atmosphere is like, add to what RN R U
atmosphere is like, add to what you can see on the television.
LR RN R G LR G B il
LR RN R G LR G B NI ]4
LR RN R G LR G B T
you can see on the television. You get a sense from
you can see on the television. NSRRIl
you can see on the television. You get a sense from it if you
You get a sense from it if you Py
You get a sense from it if you are watching
You get a sense from it if you EICRE IR
You get a sense from it if you are watching the live stream
LTI - BT R (R L LT are watching the live stream or
are watching the live stream or )
are watching the live stream or the television
are watching the live stream or ORGSR
are watching the live stream or the television you can see the
QLR GCCYEL BTN EL R R G 1 e
R Y BT TR T KR g [ visual aspect of it that every
visual aspect of it that every rich
visual aspect of it that every ST B o] 4
visual aspect of it that every rich block of colour in the
rich block of celour in the middle
rich block of colour in the middle of that
rich block of colour in the G R R e atle1e)
rich block of colour in the middle of that sombre wall, the
middle of that sombre wall, the sense and
middle of that sombre wall, the LRl Lo
middle of that sombre wall, the LRl
middle of that sombre wall, the sense and impact of it and you
sense and impact of it and you 4
sense and impact of it and you V)
sense and impact of it and you R
sense and impact of it and you LR
sense and impact of it and you RN RO E N
sense and impact of it and you VRN RN LG I
sense and impact of it and you get a sense of being quiet but
get a sense of being quiet but I’m not
get a sense of being quiet but (M TR )
get a sense of being quiet but MR R N
get a sense of being quiet but N SR G
get a sense of being quiet but I’m not sure it quite conveys
I’m not sure it quite conveys )
I’m not sure it quite conveys )
I’m not sure it quite conveys TN NG L
I’m not sure it quite conveys RN RO R R
the sense of absolute stillness that
the sense of absolute stillness UEIRN)
the sense of absolute stillness that there is
the sense of absolute stillness WERO R
that there Is inside e
that there Is inside Westminster Hall.
that there is inside Westminster Hall. When you
Westminster Hall. When you think about
Westminster Hall. When you el 1oL Tl e
Westminster Hall. When you think about the contrast
Westminster Hall. When you AT o TR e A A
think about the contrast here Y
think about the contrast here we have the generators, the
we have the generators, the ey
we have the generators, the lights the gentle noise of
lights the gentle noise of people having a chat and
people having a chat and sharing snacks, as soon as they
sharing snacks, as soon as they 4
sharing snacks, as soon as they Al
sharing snacks, as soon as they get into the hall it is
get into the hall it is E[ A
get into the hall it is absolutely still and preduces a
absolutely still and produces a I
absolutely still and preduces a quite interesting effect. It is
quite interesting effect. It is )
quite interesting effect. It is D
quite interesting effect. It is A5 A
quite interesting effect. It is so quiet that | jumped when
so quiet that | jumped when e ]
so quiet that | jumped when someone knocked a stick
so quiet that | jumped when someohne knocked a stick on
someone knocked a stick on the e
someone knocked a stick on the i Rd
someone knocked a stick on the IR
someone knocked a stick on the floor for the changing of the
floor for the changing of the guard, and it produces this
guard, and it produces this sense
quard, and it produces this sense and the way of time
sense and the way of time SGTIN]
sense and the way of time slowing down a little bit, |
slowing down a little bit, | Ty
slowing down a little bit, | was trying to work out how long
was trying to work out how long Py
was trying to work out how long are able
was trying to work out how long I R
was trying to work out how long are able to spend in there
are able to spend in there after
are able to spend in there E TN
are able to spend in there after queueing so long roughly
after queueing so long roughly timing
after queueing so long roughly Wl
after queueing so long roughly WG GT
after queueing so long roughly timing how long it would take
timing how long it would take them to
timing how long it would take QRO
timing how long it would take QIR RG]
timing how long it would take them to get through, four or
(RGN R TV [ R [TV ]y Ty
them to get through, four or Rt s
them to get through, four or five minutes from
them to get through, four or RN Rt R
them to get through, four or IR R R G R
them to get through, four or five minutes from the steps to
five minutes from the steps to leaving the wall. But when you
leaving the wall. But when you Py
leaving the wall. But when you are in
leaving the wall. But when you YN R e
leaving the wall. But when you Y N R et et Ne 8
leaving the wall. But when you e R e e
are in that moment the AR ]
are in that moment the stillness and peacefulness
stillness and peacefulness makes time
stillness and peacefulness LR EEI ))
stillness and peacefulness makes time stop as
stillness and peacefulness L R R R U
stillness and peacefulness R R UG KL
makes time stop as they all e
makes time stop as they all LGN E
makes time stop as they all walked past and they have that
walked past and they have that Rt il-i1 e
walked past and they have that moment to pay that tribute.
moment to pay that tribute. RV
moment to pay that tribute. Makes time stop, thank you,
Makes time stop, thank you, N
Makes time stop, thank you, Helen for sharing that moment
Helen for sharing that moment Y
Helen for sharing that moment R
Helen for sharing that moment when you go into the wall, we
when you go into the wall, we hear
when you go into the wall, we Tl el 4
when you go into the wall, we Y TR e Rl
when you go into the wall, we Y R E R let - s |
when you go into the wall, we hear that time and time again
hear that time and time again Tee I8t
hear that time and time again I G
hear that time and time again from people who have made that
from people who have made that journey,
from people who have made that O AR
from people who have made that journey, who have been into the
VLGSR I E VLD R R [SEIlN
VLGSR I E VLD R R hall that
journey, who have been into the R IR e IR a1 e
journey, who have been into the hall that what we
journey, who have been into the E BRI e R T
journey, who have been into the hall that what we see on the
hall that what we see on the television we
hall that what we see on the AN )
hall that what we see on the television we are offering a
television we are offering a Ry
television we are offering a 7R
television we are offering a live feed continuously lying
GG T RV R D] live feed continuously lying in
live feed continuously lying in I
live feed continuously lying in RN
live feed continuously lying in state but being there is so
state but being there is so very
state but being there is so A
state but being there is so very very different to watching
very very different to watching 3
very very different to watching it on
very very different to watching TGRS L LN
very very different to watching it on television. And Helen
it on television. And Helen just describing what it’s like,
Just describing what it’s like, [
just describing what it’s like, R A G
just describing what it’s like, the stillness, the magnitude of
the stillness, the magnitude of )
the stillness, the magnitude of R U
the stillness, the magnitude of the moment, of time stepping
the moment, of time stepping iR
the moment, of time stepping (Y
the moment, of time stepping still. One person who has
still. One person who has spending many hours waiting in
spending many hours waiting in )
spending many hours waiting in GG
spending many hours waiting in the queue inte
spending many hours waiting in the queue into will
spending many hours waiting in G IR CRLNG [
spending many hours waiting in the queue into will go through
the queue into will go through and walked into Westminster
and walked into Westminster Hall
and walked into Westminster RIS
and walked into Westminster Hall as Fioha
and walked into Westminster Hall as Fiona joins me now.
Hall as Fiena joins me now. Hello.
Hall as Fiona joins me now. Hello. You have been waiting
Hello. You have been waiting e
Hello. You have been waiting T e s ]
Hello. You have been waiting for such a
Hello. You have been waiting I IR
Hello. You have been waiting for such a long time, how are
for such a long time, how are k4
for such a long time, how are you? | am knackered. I’m
you? | am knackered. I’m starting
you? | am knackered. I’m el
you? | am knackered. I’m starting to tremble from
starting to tremble from exhaustion. But, | wanted to do
exhaustion. But, | wanted to do this
exhaustion. But, | wanted to do NIy
exhaustion. But, | wanted to do this since | was a Little
exhaustion. But, | wanted to do QIR TR R I R Y[
this since | was a little girl, |
this since | was a little girl, ey
this since | was a little girl, [N
this since | was a little girl, | have huge admiration for the
| have huge admiration for the Queen, |
| have huge admiration for the O P R ie
| have huge admiration for the Queen, | cut short holiday |
Queen, | cut short holiday | ]
Queen, | cut short holiday | came from King’s Cross to join
came from King’s Cross to join )
came from King’s Cross to join GG
came from King’s Cross to join R L
came from King’s Cross to join the queue and dragged a
came from King’s Cross to join the queue and dragged a friend
the queue and dragged a friend along with
the queue and dragged a friend EIL RGNS
the queue and dragged a friend along with me, we have been
along with me, we have been T e
along with me, we have been T A ey
along with me, we have been here since eight o’clock,
along with me, we have been here since eight o’clock, till
here since eight o’clock, till .
here since eight o’clock, till -l
here since eight o’clock, till five. And you
here since eight o’clock, till N RT T
here since eight o’clock, till G R TE R I
here since eight o’clock, till five. And you are one of the
five. And you are one of the last,
five. And you are one of the [EYI R %1
five. And you are one of the last, what does that feel Like?
last, what does that feel like? |
last, what does that feel like? BT ke
last, what does that feel Like? BT )
last, what does that feel Like? B R
last, what does that feel Like? | won’t be the absolute last, |
| won’t be the absolute last, | Ik
| won’t be the absolute last, | T R )
| won’t be the absolute last, | RN Al
| won’t be the absolute last, | wasn’t sure if | would make it,
wasn’t sure If | would make It, that
wasn’t sure if | would make It, that hasn’t
wasn’t sure if | would make It, LI EE R34
wasn’t sure if | would make It, G I E RS AR
wasn’t sure if | would make It, that hasn’t sunk in, we
wasn’t sure if | would make it, that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t
that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t ]
that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t ]
that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t L RLE
that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t been in just yet,
that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t GRS |
that hasn’t sunk in, we haven’t been in just yet, | honestly
been in just yet, | honestly LR
been in just yet, | honestly IR Edals] 4
been in just yet, | honestly SRRt R
been in just yet, | honestly didn’t think we would
been in just yet, | honestly IR R R R )
been in just yet, | honestly IR R R R TRl
didn’t think we would be able to
didn’t think we would be able IR G
didn’t think we would be able to join the queue. Been
to join the queue. Been watching
to join the queue. Been ZE RS
to join the queue. Been watching it from France and
watching it from France and I ]
watching it from France and iR
watching it from France and thinking | want to be part of
thinking | want to be part of that.
thinking | want to be part of Q[T
thinking | want to be part of that. Just exhausted by now
thinking | want to be part of OE I T A G e R AL L
that. Just exhausted by now and looking forward to it. You said
looking forward to it. You said you cut short a holiday, we
you cut short a holiday, we ey
you cut short a holiday, we e
you cut short a holiday, we R R
you cut short a holiday, we were so eager to be here,
you cut short a holiday, we were 50 eager to be here, in a
were so eager to be here, in a )
were 50 eager to be here, in a sentence or so, what
were 50 eager to be here, in a R R PR = e L]
were 50 eager to be here, in a sentence or so, what did the
sentence or so, what did the )
sentence or so, what did the O - R-E )
sentence or so, what did the AR R )
sentence or so, what did the Queen mean to you? | guess she
Queen mean to you? | guess she Ty
Queen mean to you? | guess she A ')
Queen mean to you? | guess she A Y]
Queen mean to you? | guess she was like a kind
Queen mean to you? | guess she AR A
Queen mean to you? | guess she A CE NG E IEh bl G
was like a kind of grandmother il
was like a kind of grandmother figure to me,
was like a kind of grandmother R R A
was like a kind of grandmother AR GRS
was like a kind of grandmother figure to me, she has always
figure to me, she has always been there,
figure to me, she has always RO G ]
figure to me, she has always R G IR G T LR G R
been there, through everything, i
been there, through everything, | was at the Olympic Stadium
I was at the Olympic Stadium Y
| was at the Olympic Stadium TR -]
| was at the Olympic Stadium when she jumped out of the
when she jumped out of the [T N
when she jumped out of the helicopter on the one time |
helicopter on the one time | Saw
helicopter on the one time | e
helicopter on the one time | A L
helicopter on the one time | A L
helicopter on the one time | saw her was at the opening
saw her was at the opening S
saw her was at the opening ceremony of the Olympics
EVM IR R G LR T ceremony of the Olympics and
ceremony of the Olympics and i)
ceremony of the Olympics and AR L
ceremony of the Olympics and IR N
ceremony of the Olympics and R R G
ceremony of the Olympics and she was always there. Strange
she was always there. Strange to
she was always there. Strange e Raaa] 4
she was always there. Strange R R4
she was always there. Strange to think that she is gone. She
to think that she is gone. She Ty
to think that she is gone. She LR
to think that she is gone. She was just such
to think that she is gone. She IR &I L]
to think that she is gone. She was just such an iconic figure.
was just such an iconic figure. e
was Just such an iconic figure. LRI
was Just such an iconic figure. IR
was Just such an iconic figure. LR IR R s
was Just such an iconic figure. The Olympics was such a moment
The Olympics was such a moment and Paddington bear... That
and Paddington bear... That sense
and Paddington bear... That NN
and Paddington bear... That sense of humour
and Paddington bear... That AN A T s ]
and Paddington bear... That sense of humour shone through
sense of humour shone through and |
sense of humour shone through IR e
sense of humour shone through I EEGI e
sense of humour shone through and | think it was
sense of humour shone through LR RO A R
and | think it was very important
and | think it was very e Eh L]
and | think it was very e LRI EE
CLT NGOIS8R e e LR R R UG
CLT NGOIS8R e important and one of the things
important and one of the things i
important and one of the things | really
important and one of the things N AEY)
important and one of the things | really loved about her.
| really loved about her. S
| really loved about her. Fiona, thank
| really loved about her. S ERRGEL ST
| really loved about her. Fiona, thank you very much. And
Fiona, thank you very much. And to get out
Fiona, thank you very much. And R A
Fiona, thank you very much. And AT A R
Fiona, thank you very much. And R R G
Fiona, thank you very much. And RN R G EIER )
to get out of the queue to iRl
to get out of the queue to IR
to get out of the queue to share your perceptions and we
share your perceptions and we LY
share your perceptions and we I BT
share your perceptions and we wish you the best of luck, I’m
wish you the best of luck, I’m )
wish you the best of luck, I’m N o)
wish you the best of luck, I’m R U ]
wish you the best of luck, I’m sure once you have gone through
sure once you have gone through )
sure once you have gone through Nl
sure once you have gone through the ball you will experience
the ball you will experience that same feeling, that time
that same feeling, that time stopping. We
that same feeling, that time SO AR
that same feeling, that time stopping. We are hearing so
stopping. We are hearing so many
stopping. We are hearing so L E G
stopping. We are hearing so many different stories and
many different stories and reasons
many different stories and R R
many different stories and R A G
many different stories and reasons why people help
reasons why people help ]
reasons why people help W (R
reasons why people help compelled to be here, that the
compelled to be here, that the lying in
compelled to be here, that the WL Z1G)
compelled to be here, that the VHLRLEI £ GRS
compelled to be here, that the lying in state the ending over
lying in state the ending over )
lying in state the ending over a4
lying in state the ending over N i
lying in state the ending over the next hour. Probably under
the next hour. Probably under PN
the next hour. Probably under F NI ld
the next hour. Probably under an hour and a
the next hour. Probably under RN NGt
the next hour. Probably under an hour and a half now
the next hour. Probably under RN R E By
an hour and a half now as people, well, that moment will
people, well, that moment will )
people, well, that moment will RN
people, well, that moment will be closed, the public ne
people, well, that moment will be closed, the public no longer
be closed, the public no longer 1
be closed, the public no longer )
be closed, the public no longer RGO
be closed, the public no longer able to file through, we have
able to file through, we have ]
able to file through, we have IR G|
able to file through, we have IR IR
able to file through, we have been watching so many different
been watching so many different types
been watching so many different YR
been watching so many different types of people come past
types of people come past wanting to be here. We now look
wanting to be here. We now look e Bl
wanting to be here. We now look forward to
wanting to be here. We now look T LG R R
wanting to be here. We now look T LR R s
wanting to be here. We now look forward to the next part
wanting to be here. We now look NG EIC RO R U A Ela
wanting to be here. We now look forward to the next part of the
forward to the next part of the day when we will have service
day when we will have service 1
day when we will have service R e
day when we will have service IRV IS G5
day when we will have service at Westminster Abbey and so
at Westminster Abbey and so many dignitaries from all over
many dignitaries from all over )
many dignitaries from all over the world
many dignitaries from all over R el )
many dignitaries from all over the world have come to London
the world have come to London to experience
the world have come to London R R U 149
the world have come to London to experience this. Back to
to experience this. Back to (/N
to experience this. Back to you, Sally.
Let’s talk about that in a bit )
Let’s talk about that in a bit el
Let’s talk about that in a bit SR A
President Biden will join around 2,000 other guests,
including some 500 heads of state and foreign
dignitaries, at the Queen’s state funeral, which will be
one of the biggest gatherings of royalty and politicians
They have paid their respects to the late Queen and signed
the book of condolence, as our diplomatic correspondent
James Landale reports.
Some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
Others came together, rather unusually on a bus,
but they were all here to honour the Queen in perhaps
the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
There was the King and Queen of Spain.
There was his exiled father, Juan Carles.
There was the President NRAEN - R DT
leaders from the Gulf,
the King and Queen of Jordan.
Hundreds of statesmen and women there to pay their respects
and indulge, perhaps, in a little diplemacy.
Others arrived around N E g RN Fle-Y
Prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the King
and other members of the Royal Family at a formal
state reception.
LRGN international engagement,
the Princess of Wales even TR R R Rl
lady of Ukraine, NNV AL %]
-- First Lady of Ukraine, NNV L
Earlier, Joe and Jill Biden had followed other heads of state
and government in stopping off at Lancaster House to sign
A steady flow of the global great and sometimes good,
paying their respects NN N R B AT
| so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous
spirit and, of course, every good wish to King Charles III.
On behalf of the government and people of Barbados that
| record my sincere sympathy to all of Great Britain
and especially to the members of the Royal Family.
We appreciated very much her R R R ORI G ]
UL EE VTR [ ELdo transformation from a nation
R0 T RV T R A RO R R R e
Thank you, Your Majesty.
Thank you for your dedication.
The people of Fiji will never forget you.
I LLCRIIEY B
Many also came to see the lying in state -
not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand
in silence and perhaps some awe S R N iR sl
whose reign will LR ]
And despite the opposition of some MPs and peers who have
been sanctioned by Beijing, a delegation from China also
came to Westminster Hall, including Vice-President Wang
Qishan - here on the right - R - R i e
tomorrow.
One man who will not be coming to the Abbey tomorrow
Is Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince and de facto ruler, Mohammed
bin Salman, who has been Yl R A e o
in the murder of a journalist - accusations he has denied.
Several leaders, including Canada’s Prime Minister,
also dropped by Downing Street for what officials said
were Informal conversations ORI R
Earlier, he paid his own tribute to the Queen.
| first met Her Majesty when | was seven years
old and her presence throughout my life had been
constant, inspiring and graceful.
As Prime Minister, | benefited from her counsel,
her thoughtfulness, her S A SN R R e
Tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders
arrive at Westminster Abbey R R eI e 3
to the monarch they N N e RNt g}
James Landale, BBC News.
The Metropolitan Police have said that more than 10,000
officers and staff will be on duty in Londen today
to oversee the state funeral, which is the biggest security
operation in British history.
Our home affairs correspondent Daniel Sandord has been
watching the final preparations.
Tonight, there is an army SRR il IR R o]
Tomorrow, more than 10,000 will be working to protect
Every force in the UK is involved in what has been
LRGN GG LR G o] Westminster, armed officers
with binoculars and telescopes were already watching this
afternoon.
Every lamp post and traffic light is being taken apart,
searched for hidden explosive devices, and carefully sealed
again.
7L W T TR U o} MR NAI N L YL e e
And this is where it’s all being run from,
the Metropolitan Police’s special operations room.
Here, they’'ll be able to access every CCTV camera.
They’ll be able to communicate with officers at every step
aloeng the route.
And then, there’ll be specialist desks for things
like firearms and for handling real-time intelligence.
But despite all the technology and the thousands of officers,
police are asking people in the crowds tomorrow
to be their eyes and ears.
Members of the public who are coming, please engage
with the officers because you will see things,
you will hear things that police officers might not.
And if there is anything that you see that you think is out
of the ordinary, please speak to one of the police officers
so we’ll be able to respond and deal with it appropriately.
The biggest VIP protection operation the police have ever
mounted in Lendon is already up and running
with President Biden’s motorcade shuttling
WSO R T Y T LRGN L e RN T s
President Emmanuel Macron coming to pay his respects
Tomorrow, all the heads of state will be in one place,
an 800-year-old church with no permanent security perimeter.
There have been bumps along the road, like
when a rollerblader nearly ran into the King’s convoy,
but officers say the plan has been decades in development
and they should be able to keep everyone safe.
Daniel Sandford, BBC News, Westminster.
Well, the death of Queen Elizabeth Il has, of course,
been followed in great detall by many countries all over
the world - in particular, across the Commonwealth,
such as Australia - a land with a strong republican
leaning, even if it hasn’t yet turned into majority support
to lose the monarch YA R A D
Life to Sydney now.
-= Our correspondent Shaimaa Khalil joins me live
from Sydney.
e s
Of course the Prime Minister of Australia
Of course the Prime Minister of e IE R
Of course the Prime Minister of e IR e
Of course the Prime Minister of Australia is here in London for
Australia is here in London for )
Australia is here in London for the state
Australia is here in London for e i
Australia is here in London for MR R )
Australia is here in London for the state funeral and today is
the state funeral and today is Y
the state funeral and today is a national day of mourning in
a national day of mourning in Australia,
a national day of mourning in Y a (PR
a national day of mourning in Australia, is that right? The
Australia, is that right? The REle el
Australia, is that right? The national mourning day in
national mourning day in Australia
national mourning day in e IE R
national mourning day in Australia is going
national mourning day in S ER R
national mourning day in Australia is going to actually
Australia is going to actually be after
Australia is going to actually e )
Australia is going to actually R R
Australia is going to actually be after the funeral, Sally.
be after the funeral, Sally. e
be after the funeral, Sally. IR )
be after the funeral, Sally. The Prime Minister Anthony
The Prime Minister Anthony Albanese will attend
The Prime Minister Anthony T R e s R )
Albanese will attend the el
Albanese will attend the funeral in
Albanese will attend the IR R R
Albanese will attend the funeral in London, he will come
funeral in London, he will come back and Thursday September the
back and Thursday September the 20
back and Thursday September the 22nd has
back and Thursday September the 2R -]
back and Thursday September the 22nd has been announced as
back and Thursday September the 2R N e LR )
22nd has been announced as the a1t
22nd has been announced as the national day of mourning and
national day of mourning and il
national day of mourning and will also
national day of mourning and I N o)
national day of mourning and will also be a
national day of mourning and I N R
national day of mourning and BN R N
national day of mourning and will also be a one off holiday
will also be a one off holiday as Australia remembers the
as Australia remembers the Queen.
as Australia remembers the AR e
as Australia remembers the Queen. There will also be a
Queen. There will also be a et
Queen. There will also be a IR e
Queen. There will also be a IR e
Queen. There will also be a one-minute silence at 11
one-minute silence at 11 o’clock
SR T VR Ch R Hal s @l el
SR T VR Ch R Nal e e Rl
SR T VR Ch R Hal Al Rl -]
one-minute silence at 11 o’'clock local time on the
one-minute silence at 11 o’clock local time on the day.
o’clock local time on the day. {04
o’clock local time on the day. N
o’clock local time on the day. But of course, all eyes here in
But of course, all eyes here in XS ]
But of course, all eyes here in Australia and around the world
Australia and around the world Py
Australia and around the world PN ]
Australia and around the world are on London,
Australia and around the world are on Loendon, specifically
Australia and around the world CICR R I el e (A ]
are on Lendon, specifically on e
are on Lendon, specifically on Westminster Abbey, as
are on Londen, specifically on S MR- S ARl
Westminster Abbey, as Britain and
Westminster Abbey, as Britain R )
Westminster Abbey, as Britain and the world get ready to bid
and the world get ready to bid EeEi
and the world get ready to bid farewell to Her Majesty the
farewell to Her Majesty the Queen. The flag here, if | can
Queen. The flag here, if | can I
Queen. The flag here, if | can IR
Queen. The flag here, if | can point you to the
Queen. The flag here, if | can SRR GRS L
Queen. The flag here, if I can point you to the Sydney Harbour
point you to the Sydney Harbour Bridge,
point you to the Sydney Harbour e
point you to the Sydney Harbour Bridge, is flying at half-mast.
Bridge, is flying at half-mast. i
Bridge, is flying at half-mast. A
Bridge, is flying at half-mast. (R ]
Bridge, is flying at half-mast. I RS )
Bridge, is flying at half-mast. IR A s
Bridge, is flying at half-mast. It has been except for the day
It has been except for the day of
It has been except for the day SRy
It has been except for the day of the proclamation, and it
of the proclamation, and it il
of the proclamation, and it TR
of the proclamation, and it N
of the proclamation, and it will be, as well as other
will be, as well as other landmarks across Australia,
landmarks across Australia, until
landmarks across Australia, s e
landmarks across Australia, until after the funeral. Of
until after the funeral. Of course, it was here that Queen
course, it was here that Queen Elizabeth Il
course, it was here that Queen Elizabeth || made
course, it was here that Queen Elizabeth |l made her
course, it was here that Queen Elizabeth Il made her historic
Elizabeth Il made her historic .
Elizabeth Il made her historic visit, sailing
Elizabeth Il made her historic I SR
Elizabeth Il made her historic visit, sailing into the Sydney
visit, sailing into the Sydney Harbour just where the
AN TR R G LR T3 Harbour just where the Sydney
Harbour just where the Sydney O IF)
Harbour just where the Sydney Opera House
Harbour just where the Sydney LS
Harbour just where the Sydney Opera House is at
Harbour just where the Sydney S A RO
Harbour just where the Sydney S A R G uEh e
Opera House is at the moment, becoming the only,
Opera House is at the moment, WG IR G R AR (1Y
Opera House is at the moment, becoming the only, the first
becoming the only, the first and
becoming the only, the first G
becoming the only, the first and only reigning monarch to
and only reigning monarch to e
and only reigning monarch to RN
and only reigning monarch to T R IR
and only reigning monarch to visit Australia. She in total
visit Australia. She in total el
visit Australia. She in total R[]
visit Australia. She in total R R
visit Australia. She in total toured 16 times. And, you know,
toured 16 times. And, you know, as you can imagine, most major
as you can imagine, most major e
as you can imagine, most major channels are going
as you can imagine, most major G EN I EEICRILR
as you can imagine, most major channels are going to be
channels are going to be carrying the funeral live. In
carrying the funeral live. In LG
carrying the funeral live. In Melbourne, it will be shown on
Melbourne, it will be shown on )
Melbourne, it will be shown on the big
Melbourne, it will be shown on G R
Melbourne, it will be shown on G EY AU
Melbourne, it will be shown on QR R U RN R L L]
the big screen in federation Square
the big screen in federation SOEICRl]
the big screen in federation Square in the city centre. But
Square in the city centre. But in
Square in the city centre. But MM EELR
Square in the city centre. But in Queensland, on
Square in the city centre. But MM EEL R R G
Square in the city centre. But in Queensland, on the Gold
in Queensland, on the Gold G
in Queensland, on the Gold Coast, there is a shop called a
Coast, there is a shop called a ia
Coast, there is a shop called a R
Coast, there is a shop called a bit of Britain and on the
bit of Britain and on the Facebook page, they
bit of Britain and on the EI T L IR ARV L
Facebook page, they invited )
Facebook page, they invited N
Facebook page, they invited R
Facebook page, they invited N R et e e
Facebook page, they invited some of their customers to
Facebook page, they invited N R e R e i
some of their customers to come and watch
some of their customers to come R e R
some of their customers to come and watch the funeral, saying
and watch the funeral, saying et
and watch the funeral, saying biscuits and
and watch the funeral, saying bhiscuits and tea
and watch the funeral, saying biscuits and tea will
and watch the funeral, saying e TN R R )
and watch the funeral, saying e NN R YR R R
biscuits and tea will be served Tee I8t
biscuits and tea will be served from eight o’clock which is
from eight o’clock which is Y
from eight o’clock which is Rl
from eight o’clock which is Y ST T YT )
from eight o’clock which is what will happen local time and
what will happen local time and they said if
what will happen local time and VARG
what will happen local time and QAR R Ll
what will happen local time and they said if we cannot be
they said if we cannot be there,
they said if we cannot be TR )
they said if we cannot be TR R L]
they said if we cannot be IR R T R
they said if we cannot be TR R R R
there, we should be here together.
there, we should be here DGR
there, we should be here together. The Queen’s
there, we should be here together. The Queen’s death has
together. The Queen’s death has TN
together. The Queen’s death has brought to the surface so many
brought to the surface so many e e 4
brought to the surface so many different feelings, sadness, a
different feelings, sadness, a sense
different feelings, sadness, a AN N
different feelings, sadness, a R A
different feelings, sadness, a RO A )
different feelings, sadness, a sense of loss, a celebration of
sense of loss, a celebration of g
sense of loss, a celebration of by
sense of loss, a celebration of her Life and her
sense of loss, a celebration of her life and her relationship
her life and her relationship with Australia but also
RO IR RN ) with Australia but also some
with Australia but also some challenging sentiments as well.
challenging sentiments as well. 1o e
challenging sentiments as well. S Eiale s
challenging sentiments as well. First nation Indigenous
I W =L R T Australian
I W =L R T IS EL R
I W =L R T T EL T VAL
I W =L R T Australian say it has
First nation Indigenous LR AL LR L
Australian say it has water ]
Australian say it has water -
Australian say it has water presence of trauma from the
presence of trauma from the I
presence of trauma from the painful legacy of colonialism
painful legacy of colonialism and
painful legacy of colonialism R
painful legacy of colonialism and of course, as you mentioned
and of course, as you mentioned )
and of course, as you mentioned the republican debate.
T [ E 1 Australians
T [ E 1 LR IE R )
T [ E 1 Australians who say
the republican debate. Australians who say that
the republican debate. TS EL RO R A G E S G
Australians who say that the Y|
Australians who say that the head of
Australians who say that the TR Ry
Australians who say that the head of state should
Australians who say that the YR A e s o)
Australians who say that the head of state should be an
head of state should be an Australian national. But even
Australian national. But even )
Australian national. But even R o
Australian national. But even MR
Australian national. But even the staunchest of Republicans
the staunchest of Republicans like
the staunchest of Republicans N Il ]
the staunchest of Republicans like Malcolm Turnbull, for
like Malcolm Turnbull, for example, and | spoke to him
example, and | spoke to him i
example, and | spoke to him last week,
example, and | spoke to him R R ]
example, and | spoke to him R R S
example, and | spoke to him R R A
example, and | spoke to him last week, who has led the
last week, who has led the IS
last week, who has led the campaign in 1999 and failed, he
campaign in 1999 and failed, he 10
campaign in 1999 and failed, he i)
campaign in 1999 and failed, he said he has no
campaign in 1999 and failed, he X N LRl [s 0014
campaign in 1999 and failed, he said he has no doubt they will
said he has no doubt they will )
said he has no doubt they will R e e Mat]
said he has no doubt they will be a referendum except now is
be a referendum except now is s
be a referendum except now is S R
be a referendum except now Is RNl
be a referendum except now Is R R T e
be a referendum except now Is R R A Y
be a referendum except now Is not the time. Now will be a
not the time. Now will be a S i)
not the time. Now will be a IR )
not the time. Now will be a time to celebrate the Queen and
time to celebrate the Queen and Y 0ld
time to celebrate the Queen and A s 1e
time to celebrate the Queen and honour her Life. Even staunch
henour her life. Even staunch ]
honour her life. Even staunch L=
honour her life. Even staunch LN T L
honour her life. Even staunch O LN N RN
honour her life. Even staunch republican but he is, he was
republican but he is, he was very emotional
republican but he is, he was R A L LG
republican but he is, he was R RO
very emotional after the annocuncement,
V18 AT LR T g announcement, shedding a tear
announcement, shedding a tear on
announcement, shedding a tear B ae el
announcement, shedding a tear on national television, and he
on national television, and he 0l
on national television, and he R
on national television, and he told me how charming, how calm
told me how charming, how calm and
told me how charming, how calm R 48
told me how charming, how calm R A
told me how charming, how calm and witty she was, someone who
and witty she was, someone who Ty
and witty she was, someone who was always
and witty she was, someone who R (N7 RVYeT)
and witty she was, someone who R (7 IRV TR (|
and witty she was, someone who was always very well informed
was always very well informed and in touch with
was always very well informed BRI R R
was always very well informed NLERE IR GRS s G
and in touch with the details and
and in touch with the details Y
and in touch with the details IR )
and in touch with the details LRI BT
and in touch with the details R B L VR1]
and in touch with the details R R VR LR X
and he said you can be a republican
and he said you can be a I UL 1
and he said you can be a republican but alse
and he said you can be a LSRR I R
and he said you can be a republican but alse you can be
republican but also you can be PN
republican but alse you can be an Elizabeth and, as he put it.
an Elizabeth and, as he put it. e
an Elizabeth and, as he put it. R Y
an Elizabeth and, as he put it. The Prime Minister Anthony
The Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has
The Prime Minister Anthony T N -]
The Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has been asked about
Albanese has been asked about 3
Albanese has been asked about ]
Albanese has been asked about (TN
Albanese has been asked about it s6 many times
Albanese has been asked about (XX AR TR
Albanese has been asked about (S ANEI A AL E
Albanese has been asked about (XX I A AL R CE
it so many times in the last few days -- Elizabethan. He
few days -- Elizabethan. He I
few days -- Elizabethan. He XIGE e
few days -- Elizabethan. He said now is
few days -- Elizabethan. He IR AR Rl
few days -- Elizabethan. He said now is the time to
said now Is the time to Y
said now Is the time to e )
said now Is the time to celebrate the Queen’s
E LI VAR QR R (] celebrate the Queen’s life, a
celebrate the Queen’s life, a Ry
celebrate the Queen’s life, a R )
celebrate the Queen’s life, a RO R
celebrate the Queen’s life, a life dedicated to duty and to
life dedicated to duty and to Xaile -]
life dedicated to duty and to st
life dedicated to duty and to service. | will tell you
service. | will tell you something, Sally. They have
something, Sally. They have ]
something, Sally. They have L]
something, Sally. They have R RGN
something, Sally. They have been s6 many memorable moements
been so many memorable moments and
been se many memorable moements and memorable images coming out
and memorable images coming out N e E]
and memorable images coming out of Australia and the
and memorable images coming out N G EER R e
and memorable images coming out of Australia and the rest of
of Australia and the rest of )
of Australia and the rest of the world and
of Australia and the rest of R G EL
of Australia and the rest of the world and | think one of
the world and | think one of )
the world and | think one of N
the world and | think one of the ones that
the world and | think one of W RGEi e il
the world and | think one of ORI R GG B &)
the world and | think one of the ones that will stay with
the ones that will stay with me,
the ones that will stay with L)
the ones that will stay with me, and I’m
the ones that will stay with LR R
the ones that will stay with me, and I’m sure many of our
me, and I’m sure many of our view
me, and I’m sure many of our TSRS
me, and I’m sure many of our view is you have seen it,
VARV RN L picture of
view is you have seen it, picture of the Queen on the of
picture of the Queen on the of )
picture of the Queen on the of GRS U
picture of the Queen on the of RS IS A L]
picture of the Queen on the of the Sydney Opera House when the
the Sydney Opera House when the ETalaeoalw-Tn1l0118
the Sydney Opera House when the e i R E
the Sydney Opera House when the announcement was made. | think
anneuncement was made. | think 3
anneuncement was made. | think HRTE
anneuncement was made. | think it was a gesture
announcement was made. | think it was a gesture to
anneuncement was made. | think (I IS - R GRS (1
announcement was made. | think it was a gesture to express the
It was a gesture to express the W
It was a gesture to express the love, to
It was a gesture to express the W A
It was a gesture to express the W TR
It was a gesture to express the love, to express the admiration
love, to express the admiration but
love, to express the admiration N
love, to express the admiration I ]
love, to express the admiration but also, a sense
love, to express the admiration N RN
love, to express the admiration but also, a sense of loss at
but also, a sense of loss at )
but also, a sense of loss at G0
but also, a sense of loss at the only monarch most people
the only monarch most people T e
the only monarch most people YY)
the only monarch most people TR g
the only monarch most people here have ever known. Yeah,
here have ever known. Yeah, absolutely. Shaimaa, thank you
absolutely. Shaimaa, thank you )
absolutely. Shaimaa, thank you so much for giving us a sense
so much for giving us a sense N
so much for giving us a sense of how Australia
so much for giving us a sense A TR ER
so much for giving us a sense of how Australia is navigating
of how Australia is navigating today, thinking of them all
today, thinking of them all I
today, thinking of them all tuning in during their early
tuning in during their early G
tuning in during their early evening to the state funeral.
It’s been close to six decades since the British monarchy
symbolically ruled Singapore, but Queen Elizabeth II’s death
still elicited grief RSl s R R
South-east Asian nation, DR R e B )
discussion about its colonial past.
Our Asia reporter, Suranjana Tewari, joins me now
live from Singapore.
Suranjana, it is so fascinating,
Suranjana, it is so el Y[ T R
Suranjana, it is so A EL R R
Suranjana, it is so fascinating, isn’t it, to see
EETAL B [ MY O (T S
EETAL B [ MY O (T AR e
fascinating, isn’t it, to see how the different
fascinating, isn’t it, to see how the different countries
RGN T ] have
how the different countries Y N -l
how the different countries have reacted to
how the different countries R et DR R
how the different countries have reacted to the passing of
have reacted to the passing of Her Majesty. Do talk us through
Her Majesty. Do talk us through what’s happening in Singapore.
what’s happening in Singapore. Yes,
what’s happening in Singapore. \CLRT (A
what’s happening in Singapore. AT A
what’s happening in Singapore. VT (AR Y]
what’s happening in Singapore. Yes, Sally, as you mentioned,
Yes, Sally, as you mentioned, reflection is
Yes, Sally, as you mentioned, (SRR =Y
Yes, Sally, as you mentioned, reflection is certainly the
reflection is certainly the mood
reflection is certainly the R e
reflection is certainly the mood here in Singapore and I’m
mood here in Singapore and I’m standing outside
mood here in Singapore and I’m SENG DR R G
mood here in Singapore and I’m standing outside the British
standing outside the British club which is a
standing outside the British LR L R ekl
standing outside the British club which is a social club
club which is a social club R
club which is a social club here, counts around
club which is a social club IR I R T LN
club which is a social club here, counts around half of its
here, counts around half of its ey
here, counts around half of its members as British expats and
members as British expats and e
members as British expats and T
members as British expats and R adly o]
members as British expats and R ]
members as British expats and it is putting on an
members as British expats and IR LGl
members as British expats and it is putting on an event this
LER Nl R R R T SR
LER Nl R R R T evening, this
it is putting on an event this evening, this afternoon,
SN DERG IR CIG ] ElaE (A
evening, this afternoon, actually, to mark
evening, this afternoon, Ela G (AR G FIL SO
evening, this afternoon, actually, to mark the funeral
actually, to mark the funeral N
actually, to mark the funeral N
actually, to mark the funeral of Her Majesty the Queen and
of Her Majesty the Queen and they
of Her Majesty the Queen and QSR
of Her Majesty the Queen and QAR
of Her Majesty the Queen and they put out tickets for just
they put out tickets for just over 100 people, they are sold
over 100 people, they are sold e
over 100 people, they are sold 8|
over 100 people, they are sold out and expecting many more to
out and expecting many more to come
out and expecting many more to ]
out and expecting many more to iR R g
out and expecting many more to come to their restaurant,
come to their restaurant, roughly
come to their restaurant, LTl
come to their restaurant, roughly around 100, perhaps
roughly around 100, perhaps P )
roughly around 100, perhaps e s]
roughly around 100, perhaps more than 100
roughly around 100, perhaps e R R T
roughly around 100, perhaps e R R R
roughly around 100, perhaps e R L
more than 100 as well. The Prime Minister did say all
Prime Minister did say all Singaporeans
Prime Minister did say all Singapereans mourn
Prime Minister did say all Singaporeans mourn the loss of
Singaporeans mourn the loss of Her Majesty the Queen and of
Her Majesty the Queen and of e
Her Majesty the Queen and of WM G
Her Majesty the Queen and of course Singapore was a former
course Singapore was a former G
course Singapore was a former colony but it’s largely moved
colony but it’s largely moved ]
colony but it’s largely moved Nl
colony but it’s largely moved on it argues Singapore are not
on it argues Singapore are not ]
on it argues Singapore are not on a bank holiday today,
on a bank holiday today, R
on a bank holiday today, perhaps those
on a bank holiday today, VI R R G LR ]
on a bank holiday today, perhaps those working for
perhaps those working for Y]
perhaps those working for British companies
perhaps those working for R ER G
perhaps those working for R ER R ICREL
British companies are, and things have
British companies are, and QIR R T
British companies are, and things have moved on. That
things have moved on. That TN
things have moved on. That said, politicians do point to
said, politicians do point to )
said, politicians do point to Rl Rl
said, politicians do point to R R E ]
said, politicians do point to R En U R
said, politicians do point to the fact that the UK, the
the fact that the UK, the British
the fact that the UK, the SR Gl
the fact that the UK, the British system, the legal
British system, the legal Gl
British system, the legal SSRGS
British system, the legal SRR
British system, the legal system is very much imprinted
system is very much imprinted Ty
system is very much imprinted TR R )
system is very much imprinted into the DNA of Singapore in
into the DNA of Singapore in ite
into the DNA of Singapore in its white Singapore has become
its white Singapore has become such a
its white Singapore has become N R e
its white Singapore has become such a successful former
such a successful former colony, one of
such a successful former A R RO
such a successful former colony, one of the richest city
colony, one of the richest city G
colony, one of the richest city states per
colony, one of the richest city R LR
colony, one of the richest city IR RSP LG
colony, one of the richest city IR LR O 1
states per capita, rather, and you
states per capita, rather, and IR GA
states per capita, rather, and you know, politicians do say
you know, politicians do say R
you know, politicians do say that’s largely because of the
that’s largely because of the legacy that the British left
legacy that the British left here. Singapore’s
legacy that the British left here. Singapore’s head of state
here. Singapore’s head of state s
here. Singapore’s head of state o)
here. Singapore’s head of state is in London for the funeral
here. Singapore’s head of state TANEE R R R S
is in London for the funeral as N
is in London for the funeral as well. Singapore has said it’s a
well. Singapore has said it’s a very proud
well. Singapore has said it’s a AT i s
well. Singapore has said it’s a very proud member of the
very proud member of the Commonwealth and she is
very proud member of the e G R N R
Commonwealth and she Is there to
Commonwealth and she Is there R I
Commonwealth and she is there R D]
Commonwealth and she is there to represent being that
Commonwealth and she Is there to represent being that proud
to represent being that proud N
to represent being that proud R
to represent being that proud of the Commonwealth moving
of the Commonwealth moving T e 1o
of the Commonwealth moving T Lo
of the Commonwealth moving R EOER AN
of the Commonwealth moving T LR Y
of the Commonwealth moving T O Y A e
of the Commonwealth moving forward as well. So later today
forward as well. So later today e
forward as well. So later today in Singapore, are many expected
in Singapore, are many expected to
in Singapore, are many expected R ]
in Singapore, are many expected NIRRT
in Singapore, are many expected NN - h R
in Singapore, are many expected NN A h R R )
to tune in when the state funeral gets under way?
to tune in when the state I E G R R (S
funeral gets under way? Yes, these
funeral gets under way? Yes, (TR R
funeral gets under way? Yes, these types of social clubs
these types of social clubs probably, there are some
probably, there are some R
probably, there are some I G
probably, there are some pockets, but largely, Sally,
pockets, but largely, Sally, you
pockets, but largely, Sally, IR GA
pockets, but largely, Sally, you know, Singaporeans are
you know, Singaporeans are looking
you know, Singaporeans are L RUG
you know, Singaporeans are looking more towards the region
looking more towards the region e
looking more towards the region T A s
looking more towards the region TG IRGERE e
looking more towards the region rather than over to the UK.
rather than over to the UK. )
rather than over to the UK. There are very few connections
There are very few connections 3
There are very few connections TR s1d
There are very few connections in that way
There are very few connections RO = RV A ]
There are very few connections RO EI R ARG
There are very few connections in that way from the former
in that way from the former I RIEE
in that way from the former I
in that way from the former colonies. It’s not Like other
colonies. It’s not like other a0l ea
colonies. It’s not like other countries within
colonies. It’s not like other e R iR s Y
W lU I R [ L R W R G RO RG]
countries within the region ey
countries within the region like India that had such a
like India that had such a negative history with the
negative history with the S R
negative history with the British. Singapore managed to
British. Singapore managed to have
British. Singapore managed to )
British. Singapore managed to have a largely positive
have a largely positive M
have a largely positive R
have a largely positive IR U
experience from the colonisation and
LN R I T R G colonisation and from
LN R I T R G NI A s Ris R
LN R I T R G colonisation and from the exit
colonisation and from the exit Tee I8t
colonisation and from the exit TR
colonisation and from the exit NI RGeS
colonisation and from the exit from the empire as well. It
IR QLR TR T | negotiated
from the empire as well. It negotiated its own exit from
negotiated its own exit from )
negotiated its own exit from ORI
negotiated its own exit from R
negotiated its own exit from the empire, so while there are
the empire, so while there are ey
the empire, so while there are R G
the empire, so while there are these pockets of
the empire, so while there are R G R
the empire, so while there are these pockets of people who
these pockets of people who il
these pockets of people who T
these pockets of people who will be marking the event,
will be marking the event, EIOE
will be marking the event, largely Singaporeans are not as
largely Singaporeans are not as el
largely Singaporeans are not as connected with
largely Singaporeans are not as e R R
largely Singaporeans are not as e G R e LRIEl
connected with their colonial MBI
connected with their colonial masters from the
connected with their colonial R CERCIB U E
masters from the past. Suranjana, thank you.
In other news, nearly 300,000 hemes in southern Japan
are without power as a powerful typhoon continues to cause
destruction and disrupt lives in the region.
The huge storm, which made landfall on the island
on Sunday, has unleashed torrential rain and high winds
and forced tens of thousands of people to spend the night
In emergency shelters.
Let’s cross to our correspondent in Tokyo,
Rupert Wingfield-Hayes.
T I ARG G
What is the latest on this? The LN
What is the latest on this? The typhoon, which is a real
typhoon, which is a real i s
typhoon, which is a real monster storm,
typhoon, which is a real monster stoerm, one
typhoon, which is a real monster storm, one of the
monster storm, one of the higgest
monster storm, one of the biggest storms to hit Japan
biggest storms to hit Japan Il
biggest storms to hit Japan FIL ]
biggest storms to hit Japan half a century, it is
half a century, it is VIR
half a century, it is TR
half a century, it is W LG R R ey
half a century, it is TR GRCEG TG a R I
continuing to churn north-east, e
continuing to churn north-east, it has
continuing to churn north-east, T A )
continuing to churn north-east, it has Lleft the southern island
it has left the southern island el
it has left the southern island Y e 10
it has left the southern island which are passed
it has left the southern island N R E L RS
it has left the southern island which are passed over yesterday
which are passed over yesterday afternoon
which are passed over yesterday ]
which are passed over yesterday afternoon and through the night
afternoon and through the night ]
afternoon and through the night YA
afternoon and through the night VAT
afternoon and through the night now is go across southern
now is go across southern e
now is go across southern I TR
now is go across southern Honshu, the main island of
Honshu, the main island of Japan, continuing to dump very
Japan, continuing to dump very large amounts of rain, across
large amounts of rain, across e 0ha - ge
large amounts of rain, across southern Japan and even up in
southern Japan and even up in ST
southern Japan and even up in ISR
southern Japan and even up in S RN A TN b
southern Japan and even up in Tokyo very heavy rainfall this
Tokyo very heavy rainfall this LIaIhLE
Tokyo very heavy rainfall this O
Tokyo very heavy rainfall this GG
Tokyo very heavy rainfall this morning. It is causing
Tokyo very heavy rainfall this G SRR G T
morning. It is causing huge SOOI
morning. It is causing huge GOl
morning. It is causing huge disruption, lots of flights
disruption, lots of flights S (N
disruption, lots of flights cancelled, trains cancelled,
cancelled, trains cancelled, electricity out
cancelled, trains cancelled, N adgloi AR
cancelled, trains cancelled, electricity out to hundreds of
electricity out to hundreds of thousands of households across
thousands of households across G A e
thousands of households across NGRS COUPEEUR
thousands of households across south-western Japan, also tens
south-western Japan, also tens N
south-western Japan, also tens RGN
south-western Japan, also tens of thousands of people have
of thousands of people have left home and gone
of thousands of people have G LR LR
left home and gone to evacuation
left home and gone to A oI A R e A
left home and gone to A oI A e e A o]
left home and gone to evacuation centres so that is
evacuation centres so that is )
evacuation centres so that is D
evacuation centres so that is N LR
evacuation centres so that is WL
evacuation centres so that is the bad news. The good news is
the bad news. The good news is damage and death so far are
damage and death so far are very low, we have heard of one
very low, we have heard of one e laalge il Tel
very low, we have heard of one confirmed death, and 50 people
confirmed death, and 50 people LITICLR
confirmed death, and 50 people injured, but
confirmed death, and 50 people TIDTCL AT 41
confirmed death, and 50 people injured, but the fears that we
injured, but the fears that we Tl
injured, but the fears that we LR
injured, but the fears that we had here yesterday
injured, but the fears that we O G EV AL
injured, but the fears that we had here yesterday that the
had here yesterday that the 3y
had here yesterday that the store may
had here yesterday that the IR EV A )
had here yesterday that the store may cause huge structural
store may cause huge structural damage and massive flooding,
damage and massive flooding, those
damage and massive flooding, )
damage and massive flooding, I e
damage and massive flooding, those have not yet been borne
those have not yet been borne out,
those have not yet been borne NI
those have not yet been borne ARG
those have not yet been borne out, and the Japanese
out, and the Japanese T i3 ae e le:)
out, and the Japanese infrastructure seems
out, and the Japanese T I Ra e il N st LR
out, and the Japanese T IR e NN N LR R
infrastructure seems to be holding up pretty well. Because
holding up pretty well. Because that
holding up pretty well. Because G A
holding up pretty well. Because eI AR Y
holding up pretty well. Because that is the worry, the volume
that is the worry, the volume N
that is the worry, the volume R e
that is the worry, the volume AR a1
that is the worry, the volume AR ]
that is the worry, the volume of water and the rain
that is the worry, the volume ARG R e sl
that is the worry, the volume of water and the rain and if it
of water and the rain and if it Y
of water and the rain and if it LR
of water and the rain and if it does cause mudslides and
does cause mudslides and flooding and it’s hard to tell
flooding and it’s hard to tell e
flooding and it’s hard to tell YR a3
flooding and it’s hard to tell at this point?
flooding and it’s hard to tell E R G A
flooding and it’s hard to tell IR QI SR
flooding and it’s hard to tell at this peint? It is, it
flooding and it’s hard to tell IR QI A AP
at this point? It is, it is still going
at this point? It is, it is (LR
at this point? It is, it is still going to be another 12 to
still going to be another 12 to p 1 Yl
still going to be another 12 to p 1 YT
still going to be another 12 to 24-hour is before the storm
24-hour Is before the storm weakens and
24-hour Is before the storm Y O R ]
24-hour is before the storm weakens and then passes out
weakens and then passes out back into the Pacific, so we
back into the Pacific, so we Py
back into the Pacific, so we are not out
back into the Pacific, so we YN e
back into the Pacific, so we N R R
back into the Pacific, so we are not out of the danger zone
are not out of the danger zone 1
are not out of the danger zone (R
are not out of the danger zone at all, rivers are swollen
at all, rivers are swollen right across south-western
right across south-western Japan and there is still plenty
Japan and there is still plenty I
Japan and there is still plenty of potential for those rivers
of potential for those rivers to peak over the next
of potential for those rivers R SR G A P
of potential for those rivers LS R U SR A
to peak over the next 12 or 24-hour
to peak over the next 12 or p 1 YT
to peak over the next 12 or 24-hour is an cause, to burst
24-hour Is an cause, to burst e
24-hour Is an cause, to burst their banks and burst through
their banks and burst through sl
their banks and burst through IO o)
their banks and burst through G e sl
their banks and burst through TGNt R Y
flood defence and cause G D)
flood defence and cause widespread flooding, but as |
widespread flooding, but as | Y-\
widespread flooding, but as | FVAGT
widespread flooding, but as | FVA (IR
widespread flooding, but as | say this is a
widespread flooding, but as | VA GIRRRCs
widespread flooding, but as | say this is a very well
RGN RIS L)
RGN RIS engineered country
R QIR R TR LG R T L
R QIR R TR engineered country and so far
engineered country and so far Ty
engineered country and so far have held up pretty
engineered country and so far N GRT E C A
engineered country and so far have held up pretty well. OK,
have held up pretty well. OK, e
have held up pretty well. OK, A
have held up pretty well. OK, for now, thank
have held up pretty well. OK, A ARG =l SN
President Biden has said the United States would send US
forces to defend Taiwan in the event of an invasion by
China has been conducting military exercises in
the region and has not ruled ARG N R ey
in reunification of Taiwan with the mainland.
Mr Biden affirmed that TR R Ta il
in Ukraine, the decision would mean American boots
on the ground.
The White House later said that US policy on Taiwan -
which is claimed by Beijing N G IR
had net changed.
We’re joined now by Daniel L Davis, an American
foriegn policy analyst specialising in defence
strategy:
This comment about the US and Taiwan and foreign policy was
Taiwan and foreign policy was RiET Y
Taiwan and foreign policy was made in an interview with
Taiwan and foreign policy was E N R e A R
made in an interview with CBS where they were talking about
where they were talking about X
where they were talking about T
where they were talking about issues, give us your take on
issues, give us your take on )
issues, give us your take on QRSN T e
issues, give us your take on the significance of what he had
the significance of what he had to say about Taiwan? | was a
to say about Taiwan? | was a little
to say about Taiwan? | was a Ry id
to say about Taiwan? | was a little bit concerned by that,
little bit concerned by that, )
little bit concerned by that, e e
little bit concerned by that, the interview was
little bit concerned by that, QAN GV A R
little bit concerned by that, the interview was very emphatic
the interview was very emphatic Y
the interview was very emphatic when he
the interview was very emphatic LGN RN
the interview was very emphatic when he said, asking him
the interview was very emphatic L IR R T T
when he said, asking him are you
when he said, asking him are LRV
when he said, asking him are you saying if China text Taiwan
you saying if China text Taiwan 1S
you saying if China text Taiwan IR E1sY
you saying if China text Taiwan G A S UL e
you saying if China text Taiwan US military personnel will go
US military personnel will go in
US military personnel will go Tl
US military personnel will go RN (s ]
US military personnel will go in and defend Taiwan? The
in and defend Taiwan? The JCAL
in and defend Taiwan? The president said, yes,
in and defend Taiwan? The JEAP N1 R =
president said, yes, that’s vty
president said, yes, that’s e Y
president said, yes, that’s what he would do and the
what he would do and the interviewer
what he would do and the NI EE G
what he would do and the MCRIESTEE
what he would do and the interviewer gave him a second
interviewer gave him a second o)
interviewer gave him a second chance to
interviewer gave him a second e Rk Ee
interviewer gave him a second chance to walk back and he said
chance to walk back and he said yes, that is
chance to walk back and he said RO E RO
chance to walk back and he said yes, that is the fourth time
yes, that is the fourth time president Biden has
yes, that is the fourth time AR O E T
yes, that is the fourth time president Biden has said this
president Biden has said this o)
president Biden has said this since he has been an office
president Biden has said this AN R LR AR il s
since he has been an office in )
since he has been an office in QR
since he has been an office in the previous three times the
the previous three times the Ny
the previous three times the White House walks
the previous three times the NN R E R
the previous three times the White House walks it back, |
White House walks it back, | R4
White House walks it back, | R A
White House walks it back, | don’t know how
White House walks it back, | SR QST AT
White House walks it back, | don’t know how you can walk
don’t know how you can walk this
don’t know how you can walk this back when
don’t know how you can walk I ET S U R B
don’t know how you can walk this back when president Biden
this back when president Biden 3
this back when president Biden )
this back when president Biden is so explicit stop | can
is so explicit stop | can Y]
is so explicit stop | can AR
is so explicit stop | can assure you the leadership in
assure you the leadership in W E]
assure you the leadership in China will be reading that the
China will be reading that the negative sense possible and my
negative sense possible and my e ]
negative sense possible and my G is
negative sense possible and my eI GBCR L4
negative sense possible and my concern is that instead
negative sense possible and my S GUECR G AN R
concern is that instead of deterring China from an attack
deterring China from an attack this
deterring China from an attack I e ls|
deterring China from an attack this kind of
deterring China from an attack QIR RG]
deterring China from an attack this kind of thing may take the
this kind of thing may take the very
this kind of thing may take the VL0 4
this kind of thing may take the very attack we
this kind of thing may take the Ao R
this kind of thing may take the A (o R B
this kind of thing may take the very attack we wish to deter.
very attack we wish to deter. e
very attack we wish to deter. The US has had
very attack we wish to deter. TR LR e R )
very attack we wish to deter. The US has had to walk
very attack we wish to deter. IR R F R RO R 2 ]
very attack we wish to deter. IR LR R E LR
The US has had to walk a very ARaiTatite
The US has had to walk a very [T R L [ {11
The US has had to walk a very difficult tightrope when it
difficult tightrope when it i
difficult tightrope when it comes to Taiwan, and the sense
comes to Taiwan, and the sense e
comes to Taiwan, and the sense it is not saying it’s support
it is not saying it’s support ite
it is not saying it’s support its own
I TV VL [ M SV o] e ], its own decision
I TV VL [ M SV o] e ], R N oA s R i ld
its own decision for independence, and support the
independence, and support the status
independence, and support the S N[
independence, and support the S ELO IR
independence, and support the SO LS
independence, and support the SO LRI
independence, and support the status quo as it is right now
status quo as it is right now 4
status quo as it is right now but at
status quo as it is right now N )
status quo as it is right now N R e )
status quo as it is right now N R TRy
status quo as it is right now N R TN RN e
but at the same time does support Taiwan minutes, you
support Taiwan minutes, you QA
support Taiwan minutes, you know, wanting to have a
know, wanting to have a N EE18
know, wanting to have a democracy and an independent
democracy and an independent e Gl
democracy and an independent G RO
democracy and an independent political future. It’s a tricky
political future. It’s a tricky X4
political future. It’s a tricky oche? It
political future. It’s a tricky XA A
political future. It’s a tricky one? It is, but
political future. It’s a tricky one? Itis, but we
political future. It’s a tricky one? It is, but we just have to
one? It is, but we just have to 1y
one? It is, but we just have to R
one? Itis, but we just have to RIS TR Nk 4
one? Itis, but we just have to be careful we don’t do things
be careful we don’t do things that
NIRRT [ that can
NIRRT [ LR NRe TN
NIRRT [ that can result in a negative
that can result in a negative L
that can result in a negative result, what we
that can result in a negative TR I R R a1
that can result in a negative result, what we want to
result, what we want to N
result, what we want to prevent, the
result, what we want to N RG]
result, what we want to N UGG RS
result, what we want to prevent, the ideal as we
prevent, the ideal as we would ey
prevent, the ideal as we would like the status
prevent, the ideal as we would RO RS IO
prevent, the ideal as we would like the status quo to continue
like the status quo to continue N
like the status quo to continue on, we would
like the status quo to continue IR R UGG
like the status quo to continue on, we would like to want to
on, we would like to want to o A1)
on, we would like to want to o e TR
on, we would like to want to R )
on, we would like to want to continue to be an independent
continue to be an independent rtale sl
continue to be an independent nation cannot
continue to be an independent AR el e
continue to be an independent R e e ]
continue to be an independent nation cannot be attacked by
nation cannot be attacked by China, that is self-evident.
China, that is self-evident. {04
China, that is self-evident. NEg I
China, that is self-evident. N R
China, that is self-evident. N R
China, that is self-evident. But of all we ever do
China, that is self-evident. N R R s R
China, that is self-evident. N R R R
But of all we ever do is use )
But of all we ever do is use R4
But of all we ever do is use R
But of all we ever do is use the threat of military force,
the threat of military force, )
the threat of military force, R4
the threat of military force, R Al
the threat of military force, the threat of US acting and
the threat of US acting and ey
the threat of US acting and e N
the threat of US acting and defence of Taiwan,
the threat of US acting and SRR LT
the threat of US acting and defence of Taiwan, may be
defence of Taiwan, may be accelerating the chance that
accelerating the chance that W E]
accelerating the chance that China actually does that
China actually does that T Y
China actually does that T N
China actually does that I R Raaat]
China actually does that e R e
China actually does that R Rk SR aE
China actually does that IR i R A
because to them it is an absolute
because to them it is an Y T e )
because to them it is an YL N e e e o
because to them it is an absolute core interest into
because to them it is an Y e e A R
absolute core interest into the United States it
absolute core interest into the ISR S R
absolute core interest into the United States it is an interest
United States it is an interest e
United States it is an interest e
United States it is an interest s
United States it is an interest N a Al
United States it is an interest N R AN a1
but not of vital national NI
but not of vital national R e )
but not of vital national R A - N 018
but not of vital national interest because our security
interest because our security s not
I S RV - Tu Vgl 8" TR !
I S RV - Tu Vgl 8" is not threatened and that
I S RV - Tu Vgl 8" TR U T N LR A
is not threatened and that is why
is not threatened and that is VA
is not threatened and that is R T
is not threatened and that is why it is so
is not threatened and that is R SRR [ &l
is not threatened and that is why it is so important we keep
why it is so important we keep )
why it is so important we keep QR GO
why It is so important we keep the strategic ambiguity and
why it is so important we keep the strategic ambiguity and we
the strategic ambiguity and we R4
the strategic ambiguity and we LR Y
the strategic ambiguity and we don’t give China an easy excuse
don’t give China an easy excuse to
don’t give China an easy excuse e s le)
don’t give China an easy excuse to do something
don’t give China an easy excuse R RS G LR
don’t give China an easy excuse to do something we know they
to do something we know they have
to do something we know they LYV e sl
to do something we know they VTR R
to do something we know they LYV R R N
to do something we know they E VTR RO R e
to do something we know they have wanted to do for decades.
have wanted to do for decades. In
have wanted to do for decades. R
have wanted to do for decades. In terms of what might happen
In terms of what might happen next? | think we can expect
next? | think we can expect )
next? | think we can expect R 114
next? I think we can expect R G A
next? I think we can expect some pretty harsh response from
some pretty harsh response from W E]
some pretty harsh response from China over the coming hours,
China over the coming hours, Y
China over the coming hours, RO
China over the coming hours, when they have a chance to
when they have a chance to IO
when they have a chance to RG]
when they have a chance to process this a little bit, it’s
process this a little bit, it’s e LGV
process this a little bit, it’s unfortunately a combination
unfortunately a combination with
unfortunately a combination R a1
unfortunately a combination R A R
unfortunately a combination with what the Nancy Pelosi
with what the Nancy Pelosi e
with what the Nancy Pelosi R e
with what the Nancy Pelosi R LR e
with what the Nancy Pelosi R LRI
with what the Nancy Pelosi R LR R R e i Ns
visit was earlier this summer with
visit was earlier this summer AT
visit was earlier this summer ARy
visit was earlier this summer G YN
visit was earlier this summer with a $1 millien military
visit was earlier this summer with a $1 million military deal
with a $1 million military deal L]
with a $1 million military deal signed a few days ago, weeks
signed a few days ago, weeks ago and now this, the fourth
ago and now this, the fourth S i)
ago and now this, the fourth AR AR
ago and now this, the fourth time president Biden said it
time president Biden said it 334
time president Biden said it IR UL R
time president Biden said it set something in place and a
set something in place and a series
set something in place and a 4R
set something in place and a AR A R
set something in place and a series of events that could
set something in place and a AR A R E R TR
series of events that could end up
series of events that could end TRl
series of events that could end upina
series of events that could end up in a very bad place for
up in a very bad place for military conflict that nebody
IR e g =L (oL o) T e
IR e g =L (oL o) wants. Daniel Davis, thank
military conflict that nobody wants. Daniel Davis, thank you
wants. Daniel Davis, thank you e
wants. Daniel Davis, thank you (I ET ]
wants. Daniel Davis, thank you for sharing your thoughts on
for sharing your thoughts on e
for sharing your thoughts on GEI R
for sharing your thoughts on that. Now, to
for sharing your thoughts on GEIAL (PR R I
G Zelensky says investigations
[N R E L R R crimes are continuing
IR R W40 ]
one of several areas back in Ukrainian hands
after significant territorial gains in recent days.
Bodies are being exhumed TR B e R Y
on the edge of the city.
Our Ukraine Correspondent James Waterhouse has more from Kyiv.
o
Since Ukraine forced rush out e
Since Ukraine forced rush out TR Rl
Since Ukraine forced rush out TR R ARy
Since Ukraine forced rush out TR R R e
Since Ukraine forced rush out TR R R A e )
for the first time since the evasion
for the first time since the A I 2 s |
for the first time since the evasion and retook territory
evasion and retook territory that
evasion and retook territory G e
evasion and retook territory e i E
evasion and retook territory E R ]
evasion and retook territory that it has taken it now seems
that it has taken it now seems to
that it has taken it now seems R R (RN
that it has taken it now seems R ER LG
that it has taken it now seems to be focusing on investigating
to be focusing on investigating vty
to be focusing on investigating T -]
to be focusing on investigating what the invaders did and what
what the invaders did and what [ e
what the invaders did and what [ Y e ALY
what the invaders did and what Moscow is going to
what the invaders did and what YRR N DR GG
what the invaders did and what Moscow is going to do next. In
Moscow is going to do next. In )
Moscow is going to do next. In N N
Moscow is going to do next. In N A
Moscow is going to do next. In the case of the city of lzyum,
the case of the city of Izyum, vty
the case of the city of Izyum, e
the case of the city of Izyum, what is continuing to be
what is continuing to be Ml el
what is continuing to be uncovered from a mass grave,
uncovered from a mass grave, )
uncovered from a mass grave, R
uncovered from a mass grave, the latest claim from here
uncovered from a mass grave, AR R
the latest claim from here Is that
the latest claim from here is A s e o)
the latest claim from here is BRI o N E
the latest claim from here is that evidence has been
that evidence has been Ml el
that evidence has been uncovered suggesting torture
uncovered suggesting torture a1 e
uncovered suggesting torture eI R
uncovered suggesting torture A E R N
uncovered suggesting torture N R R R 2
uncovered suggesting torture chambers were used by Russian
chambers were used by Russian LTI
chambers were used by Russian troops, reports of people being
troops, reports of people being e el
troops, reports of people being eI ]
troops, reports of people being L]
troops, reports of people being tortured and a city being
tortured and a city being littered with mines.
tortured and a city being Rar e R R
tortured and a city being littered with mines. It has
littered with mines. It has again been heavy fighting in
again been heavy fighting in )
again been heavy fighting in the Hauraki region where
the Hauraki region where Ukraine has enjoyed success, on
Ukraine has enjoyed success, on vty
Ukraine has enjoyed success, on e k]
Ukraine has enjoyed success, on what Russia will
Ukraine has enjoyed success, on T AR )
Ukraine has enjoyed success, on N AR R S L4
Ukraine has enjoyed success, on what Russia will do next? The
what Russia will do next? The QI
what Russia will do next? The thought from
what Russia will do next? The G ST SR
what Russia will do next? The thought from Ukraine military
thought from Ukraine military NS e ]
thought from Ukraine military NS e
thought from Ukraine military NI e
thought from Ukraine military NS R R
thought from Ukraine military NS R G 0]
of defence it will look to )
of defence it will look to e R e
of defence it will look to 308 e e Nt a]
of defence it will look to strike more civilian targets in
strike more civilian targets in &)
strike more civilian targets in Ukraine while it is frustrated
Ukraine while it is frustrated ]
Ukraine while it is frustrated ]
Ukraine while it is frustrated on the battlefield, but this is
on the battlefield, but this is GG
on the battlefield, but this is something Russia has done
something Russia has done QIS G
something Russia has done throughout this war, hit
throughout this war, hit targets throughout this large
targets throughout this large country to try to exert
country to try to exert influence and
country to try to exert T TN o Ta s MOl st e
influence and undermine Ukrainian morale. But on that
Ukrainian morale. But on that B
Ukrainian morale. But on that latest point, President
latest point, President L EHA Y
latest point, President L O T
latest point, President Zelensky said just because we
Zelensky said just because we have regained areas of
have regained areas of territory this does not mean it
territory this does not mean it il
territory this does not mean it IR
territory this does not mean it will be a pause, what Russia
will be a pause, what Russia il
will be a pause, what Russia LY
will be a pause, what Russia YR
will be a pause, what Russia SRR G
will be a pause, what Russia will hope is the speed of the
will hope Is the speed of the e -Y e
will hope is the speed of the i i
will hope is the speed of the IR R
will hope is the speed of the retreat will force Ukraine to
retreat will force Ukraine to N
retreat will force Ukraine to pause. Let’s return to our
retreat will force Ukraine to I RSO R X NGl
pause. Let’s return to our main S0
Over the last few weeks, the queues of people who lined
up to pay their respects to the late Queen have become
a familiar sight and a major talking point and are likely
to remain among the abiding images of this period
of national mourning.
So what does this say about Britain’s attitude
to the monarchy and the public’s desire to be part
RNl Tn of historical change?
Nick Robinson has been finding out.
I R A
Like "the Queen”, no IR O N L
You were, it seemed at times, either in it, or watching it.
At the last count, 7.5 million people had tuned into the live
feed to watch an estimated 750,000 walk past the coffin.
We’ve never seen anything like it before, we all said.
Except those old enough NI RGN E
NEWSREEL: Through the night the people wait, silent
and patient.
Their night rest they give to the King...
(CUEIR VIR0 T is extraordinary.
It isn’t, though, new.
In fact, it’s a flawless replica of what happened 70
years ago when the Queen’s father, King George VI,
died, and he lay in state.
Britain has changed dramatically, of course.
There are 17 million e A
Our population is so much more diverse.
Back then there was just the one TV channel,
111918
For so many here, what matters IR GEI PR
being In the gqueue.
In this era of selfies and emojis and online posts,
it seems that what we’ve discovered is the advantages
of being social without the media, because the queue,
for many people, is as much about this journey as it is
about the destination.
NEWSREEL: The night ends, R R T I R )
the Hall of Kings, the Great Hall of Westminster,
passes the long, silent column.
So many people, but so Little noise.
The silence not just MR Ne R A G
of our modern era, the clicking and beeping of mobile phones,
not even the silence R e e
Thick, deep piled carpet on the stone floor absorbs
almost every sound.
That tap-tap, for the Changing of the Guard.
Another signals the lowering of weapons.
After a third tap-tap, YL R e
NEWSREEL: Of George VI, it will be written,
this was a King his people loved.
So little has changed since we last mourned a monarch
and yet so much has changed.
Gone are the Sunday best suits, the ties and the hats,
of course, but we are still mourning together.
Not everybody, of course.
There are some who are E L REI R R (TS
LR ICRT G CR T R (=X ] that the monarchy has remnants
of empire, of hierarchy, of deference, of class.
So what does explain the willingness of so many
to queue for so long for so short a glimpse
of a coffin?
People in the queue feel they are not alone.
LS I socially distanced.
They are not behind et o
They are together with strangers who share that desire
simply to be toegether.
To remember, to respect and to be here, in the queue.
Nick Robinson, BBC News.
The Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau first met
the Queen as a child when his own father was Prime
He and his wife, Sophie Gregoire Trudeau,
spoke to the BBC’s Mishal Husain about Canada’s
and their own special relationship with the late
| was seven
R LR VLGS
| was seven years old, | N e
| was seven years old, | remember | had to
| was seven years old, | NI AR LRGN
| was seven years old, | N AR RN Mo s o 4
remember | had to rush back Tee I8t
remember | had to rush back i iR e e el
remember | had to rush back from school to meet her, and |
from school to meet her, and | YT
from school to meet her, and | had actually been told these
had actually been told these Py
had actually been told these IRy
had actually been told these EICRU R N
had actually been told these are the only shoes
had actually been told these AU N ARG
had actually been told these are the only shoes that fit me
are the only shoes that fit me and |
are the only shoes that fit me IR |
are the only shoes that fit me and | needed to
are the only shoes that fit me A LR LG
are the only shoes that fit me A L R R G RO ]
are the only shoes that fit me and | needed to keep them clean
and | needed to keep them clean and |
and | needed to keep them clean LRI
and | needed to keep them clean WA G
and | needed to keep them clean and | got them all muddy so |
and | got them all muddy so | remember
and | got them all muddy so | N IS
and | got them all muddy so | remember just before
and | got them all muddy so | IS TS R OO LI
remember just before running Y1)
remember just before running et R
remember just before running U ER X
remember just before running home to go to
remember just before running RO R R
remember just before running home to go to the school
home to go to the school washroom with a buddy of mine
washroom with a buddy of mine and cleaning of my shoes |
and cleaning of my shoes | i
and cleaning of my shoes | GRS
and cleaning of my shoes | could have clean
and cleaning of my shoes | G N R
and cleaning of my shoes | G el R R e e
could have clean shoes for N
could have clean shoes for meeting the Queen. What was the
meeting the Queen. What was the relationship of your father
relationship of your father with
relationship of your father e
relationship of your father Ol S a Y
relationship of your father O Al YA
relationship of your father with her like? He had a
with her like? He had a tremendous
with her like? He had a N CUP TG e
with her like? He had a tremendous respect and
tremendous respect and affection
tremendous respect and P i it R ld
tremendous respect and affection for her, |
tremendous respect and i R P R ]
tremendous respect and affection for her, I think the
affection for her, | think the two
affection for her, | think the e
affection for her, | think the R ]
affection for her, | think the R R G 4]
affection for her, | think the two of them got along very,
two of them got along very, very well.
TN R G G L T RTCT very well. Obviously, he
two of them got along very, very well. Obviously, he was
very well. Obviously, he was busy repatriating the
busy repatriating the NS GO IR
busy repatriating the WSO PRl
busy repatriating the N E GO R G
busy repatriating the Constitution, which he did in
Constitution, which he did in 1982, from British North
1982, from British North America
1982, from British North e I
1982, from British North L I el In v
1982, from British North Sl e o)
1982, from British North I I I N e 0l d
1982, from British North America act to be our own
America act to be our own &N EsIETs]
America act to be our own Canadian constitution, a lot of
Canadian constitution, a lot of a4
Canadian constitution, a lot of R 1ids]
Canadian constitution, a lot of work with her, and making sure
work with her, and making sure Gl
work with her, and making sure AN GILRT ]
work with her, and making sure GG RTI CL R
work with her, and making sure A GIGETIC LR AR
work with her, and making sure A G RTI CL R A (M 1
everything worked out well. It Ty
everything worked out well. It ]
everything worked out well. It was a time
everything worked out well. It Rl N
everything worked out well. It was a time of change then and
was a time of change then and 9]
was a time of change then and e A G
was a time of change then and AU RO
was a time of change then and tricky moments they must have
tricky moments they must have P
tricky moments they must have had to navigate together, there
had to navigate together, there Ty
had to navigate together, there was separatism sentiment, a
was separatism sentiment, a referendum in
was separatism sentiment, a S BRI - o
was separatism sentiment, a referendum in Quebec and
referendum in Quebec and Republican sentiment as
GGV R RV T T Republican sentiment as well
Republican sentiment as well vty
Republican sentiment as well T
Republican sentiment as well Y El SRV
Republican sentiment as well Y ET AR )
Republican sentiment as well what is your sense of how she
what is your sense of how she E ]
what is your sense of how she EC O L)
what is your sense of how she approached and navigated those?
approached and navigated those? iy
approached and navigated those? R EV A
approached and navigated those? She always understood that
She always understood that el
She always understood that NGOG W Gl
She always understood that NGO E G W A
internal political discussions Y
internal political discussions when something she needed to
when something she needed to 4
when something she needed to NI
when something she needed to get involved with. It doesn’t
get involved with. It doesn’’t R
get involved with. It doesn’t MG AL
get involved with. It doesn’t matter what your epinion is
get involved with. It doesn’t matter what your epinion is in
matter what your opinion is in this
matter what your opinion is in R
matter what your opinien is in this time of change and
matter what your opinion is in this time of change and chaotic
this time of change and chaotic living in
this time of change and chaotic WLLELE
this time of change and chaotic living in so many ways this
living in so many ways this capacity for stillness and
capacity for stillness and attachment, perspective and
attachment, perspective and deep listening is crucial. You
deep listening is crucial. You Ty
deep listening is crucial. You have taught, Prime Minister,
have taught, Prime Minister, FYe L
have taught, Prime Minister, NG
have taught, Prime Minister, EL T RG]
have taught, Prime Minister, about this being the end
have taught, Prime Minister, EL N RGN LR G R R
have taught, Prime Minister, EL N G R R G R R
about this being the end of a W] g
about this being the end of a W
about this being the end of a chapter of shared history
chapter of shared history e
chapter of shared history between Britain
chapter of shared history hetween Britain and
chapter of shared history between Britain and Canada,
between Britain and Canada, vty
between Britain and Canada, what do
between Britain and Canada, LT[R
between Britain and Canada, what do you think the next
what do you think the next W] g
what do you think the next G A
what do you think the next chapter looks like?
what do you think the next G AL ALY
what do you think the next chapter looks like? A lot of it
chapter looks like? A lot of it s
chapter looks like? A lot of it is steadiness and continuity,
is steadiness and continuity, and
is steadiness and continuity, R
is steadiness and continuity, and my first audience with King
and my first audience with King G
and my first audience with King Charles, we talked about things
Charles, we talked about things that he
Charles, we talked about things e ]
Charles, we talked about things that he and |
Charles, we talked about things e R R
Charles, we talked about things that he and | have spoken about
that he and | have spoken about years
that he and | have spoken about R
that he and | have spoken about IR L L P
that he and | have spoken about G I RO S
that he and | have spoken about years now, he knows my passion
years now, he knows my passion e
years now, he knows my passion TR
years now, he knows my passion for the environment, for
for the environment, for reconciliation with indigenous
reconciliation with indigenous N
reconciliation with indigenous people, his ability to continue
people, his ability to continue and
people, his ability to continue IR s
people, his ability to continue LRSI E
people, his ability to continue GRS R R e e
people, his ability to continue RS AR R )
people, his ability to continue and extend the work the Crown
and extend the work the Crown T
and extend the work the Crown YL [ )
and extend the work the Crown has done in Canada for decades.
has done in Canada for decades. M)
has done in Canada for decades. MR
has done in Canada for decades. Do you think Canada will still
Do you think Canada will still )
Do you think Canada will still 1]
Do you think Canada will still be around for your children’s
be areund for your children’s lifetimes ?
be areund for your children’s lifetimes? | think there
be areund for your children’s R ARG S
be areund for your children’s lifetimes? | think there is an
lifetimes? | think there is an extraordinary stability in our
extraordinary stability in our Gl
extraordinary stability in our SAGUE
extraordinary stability in our system of democracy. You will
system of democracy. You will miss
system of democracy. You will I
system of democracy. You will A A
system of democracy. You will A ARl
system of democracy. You will miss her? | will miss her
miss her? | will miss her terribly.
miss her? | will miss her el A
miss her? | will miss her e AT
miss her? | will miss her el A T ol
miss her? | will miss her terribly. | am still absorbing
terribly. 1 am still absorbing i
terribly. 1 am still absorbing R
terribly. 1 am still absorbing PR IR
terribly. I am still absorbing it, for me, just coming to
it, for me, just coming to London
it, for me, just coming to BTGl
it, for me, just coming to london and not
it, for me, just coming to London and not being able to
London and not being able to T
London and not being able to AR
London and not being able to N SR
London and not being able to IR G|
London and not being able to see her, is something that
see her, is something that e
see her, is something that catches me
see her, is something that et N
see her, is something that catches me off quard, a little
catches me off guard, a little bit. As it
catches me off quard, a little A R )
catches me off quard, a little A R T )
catches me off quard, a little A R R T N N
bit. As it because she reminds you
bit. As it because she reminds R
bit. As it because she reminds IRIRT
bit. As it because she reminds you of your father and your
you of your father and your childhood,
you of your father and your childhooed, beyond
you of your father and your childhood, beyond others who
childhood, beyond others who Ty
childhood, beyond others who have been in
childhood, beyond others who ENN L R RTIT
childhood, beyond others who have been in your position? You
have been in your position? You know
have been in your position? You R i
have been in your position? You know what question Mac no, she
know what question Mac no, she Ty
know what question Mac no, she LRI
know what question Mac no, she was enough all on
know what question Mac no, she LRI L (T Y
know what question Mac no, she IR T
know what question Mac no, she was enough all on her own, |
was enough all on her own, | affection
was enough all on her own, | P i it R ld
was enough all on her own, | i i s R e
was enough all on her own, | e IR L
was enough all on her own, | affection for her my missing
affection for her my missing g
affection for her my missing a0
affection for her my missing AR .
The Canadian Prime Minister L]
The Canadian Prime Minister LR
The Canadian Prime Minister speaking to Mishal Husain.
The Victoria Cross is one of the most prestigious medals
awarded in the UK and recipients of the honour have
been invited to the Queen’s funeral.
Captain Rambahadur Limbu, GG ARG R YR I
citizen to have been awarded the medal, is unable to go
He served in the British Gurkha O AR G RV G ET A
For more than 200 years, soldiers from the Gurkha region
have served in the UK military.
The BBC met him at his home RGO L
N DUCR T EY T g f
He knew the Queen for years. Now,
He knew the Queen for years. VT
He knew the Queen for years. T
He knew the Queen for years. Now, he is saying goodbye.
Now, he is saying goodbye. TRANSLATION: Felt very sad to
TRANSLATION: Felt very sad to hear
TRANSLATION: Felt very sad to T I N E|
TRANSLATION: Felt very sad to hear she had died, said Captain
hear she had died, said Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu, Nepal’s only
Ram Bahadur Limbu, Nepal’s only living Victoria
Ram Bahadur Limbu, Nepal’s only living Victoria Cross
living Victoria Cross e
living Victoria Cross recipient. A long journey for
recipient. A long journey for )
recipient. A long journey for the condolence book to
recipient. A long journey for et e N &N P
the condolence book to him. 3T a1
the condolence book to him. T Yo E
the condolence book to him. IR X L
QNN EL R T From Nepal’s capital hundreds
From Nepal’s capital hundreds of
From Nepal’s capital hundreds S
From Nepal’s capital hundreds of miles away. Flying past the
of miles away. Flying past the iy
of miles away. Flying past the world’s tallest
of miles away. Flying past the R RS e
world’s tallest mountains. Then,
world’s tallest mountains. L]
world’s tallest mountains. Then, on the road to Damak in
Then, on the road to Damak in )
Then, on the road to Damak in ML G -
Then, on the road to Damak in the south-east. At 88, Captain
the south-east. At 88, Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel to
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel Ry
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel R W
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel R TN )
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel RN I R )
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel RGN IR N
Ram Bahadur Limbu cannot travel to the funeral. So the UK envoy
to the funeral. So the UK envoy to
to the funeral. So the UK envoy R
to the funeral. So the UK envoy to Nepal went to his home. "I’m
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m 0
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m LR
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m sad that |
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m ¥R R a1
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m YR AR e
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m ¥R AR e
to Nepal went to his home. "I’m YR G AR e e
sad that | cannot be at her funeral™
sad that | cannot be at her funeral” he wrote. "May her
funeral” he wrote. "May her soul rest in
funeral” he wrote. "May her NS AN
funeral” he wrote. "May her soul rest in peace.” She used
soul rest in peace.” She used to
soul rest in peace.” She used R T4
soul rest in peace.” She used to speak to
soul rest in peace.” She used RS
soul rest in peace.” She used to speak to us like
soul rest in peace.” She used I LA AL GG
soul rest in peace.” She used to speak to us like we were
to speak to us like we were ey
to speak to us like we were T R
to speak to us like we were e A e
to speak to us like we were members of her family. | used
members of her family. | used to
members of her family. | used R
members of her family. | used to feel happy while talking
to feel happy while talking with
to feel happy while talking R )
to feel happy while talking R -]
to feel happy while talking RGN ]
to feel happy while talking RGN R
to feel happy while talking O RG N NEL R
to feel happy while talking with the Queen and felt | was
with the Queen and felt | was T eIy
with the Queen and felt | was fortunate to
with the Queen and felt | was TN EL R R
with the Queen and felt | was fortunate to be working with
fortunate to be working with i
fortunate to be working with R
fortunate to be working with A Y di e ]
fortunate to be working with her. The British Gurkha veteran
her. The British Gurkha veteran Ty
her. The British Gurkha veteran was awarded
her. The British Gurkha veteran N Ll R
her. The British Gurkha veteran was awarded the Victoria Cross
was awarded the Victoria Cross 3
was awarded the Victoria Cross in 1966
was awarded the Victoria Cross R LR TE
was awarded the Victoria Cross in 1966 for gallantry in the
in 1966 for gallantry in the conflict in
in 1966 for gallantry in the i m o g T
in 1966 for gallantry in the AR el e
conflict in Borneo between ¥ AL
conflict in Borneo between British and Indonesian
conflict in Borneo between AR e e Rt ee T
British and Indonesian forces. El
British and Indonesian forces. B
British and Indonesian forces. Later, he also served as one of
Later, he also served as one of )
Later, he also served as one of the Queen’'sorderlies,
the Queen’sorderlies, accompanying her to military
accompanying her to military NI
accompanying her to military ceremonies. | worked closely
ceremonies. | worked closely with
ceremonies. | worked closely e
ceremonies. | worked closely with her for
ceremonies. | worked closely R B
ceremonies. | worked closely T R R R
ceremonies. | worked closely with her for that one year. |
with her for that one year. | Pl e sl
with her for that one year. | e R i)
with her for that one year. | adored her. She was soft-spoken
adored her. She was soft-spoken and she had such clarity of
and she had such clarity of thought. When she used to meet
thought. When she used to meet me,
thought. When she used to meet TR
thought. When she used to meet me, she would
thought. When she used to meet IR R G Z S
thought. When she used to meet me, she would always ask
me, she would always ask how Py
me, she would always ask how E1- Vi
me, she would always ask how are you? How is your family?
are you? How is your family? €T E1]
are you? How is your family? Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu has
Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu has )
Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu has I N
Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu has also met King
Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu has E N T G R T Y
Captain Ram Bahadur Limbu has also met King Charles several
also met King Charles several times.
also met King Charles several WY
also met King Charles several times. He hopes he gets to meet
times. He hopes he gets to meet el
times. He hopes he gets to meet him again.
DI GV T T ET F L e
S+
So, a momentous day ahead and,
5o, a momentous day ahead and, of
5o, a momentous day ahead and, R
5o, a momentous day ahead and, of course, the
So, a mementous day ahead and, of course, the newspapers
of course, the newspapers capture that today and to talk
capture that today and to talk us through some of the front
us through some of the front pages and what is inside, we
pages and what is inside, we Iy
pages and what is inside, we are joined by Mark Lobel, our
are joined by Mark Lobel, our (3ol g
are joined by Mark Lobel, our report. You have a whole array
report. You have a whole array of
report. You have a whole array e a1
report. You have a whole array S EEIeis o)
report. You have a whole array S EEIed sl R Ria a1
report. You have a whole array S EEIai sl R s Rage s )
report. You have a whole array of articles in front of you.
of articles in front of you. Where to start? Buckingham
Where to start? Buckingham P T
Where to start? Buckingham P YN 1
Where to start? Buckingham Palace has always
Where to start? Buckingham EI YN F I R
Where to start? Buckingham Palace has always a previously
Palace has always a previously T,
Palace has always a previously I CUR il
Palace has always a previously O R R
Palace has always a previously IR G R R G
Palace has always a previously unseen portrait of the Queen.
unseen portrait of the Queen. s
unseen portrait of the Queen. o
unseen portrait of the Queen. IR R EL
unseen portrait of the Queen. I E L RO ELVE
unseen portrait of the Queen. It is dominating many of the
It is dominating many of the e d
It is dominating many of the front pages and we can show you
front pages and we can show you Tl
front pages and we can show you el A
front pages and we can show you Wl A LG
front pages and we can show you Wl A LIS
front pages and we can show you W AR LR R i ]
front pages and we can show you W AR LI i ]
that now. This is from a photographer who has met the
photographer who has met the S0
photographer who has met the LR )
photographer who has met the IR R I
Queen on five separate L3 a0
Queen on five separate occasions at least and
Queen on five separate e AN A - s s L
Queen on five separate e Al R A
occasions at least and it Is P g ]
occasions at least and it is across the Telegraph. They have
across the Telegraph. They have gone with a
across the Telegraph. They have RTINS
across the Telegraph. They have RO RGN
across the Telegraph. They have gone with a life of selfless
gone with a life of selfless L
gone with a life of selfless service, and the express
LR IR RO RN service, and the express has
service, and the express has gone with farewell, our
gone with farewell, our S[LIOTS
gone with farewell, our glorious Queen. This is the
glorious Queen. This is the oy
glorious Queen. This is the times? We also
glorious Queen. This is the YA I N Ry
glorious Queen. This is the YA IR )
glorious Queen. This is the YA I RO
times? We also have the sun el
times? We also have the sun il 04
times? We also have the sun which just says God bless. It’s
which just says God bless. It’s Y
which just says God bless. It’s R
which just says God bless. It’s a really lovely photo, isn’t
a really lovely photo, isn’t it?
a really lovely photo, isn’t it? Taken at Windsor
a really lovely photo, isn’t B EIChH IR ]
a really lovely photo, isn’t it? Taken at Windsor in May.
it? Taken at Windsor in May. I
it? Taken at Windsor in May. And on
it? Taken at Windsor in May. I LR R4
it? Taken at Windsor in May. IR R d
it? Taken at Windsor in May. LR LRI
it? Taken at Windsor in May. LRI TGS
it? Taken at Windsor in May. And on it if you look closely
And on it if you look closely 1
And on it if you look closely R4
And on it if you look closely EIR GV IR
And on it if you look closely at that bridge, and aquamarine
at that bridge, and aquamarine [ N
at that bridge, and aquamarine brooch, her
at that bridge, and aquamarine W i 1014
at that bridge, and aquamarine brooch, her 80th birthday
brooch, her 80th birthday present from her
brooch, her 80th birthday NN RS =
brooch, her 80th birthday present from her parents in
present from her parents in LTV
present from her parents in (77
present from her parents in 1944, if you for her Diamond
1944, if you for her Diamond Jubilee
1944, if you for her Diamond N
1944, if you for her Diamond Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 s Tte
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 IS ae
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 i
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 but it is the
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 N ARG
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 [N ARG s 1 R s
Jubilee --18. VE Day in 2020 but it is the smile on but |
but it is the smile on but | think
but it is the smile on but | i QAL
but it is the smile on but | GG E
but it is the smile on but | GG AR
but it is the smile on but | think that is the reason
but it is the smile on but | OISO SRR R
think that is the reason why they
think that is the reason why S AT
think that is the reason why QAT
think that is the reason why VA TN 4
think that is the reason why QA TN
think that is the reason why QA R N 8
they chose it. It’s a really JOUEI)
they chose it. It’s a really IO Rl
they chose it. It’s a really pronounced smile compared to
pronounced smile compared to 1R
pronounced smile compared to I3
pronounced smile compared to RS AT
pronounced smile compared to all of the other portraits
all of the other portraits we’ve seen. But also, she is so
we’ve seen. But also, she is so 1
we’ve seen. But also, she is so at ease and
we’ve seen. But also, she is so R F LRy
we’ve seen. But also, she is so RN Bl
we’ve seen. But also, she is so at ease and it’s not surprising
at ease and it’s not surprising Y
at ease and it’s not surprising TR
at ease and it’s not surprising because this photographer took
because this photographer took Y
because this photographer took R
because this photographer took a very famous photograph if you
a very famous photograph if you remember of Prince Charles,
remember of Prince Charles, William, George and the Queen
William, George and the Queen el
William, George and the Queen which kind of showed
William, George and the Queen N R AR R R
William, George and the Queen which kind of showed the line
which kind of showed the line N
which kind of showed the line AN s
which kind of showed the line of succession arocund
which kind of showed the line of succession around the
which kind of showed the line of succession arocund the time
of succession around the time of
of succession around the time A
of succession around the time of her 90th birthday so he knew
of her 90th birthday so he knew her
of her 90th birthday so he knew AN
of her 90th birthday so he knew her well. Lovely to release
her well. Lovely to release that today for us all to see.
that today for us all to see. !
that today for us all to see. YL
that today for us all to see. TR R
that today for us all to see. T R R )
that today for us all to see. I LA e W R
Ahead of the state funeral. Inside
CHEEG RO RO CLCR T | LRGN EL
CHEEG RO RO CLCR T | LR G LR IR T
Ahead of the state funeral. Inside the pages? Let me show
Inside the pages? Let me show you
Inside the pages? Let me show R
Inside the pages? Let me show you the front page of the
you the front page of the e
you the front page of the R hiy
you the front page of the IR R )
you the front page of the metro. While we’re on these
metro. While we’re on these Sl
metro. While we’re on these striking front pages, this is a
striking front pages, this is a portrait
striking front pages, this is a Il
striking front pages, this is a portrait of Queen Elizabeth
portrait of Queen Elizabeth Tee I8t
portrait of Queen Elizabeth from 1954 they have chosen
from 1954 they have chosen W
from 1954 they have chosen TR &L
from 1954 they have chosen there, the Italian artist there
there, the Italian artist there with
there, the Italian artist there R )
there, the Italian artist there with the words thank you mam.
with the words thank you mam. Both
with the words thank you mam. Y OE
with the words thank you mam. G E R
with the words thank you mam. OB A e
with the words thank you mam. Both ends of her reign. Inside
Both ends of her reign. Inside )
Both ends of her reign. Inside R
Both ends of her reign. Inside the paper, let me show you the
the paper, let me show you the Gurkhai
the paper, let me show you the I G )
the paper, let me show you the Gurkhai because let’s
the paper, let me show you the I G T R L a1
Gurkhai because let’s not forget the
Gurkhal because let’s not forget the many
Gurkhai because let’s not forget the many people
Gurkhal because let’s not forget the many people involved
rget the many people involved e
forget the many people involved in this which is the British
in this which is the British public -- the I. The
in this which Is the British public -- the I. The world’s
public -- the I. The world’’s farewell to
public -- the I. The world’’s EI G R R AP ZE G R
public -- the I. The world’’s farewell to Elizabeth, this
public -- the I. The world’s farewell to Elizabeth, this is
farewell to Elizabeth, this is the
farewell to Elizabeth, this is 1R
farewell to Elizabeth, this is the Long Walk to Windsor Castle
the Long Walk to Windsor Castle Tee I8t
the Long Walk to Windsor Castle from Windsor Great Park and
the Long Walk to Windsor Castle TR LR A L &L h
from Windsor Great Park and if we show you... Which is where
we show you... Which is where )
we show you... Which is where the final
we show you... Which is where Rl B a - Te |
we show you... Which is where the final moments of
we show you... Which is where QRN I R R L E A
the final moments of today’s events
the final moments of today’s X R e
the final moments of today’s X R )
the final moments of today’s events will be taking place,
events will be taking place, isn’t it? Exactly, yeah, the
isn’t it? Exactly, yeah, the Yo sl
isn’t it? Exactly, yeah, the second part
isn’t it? Exactly, yeah, the YR
isn’t it? Exactly, yeah, the N E R R
isn’t it? Exactly, yeah, the second part of the position
second part of the position after
second part of the position A e
second part of the position R CAMITN R 5
second part of the position after Westminster Abbey and the
after Westminster Abbey and the el
after Westminster Abbey and the T R
after Westminster Abbey and the RGO
after Westminster Abbey and the G RGN
after Westminster Abbey and the funeral there but if you go to
funeral there but if you go to W=D
funeral there but if you go to page 17 inside the I, it says
page 17 inside the I, it says how
page 17 inside the I, it says AU
page 17 inside the I, it says RO A Gl
page 17 inside the I, it says how they reported funerals in
how they reported funerals in )
how they reported funerals in RN
how they reported funerals in the past, it’s
how they reported funerals in Y E S A )
how they reported funerals in G S SN IS
how they reported funerals in QN S SRR UL R G LS
the past, it’s a reminder that if
the past, it’s a reminder that AT
the past, it’s a reminder that R CREI)
the past, it’s a reminder that if people are feeling it is
if people are feeling it is i EaEEll
if people are feeling it is wall-to-wall coverage for this
wall-to-wall coverage for this funeral,
wall-to-wall coverage for this e i
wall-to-wall coverage for this MR E
wall-to-wall coverage for this LWL EEE TS
wall-to-wall coverage for this funeral, it has always been the
funeral, it has always been the case.
funeral, it has always been the (IR
funeral, it has always been the I LA
funeral, it has always been the case. They say when Queen
case. They say when Queen VT er]
case. They say when Queen ViTa e E I
case. They say when Queen ViTac eI ls]
case. They say when Queen Victoria died in 1901, we can
Victoria died in 1901, we can i
Victoria died in 1901, we can AL
Victoria died in 1901, we can show you a picture of that
show you a picture of that funeral
show you a picture of that i ]
show you a picture of that G E )
show you a picture of that TG R R 1
show you a picture of that funeral and the times reported
funeral and the times reported S
funeral and the times reported [ R
funeral and the times reported how the funeral
funeral and the times reported A R N -
funeral and the times reported how the funeral at Windsor
funeral and the times reported A R R M R R L
how the funeral at Windsor was Il
how the funeral at Windsor was marked by every circumstance of
marked by every circumstance of public
marked by every circumstance of U ChIEe
marked by every circumstance of D e R F R Y
marked by every circumstance of I e C LI R L R
public ceremonial. They say L
public ceremonial. They say Hyde Park
public ceremonial. They say I )
public ceremonial. They say I R
public ceremonial. They say Hyde Park attracted the most
Hyde Park attracted the most e a1 Y
Hyde Park attracted the most IRt R
Hyde Park attracted the most enormous crowd, it’s a special
enormous crowd, it’s a special T L
enormous crowd, it’s a special correspondent boat,
enormous crowd, it’s a special T I LR )
correspondent boat, the pathways were swarming with
pathways were swarming with TG
pathways were swarming with people and the numerous high
people and the numerous high trees were
people and the numerous high e R e
people and the numerous high trees were filled to the
trees were filled to the topmost branches with daring
topmost branches with daring and adventurous
topmost branches with daring NIl e e tle e TRl el
topmost branches with daring and adventurous climbers. So |
and adventurous climbers. So | g
and adventurous climbers. So | s
and adventurous climbers. So | A
and adventurous climbers. So | ARl
and adventurous climbers. So | R R
and adventurous climbers. So | wonder if we will see any of
UL T I R UYL T that.
wonder if we will see any of LR )
wonder if we will see any of that. We may see a bit of that
that. We may see a bit of that today. It’s very familiar,
today. It’s very familiar, isn’t
today. It’s very familiar, N
today. It’s very familiar, R S S NI
today. It’s very familiar, isn’t it, listening to that
isn’t it, listening to that i
isn’t it, listening to that reporting? With the passing of
reporting? With the passing of S0
reporting? With the passing of Queen Victoria. Can | show you
Queen Victoria. Can | show you )
Queen Victoria. Can | show you the Daily Mail? Page 21 we have
the Daily Mail? Page 21 we have ]
the Daily Mail? Page 21 we have been talking about it day in,
been talking about it day in, day out, the queue, | think we
day out, the queue, | think we A
day out, the queue, | think we missed a
day out, the queue, I think we missed a trick. It how the
missed a trick. It how the Daily Mail have captured it on
Daily Mail have captured it on WL
Daily Mail have captured it on page 21 what they called the
page 21 what they called the IR
page 21 what they called the IR
page 21 what they called the queue, of course
page 21 what they called the R R R
page 21 what they called the queue, of course we only have
queue, of course we only have FYe L
queue, of course we only have YT k0]
queue, of course we only have P a0 e Ta0h e
queue, of course we only have YOt a ot R a8
queue, of course we only have Y O ROt R A
queue, of course we only have Y ORIt LRl iR A
about 30 minutes left of it but. ..
about 30 minutes left of it L
about 30 minutes left of it I L S b e
about 30 minutes left of it but... 35. After six days, it
but... 35. After six days, it s the
but... 35. After six days, it is the end
but... 35. After six days, it TR R i
but... 35. After six days, it TR MR R
but... 35. After six days, it is the end of the Elizabeth
s the end of the Elizabeth e
is the end of the Elizabeth ML
is the end of the Elizabeth line. That is
is the end of the Elizabeth ML Ay
s the end of the Elizabeth AR FY RN
is the end of the Elizabeth line. That is a great line,
line. That is a great line, isn’t
line. That is a great line, isn’t it, because
line. That is a great line, TR A P IR
line. That is a great line, isn’t it, because of course she
Isn’t it, because of course she WD
Isn’t it, because of course she opened the Elizabeth line this
opened the Elizabeth line this T
opened the Elizabeth line this Il 1Y
opened the Elizabeth line this CE IO R
opened the Elizabeth line this O R R )
opened the Elizabeth line this year. One of the few public...
year. One of the few public... NG
year. One of the few public... Indeed. Events
year. One of the few public... NG IR R
year. One of the few public... Indeed. Events that you turned
Indeed. Events that you turned up
Indeed. Events that you turned IR
Indeed. Events that you turned up to, a
Indeed. Events that you turned RN ]
Indeed. Events that you turned RN LR Ig 1)
Indeed. Events that you turned up to, a big surprise at the
up to, a big surprise at the iy
up to, a big surprise at the s
up to, a big surprise at the AR
up to, a big surprise at the time. It’s right, we did not
time. It’s right, we did not expect
time. It’s right, we did not -
time. It’s right, we did not A )
time. It’s right, we did not SR Y
time. It’s right, we did not expect her to be there. Should
expect her to be there. Should Ty
expect her to be there. Should have been calling at the
have been calling at the Elizabeth Lline,
have been calling at the Elizabeth Line, the
have been calling at the AFEE G R QR DS
have been calling at the Elizabeth line, the queue, all
Elizabeth line, the queue, all this time. The
Elizabeth line, the queue, all IR IR L CR LY
Elizabeth line, the queue, all IR R L CR EL AL EL S
Elizabeth line, the queue, all this time. The Daily Mail, page
this time. The Daily Mail, page it
this time. The Daily Mail, page Y
this time. The Daily Mail, page five, love this, the reception
five, love this, the reception of
five, love this, the reception SR
five, love this, the reception of the century. It sounds like
of the century. It sounds like Y
of the century. It sounds like a luggage, glamorous thing but
a luggage, glamorous thing but 3
a luggage, glamorous thing but HRTE
a luggage, glamorous thing but it was the
a luggage, glamorous thing but R LR R )
a luggage, glamorous thing but it was the state reception
't was the state reception hosted by
't was the state reception LR
't was the state reception hosted by King Charles,
hosted by King Charles, i
hosted by King Charles, MR
hosted by King Charles, hundreds of dignitaries from
hundreds of dignitaries from around
hundreds of dignitaries from IR
hundreds of dignitaries from around the world
hundreds of dignitaries from LR R e
hundreds of dignitaries from around the world -- lavish.
around the world -- lavish. Turning the page and looking at
Turning the page and looking at )
Turning the page and looking at R
Turning the page and looking at the times, we
Turning the page and looking at R R R
Turning the page and looking at the times, we see it
Turning the page and looking at R TR - R A
Turning the page and looking at the times, we see it is not
the times, we see it is not that simple. You have many,
that simple. You have many, many diplomatic, potential
many diplematic, potential Sy FLdle
many diplematic, potential diplomatic incidents with
many diplomatic, potential diplematic incidents with all
diplomatic incidents with all of
diplematic incidents with all RO G
diplematic incidents with all of the people invited because
of the people invited because of
of the people invited because R
of the people invited because R0}
of the people invited because of course you have
of the people invited because R TR R
of the people invited because of course you have for example
of course you have for example )
of course you have for example e ce
of course you have for example the former Spanish King he was
the former Spanish King he was I
the former Spanish King he was asked not to come by the
asked not to come by the RN
EH I R R R T Spanish government
EH I R R R T SE T G
asked not to come by the Spanish government but turned
Spanish government but turned R
Spanish government but turned up, Iran, Israel... And |
Spanish government but turned IR S -
up, Iran, Israel... And I do love with
up, Iran, Israel... And I do RO R e
up, Iran, Israel... And | do love with got this, key
love with got this, key ] e
love with got this, key protocol problem was that the
protocol problem was that the guests, this was yesterday
guests, this was yesterday afternoon, were free to mingle
afternoon, were free to mingle 1
afternoon, were free to mingle EI G ET]
afternoon, were free to mingle at Buckingham Palace when world
at Buckingham Palace when world leaders can move unimpeded,
leaders can move unimpeded, )
leaders can move unimpeded, e
leaders can move unimpeded, there is both diplematic
there is both diplomatic Yo gl lie
there is both diplomatic S O]
there is both diplomatic O LR &
there is both diplomatic O AL R
there is both diplomatic opportunity and risk. | thought
opportunity and risk. | thought that
opportunity and risk. | thought LI 0]
opportunity and risk. | thought that would you rather well!
that would you rather well! 31
that would you rather well! Free to
that would you rather well! TR RN CR
that would you rather well! Free to mingle. Why are they
Free to mingle. Why are they 1R
Free to mingle. Why are they all making
Free to mingle. Why are they EIIN EL LR GTE
Free to mingle. Why are they all making the trip? There is
all making the trip? There is PN
all making the trip? There is RS E s
all making the trip? There is IR e s RL
all making the trip? There is an estimated TV audience of 4
an estimated TV audience of 4 LA
an estimated TV audience of 4 billion. Enermous. They
an estimated TV audience of 4 billion. Enormous. They all
billion. Enormous. They all e
billion. Enormous. They all want to
billion. Enormous. They all N R N
billion. Enormous. They all N AR L
billion. Enormous. They all REnl LI
billion. Enormous. They all want to be seen. This image is
want to be seen. This image is A )
want to be seen. This image Is everywhere as well of the
everywhere as well of the ST Y
everywhere as well of the e I -
everywhere as well of the Princess of Wales meeting with
Princess of Wales meeting with )
Princess of Wales meeting with the First
Princess of Wales meeting with QAT ALY
Princess of Wales meeting with AT A EL TS
Princess of Wales meeting with OIS A LR RSN
Princess of Wales meeting with the First Lady of Ukraine, the
QLRI AR ET A G- "oy
QLRI AR ET A G- wife of
the First Lady of Ukraine, the TR R
the First Lady of Ukraine, the TN R & IETa]
wife of the Ukrainian TG
wife of the Ukrainian President, here
wife of the Ukrainian A P R )
wife of the Ukrainian President, here to represent
President, here to represent Ukraine. President Zelensky not
Ukraine. President Zelensky not T
Ukraine. President Zelensky not YR d
Ukraine. President Zelensky not YN R e i
Ukraine. President Zelensky not here for abvious reasons.
here for obvious reasons. el
here for obvious reasons. e N e
here for obvious reasons. e R R
here for obvious reasons. I N T RO A B I
here for obvious reasons. Catherine Princess of Wales is
Catherine Princess of Wales is linking to show her support.
linking to show her support. G
linking to show her support. I G
linking to show her support. This quote from the times,
linking to show her support. I DT R IR O R U R
This guote from the times, the back page,
This quote from the times, the back page, this
This quote from the times, the ETd O EL R GIIRTEH
This quote from the times, the back page, this was the Queen
back page, this was the Queen in
back page, this was the Queen i /rR
back page, this was the Queen iyl
back page, this was the Queen Tiwile oy IR
back page, this was the Queen in 2002, | will read
back page, this was the Queen Ly R LR
back page, this was the Queen in 2002, | will read it. Each
in 2002, | will read it. Each day is a new beginning, this is
day is a new beginning, this is Tee I8t
day is a new beginning, this is e iR
day is a new beginning, this is from the Queen’s Christmas
from the Queen’s Christmas broadcast in 2002, each day is
broadcast in 2002, each day Is Y
broadcast in 2002, each day Is P
broadcast in 2002, each day is a new beginning. | know the
VLGN E RGO A G L i\
VLGN E RGO A G L only way to
a new beginning. | know the only way to live my life is to
only way to live my life is to 1187
only way to live my life is to try to do what is right, to
try to do what is right, to )
try to do what is right, to )
try to do what is right, to take the long view to give it
take the long view to give it '
take the long view to give it VA
take the long view to give it LA N
take the long view to give it my best and all that the day
my best and all that the day brings and
my best and all that the day LI GR
my best and all that the day JIMLIELGRGEI
my best and all that the day LR LRGR T 811
my best and all that the day brings and to put my trust in
ol LR IV R T g il
ol LR IV R T g God. Really
brings and to put my trust in God. Really important to end on
God. Really important to end on her words
God. Really important to end on IR R e
God. Really important to end on her words there. An interesting
her words there. An interesting quote
her words there. An interesting S0
her words there. An interesting IR
her words there. An interesting quote on the website, the BBC’s
quote on the website, the BBC’s GG
quote on the website, the BBC’s LI RGO
quote on the website, the BBC’s GGG R
quote on the website, the BBC’s religion editor Aleem Magbool
religion editor Aleem Magbool EIU]
religion editor Aleem Magbool talking about how central faith
talking about how central faith Ty
talking about how central faith was to
talking about how central faith TR
talking about how central faith IR A
talking about how central faith was to her life, the former
was to her life, the former YT
was to her life, the former Y IR
was to her life, the former Archbishop of York says
was to her Life, the former Archbishop of York says the
Archbishop of York says the )
Archbishop of York says the Queen was
Archbishop of York says the -1 R )
Archbishop of York says the AR EEE R e
Archbishop of York says the Queen was so immersed in
Queen was so immersed in e[ I T1e)
Queen was so immersed in g IR O]
Queen was so immersed in SR OEI S )
Queen was so immersed in Scripture that she would just
Scripture that she would just evangelise laterally.
evangelise laterally. Absolutely. And that particular
Absolutely. And that particular speech
Absolutely. And that particular R OELS
Absolutely. And that particular RO S L
Absolutely. And that particular RO - AV v
Absolutely. And that particular speech that year, 2002, when
speech that year, 2002, when i)
speech that year, 2002, when R
speech that year, 2002, when she says each
speech that year, 2002, when R R )
speech that year, 2002, when she says each day is a new
she says each day is a new beginning, |
she says each day is a new LI REL
she says each day is a new beginning, | take the long
beginning, | take the long A
beginning, | take the long view, she lost her sister and
view, she lost her sister and g
view, she lost her sister and Y e Nd
view, she lost her sister and Y Rl 4
view, she lost her sister and her mother that year and
view, she lost her sister and ORGSR L A
view, she lost her sister and her mother that year and it was
her mother that year and it was Y
her mother that year and it was a tough
her mother that year and it was RN LR
her mother that year and it was a tough year, 2002. | looked at
a tough year, 2002. | looked at )
a tough year, 2002. | looked at s Na et e
a tough year, 2002. | looked at the numbers that were tuning
the numbers that were tuning RO R
the numbers that were tuning RO kil
the numbers that were tuning RO s Mo [ el
into the speech, 3pm on Christmas Day last year, or
into the speech, 3pm on GG FHD A A IR O
Christmas Day last year, or the 9
Christmas Day last year, or the ST
Christmas Day last year, or the 9 million Chintin. --
Christmas Day last year, or the 9 million Chintin. -=- more
9 millien Chintin. -- more than. --
9 million Chintin. -- more than. -- tuned in. It will be
than. -- tuned in. It will be strange this Christmas. She
strange this Christmas. She il
strange this Christmas. She IR NI
strange this Christmas. She R IR )
strange this Christmas. She will be missed. She will, and
will be missed. She will, anad s
will be missed. She will, anad is. Thank you,
will be missed. She will, and is. Thank you, Mark. And thank
is. Thank you, Mark. And thank (/N
is. Thank you, Mark. And thank you, too, for your company and
you, too, for your company and S
you, too, for your company and Sl
you, too, for your company and before | say goodbye, let’s
before | say goodbye, let’s )
before | say goodbye, let’s EL R
before | say goodbye, let’s take you to Westminster Hall as
take you to Westminster Hall as Y
take you to Westminster Hall as we have just over half-an-hour
we have just over half-an-hour ]
we have just over half-an-hour now for the public to pay their
now for the public to pay their ([N
Many of us have seen increasing R T R R e e
the weekend and cloud will play quite a big part in Monday’s
weather story - possibly thick enough at times to give some
spots of rain, maybe the odd shower - but it will largely
stay dry and | am hopeful that things will remain dry
in Londen and in Windsor R RS G R T e ]
There is just the chance that YRR R e T
through the afternoon, it could give the odd light
shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
High pressure is still in charge - that’s keeping
things mostly dry - but this weak warm front
is introducing more cloud RGO E R R I Rl
LRGSR G| across South West Scotland,
perhaps North West England and this band of thick cloud
and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does
tend to push eastwards RO A e LR Ul
North East Scotland will see some good spells
of sunshine, though.
Northern Ireland may brighten up for a time.
South Wales and the south-west of England should see
some sunny spells.
Temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
The winds for most places NS A
Now, through Monday night, we’ll see large areas of cloud
still potentially giving some spots of rain and drizzle,
especially in eastern parts.
Some clear breaks out RO e
They may well fill in with a little bit of mist and fog.
A little milder than it has been over recent nights
- 9-12 degrees.
Tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
This stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some
spots of rain and drizzle but it does look Like the cloud
should tend to turn over and break up a little bit
across some western parts IR R A LR
A bit more patchy rain into the western Isles of Scotland.
17 to 19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling
And actually, on Wednesday, if we see some sunny spells,
at least for a time, it will feel considerably
Temperatures of 17 degrees in Aberdeen, 21in Norwich
But a frontal system pushing in towards the north-west,
bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make
erratic progress southwards and eastwards through Thursday
and into Friday.
Some of the rain actually could be quite heavy,
SN IR G ) into the south of England
So, the chance of some rain, particularly later
on in the week, and a bit less R G LR R
Good morning, welcome e M A E I R Tk
Jon Kay and Sally Nugent.
It’s Monday 19th September.
We’re at Westminster Abbey on an historic day.
A day the likes of which we haven’t seen for more than 70 years.
Queen Elizabeth I, the United Kingdom’s
longest-reigning monarch, will be laid to rest.
In the next half hour the final mourner will pass
through Westminster Hall, where Her Majesty has been lying
In state for over four days.
Later, at precisely 10.44, her coffin will be taken on a gun
carriage, towed by 142 Royal Navy sailors, and make its way
here to Westminster Abbey where the state funeral service
will take place at 11:00.
Afterwards, thousands will line R R T I R
along Whitehall, onto The Mall and past Buckingham Palace,
before making the journey RO N R R L
where the Queen will be buried alongside her husbhand Prince Philip.
Our royal correspondent Daniela Relph looks
ahead to a momentous day.
This is a previously unseen R R R D
taken at Windsor in May, and released by Buckingham
Palace for today.
She is wearing aguamarine clip brooches given to her on her 18th
birthday by her father.
Today, the country over which she reigned for seven decades
says Its final goodbye.
It has been a week of vigils and insights
inte a family’s private grief.
Hip-hip! Hooray!
We have watched a new King and Queen Consort meeting the crowds
who came out to greet them...
..5een a new Prince and Princess R R IR NI R BT 1s
people’'s memories of the Queen...
..and shared the sadness of the younger members
of the royal family, SR OGS ARl G
to their beloved grandmother.
And two of the Queen’s great-grandchildren will walk
behind her coffin today in Westminster Abbey -
nine-year-old Prince George and seven-year-old Princess Charlotte
will form part of the L EE W (e
LS AR E LG T T their parents, and in front
of their aunt and uncle - the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.
It will be a moment of extraordinary solemnity for these two
young royal children.
The funeral service IR E IR QRS
ARG T VA
..The Lord’s My Shepherd - sung in the Abbey at the wedding
of the Queen and Prince Philip.
Prayers will reflect the Queen’s long life and reign,
and her devotion to duty.
The service ends with the Last Post, a two-minute silence,
and the naticnal anthem. ..
..before the Queen’s Piper plays R e e T ]
Sleep Dearie Sleep.
| think we need to recollect this TR i e
so this this really is something WL BN RN TR
It’s very visual.
I think one of the things we are trying to do,
Is to take all that emotion, all that interest, all that care
that we can see in the queue for the lying-in-state,
that we can see in the parks where people are laying flowers,
and feel that we have managed RO R SRR Nl G
a focus for that.
We’ve. .
We’ve put it into words, we’ve given the grief somewhere to go.
The guest list will see a congregation of prime
ministers and presidents, of kings and queens -
many of whom met King Charles at Buckingham Palace last night.
They will attend the funeral alongside many charity workers
and campaigners alse invited.
| didn’t expect, out of the 2,000 people that were going,
to be this chap from Glasgow coming down to be part of it
as a recipient of an MBE.
It’s quite a...
It’s quite an honour.
Few of us will have experienced anything like what we’ll see
at Westminster Abbey.
The pomp, the grandeur, the scale will be memorable.

Citation: BBC News, 00:00 19/09/2022, BBC News 24, 360 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BFD65C6?bcast=137540801 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)