Do you believe in ghosts?
What, | go back to Bolton, LAY ICX
Yes - the hunt for Britain’s next jewellery star is on.
Feeling the energy! Are you? Drama.
Please don’t touch it. T
representation of trans people.
Where It was there, it was as objects of ridicule.
And so, growing up in that environment, knowing that | had
a dissonance with certain aspects of gender that
were being imposed on me, but not having any reference
point.
You assume you’re the only A URL R R I N
And so it took a long time and a couple of evolutions...
Interesting you say a couple of evolutions.
Because | think I’m right in saying that for a time
you came out as gay.
Yes.
As a gay male.
And then you still felt at odds with this identity and you,
in the end, after university, after, | think, qualifying
as a lawyer, you came out as a transgender
ST LU
You felt you were a female.
Because we’re talking RS RN |
health issues, the context in which this happens.
How difficult was that for you to do?
| mean, extremely difficult.
Again, as | point to in the book, I think
this is a systemic issue for all trans people.
I’m probably at the more privileged end of the
spectrum of trans people.
I’m middle class, you know?
University educated.
But for me, | was NN I
| had a lot of issues in my late teens and early 20s
that | think were tied directly to a feeling of being lost.
| wouldn’t say that’s entirely due to gender,
but certainly it’s a major factor when you feel
existentially on some levels different to people around you.
And what I’m keen to point to in the book is that this
s unfortunately all too SRS )
So, for example, 64% of trans young people in school now
in Britain say they are bullied for being LGBT, and over
half of those never tell anyone about the bullying.
That was my experience, too.
| was bullied for being gender-nonconforming,
for being quite feminine - as you say.
At that time, the only reference point if you were
presenting or you were raised N L R L R R e
of construed as feminine, then people would assume that
you were gay.
And so, yeah, unfortunately, X BRI e o)
I’ve been at school, all the evidence shows actually
trans young people are coming out earlier and earlier,
and that means they’re encountering hostility
INn some cases earlier.
And there’s quite a lot of data now on this.
| mean, self-harm is a problem for people
who are in this situation.
And suicide is also more common amongst trans young people
than amongst the rest of the population.
Did you ever get into that dark place yourself?
Well, | did
But also, | think there’s RN U
as a public-facing trans person that you have to make
yourself a spectacle of trauma or of difficulty.
And I’m not necessarily here to be a professional
victim myself.
I certainly struggled with my mental health.
That’s something I’ve spoken about very publicly.
I think it’s important as a public-facing trans woman
to not sanitise my experience everywhere, because I’ve
reached a point in my 30s.
IR G R (N often, my own personal
experience as do the case studies in my book,
which | would probably be e N W e
point towards a society that unfortunately creates a hostile
environment in which mental health problems for trans
people are sort of reinforced.
And | think it’s really important to stress,
too, that when we say QR RGO RE G
of mental health problems amongst trans people,
it can almost potentially lead to a narrative where trans
people themselves are sort of painted as inherently
unstable or pathologized as mentally ill, as they have
been for a lot of the 20th century.
It could feed in to some RGN LR R
that trans people find it harder to get jobs,
they find it harder to deal with the housing system -
all sorts of different ways in which life appears,
for a lot of trans people, to be very tough.
Well, one in four trans people in the UK will
experience homelessness.
That’s staggeringly high.
And the reasons for that start unfortunately often
in your family home, fear of family or
community rejection.
And from there you can be set MER RGN
And of course, with that comes attendant mental health issues.
And it’s clear in the book that you feel this should be
absolutely top of the agenda when it comes to the discussion
of what it means to be transgender in the UK,
or other countries IR G R MO G ]
But if we are honest, it is not top of the discussion at all.
No, it is not.
What we find in the UK right now, and you referred
to the fact that it even I R A R e [ e e
about the future of RO AL |
and who will be the next Prime Minister, what we find
s the debate centres on a few issues which are concerned
with rights and how transgender people fit in a society when it
comes, for example, to treatment in the Prison
Service, treatment within organised sport.
Those are the issues which consistently
get the prominence.
Yes, they do, because...
| mean, the title of the book, The Transgender Issue,
is a Trojan Horse because what the essential argument
of the book and why | use that title is that often when people
talk about the trans IR R RS
they’re not really talking about the challenges
facing trans people.
They are talking about anxieties in society at large
amongst non-trans cisgender people.
But that’s entirely understandable, is it not?
Because as | said at the very O IO VA
In 100 people is trans.
Therefore 99% of the population is not trans.
And it is inevitable that those 99% will want to work out how
trans people fit and how they, as non-trans people,
relate to trans people.
I think, yeah, of course people IR E R RN R
But | think, at the same time, where there becomes a problem
with that is that trans people are constantly reframed
as a new thing, as a new group that sort of turned up knocking
on the door, asking to be let in.
Sometimes literally, if you’re talking about public space.
And actually, what | would say is, trans
people are already here.
We’re already living ElU SR
And the reality is that we’re not a theaoretical
or conceptual problem.
And | think that’s a huge problem with some of the ways
in which the issues that are amplified in the media
is that we get into this theoretical debate about
whether I’m a woman or the nature of sex and gender.
And they’re a bit of a smokescreen.
But it’s not theoretical to many women.
And | guess this is where one of the deepest fault lines lies
in the debate about transgender rights, because there
CUCLITETE A UL B L L] who say they are deeply unhappy
with the notion that trans women should be given access
to all of the spaces, including the safe spaces
that women say they need to feel secure in society.
(=18 It’s a women’s issue.
Yes. No, | do understand that.
| actually have a lot of sympathy for the anxieties
that are in play in this discussion, in terms
And male violence against women tends to be perpetrated
by men known to women - usually an intimate
partner or family member.
Or the lack of space and women’s safe spaces
and refuge services, which have been cut
by successive Tory governments so that one in two women
are refused a refuge space in the UK.
Neither of those issues are about trans women.
Those are about successive Conservative governments
and about a broader problem with male viclence.
And | think it’s worth saying that 16% of trans women
in the UK in the past year will have experienced
domestic abuse at the hands of a partner or ex-partner.
So what | am focusing IR Rl R R B R
are often struggling with gender-based violence
in similar ways to the ways that cisgender women are.
And for me, it’s much more N R TR G G
to resist austerity and cuts and a devaluation of
N RN LR s v
That’s where you want to put the debate.
But it’s not necessarily where, you know, some proeminent women,
including long-time feminists, TR e
to be right now.
Now, not so long ago on this show, we had
She was an academic who wrote NG A
She says she was hounded out of her academic post
by the trans activist community and supporters
of that community.
She says, and I’m going to quote you now, that actually
She’s just trying to ensure that women’s rights
are not undermined.
She says, "Genuine female-only services and spaces aren’t
a character slur upon all men, AU R I Gl
slur on trans women.
They are simply safeguarding NEECER L LR )
protect women and girls.”
Do you understand where she and many other self-styled
feminists are coming from?
| understand where they’re coming from.
Because, | mean, I’ve read A N R &
| mean, she describes trans people’s lives
as an immersive fiction.
Stephen, even If | said to you, "Your life is
an immersive fiction™ - it’s exactly what | said
before, isn’t it?
It’s abstraction and a theoretical discussion
about real people that exist.
And when we look at trans R
of gender-based violence - of misogynist violence,
frankly, when it’s domestic and sexual viclence
at the hands of cis male ex-partners, which is exactly
the same patterns as women who are seeking safe spaces.
What | am interested in is not these arguments that look
at exclusion of entire groups, but if we cannot accommodate
all women currently - which we can’t, not even
all non-trans women - there is something wrong
politically with how we’re investing in women’s services.
| understand what you’re saying.
| just wonder whether you feel, right now, despite the success
of your book, whether you’re losing the argument?
Because In certain different spheres it seems the movement
Is in a direction you don’t N AEnE
For example, the Equality and Human Rights Commission has
declared that trans women can be excluded from some contexts,
from some female-only changing rooms and bathroom facilities.
In sports, for example, we’ve got some key sports
like swimming and rugby, which have now, at an official
level, said, "No, trans women can’t compete.”
So do you feel you’re losing the argument?
| mean, that’s an interesting question.
| think there is a question here about interpretation
of the Equality Act - is what you were
discussing there.
But | think, to be honest, all women are losing currently
because we have existed under successive Conservative
governments which are not prioritising any women at all.
And if you look globally, there is an attack on trans
people’s bodily autenomy and, as we see in the US,
there is an attack on women’’s bodily autonomy by the right.
All women have a big storm coming.
And for me, it’s about coming OGRS LN G EL
context and the fact that it’s important for us to be fighting
for safety from violence I LR LG T L 4,
Perhaps the most significant battleground of all right now,
particularly in the UK - R ST R XY IS
too - is over health care and young people and how one
deals with children who are LRI R E I RG]
s often called body dysphoria.
Who feel that they are inhabiting a body that doesn’t
G ]y identity.
And we’re talking about kids - very young kids in some cases.
What do you think the right thing to do is in those cases?
Well, I think the first thing to say there is that there
s ne one right thing to do.
LR R situation in every case.
Every child is different.
AT e, 116 i [a ] FIE A I D
We have to talk in generalisations for
the purposes of this discussion, for the
purposes of media.
But every child will have a different relationship
with gender, and even children experiencing gender dysphoria,
there can be, like, a huge difference in experience.
In the book, | look CI R R A
| speak to a family of a young trans girl who,
at the time | spoke to her, was still in primary school.
She had socially transitioned.
Obviously, young children do not medically transition.
And the alleviation of her distress from when she was
allowed to go into school G BT R el e s ey ]
understand her to be a girl, even though she was assigned
male at birth, the alleviation S IS (TR E LD
to how she was before, that for me is the convincing
argument in her case.
And | think it’s about looking at balancing...
What we have to look at with young people
is balancing the severe distress that gender dysphoria
can cause versus all potential options for them.
Of course, potential risks.
And a constant review T RN IR L
But what Is really going on here?
TR TR GG is extraordinary.
There seems to have been this exponential sort of explosion
in the numbers of children who are being taken to clinics
and who are being reported as experiencing gender
dysphoria in recent years.
You know, | think the figures that were used
in The New Statesman magazine not so long ago - in 2010,
40 girls under 18 were referred U A A8
Development Service in the UK.
By 2018, that number had risen from 40 to 1,800.
Now, that suggests that ANEI R R E
children are experiencing something fundamentally
It’s just standards of diagnosis and the way
clinicians are dealing with this is
fundamentally changing.
Is that what you think?
Well, | actually think...
NULET AL [T e to your earlier question
about my experience growing up.
As | said to you, when | was growing up,
when | turned on the television R N R
the Internet was very ropey in those days -
but | didn’t see any trans people, so therefore | did not
come out until my 20s.
What is happening now, I think, TR i1 e e et e
young people are aware of the existence of gender
diversity, of trans people, of gender-nonconforming people.
And so a lot of young people are able to give
voice to what some people have always felt.
You know, it’s those statistics about the rise in referrals
to gender identity development services for young people
can be used as a sort R R il
But provided the services are good, it’s good...
Yeah, well, the Tavistock Clinic, which is at the centre
of what has been happening, the Government has now said it
should be closed down.
Its gender identity services are going to be closed down
And when you talk about experiences, let’s talk about
one particular experience.
| just wonder whether it gives you pause.
YN[ LRI with her own experience.
She was put on puberty blockers at the age of 16.
And a year later, she says she was receiving
When she was 20, she had a double mastectomy.
"The further my transition went, the more | realised
I wasn’t a man IR S a e T
Something went very badly wrong there.
People like Janice Turner and other journalists who call
G VTR T T [ CR R 1 isn’t an isolated example.
Too often things are going badly wrong -
and that needs to stop, doesn’t it?
| mean, Keira Bell’s surgical interventions all happened
in adulthood, and...
Sure, but she was put on the...
Puberty blockers have become a big issue.
Yes.
She was put on them at 16.
Which is a reversable treatment.
Puberty blockers are R e R e
She made the decision as an adult, and | think
all adults should have bedily autonomy.
That to me seems analogous...
Should children have S T a1 010 A4
| mean, children do.
We have legal rights TRl I N e e
You know, there was the Gillick I TR A e a1
children should be able to access contraception,
for example.
Puberty blockers, which are MR R I el s
of gender dysphoria for trans young people, were originally
prescribed to children A s T T ey
Most treatments given to trans young people
were actually developed for non-trans young people.
And the other thing | wanted to say is that whilst
Keira Bell’s apparent distress with the decisions that
she made Is very real, | feel its use in this context
is analogous to what you see in the US.
As we’re seeing right now with the anti-abortion lobby
LR G ST TN W[ Y -TgY I G
of abortion regret.
But would most feminists E R E L I T
I mean, the plaintiff in Roe versus Wade, Roe later came
ICRED RG]l that she created case law over.
The reality is that human lives are much more messy
when we allow them autonomy.
But what we do not allow s one person’s regret
(Tl R G TRl (e ]l ] of autonomy generally.
These are complex issues - there’s no doubt about that.
One thing Is clear is IR R R L R i ]
as you put it in the title of your book, the transgender
Issue, has created deep divisions within the feminist
g ‘'
Now, you’re a woman, FRi R L
Do you regard yourself as a feminist?
Yes, | think most trans women do, because our experiences
of the constraints of gender roles, our experiences of,
unfortunately, gender-based violence and harassment put us
in great sympathy, AN SR G L P
with feminist principles.
So the question then, IR R R NG
very clear you do - how do you build
bridges to so many...?
You know, sometimes they’re LRI E R I R e
And I’ve already cited Janice Turner.
I could cite JK Rowling and others who are adamant
that they are feminist to the core, but they feel that
you and the community RN AU N R EV &
making arguments that are anti-feminist, that
are undermining many MR GERLIER G E
women had fought for, T e YR d
How do you build bridges?
Well, | mean, one of the sort of realities of feminism,
LA I DA throughout history,
is that it has always had I RS NS
There are divisions over sex work, pornography,
SNIEN MG TR -]
It’s a movement that often is involving women
LU TR TR for reasons of great passion.
And that can involve A R
T RN T in bridge building.
| do think things have become highly polarised
and it’s unhelpful.
To me, | think LY
Because one of the problems | think with this discussion
s that a lot of it has happened on social media,
RGNS G N1 problem there with people
entrenching themselves LRSS
When you give people an audience, when it
becomes very tribal, people don’t want to back
And one of the reasons that B RO R R LR T
a tool so that people can have some thoughts.
Not everyone has to agree with everything | say
in the book, but hopefully that will build a bridge.
And | have actually had messages and emails from women,
feminists, who have said W R LR i
their position.
We might not agree on everything, but it has
somewhat shifted their position in the privacy
I dala -]
And that’s the best IR R e
Shon Faye, sadly we’re out R ARl
you very much indeed for joining me on HARDtalk.
Thank you for having me.
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 Celsius or above every
single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
but it will be cooler than it has been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others
get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
Further north, tt’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing
up from the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits across eastern Scotland.
It’s certainly fresher for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
but still very warm and humid across much of England
and Wales as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though, low pressure really
LTI R R L T e R a
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where the rain will sit through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, and they’re likely
to be thundery.
For Scotland and Northern Ireland, more cloud around
and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
if cloudy at times, and it looks like any early
showers will clear from northern England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern England for some
more intense downpours on Wednesday - so that could be
the day when we see the return of some well-needed rainfall
here.
Just 23 Celsius - down ten BN R R I
through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week, we very much pick
up an Atlantic influence - westerly winds, some weather
fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing,
| think, that much in RV RSRE I L
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards
the end of the week, I e Tl R
the highs of recent days.
Welcome to Newsday,
reporting live from Singapore,
I’m Karishma Vaswani.
A year on from the Taliban taking over Afghanistan again -
a special report on its women and girls who have been denied
education, employment, and their childhoods.
If | finish this school, | start university,
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from the school.
Salman Rushdie’s family say
he’s on the road to recovery but has life-changing injuries,
as more details emerge about the man charged
More than 40 worshippers die at a church in Egypt,
after a fire rips through the building during mass.
And, queen of the mountains -
the Norwegian climber RN R R0
e dly s a very special record.
Live from our
R R N3 IR
Live from our studio in Singapore, this is BBC News -
Singapore, this is BBC News - it’s Newsday.
It’s 8:00 in the morning in Singapore,
and 4:30 in the morning in Afghanistan,
where dawn is breaking on the one year anniversary
of the Taliban’s GRS
August 15th, 2021, saw thousands flee the country
ST ] of what lied ahead,
but many more where left behind,
their daily lives changed beyond recognition.
No more so than for country’s women and girls,
who are now subject to harsh, more conservative rules that
restrict their education SRR S
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet
was In the capital a year ago
as the Taliban retook the country -
she’s returned to Kabul for this special report.
I RuEh R e
Afghanistan is a conservative country,
by the ultraconservative Taliban.
Spaces which had R R Rl
RN A AR LT
We met three generations of women whose lives speak
loudly about their world.
Many are afraid.
LS A LR RTE T (] identified.
This woman used to be a senior official in
the finance ministry.
Last year the Taliban told her, stay at home.
A man would take her job.
| worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
It was difficult with juglging family and work,
It was difficult with juggling family and work,
but | went to university and got my masters degree.
We spent so much R O S
Now we are back to zero.
Everything is finished.
More than 60 female L B e 20
have banded together.
LS A E I R T [ of the exchanges
on their messaging group:
Women haven’t N SV EEIG
Women haven’t completely disappeared
from the streets or ministries,
like health, education, security.
L TR o k[ only for women.
This market has just reopened in the western city of Herat.
This was the first day.
Women, a bit nervous.
Shops, still empty.
LR ¥ ‘'
This is your shop? Today it’s closed.
Oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old Suhaila is excited.
UKD RGNS shop with big sister.
But she should be in her last year of school.
Suhaila was the top student in her class.
But the Taliban shut U A R N
Really, | am very sad.
If | finished this school, EXE LI 13
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from school.
Was it hard for you?
No school, no shop.
| think it’s not for me,
and for all of the girls of Afghanistan,
it’s @ sad memory...
did miss school.
S1]gg’A [N ¢
It’s hard here, too, IV N
in the Central Highlands.
This is one of Afghanistan’s poorest provinces.
Since the Taliban took WU
And there’s still no aid to their government.
For the destitute and desperate,
agonising choices.
This woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
She’s only 6 years old.
TRANSLATION: She’s toe young.
But | give her away IR N N Rt
So my other children don’t die of hunger.
It’s still very hard
but now she can eat MOl SanE Ele
| had no other option R NV
Child marriage is prohibited, but pervasive in Afghanistan.
But not this young.
We’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
TRANSLATION: Her in-laws told me
they will take care of her like their own child
because she’s so young.
They told me, don’t worry.
What mother wouldn’t worry?
What child wouldn’t weep?
A new generation takes shape in a new Afghanistan.
The Taliban say the rights of boys and girls within Islam
will be respected.
But one year on, there I UL R G e
who were learning to lead, RS iR E I i R
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Kabul.
The Taliban’s heartland was in southern Afghanistan,
around the city of Kandahar.
Our correspondent Secunder Kermani is there.
He’s reported extensively from across the country before
and since the takeover, and he sent us this update
about how things have changed.
Two things stand out, the way that the Taliban stance
has grown increasingly hardline W NI R R G R I
and how different the experience of living
under the Taliban has been for different Afghans.
A lot of it depends on how OV LRGN
For many teenage qirls,
they no longer have the freedom to go to school.
Anyone wanting to publicly criticise the Taliban runs
the risk of arrest, e NI N a7
And many are deeply despondent here.
But there are others for whom freedom has
a very different meaning.
Villagers who are already living
by deeply Conservative values.
For them, freedom means being able
to plough their fields without being afraid
L LRI the crossfire of a gun battle.
And for them, many of them, e
life under the Taliban is preferable to life at war.
What unites Afghans is deep concern at the dire state
of the economy.
This is a country that was propped up by foreign spending.
A lot of money is still coming in,
but nowhere near as much as bhefore the Taliban.
And it’s ordinary people TR
the consequences of that.
We have special coverage QIS
We have special coverage throughout the day on BBC News
throughout the day on BBC News and
throughout the day on BBC News R )
throughout the day on BBC News IR R e
throughout the day on BBC News and online where you can see
and online where you can see e
and online where you can see more from our correspondence
more from our correspondence P g ]
more from our correspondence across Afghanistan.
To another top story for you now,
and the son of Sir Salman Rushdie says
his father suffered life-changing injuries
In a knife attack on Friday,
but that his feisty and defiant sense of humour
remains intact.
The author has been taken off a ventilator,
after being stabbed at an event in New York State.
The govenor of New York says they will always stand up
for freedom of thought.
Our correspondent Nomia Igbal has the latest.
Inside the hospital, I E R IR i
But a glimmer of hope for his family
as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
In a statement, his son, R IO DI PRI M
Zafar also praised the audience members
at the literary event on Friday where his father was stabbed.
He said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
Salman Rushdie’s agent told us he is on the long
road to recovery.
The writer suffered RTINS
He faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old American suspect Hadi Matar has already appeared
in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of attempted
murder and attempted assault.
Prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from New Jersey
to the event here in Western New York.
They say he bought a ticket, NS GV
allowing him to attend the talk Mr Rushdie was due to give.
For decades, Salman Rushdie went into hiding
E TR Tl The Satanic Verses, led to Iran
Issuing a fatwa in 1989.
Many Muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
It is reported that police think Hadi Matar may
have had sympathies for the Iranian regime,
but an official motive has A TR e
Earlier, New York’s state governor
spoke outside the institution where the stabbing happened.
New York State will always stand up
to protect freedom of expression,
freedom of speech,
and we condemn the cowardly e R NIERE IR
And we condemn any individual or any
group that dares violate G EF w187
of a place like this.
Questions are being EH O R
there were not tougher checks RGNS E A U
given the huge amount RGN R AT I
had faced for decades.
I want to tell you about another story now.
The government in Egypt says at least 40 people have died -
many of them children - in afire at a church
where thousands of worshippers had gathered
for Sunday worship.
Dozens of other people (ENR L R RICGR
It’s reported an electrical fire broke out
at the Coptic church in Giza, outside Cairo.
Our correspondent Sally Nabil sent this report
RG]
A Sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
Behind these windows,
Egyptian Christian worshippers died.
The Abu Sifin church AR o )
busy neighbourhoed in Giza.
The fire killed dozens including many children.
People rushed into the building trying to save as many
DN I I3 R
This woman lost her sister-in-law.
TRANSLATION: She had five children,
three daughters, who are three, RN R U e N
and two boys.
My heart is on fire for all these victims.
The people I’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
They want to know exactly how and why their loved ones died.
There will be questions too for the church itself
and for the emergency services.
Initial reports suggest R R LR
by an electrical fault.
People here told us QR R L L
and the church LR ER LI g
When the electricity was turned on again there was an overload.
TRANSLATION: Fire IR ]S
of the air-cenditioning
and then spread to the rest RGNt lesi P
It was on the third and fourth floors.
Many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
A major investigation is now under way.
Inspectors from the public O R 1)
already checked the scene.
There was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives
hehind this incident so far.
But the Christian community here say they’ve had enough.
Many of their churches have been targeted
AT ET I RN R S T
Sally Nabil, BBC News, Cairo.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
Still to come RGP E S
The voting continues in Kenya,
six days after the presidential election -
LR Rl [ BT an update from Nairobi.
Washington is
Washington Is assessing the
Washington is assessing the political
Washington is assessing the U R
Washington is assessing the political health of
Washington is assessing the LU R LG R R T
Washington is assessing the political health of the world’s
political health of the world’’s most
political health of the world’s a1
political health of the world’s most powerful man. | had
political health of the world’s NS S L K]
most powerful man. | had a L]
most powerful man. | had a relationship which was not
relatienship which was not appropriate, it was wrong. 97
appropriate, it was wrong. 97 people have been killed today,
people have been killed today, )
people have been killed today, N
people have been killed today, R
people have been killed today, N AG R e
people have been killed today, one of the worst days of
one of the worst days of o)
one of the worst days of e N )
one of the worst days of e N el
one of the worst days of violence between rival groups.
violence between rival groups. oo}
violence between rival groups. R
violence between rival groups. RN
violence between rival groups. 500 have died over
violence between rival groups. RN SR e
violence between rival groups. R ISR R N L s
violence between rival groups. R ISR IR AR
500 have died over the last ten days. Czechoslovakia must be
days. Czechoslovakia must be e
days. Czechoslovakia must be TN T
days. Czechoslovakia must be e TR
days. Czechoslovakia must be free! Russia is observing a
free! Russia is observing a e
free! Russia is observing a natienal day
free! Russia is observing a national day of mourning for
national day of mourning for )
national day of mourning for the hundred 18 sub-
national day of mourning for TG R LRI R e
national day of mourning for the hundred 18 sub- editors who
the hundred 18 sub- editors who Ll
the hundred 18 sub- editors who died. We
the hundred 18 sub- editors who IR )
the hundred 18 sub- editors who died. We are with them now,
died. We are with them now, i da sl
died. We are with them now, i da R 0ld
died. We are with them now, within our hearts.
died. We are with them now, G Rl
died. We are with them now, within our hearts. The Pope
died. We are with them now, I R G L R
within our hearts. The Pope has ]
within our hearts. The Pope has e R I E
within our hearts. The Pope has L NI I S ]
within our hearts. The Pope has celebrated mass before 2.5
celebrated mass before 2.5 million
celebrated mass before 2.5 millien people
celebrated mass before 2.5 million people in his hometown.
million people in his hometown. &N
million people in his hometown. Stay with us, charted this
Stay with us, charted this ocean
Stay with us, charted this el
Stay with us, charted this ocean of humanity. The Pope
ocean of humanity. The Pope TN
ocean of humanity. The Pope T
ocean of humanity. The Pope said, well, well, you want me
said, well, well, you want me to
said, well, well, you want me eI el e Ta - X4
This is Newsday on the BBC.
I’m Karishma Vaswani in Singapore.
A year on from the Taliban taking over Afghanistan again,
its women and girls are still being denied
education and employment.
The son of author Sir Salman Rushdie says
his injuries are life changing, RO TSI E Y
of humour remains intact after he was stabbed.
Let’s turn to Taiwan now, where a delegation from
the US Congress has arrived.
They’re visiting for W R W
President Tsai Ing-wen on Monday.
Their visit comes 12 days after one by the House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi, which led to an angry reaction
from the self-governed island’s neighbour China.
Here’s more from Mark Cozad, from the Rand Corporation.
And actually we heard from him Y
And actually we heard from him PR ey
And actually we heard from him A - e e
And actually we heard from him PR - eI i e
And actually we heard from him a little earlier but for now
And actually we heard from him PR - e R e A
a little earlier but for now | PN
a little earlier but for now | UL
a little earlier but for now | LAY
a little earlier but for now | am joint by someone in our
am joint by someone in our newsroom
am joint by someone in our T e e et Bis]
am joint by someone in our newsroom in Singapore.
newsroom in Singapore. Apologies for that. We are
Apologies for that. We are eI
Apologies for that. We are PG {18
Apologies for that. We are grateful to you on the show.
Why are they visiting, LR A
The fact is visits by US lawmakers to Taiwan are not
lawmakers to Taiwan are not N IR
lawmakers to Taiwan are not unprecedented, they do happen
unprecedented, they do happen Tee I8t
unprecedented, they do happen TRy
unprecedented, they do happen from time to
unprecedented, they do happen TR R Rl -]
unprecedented, they do happen TR R LT
from time to time. This particular visit comes at a
particular visit comes at a very tense time in the Taiwan
very tense time in the Taiwan i
very tense time in the Taiwan Strait, as you mentioned just
Strait, as you mentioned just sl d
Strait, as you mentioned just under two weeks after
Strait, as you mentioned just MBEe R Y
Strait, as you mentioned just under two weeks after the visit
under two weeks after the visit by the US House Speaker Nancy
by the US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
by the US House Speaker Nancy AR
by the US House Speaker Nancy I L R o G
by the US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. That sparked an angry
Pelosi. That sparked an angry reaction
Pelosi. That sparked an angry Y Tadle e Rigt1at]
Pelosi. That sparked an angry reaction from Beijing and China
reaction from Beijing and China staging some
reaction from Beijing and China SCDIL R X
reaction from Beijing and China staging some of the largest
staging some of the largest G E1sY
staging some of the largest military exercises around the
military exercises around the AELLR
military exercises around the island. This visit this time
island. This visit this time around is
island. This visit this time Y R 4
island. This visit this time around is not as high profile,
around is not as high profile, 3
around is not as high profile, s
around is not as high profile, (R
around is not as high profile, it is being led by a senator
it is being led by a senator Ty
it is being led by a senator who chairs
it is being led by a senator e C R )
it is being led by a senator R e R Rl R
it is being led by a senator who chairs the Senate’s Fast
who chairs the Senate’s East Asian subcommittee. He
who chairs the Senate’s East NI T
Asian subcommittee. He is accompanied
Asian subcommittee. He is Ea I NI R
Asian subcommittee. He is accompanied by four other US
accompanied by four other US lawmakers. They are expected to
lawmakers. They are expected to e
lawmakers. They are expected to meet with
lawmakers. They are expected to SR R
lawmakers. They are expected to meet with the Taiwanese
meet with the Taiwanese president
meet with the Taiwanese JEAP R EN
meet with the Taiwanese NN B ES
meet with the Taiwanese president today as well as
president today as well as ey
president today as well as members of
president today as well as T e R
president today as well as members of the business
members of the business community. The discussions are
community. The discussions are expected to focus not just on
expected to focus not just on )
expected to focus not just on R I818]
expected to focus not just on the security situation, but
the security situation, but )
the security situation, but also on
the security situation, but IR AR e s et
the security situation, but also on economic cooperation
also on economic cooperation particularly in strategic
particularly in strategic A u o]
particularly in strategic sectors such as semiconductor
sectors such as semicenductor 1)
sectors such as semiconductor S FI a8
sectors such as semiconductor [ FI e [T AR
sectors such as semiconductor S EIC e R L R
sectors such as semiconductor chip production. The last time
chip production. The last time Y
chip production. The last time el
chip production. The last time TN T -]
chip production. The last time we had a visit from a prominent
we had a visit from a prominent 1S
we had a visit from a prominent US official, we saw a very
US official, we saw a very L
US official, we saw a very sizeable reaction from China.
sizeable reaction from China. N
sizeable reaction from China. Any indication of
sizeable reaction from China. VAL LI R
sizeable reaction from China. Any indication of how they
Any indication of how they it
Any indication of how they Il YT ad
Any indication of how they might react this time around?
might react this time around? e
might react this time around? LR
might react this time around? The only reaction we
might react this time around? I N A R GG
might react this time around? N A B O R R N GGl
The only reaction we have seen )
The only reaction we have seen Rl
The only reaction we have seen R E A
The only reaction we have seen R ACRi ]
The only reaction we have seen R ACR iR
The only reaction we have seen R AR iR R )
so far is from the Chinese 31 F 3
so far is from the Chinese Embassy in Washington. They
Embassy in Washington. They accused
Embassy in Washington. They Yol )
Embassy in Washington. They Yl RN A
Embassy in Washington. They el R R
Embassy in Washington. They LT RO R IR R Tl
Embassy in Washington. They accused the US of trying to
accused the US of trying to stir up
[T RO LA IRN O R g R stir up confrontation in the
stir up confrontation in the Taiwan Strait. The White House
Taiwan Strait. The White House T
Taiwan Strait. The White House [ ETR S Y|
Taiwan Strait. The White House [ ETR XS L R )
Taiwan Strait. The White House has responded to that
has responded to that accusation,
has responded to that E I I IR G
has responded to that accusation, they said that US
accusation, they said that US lawmakers
accusation, they said that US ET R I )
accusation, they said that US lawmakers have been visiting
lawmakers have been visiting Taiwan for decades and will
Taiwan for decades and will e e 418 )
Taiwan for decades and will continue to
Taiwan for decades and will e A TR N ]
Taiwan for decades and will RN
Taiwan for decades and will RO Y
Taiwan for decades and will continue to do so. A reminder
continue to do so. A reminder that
continue to do so. A reminder R ]
continue to do so. A reminder G E TN RG]
continue to do so. A reminder that even though those military
that even though those military el
that even though those military A R R
that even though those military exercises have largely abated,
exercises have largely abated, military activity around the
military activity around the Taiwan Strait continues,
Taiwan Strait continues, Chinese military aircraft
Chinese military aircraft |
Chinese military aircraft entered Taiwan’s self defence
entered Taiwan’s self defence sewn
entered Taiwan’s self defence R
entered Taiwan’s self defence AN ]
entered Taiwan’s self defence sewn over the weekend.
entered Taiwan’s self defence A nR cuemEns
sewn over the weekend. The situation
sewn over the weekend. The R BT i
sewn over the weekend. The situation remains highly
situation remains highly TEI R
situation remains highly volatile. Joao De Silva | know
volatile. Joao De Silva | know N (TS
volatile. Joao De Silva | know you’ll be keeping a close eye
you’ll be keeping a close eye on
you’ll be keeping a close eye R )
you’ll be keeping a close eye RO 18
you’ll be keeping a close eye on the story today. They cute
on the story today. They cute e
on the story today. They cute for being on
on the story toeday. They cute for being on the programme.
To Kenya now, where it has been six days
since its presidential election, and frustrations
are growing over the delay in announcing the results.
Almost half the votes have been confirmed with vice-president,
William Ruto taking a slight lead of 51%,
just ahead of his rival Raila Odinga.
The electoral commission has a legal obligation to announce
QRN (T R R G LR within a week.
But as time runs on, so does tension, as we heard
from people in the western city of Kisumu.
ND]p1
Right now we’re very tired T )
Right now we’re very tired because people are not going to
because people are not going to il a
because people are not going to work. Students
because people are not going to ST )
because people are not going to work. Students are in their
work. Students are in their house. And
work. Students are in their TN YT
work. Students are in their house. And right now, when we
house. And right now, when we a0 8
house. And right now, when we I
house. And right now, when we R
house. And right now, when we cannot go to work we have no
cannot go to work we have no money. We
cannot go to work we have no AR T
cannot go to work we have no money. We are not happy because
money. We are not happy because a1 4
money. We are not happy because M e )
money. We are not happy because number one all the
money. We are not happy because M e R R T
number one all the businesses Py
number one all the businesses R
number one all the businesses are stuck. The
number one all the businesses OSSR R 5V
number one all the businesses are stuck. The way we have been
are stuck. The way we have been b
are stuck. The way we have been RN
are stuck. The way we have been getting money in the normal
getting money in the normal days has really gone out. So we
days has really gone out. So we Py
days has really gone out. So we are suffering.
Our correspondent Richard Kagoe is in Nairobi
and sent us this update.
First of all, in terms of the voter turnout,
it was quite very dismal because as at Wednesday this
week, when we had the preliminary
announcement from the electoral commission, they indicated
So a lot of people OEI R R LG
to and we’ve been hearing from them,
they indicate the fact that they really do want
to take part in the process because they felt that probably
the way of elections and possibly
politics might not RGN AR
to address the problems or issues
that do face them because they’ve
been through this process before
and they haven’t seen any outcome from this.
It’s a very tight race, as | would say, because as at
yesterday we saw LR GeE]]
Raila Odinga was leading, you know,
with a very narrow margin.
That’s according to the preliminary results.
And today we are seeing WGBS A TG L
William Ruto is still, you know, leading
something very marginal.
Yeah, so it’s a very A
We’ve never withessed anything like this before,
RN GV Ty I T you know, presidential race
than we have seen in recent history.
Let’s take a look at some other stories
Syrian state media say AR LRt - 1
attack on targets in the coastal province of Tartus.
LS TR IR G F LR R
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said several
missiles hit the vicinity of a village where Iranian
militias allied with the Assad ORI G IR
The Saudi state-owned oil giant Aramco has announced
record profits of more than $48 billion
for the second quarter of this year.
The world’s biggest oil producer’s net income has
almost doubled year-on-year.
Oil prices are up because of Russia’s attack on Ukraine
and increasing demand after the pandemic.
And a tropical storm is heading northeast
in the Pacific Ocean off Japan’s Tohoku region,
after making landfall and causing damage in central
Japan on Saturday.
LRI T ek R QN R P S
are expected to remain unstable for much of Japan,
and warn of more heavy rain, flooding and mudslides.
To Europe now, where several countries have been engulfed
In a wave of deadly wildfires recently, triggered by record
temperatures and drought across the continent.
In France, officials in the south-western Gironde
region have said a major fire that had been dubbed a ‘monster
fire’ has been brought under control.
Our correspondent Bethany Bell is there.
Firefighters have brought the big
blaze that was burning VS T e Rl ae s aiugs ]
but they’ve warned that the fire isn’t entirely
extinguished yet and, if you look behind me,
back there in the woods, you can see what they mean -
there’s wisps of smoke, which is a sign that they’re
still burning embers on the ground
or sometimes below the ground but could in the wrong
circumstances be whipped R RO R
But there is very good news for the 10,000 people
that were evacuated e e
LS AR R (T that they can now
go home after days of staying in emergency temporary housing.
| want to tell you now about the world’s 14 highest
mountains, also known IR GRS LN
Each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres.
Climbing all 14 is a badge of honour for any mountaineer,
and doing so in record time is the biggest honour
Now a Norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just
that, as the BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
IR ae
Kristin carries a
SRR R EEN
Kristin carries a heavy burden. 3
Kristin carries a heavy burden. SR
Kristin carries a heavy burden. I
Kristin carries a heavy burden. She has just finished scaling
She has just finished scaling )
She has just finished scaling the 11th
She has just finished scaling QR OIS
She has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain in
the 11th highest mountain in )
the 11th highest mountain in Al
the 11th highest mountain in R R
the 11th highest mountain in the well but she can barely
the well but she can barely (EIIY
the well but she can barely (IR
the well but she can barely pause for a
the well but she can barely TR
the well but she can barely pause for a moment. These
pause for a moment. These things
pause for a moment. These QI
pause for a moment. These things don’t climb
pause for a moment. These things don’t climb themselves.
things don’t climb themselves. |
things don’t climb themselves. T
things don’t climb themselves. | had liked, a
things don’t climb themselves. I had liked, a couple of rock
I had liked, a couple of rock falls,
I had liked, a couple of rock EI IR
| had liked, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
falls, that was very dangerous. iy
falls, that was very dangerous. The rest
falls, that was very dangerous. IR R R
falls, that was very dangerous. The rest have been logistical
The rest have been logistical 0 I
The rest have been logistical problems and waiting times. But
problems and waiting times. But w10
problems and waiting times. But climbing a mountain has not
climbing a mountain has not Nl
climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
been so, not so much problems. 3
been so, not so much problems. i\
been so, not so much problems. I A
been so, not so much problems. She only took up mountain
She only took up mountain w10
She only took up mountain climbing seven
She only took up mountain A IR RIS LRI
She only took up mountain climbing seven years ago, but
climbing seven years ago, but i)
climbing seven years ago, but she has clearly been a quick
she has clearly been a quick study. She is
she has clearly been a quick SO0 AL R
she has clearly been a quick study. She is now on course to
study. She is now on course to complete
study. She is now on course to I SR
study. She is now on course to complete one of the sport’s
complete one of the sport’s AT
complete one of the sport’s NS ACEI
complete one of the sport’s most impressive achievements.
most impressive achievements. As everyone
most impressive achievements. RN L R
most impressive achievements. As everyone knows, Mount
As everyone knows, Mount Everest
As everyone knows, Mount 2 e S
As everyone knows, Mount 2 AR )
As everyone knows, Mount Everest is the world’s
As everyone knows, Mount Everest is the world’'s tallest
Everest is the world’s tallest peak
Everest is the world’s tallest L
Everest is the world’s tallest peak at 8849 metres. There
Everest Is the world’s tallest peak at 8849 metres. There are
peak at 8849 metres. There are 13
peak at 8849 metres. There are G
peak at 8849 metres. There are R e 0le =T
peak at 8849 metres. There are B e R
peak at 8849 metres. There are 13 other mountains that come in
13 other mountains that come in 1
13 other mountains that come in at a
13 other mountains that come in NGl
13 other mountains that come in at a height above 8000 metres.
at a height above 8000 metres. I
at a height above 8000 metres. And Kristin has
at a height above 8000 metres. LR R R et le sl
at a height above 8000 metres. Gl R R iR
at a height above 8000 metres. And Kristin has climbed 11 of
And Kristin has climbed 11 of them.
CHU NG I LT R them. Now
CHU NG I LT R L R )
CHU NG I LT R them. Now she only
And Kristin has climbed 11 of them. Now she only has three
them. Now she only has three e ]
them. Now she only has three more to complete the set and
more to complete the set and i)
more to complete the set and she wants
more to complete the set and R LR )
more to complete the set and AR LRGN ]
more to complete the set and AR RN i
more to complete the set and AR EhcR N R
more to complete the set and RN R R R DL 482
she wants to do it as quickly as possible. At the moement,
as possible. At the moment, Nepal’s man
as possible. At the moement, N N LA
as possible. At the moement, N N LR R
as possible. At the moment, Nepal’s man owns the record. If
Nepal’s man owns the record. If i)
Nepal’s man owns the record. If AN
Nepal’s man owns the record. If she beats his
Nepal’s man owns the record. If AN A R )
Nepal’s man owns the record. If AN A R Y
Nepal’s man owns the record. If she beats his time she hopes it
she beats his time she hopes it il
she beats his time she hopes it will send a message.
she beats his time she hopes it RN R L
she beats his time she hopes it RN GRS L R GG
she beats his time she hopes it RN R L R G
will send a message. | think it 3
will send a message. | think it Y3
will send a message. | think it is just, people believe men are
s Just, people believe men are )
s Just, people believe men are U]
s just, people believe men are more strong stop but women are
more strong stop but women are just as
more strong stop but women are PR EEF O]
more strong stop but women are TSI IR LR
more strong stop but women are just as strong as men are in
Just as strong as men are in [
T RN DR LR the mountain and there is
T LA DR R R the mountain and there is no
RN T IR PR G TR T i e
RN T IR PR G TR T it e e N ]
RN T IR PR G TR T e N N R IEe
RN T IR PR G TR T e N e L T
R T I L R G R T e N N T T T
difference between us. She has until November to set
difference between us. She has TR E e R ]
difference between us. She has until November to set a new
until November to set a new sl
until November to set a new T e
until November to set a new record after a
until November to set a new O R 11
until November to set a new record after a quick trip home
record after a quick trip home to Norway,
record after a quick trip home G A
record after a quick trip home to Norway, she will head to
to Norway, she will head to VY EL
to Norway, she will head to Nepal and Tibet for the final
Nepal and Tibet for the final phase.
Nepal and Tibet for the final DN
Nepal and Tibet for the final phase. The last
Nepal and Tibet for the final DL s
Nepal and Tibet for the final phase. The last super peaks in
phase. The last super peaks in e
phase. The last super peaks in S
phase. The last super peaks in RN
phase. The last super peaks in R
phase. The last super peaks in her super sites. Best of luck
her super sites. Best of luck to
her super sites. Best of luck g
her super sites. Best of luck AR
And before we go, a light-hearted story for you.
China - as many would know - is well-known for its ancient
practice of acupuncture as a way to promote the healing
process and general well-being.
Now increasingly, pet owners are turning
to the method to help R G R U P R E IS
of their beloved cats and dogs.
In this Beijing clinic, RO (B R
and sizes are being signed up
for treatments, care that their owners say is less
invasive and comes with fewer side effects than conventional
Recordings of gentle bamboo flute music and birds chirping
are played to help the animals relax.
TRANSLATION: She is enjoying It
TRANSLATION: She is enjoying it up
TRANSLATION: She is enjoying it TSI
TRANSLATION: She is enjoying it TSGR
TRANSLATION: She is enjoying it up before she used to refuse to
up before she used to refuse to go. Now every time a teller we
go. Now every time a teller we PIe Y
go. Now every time a teller we are going to visit the doctor
are going to visit the doctor e
are going to visit the doctor IR
are going to visit the doctor for treatment, she is
are going to visit the doctor R PN ARGV
for treatment, she is really =TI
for treatment, she is really happy and ready to get into the
happy and ready to get into the &
happy and ready to get into the e )
happy and ready to get into the Rl
happy and ready to get into the IR e )
happy and ready to get into the IR R iR ]
happy and ready to get into the car. She will come to light
car. She will come to light e
car. She will come to light AR
car. She will come to light steel for 40
car. She will come to light AR R TRt
car. She will come to light A R ORI d
car. She will come to light A R ORI 1s
steel for 40 minutes or an e
steel for 40 minutes or an hour. | hope indeed that the
hour. | hope indeed that the o[
hour. | hope indeed that the RO S
hour. | hope indeed that the pet there feels a little
pet there feels a little NI
pet there feels a little better, everybody deserves some
better, everybody deserves some ol
better, everybody deserves some well being and good health.
well being and good health. e
well being and good health. That’s it for us,
well being and good health. I F R R i IR TR 1114
well being and good health. That’s it for us, thank you for
That’s it for us, thank you for watching.
That’s it for us, thank you for I
That’s it for us, thank you for N VS 1)
That’s it for us, thank you for watching. Do state with BBC
watching. Do state with BBC [ YP3T
watching. Do state with BBC TR d
watching. Do state with BBC R )
watching. Do state with BBC R R e
watching. Do state with BBC News for the latest global
News for the latest global headlines.
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
We will have the headlines NG B R R R e
for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
Hello and welcome to the Science Museum.
| am Kevin Fong and this is
The Engineers: The Future of Cars.
| am in the Information Age Gallery, sat in front
of an object called the Rugby Tuning Coil
and 100 years ago this big wheel of copper wrapped in wood
was the most powerful NN TR G R L
So it is an appropriate place TR R G R e [
which brings in an audience TR i e s e ala T
through the magic of our video link, as well as a large
audience here in the gallery for a programme that will be
broadcast on BBC World Service, on radio and television.
The climate catastrophe and the sheer weight of traffic
on our reads and the horrific rate of accidents that they
cause has forced a revolution in the way we think about cars.
With me today are three LI R TN
the forefront R e e a0
We have Arjo van der Ham from the Netherlands
who is the Chief Technical Officer
at a company called Lightyear.
He has developed the world’’s first family-sized solar
powered car.
Jamie Shotton, an expert in Al and in autenomous vehicles.
He is the chief scientist at a company called Wayve
and he is here to tell us about autonomous driving
and, last but not least we have Linda Zhang
from the United States.
She Is the chief engineer for the F150 Lightning and has
managed somehow to electrify one of America’s most iconic
brilliant cars.
Please join me in welcoming them today.
Linda, let’s start with you.
People outside the United States probably will not know
M- Y
F series is such an iconic brand and it’s responsible
for $42 billion of revenue so that is 17 million units
on the road pretty much at any given time since 2020.
And it’s a bit of a gas guzzler, you get, | think,
eight kilometres a litre out of it and your role
in electrifying this vehicle has made you Woman of the Year
according to USA Today and put you on the cover
of Time magazine.
Were you expecting all the fuss?
For myself, personally, definitely not.
I was not expecting VARG
because It’s just surreal.
For the vehicle itself we expected a lot of fuss
because of the fact that it is NN R AL
basically being an iconic vehicle that is, in a way,
a tipping point for the industry.
SR R LE S AT
In a way, if you think about what this product
LN R o RV N it’s not just electrifying this
vehicle but also changing the way that people may
perceive what an EV can be.
Trucks are generally known for being masculine and work
oriented and being able IR QI L
So, people use it almost as a tool whereas an EV,
people think of it N -]
Those two things don’t always go together perfectly.
Many people told me that it is an oxymoron,
you can’t have an EV truck.
So much of it has been trying to convince people that it can
be tough and that this technology of electrification
with the batteries as well as the motors actually can be more
more tough and in many ways AR R RNl
Let’s move on now to Arjo.
Arjo, you work in engineering solar cars and again,
no less groundbreaking.
I want to talk about how you got drawn into that
as the thing that you wanted to do.
| understand there is something LRGN IR - e N E e
across Australia.
Tell me about that and how you got into this field.
Back in 2012 we were studying at the Technical University
in Eindhoven and we founded this solar car team
to participate in the World Solar Challenge
but for the first time in 2013 when we competed for the first
time, it was the first time they introduced a new class
for vehicles that not just have O et Rie B e ila]
to Adelaide as fast as they can RGO LRI g ]
on how many people you take, how practical the car
is and how much external energy you still need from the grid.
So we took a year to design and build Stella, the world’s
first solar-powered family car and raced it 3,000 kilometres
through the desert of Australia, and that set us up
for the next adventure, for Lightyear, so a few years
later after we finished our studies and we took the car
all over the world and we had L R RN R U RIS (2
to show that it is possible to build a car that drives only
on the power of the sun and is SRR TG
but it din’t really happen so at some point we figured
if we want to get this to the market, we will have
to do it ourselves and that is when we founded Lightyear,
P STFIER I )
And In this race that you took part in at the start
of all of this, you’re racing across the Australian desert
In a solar-powered car.
This is not vehicles just creeping along the desert
R I MR- R &
How fast do they go?
3,000 kilometres in about 5.5 days, average speed of 70
kilometres an hour, top speed around, it depends a bit
but between 80 and 90.
That is impressive.
Jamie, we heard about P el R - 1es
about solar panels.
You are in the field of Al NI s e
There is a lot of interest here, a lot of hope.
Why has this become your thing?
I’ve been interested NE Gl
from an incredibly young age.
My interest started to seriously grow
in artificial intelligence when | started studying my PhD
[T [ IR B
That is where you take images from a camera and you try
and understand what is in that image.
LGS QLR R R ] at Microsoft in their research
labs and started working on products using Al,
the original Kinect for Xbox 360, for example, where we had
a little camera that would track your motion
so you could stand up in front RN Bt e 10la s
and the algorithms, the Al systems that we built started
to understand what you were doing with your body and then
translate that into R T E N R R QAo Lo
and the game could understand R R Netlaidas
And that interest has evolved ever since and the field of Al
in general has really advanced ARG ER W IRTCE N
Everyone with a phone in their pocket will have
all sorts of Al algorithms improving the quality
of your photos and recognising text, et cetera.
Linda, let’s come back to the iconic F150 pickup truck.
The vehicle is very much about power, a huge pickup
truck with a huge footprint, huge petrol engine, diesel
engine underneath that you put AP asd B C e Rl ]
But it still retains the power.
Tell me how that works and how much power you can deliver out
of electric motors and why that was a problem for you.
LY TR
The power on this vehicle is actually great.
775 foot-pounds of torque which is the highest out of any
F150 and it is 580 horsepower.
It’s also the quickest F150 that we have ever built.
But many people have a hard time even etting to that point
because they view it as "it’s electric" and that is partly
why we had to really work QIR RN LI R
of those concepts.
Your initial power is, actually, really magnificent.
It’s near instant torque of 775, whereas with a traditional
gas vehicle you have the engine combustion, you have the gears
and the transmission and that torque actually has to grow.
So you have a very different torque curve in a way.
The difficulty with the EV is maintaining towing,
in this case, on a truck, over time.
That longevity, that fatigue is something that we had
to work through with the cooling system and really
making sure that the cooling was designed adequately to be
able to tow and haul and do all the same things that
current truck customers can do.
Moving on from that point, AR R LG
Arjo, the Netherlands is lovely LR G RS R TG
When it is cloudy out there, what sort of range on average
can | expect out of your vehicle in northern Europe?
It’s an electric car.
DR LB N =l s0 you want to drive at night
it has a battery and you can drive yourself 625 kilometres
just on the battery and the solar panel continuously
trickle charges the battery and on a single day
if you are in full sun and in a good place you may add
up to 70 kilometres of range from the sun that does not
sound like a lot compared to the 625 but in practice
we don’t use our car every day N R RIS A
for very long trips, while the solar system
is always on so the way to look at it is how much do you get
In a year.
So, In one year, even RO SO EI R
which is like 5% worst T R R B R g 1
of solar radiance, you get up to 7,000 kilometres per year,
so more than half of the energy that the car needs for
an average driver, actually N iR T
Thank you, Arjo.
So, Jamie, autonomous cars.
| can imagine they are great RE e T e R
with a grid-like structures set up like a chess board.
Here in London, less so.
You’re absolutely right.
There is a huge challenge to solving autonomous driving
in the kinds of unstructured, complex and busy environments
that we have here in London L RNl AR L
the world, indeed.
The traditional technology stack uses three main pillars.
One is mapping.
So, for the system to work you send vehicles, much
like Google sends vehicles around the streets to map out
Street View images so we can navigate ourselves,
but for a vehicle, autonomous vehicle, this needs to be done
at a much higher precision.
We need centimetre-level detailed maps of entire cities.
Which is actually a remarkably solvable problem but very
expensive to do and even worse to maintain.
There is another limitation R R
in terms of the sensors they get used a very expensive
sensors, something called lidar which is a way of sending out
beams of laser light and measuring the time for that
light to reflect back and that gives you a sense of how far
things are away.
It’s a wonderful sensor, | love depth information,
| used it in my previous N S S NSV
and difficult to integrate in a vehicle.
The third one is how the intelligence for these
LRI 41]}
Today, most approaches to autonomous driving are based
on a very modular system where you sort of first try
and detect all the cars RO C RIS
and the traffic lights and whatever else you think
you need and then you’d have i i e
so you would say if this happens then | would do this,
if this happens | do this.
If you think about the complexities of urban driving
and the number of things that are going on, that just becomes
incredibly unwieldy very, very quickly.
So, these three areas have, | think, they have really held
back the industry and at Wayve IR G LEGIS
LRI ICIGELT R e lo g e T Tog B
So, we’ve decided that we want to go after,
although it is a harder problem RO e R N Y
it Is much more scalable, so to avoid the need for maps,
we will avoid the use of very expensive sensors and rely
on cameras which are easy, relatively inexpensive and easy
to integrate and, you know, N R R T R ]
eyes every day.
Finally, we’re going to use a more holistic, what we call
end-to-end machine-learning approach where we really teach
the machine to drive by example rather than trying to code
those rules in by hand.
Thank you so much, Jamie.
Now, Arjo, we’re going to come to you and you’ve made such
great strides with your VR IR UG
Lightyear solar car.
It’s expensive.
What | really want to know is when am | going to be able
When are we going to get to a commercially viable,
EIIOEICH family-sized solar car?
So, it’s a very fair guestion, right?
We were founded with the mission to provide clean
mobility for everyone.
And obviously the Lightyear O that we are selling now
for 250,000 euros, it’s clearly not for everyone.
LR EVACRIE A IS this first car is really
a technology demonstrator, we’re building it in a limited
series and this is the main reason why this first car
RS E IS
So, the key is in scaling up.
That’s what we’ve planned on the roadmap for 2025.
We plan to look launch QR GLE AY G T BT
specs in terms of efficiency and range and how far you can
go and the solar panel.
But that one is going to have a starting price
iR VIO IOI-TI] (1
We also have to look not just at the purchase price
but the total cost of ownership SRR G
If you start with electrifying the vehicle, the fuel costs
of actually having to charge R PR G S AUERe
by the factor of 3-4.
What we’ve done on top of that is make the electric
car about twice as efficient R [ asd oo
on the road today.
Then we create half of the energy the car needs
for the average person from the solar panels.
With that, we’re getting into the range of what a medium
family in Europe could afford.
Jamie, I think the challenge for you is different, isn’t it?
In many ways, it’s overpromise, really.
A lot is said about autonomous vehicles, about what we can
hope to have.
They’re not even legal in most T R R e
So, you’re the chief NS R A
Set some realistic expectations here - what can | realistically
expect to see in the medium-term future before
we get to the bit where the robots take over the world ?
So, you’re absolutely right.
There have been many unrealistic expectations set
by names that you will all have (XGRS
around the corner, it’s TSGR RGNS
That is simply not how it’s going to be, it’s going to be
a gradual transition and it will take time.
| would liken it to the NN T NG i
and cart and the automobile 100 or years ago or so, right?
It happened pretty quickly in the grand scale of things
but, incrementally, day on day, it was sort of a gradual
process but accelerated as the economics and the safety
and all the other things that R RN RS- 1a ik le s
came to bear.
It will certainly be a multi-year journey,
but | would very much hope and expect strongly that
by the end of this decade, we will be seeing this
In very mainstream use.
End of this decade, | will come find you and find out.
Arjo, what’s your perspective on this?
So, I’m going to go back to the mission statement
of Lightyear again, clean mobility for everyone.
We talked a bit about the cost R R R IR 1
you buy and the biggest factor we know of is the purchase
price, and | think that is where autonomous driving
s really going to help.
Because the key to getting the cost down is sharing,
making sure that we use the car with a lot more people,
'cause it’s standing still 90% of the time,
and the key to making sharing convenient, | think that’s
where autonomous driving comes in, by making sure the car acts
like an Uber without a driver, that you call and and within
two minutes, it’s in front of the door and you go there.
If you want to bring your drywall panels,
an F-150 pulls up, and if you want to take
the entire family and all your kids, a minivan pulls up.
And if you’re just by yourself, L E R L
SNl el e gl pulls up and that way,
we can drastically reduce the cost per kilometre
of actually driving.
So | think that’s where autonomous driving comes
in but it has to progress before this happens,
it has to progress to the point where we price autonomous
driving based on its cost and not on its potential value
because | think the first companies who are going to be
=]o] R R [ G e o= of autonomous driving,
QTR [ R RS we’re replacing a taxidriver,
a taxidriver costs X R IS
so we take 10% off and we can make a hell of a lot of money
because we need to earn back R TR A AR
so until we get that cost down, really, to what it actually
costs to operate, plus a small margin, then I think
we will start to see this autonoemous mobility on demand
really being a lot cheaper than owning a car,
and a big switch.
And that should enable our mission again, if we make sure
those cars are electric or running on solar.
Thank you, Arjo.
Now, Linda, of course, electrical vehicles in general
help with emissions and help even more when they’re powered
with electricity from renewable resources.
All this is great, RGN A eI
a problem, aren’t they?
They contain a lot of rare earth metals that need to be
For example, lithium is a key component and you can get that
out of mines say, for example, in Chile’'s Atacama Desert.
Is there a plan in place to mitigate those sort
of environmental threats that R L sa R Y
technology?
Yes, absolutely.
| think mining responsibly s very important and it’s one
of the things that Ford were very attuned to.
We’ve joined some of the coalitions to help ensure
that we are mining responsibly.
And | think you’re absolutely right, that electric vehicles
in general are better IR R E L
IR -0 ale e alntl-1a
A recent study out of the University of Michigan
actually just went through some of the data and for North
America, EVs, from a life-cycle perspective, cradle to grave,
including all the manufacturing, the Lithium
In batteries, still result ina 64% less of harm
to the planet than a traditional gas vehicle would,
so | think there Is definitely improvements there and we,
as companies, and we, as individuals, need to make
sure that we do it responsibly, and as we get into cleaner
energy too down the road, that 64% of an improvement
will obviously increase and that needs to increase very
S[][e (A"
Thank you so much.
Now, who In the audience R CR O O R Sy
of any of our amazing panellists today?
My name Is Suki.
| have a question - | have more than one -
but Linda first of all, you said about the fuel cells.
| just have question hecause | know with Ford F-150,
how much of a big vehicle it is, how are you able to get
people to really adopt the use of electric in places
like rural Pennsylvania, Upstate New York, where
we are very much a hunting environment, where we put
beers, we put deer and everything else into the back
How are you able to get that uptake?
Well, so | think a lot of it is really about making
sure that the truck does exactly what a truck
So, an F-150 Lightning can tow, it can haul, it can do
all the same things that a gas F-150 can.
But in addition to it, we actually offer a lot more.
For one, we’re leveraging the battery to provide
electricity for customers, particularly in roll-out,
in electrical outage situations, we can actually use
it for our home, for multiple days at a time.
Also without the engine, we’re able to take advantage
of that space up front and basically turn it
And then, of course, performance in the vehicle
s just outstanding.
With an EV, you get that near-instant torque
that we talked about earlier which gets you up to 0-60mp
In mid-four seconds.
| mean, it’s fast, so...
We’ve got a question from Gilbert in Lebanon now,
coming in from the video link.
If you can unmute your microphone and give
us your question.
My question Is, why IR (R CE[ON A LRI
so late when it was SR DR R
So, thorny question there for Arjo.
Why was the Lightyear so late?
So, we set out to build this production car six years ago
when we founded the company but we were five guys straight
out of college.
We didn’t have any money, we didn’t have any experience
so besides having to engineer the car, we also had to build
the company, and we’ve been trying to do the engineering
of the vehicle and building the company at the same time
in a way that we are set up for success for the future,
so we weren’t just engineering a car, we were also engineering
all the processes and all the systems behind it on how
to keep track of this, how do you actually make a car
such that the next time we do it, we have a clear process
flow, and we know how to get there.
Along the way, we met a lot of challenges.
It’s been, uh, well, we talked about one on the solar panel,
we’ve developed motors that are directly in the wheels.
We haven’t seen those on production vehicles yet,
so a lot of testing and effort went into getting those
reliable and working.
So, overall, I think the fair question is when we first
started the company, when we were five inexperienced
guys, we hugely underestimated the challenge of getting
a car into production.
Maybe that’s a good thing 'cause if we hadn’t,
LT IO BT G R le R
It’s really hard to start a car company.
| think that’s the best answer to your to your question.
One last question in the room here.
I’m going to look around, OISR G LA Y
thank you very much.
Hi, I’m Jane from the Royal Academy of Engineering.
I’ve got a question for Jamie about Al.
We heard this week in the news about sentient, self-aware Al,
Do you think as capability of Al increases, they might
actually get bored of driving?
Well, | think that’s a fascinating question,
a rather philosophical LR
The way that Al systems today work, and will work
for the foreseeable future, Is, they’re essentially...
What a neural network is, an artificial neural network
s, 1s essentially a bunch of multiplications and additions.
That’s all that is, literally, all it is.
So, you know, the GPU, the graphics processing units
that are used to evaluate these artificial neural networks,
they just sit there, churn all day doing very,
very basic mathematical calculations and ocut
comes the answer.
So, you know, unless there are sort of fundamental changes
in how these systems operate, which is entirely possible
In terms of research breakthroughs, there’s no
chance, in my mind, that these things will get bored,
in that sense, because they’re just doing the job that
they’re...they’re just executing again and again
through these multiplications.
Love that question, which brings us perfectly,
really, to the end of this programme.
We’ve heard about everything TR R R R g
and electric vehicles and Al, and even touching on the first
Al strike, | think, there.
On behalf of the BBC World Service, whether you’re
joining us via the internet FI R R R e
with us in this fabulous Information Age Gallery,
please join me in giving a warm round of applause
to our brilliant pioneering engineers - Jamie Shotton,
Arjo van der Ham, Linda Zhang.
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week,
we could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England
today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, tt’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
You’re watching BBC News.
Our top stories:
LTI IR the Taliban retaking control
of Afghanistan, a special report on the women and girls
who’ve been denied LA S e
and their childhoods.
If | finish this school, | start university,
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from the school.
Sir Salman Rushdie’s e TN
he’s on the road to recovery but has life-changing injuries,
as more details emerge about the man charged
More than 40 worshippers die at a church in Egypt,
after a fire rips through the building during mass.
And, queen of the mountains -
the Norwegian climber who’s on the verge of setting
a very special record.
Welcome to the programme.
It’s now Monday in Afghanistan and across Europe,
and a year since the Taliban
swept back into the Afghan capital, Kabul,
marking their takeover of the country
and sparking scenes like these at the airport -
thousands trying to leave in fear of what could Lie ahead.
One year on, life for women and girls in particular
is very different, with harsh rules,
including restrictions on education and employment.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet,
who was in Kabul during the Taliban takeover,
LR G T =R R this special report.
I RuEh R e
Afghanistan is a conservative country,
by the ultraconservative Taliban.
Spaces which had R R Rl
RN A AR LT
We met three generations of women whose lives speak
loudly about their world.
Many are afraid.
LS A LR RTE T (] identified.
This woman used to be a senior official in
the finance ministry.
Last year the Taliban told her, stay at home.
A man would take her job.
| worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
It was difficult with juggling family and work,
but | went to university and got my masters degree.
We spent so much R O S
Now we are back to zero.
Everything is finished.
More than 60 female L B e 20
have banded together.
LS A E I R T [ of the exchanges
on their messaging group:
Women haven’t completely disappeared
from the streets or ministries,
like health, education, security.
L TR o k[ only for women.
This market has just reopened in the western city of Herat.
This was the first day.
Women, a bit nervous.
Shops, still empty.
LR ¥ ‘'
This is your shop? Today it’s closed.
Oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old Suhaila is excited.
She’s reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
But she should be in her last year of school.
Suhaila was the top student in her class.
But the Taliban shut U A R N
Really, | am very sad.
If | finished this school, EXE LI 13
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from school.
Was it hard for you? No school, ne shep.
| think it’s not for me,
and for all of the girls of Afghanistan,
it’s @ sad memory...
did miss school.
It’s hard here, too, IV N
in the Central Highlands.
This is one of Afghanistan’s poorest provinces.
Since the Taliban took WU
And there’s still no aid to their government.
For the destitute and desperate,
agonising choices.
This woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
She’s only 6 years old.
TRANSLATION: She’s toe young.
But | give her away IR N N Rt
So my other children don’t die of hunger.
It’s still very hard
but now she can eat MOl SanE Ele
| had no other option R NV
Child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in Afghanistan,
but not this young.
We’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
TRANSLATION: Her in-laws told me
they will take care of her like their own child
because she’s so young.
They told me, don’t worry.
What mother wouldn’t worry?
What child wouldn’t weep?
A new generation takes shape in a new Afghanistan.
The Taliban say the rights of boys and girls within Islam
will be respected.
But one year on, there I UL R G e
who were learning to lead, RS iR E I i R
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Kabul.
The son of Sir Salman Rushdie says
his father suffered life-changing injuries
In a knife attack on Friday,
but that his feisty and defiant sense of humour remains intact.
The author has been taken off a ventilator,
after being stabbed at an event in New York State.
The govenor of New York says they will always stand up
for freedom of thought.
Our correspondent Nomia Igbal has the latest.
Inside the hospital, I E R IR i
But a glimmer of hope for his family,
as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
In a statement, his son, R IO DI PRI M
Zafar also praised the audience members
at the literary event on Friday where his father was stabbed.
He said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
Salman Rushdie’s agent told us
he is on the long road to recovery.
The writer suffered RTINS
He faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old American suspect Hadi Matar has already appeared
in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of
attempted murder and attempted assault.
Prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from New Jersey
to the event here in Chautauqua,
in Western New York.
They say he bought a ticket, NS GV
allowing him to attend the talk Mr Rushdie was due to give.
For decades, Salman Rushdie went into hiding
E TR Tl The Satanic Verses, led to Iran
Issuing a fatwa in 1989.
Many Muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
It is reported that police think Hadi Matar may
have had sympathies for the Iranian regime,
but an official motive has A TR e
Earlier, New York’s state governor
spoke outside the institution where the stabbing happened.
New York State will always stand up
to protect freedom of expression,
freedom of speech,
and we condemn the cowardly e R NIERE IR
And we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate
the sanctity of a place like Chautaugua.
Questions are being EH O R
there were not tougher checks RGNS E A U
given the huge amount RGN R AT I
had faced for decades.
The government in Egypt says at least 40 people
(EVR LT many of them children -
in a fire at a church where thousands of people had
gathered for Sunday worship.
Dozens of others were injured.
It’s reported an electrical fire broke out
at the Coptic church in Giza,
IR GRS of the capital Cairo.
Our correspondent Sally Nabil sent this report
RG]
A Sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
Behind these windows,
Egyptian Christian worshippers died.
The Abu Sifin church AR o )
busy neighbourhoed in Giza.
The fire killed dozens including many children.
People rushed into the building trying to save as many
DN I I3 R
This woman lost her sister-in-law.
TRANSLATION: She had five children,
three daughters, who are three, RN R U e N
and two boys.
My heart is on fire for all these victims.
The people I’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
They want to know exactly how and why their loved ones died.
There will be questions too for the church itself
and for the emergency services.
Initial reports suggest R R LR
by an electrical fault.
People here told us QR R L L
and the church LR ER LI g
When the electricity was turned on again there was an overload.
TRANSLATION: Fire IR ]S
of the air-cenditioning
and then spread to the rest RGNt lesi P
It was on the third and fourth floors.
Many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
A major investigation is now under way.
Inspectors from the public O R 1)
already checked the scene.
There was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives
behind this incident, so far.
But the Christian community here say they’ve had enough.
Many of their churches have been targeted
AT ET I RN R S T
Sally Nabil, BBC News, Cairo.
Let’s get some of QR EV AR O L
Syrian state media say IR R ea R L
CL ] 1a =1 4 on targets Tartus,
CL ] 1a =1 4 on targets in Tartus,
on Syria’s west coast.
Reports say three soldiers were killed.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says
several missiles hit the vicinity of a village
where Iranian militias
allied with the Assad regime, are located.
The Saudi state-owned oil giant Aramco has announced
record profits of more than $48 billion
for the second quarter of this year.
The world’s biggest oil producer’s net income has
almost doubled year-on-year.
Oil prices are up in the wake of Russia’s attack on Ukraine
and increasing demand after the pandemic.
At least one person has died after an explosion rocked
a shopping centre and caused a fireworks warehouse
to catch fire in Armenia’s capital, Yerevan.
Videos on social media show large clouds of black smoke
in the sky and people running away as a building collapsed.
North Korean state media is reporting that
the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un,
has been sent a letter from Russia’s president,
Vladimir Putin, with Mr Putin saying the two countries
would expand their bilateral relations.
According to media in Pyongyang, President Putin says
closer ties would be NV e GIT]
and Russia’s interests,
=RV G ] NGRSV
and stability of the Korean PERIE
and the northeast Asian region.
The pledge was made in a letter NI AR R Y
North Korea’s liberation day
which has begun today, Monday.
We can now speak I
who’s a Senior Fellow for Korea Studies
at the Council on Foreign Relations.
He joins us from Washington DC.
Details are scant on
DI T R G 1] vty
Details are scant on this but what could a deepening
DI T R G 1] what could a deepening of
what could a deepening of relations between
what could a deepening of A LR S TN )
what could a deepening of T R S T N R
relations between these two a0l ea
relations between these two o ee i s
relations between these two countries mean and why is it
countries mean and why is it coming
countries mean and why is it I
countries mean and why Is it coming now? | think
countries mean and why Is it IR R G
coming now? | think it I
coming now? | think it represents a
coming now? | think it N R ]
represents a possible W I U
represents a possible convergence of interests
convergence of interests e
convergence of interests L A
convergence of interests between Russia and
convergence of interests T LA B e e ds
convergence of interests between Russia and North Korea.
between Russia and North Korea. E3d
between Russia and North Korea. R
between Russia and North Korea. Last week, the Russian
Last week, the Russian ambassador to North Korea
ambassador to North Korea suggested North Korean overseas
suggested North Korean overseas labour could be useful in doing
labour could be useful in doing reconstruction
labour could be useful in doing e e natlnsl iR e e
labour could be useful in doing reconstruction work in the
reconstruction work in the breakaway provinces
reconstruction work in the LG L AN Rl
reconstruction work in the breakaway provinces in Ukraine
breakaway provinces in Ukraine and North Korea
breakaway provinces in Ukraine R iR IR
breakaway provinces in Ukraine R iR e e e
and North Korea had earlier RiET Y
and North Korea had earlier made a
and North Korea had earlier L ELEER
and North Korea had earlier made a point of recognising
made a point of recognising G
made a point of recognising I
made a point of recognising this. So what it looks Like is
this. So what it looks like Is )
this. So what it looks like is R 8Y
this. So what it looks like is ORI G A G EL
this. So what it looks like is QR GAGE IR (Y
this. So what it looks like is the possibility that they could
the possibility that they could )
the possibility that they could R
the possibility that they could be some kind of some kind
the possibility that they could TR NGRS R N sl
be some kind of some kind of support by
be some kind of some kind of o el A (g 4a]
be some kind of some kind of A ORI
be some kind of some kind of support by North Korea in the
support by North Korea in the 1o a8t
support by North Korea in the a1 Red
support by North Korea in the form of labour in these areas,
form of labour in these areas, L E]
form of labour in these areas, VAl
form of labour in these areas, probably in return for
probably in return for Al
probably in return for AN AR R a]
probably in return for substantial cash contributions
substantial cash contributions to
substantial cash contributions Ry
substantial cash contributions to the flailing North Korean
to the flailing North Korean economy. What
to the flailing North Korean X a1 AR e R 0o}
to the flailing North Korean economy. What would this mean
economy. What would this mean in particular for Russia,
in particular for Russia, (=N
in particular for Russia, ENI LR G
in particular for Russia, having these North Korean
having these North Korean labourers going
having these North Korean El IR LR
having these North Korean labourers going to work on
labourers going to work on e
labourers going to work on RN
labourers going to work on T L ATEL
labourers going to work on their behalf was making terms
their behalf was making terms N
their behalf was making terms AL
their behalf was making terms AT i
their behalf was making terms AT R R )
their behalf was making terms of what it would mean for
of what it would mean for N
of what it would mean for TS
of what it would mean for Russia, it would mean
of what it would mean for O R L R - R
of what it would mean for Russia, it would mean the North
Russia, it would mean the North Koreans
Russia, it would mean the North G EAN EE|
Russia, it would mean the North IR
Russia, it would mean the North Koreans meeting a Russian
Koreans meeting a Russian political need. Especially if
political need. Especially if Vladimir Putin is having
Vladimir Putin is having ae i )
Vladimir Putin is having trouble meeting manpower in
trouble meeting manpower in this particular area and it
trouble meeting manpower in QI E i EI RN R E
this particular area and it has ]
this particular area and it has been common for
this particular area and it has T e ot la il e Rt ]
this particular area and it has been common for the North
been common for the North 1Y
been common for the North Koreans to export labour in a
Koreans to export labour in a slailatlid
Koreans to export labour in a shiilatl I
Koreans to export labour in a difficult areas. It just so
difficult areas. It just so happens that that preduct
difficult areas. It just so happens that that product is
difficult areas. It just so happens that that preduct is is
happens that that product is is prohibited
happens that that product is is O Y
happens that that product is is prohibited by UN Security
prohibited by UN Security Council revelutions from
Council revolutions from 2017, that Russia had been following,
that Russia had been following, 4
that Russia had been following, e
that Russia had been following, IR )
that Russia had been following, IR R R )
that Russia had been following, R R e N
that Russia had been following, RS SR e R A )
that Russia had been following, but over the course of the past
but over the course of the past w11 )
but over the course of the past couple of years, there is a
couple of years, there is a [ 18 E1a]
couple of years, there is a sl a
couple of years, there is a domain of the sanctions that
domain of the sanctions that T
domain of the sanctions that has heen
domain of the sanctions that TN Rt sl
domain of the sanctions that IR R )
domain of the sanctions that has been created by now,
has been created by now, ¥l asle
has been created by now, sanctions against Russia as
sanctions against Russia as ol
sanctions against Russia as S
sanctions against Russia as o [ N ads]
sanctions against Russia as well as North Korea and so this
LS [Tl TR T R R [ opens
LS [Tl TR T R R [ R
LS [Tl TR T R R [ L]
well as North Korea and so this opens up an avenue of
LS [Tl TR T R R [ opens up an avenue of political
opens up an avenue of political opportunity for Russia and
opportunity for Russia and North Korea to engage in a
North Korea to engage in a political exchange that
North Korea to engage ina political exchange that meets
political exchange that meets political
political exchange that meets UG
political exchange that meets G WG AR
political exchange that meets U G RG]
political exchange that meets political needs in a limited
political needs in a limited "
political needs in a limited way. Mutual
political needs in a limited RN OE G
political needs in a limited way. Mutual needs being met but
way. Mutual needs being met but vty
way. Mutual needs being met but T s 1
way. Mutual needs being met but N a4
way. Mutual needs being met but what does it mean for
way. Mutual needs being met but N s R AR ]
way. Mutual needs being met but N s R AR R N
what does it mean for the rest N
what does it mean for the rest R
what does it mean for the rest ARG R ek
what does it mean for the rest of the world? Well, the
what does it mean for the rest RO MR R GRS
of the world? Well, the more e
of the world? Well, the more 4R AN
of the world? Well, the more serious issue is
of the world? Well, the more AR AN N R L
of the world? Well, the more AR AN R El S R o)
of the world? Well, the more AR AN N R E LR R
serious issue Is related to the Ty
serious issue is related to the rest of the world is actually
rest of the world is actually related
rest of the world is actually AR
rest of the world is actually related to Russian and North
related to Russian and North Korean nuclear programmes and
Korean nuclear programmes and nuclear
Korean nuclear programmes and Ml e
Korean nuclear programmes and nuclear threats in connection
nuclear threats in connection with
nuclear threats in connection T daRutlag-Ta1d
nuclear threats in connection s Ratlag e e sl ne
nuclear threats in connection T A R tlae-Ta e st il s
LGN T e T s
G eIl o e RO ARG
G eIl o e terms of this specific
LG R e ) terms of this specific issue,
LG R e ) R RIS S
terms of this specific issue, | think
terms of this specific issue, | s
terms of this specific issue, | i ai A
terms of this specific issue, | think it is a
terms of this specific issue, | QIS AR IR
terms of this specific issue, | QIS AR EIE L X
think it is a marriage of e e Rk
think it is a marriage of convenience that will
QI LGSR R EE R R R R T
convenience that will be TN
convenience that will be opposed, especially
TN R G E R opposed, especially by
TN (R G R T I e E VARG
opposed, especially by the IR s
opposed, especially by the United States, but which there
United States, but which there s
United States, but which there is Little outside
United States, but which there is little outside parties
United States, but which there G XSG Y E R =l
RO RN S g i ey o[
is Little outside parties can do anything to stop. Scott
do anything to stop. Scott LA
do anything to stop. Scott Snyder, thank you very much.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R i E el
to Freya, the walrus who became a tourist sensation in Norway
has been put down.
Washington, the world’s most political city,
is today assessing the political health
of the world’s most powerful man.
Indeed | did have a relationship with Ms Lewinsky
(G ELRLZ TR T aTo o[ Ig LR
In fact, it was wrong.
In Seuth Africa, 97 people have been killed today,
in one of the worst days SR
between rival Black groups.
Over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
MAN: Czechoslovakia R R
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
Russia is observing a national day of mourning
IR QTR ET ) gl (6 N IR Rl RN (el
We are all with them now, within our hearts.
The Pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more
than 2.5 million people R R Al o
"Stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"Well, well,” joked the Pope,
"so, you want me I el L YA
This is BBC News, the main story this hour:
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan, its women and girls are still being
denied education and employment.
For the first time in decades Florida’s Fish
and Wildlife Conservation Commission is to allow daytime
AT R (@I EL G
They say it’s to make the area safer.
Alligator hunting season starts on Monday and runs
Every year 10,000 hunters apply for 7,000 licenses in a lottery
style selection process.
It’s estimated there are 1.3 million alligators
in the state, but not NS U AL L
the change.
Pete Corradino is a wildlife biologist and owner
of Everglades Day Safari, NN 1] WYY
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for being with us, L)
Thank you for being with us, LRI LR
Thank you for being with us, LRSI RCRTL]
Thank you for being with us, good evening to you there in
good evening to you there in Florida. This takes effect
Florida. This takes effect e
Florida. This takes effect tomorrow, Monday for
Florida. This takes effect L P I VAL L
Florida. This takes effect tomorrow, Monday for you guys.
tomorrow, Monday for you guys. ey
tomorrow, Monday for you guys. What does this hunting
What does this hunting specifically entail?
What does this hunting el (A AR
What does this hunting o LYa il (R & LAY (R
specifically entail? Well, the hunting
specifically entail? Well, the LG LR
specifically entail? Well, the T RIS G|
specifically entail? Well, the hunting is something that has
hunting is something that has T
hunting is something that has been going on for quite a long
been going on for quite a long S i)
been going on for quite a long time but what has changed now
time but what has changed now as
time but what has changed now IG5
time but what has changed now GG
time but what has changed now as they are going to allow
as they are going to allow p 1 Yl
as they are going to allow 24~-hour hunting
as they are going to allow 24-hour hunting and what my
24-hour hunting and what my L]
24-hour hunting and what my opposition to is
24-hour hunting and what my SRR
24-hour hunting and what my opposition to is the change is
opposition to is the change is that
opposition to is the change is R
opposition to is the change is that are going
opposition to is the change is GE IR IR
opposition to is the change is that are going to happen is
that are going to happen is right where we take our
right where we take our e
right where we take our tourists. So Everglades Day
tourists. So Everglades Day safari takes tourists out on a
safari takes tourists out on a e
safari takes tourists out on a air boat
safari takes tourists out on a A e el
safari takes tourists out on a air boat ride and that is
air boat ride and that is specifically
air boat ride and that is oLyl e (VA
air boat ride and that is et (VA ]
air boat ride and that is specifically on a place called
specifically on a place called BV
specifically on a place called Lake Trafford where there are
Lake Trafford where there are thousands of alligators and by
thousands of alligators and by L]
thousands of alligators and by IR
thousands of alligators and by NIRRT
thousands of alligators and by opening up the hunting season
opening up the hunting season two daylight hours, it is going
two daylight hours, it is going to
two daylight hours, it is going RN T Y
two daylight hours, it is going RN TR
two daylight hours, it is going to put hunters and tourists in
to put hunters and tourists in conflict with each
to put hunters and tourists in e e R e N s e
to put hunters and tourists in e e R o N as s s |
conflict with each other and LV
conflict with each other and potentially putting people in
potentially putting people in harms
potentially putting people in IR A
potentially putting people in R T
potentially putting people in harms way, so that
potentially putting people in R A RO
potentially putting people in harms way, so that is the
harms way, so that is the situation
harms way, so that is the R R
harms way, so that is the situation we are looking at
situation we are looking at starting tomorrow.
situation we are looking at S g (TR [ Tag 1 ]
situation we are looking at starting tomorrow. But the
starting tomorrow. But the wildlife commission says 1.3
wildlife commission says 1.3 TS
wildlife commission says 1.3 million alligators is simply
million alligators is simply i)
million alligators is simply too many, something has to be
too many, something has to be el
too many, something has to be - | 2
too many, something has to be e R
too many, something has to be R A
too many, something has to be A AR e
too many, something has to be done. If that is their take on
done. If that is their take on it, that is
done. If that is their take on (PR LA s
done. If that is their take on IR G E A AT 1Y
done. If that is their take on it, that is not really what is
it, that is not really what is L
it, that is not really what is going on. We got 1.3 million
going on. We got 1.3 million alligators, maybe even more.
alligators, maybe even more. I it
alligators, maybe even more. Historically we had probably
alligators, maybe even more. Historically we had prebably 4
Historically we had probably 4 million alligators but over the
million alligators but over the e N
million alligators but over the e R R
million alligators but over the e N R i)
million alligators but over the course of the 20th century
course of the 20th century alligators were hunted nearly
alligators were hunted nearly to extinction. They were put on
to extinction. They were put on )
to extinction. They were put on the endangered species list and
the endangered species list and e
the endangered species list and their population numbers have
their population numbers have )
their population numbers have el e
their population numbers have I R
their population numbers have come back very well, but what
come back very well, but what e
come back very well, but what a0
come back very well, but what U AR
come back very well, but what their basis is for safety
their basis is for safety X
their basis is for safety issues, I’m
their basis is for safety I3 PN R e
their basis is for safety issues, I’m not exactly sure.
issues, I’m not exactly sure. )
issues, I’m not exactly sure. There have been 30 fatalities
There have been 30 fatalities 3
There have been 30 fatalities inthe
There have been 30 fatalities in the last
There have been 30 fatalities RO E S A
There have been 30 fatalities RG AR ¥ A IO
There have been 30 fatalities in the last 75 years caused
There have been 30 fatalities G A IR VR
in the last 75 years caused by hl
in the last 75 years caused by wild alligators. There’s been
wild alligators. There’s been PN
wild alligators. There’s been NN
wild alligators. There’s been an average of seven, actually,
an average of seven, actually, probably about 12-15 alligator
probably about 12-15 alligator Y
probably about 12-15 alligator attacks and this ranges from
attacks and this ranges from alligators biting people when
alligators biting people when they
alligators biting people when GG
alligators biting people when they are swimming
alligators biting people when GRS R
they are swimming to people picking
they are swimming to people ISR
they are swimming to people picking up alligators and
picking up alligaters and getting
picking up alligators and LB E
picking up alligators and getting bitten. So that
picking up alligators and UL R R R EL AL
picking up alligators and getting bitten. So that is each
getting bitten. So that is each Crld
getting bitten. So that is each I
getting bitten. So that is each LI R %1
getting bitten. So that is each year and that is not a lot, so
year and that is not a lot, so M)
year and that is not a lot, so I’m not
year and that is not a lot, so N I A a8
year and that is not a lot, so I’m not exactly sure
year and that is not a lot, so [ I Al AR
year and that is not a lot, so I’m not exactly sure why they
I’m not exactly sure why they think
I’m not exactly sure why they QIO
I’m not exactly sure why they think doing this
I’m not exactly sure why they QIR RGTERE
I’m not exactly sure why they think doing this is going to
think doing this is going to R )
QI L N DRGSR R make anything safer. In
think doing this is going to make anything safer. In fact by
make anything safer. In fact by o]
make anything safer. In fact by putting people out there with
putting people out there with I
putting people out there with L)
putting people out there with LR BRI
putting people out there with guns hunting while you’ve got
guns hunting while you’ve got tourists on
guns hunting while you’ve got R R 0l d
guns hunting while you’ve got tourists on our boats is
tourists on our boats Is probably
tourists on our boats is G =L ARG
tourists on our boats is probably the most unsafe thing
probably the most unsafe thing you can
probably the most unsafe thing IR L RN
probably the most unsafe thing you can do. But officials alse
you can do. But officials also O
you can do. But officials also argue that playing for these
argue that playing for these N
argue that playing for these NN
argue that playing for these licenses means people paying
licenses means people paying e
licenses means people paying TR A e
licenses means people paying RO A e N
licenses means people paying for these licenses is bringing
for these licenses is bringing money into the state. Yeah,
money into the state. Yeah, that
money into the state. Yeah, G A
money into the state. Yeah, that is really what it is
that is really what it is e
that is really what it is YA s
that is really what it is AR
that is really what it is Y R a1
that is really what it is about. It is not to manage the
about. It is not to manage the population, it is simply for
population, it is simply for s Yl el
population, it is simply for recreational purposes and to
recreational purposes and to )
recreational purposes and to make money for the state. OK,
make money for the state. OK, Y
make money for the state. OK, |l
make money for the state. OK, we will leave it there. Pete
we will leave it there. Pete Corradino in Florida, thank
we will leave it there. Pete Corradine in Florida, thank you
Corradino in Florida, thank you very
Corradino in Florida, thank you AR
Now, let’s talk about one of my favourite
Now, let’s talk about one of my favourite subject... Mountains!
| want to tell you now N R R R e
highest mountains, also known as the ‘Super Peaks’,
Each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres,
more than 26,000 feet.
Climbing all 14 is a badge of honour
in the mountaineering community, and doing
so in record time is the biggest honour of them all.
Now a Norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just
that, as the BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Kristin Harila carries a heavy burden.
She has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain
in the world, but she can barely pause for a moment.
LRGN [ R e
We had like, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
The rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
But climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
Kristin only took up moeuntain climbing seven years ago,
but she is clearly a quick study.
She is now on course to complete one of the sport’s
most impressive achievements.
As everyone knows, Mount Everest is the world’s
tallest peak at 8849 metres.
There are 13 other mountains that come in at a height
above 8000 metres, and Kristin has climbed 11 of them.
Now she only has three more to complete the set
and she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
At the moment, Nepal’s Nirmal Purja holds the record,
doing so in six months and six days.
If Kristin beats his time she hopes it
will send quite a message.
ROl GEIE YIS like, people believe men
are more strong.
But in reality, the women are just as strong as the men
CICRN RO R T I R PR e TR bt N N S LR
Kristin has until November RIS A el
After a quick trip home to Norway, she will head
to Nepal and Tibet for the final phase.
The last super peaks I I
Great stuff,
IR 011 =L
IR L R [
Great stuff, and the best of e’
Great stuff, and the best of luck to her.
A walrus nicknamed Freya that had become a popular attraction
in the Oslo Fjord in Norway has been put down.
Authorities had warned earlier this week that they
were considering the measure after issuing warnings
about crowds getting too A RO R G e e
Norwegian officials say she was euthanised
In @ humane way.
But there’s been public outcry over the decision.
Let’s get more on this from our news reporter
Why do
Why do authorities say that they
Why do authorities say that OV CCRE
Why do authorities say that OV CRE R
Why do authorities say that they needed to do this? As you
they needed to do this? As you say, Freya had
they needed to do this? As you I Dl e
they needed to do this? As you say, Freya had become a popular
say, Freya had become a popular Y ae: nule s
say, Freya had become a popular attraction in Oslo, she was
attraction in Oslo, she was ST sl
attraction in Oslo, she was NI e
attraction in Oslo, she was R i e
attraction in Oslo, she was named after the goddess of love
named after the goddess of love and
named after the goddess of love T
named after the goddess of love RN L]
named after the goddess of love R LI
named after the goddess of love and beauty and she had been on
and beauty and she had been on i E
and beauty and she had been on somewhat of a
and beauty and she had been on R R AT
and beauty and she had been on I R R R gl
and beauty and she had been on ISR R R G
somewhat of a Euro trip this I3
somewhat of a Euro trip this (EIR-TI
Sy O R IV R (gl RG] past year. There were
somewhat of a Euro trip this past year. There were sightings
past year. There were sightings in
past year. There were sightings TRy
past year. There were sightings in the United Kingdom and
in the United Kingdom and Sweden and Evelyn. She
Sweden and Evelyn. She eventually ended up in Norway
eventually ended up in Norway where
eventually ended up in Norway Y N
eventually ended up in Norway where she became quite a
where she became quite a IR
where she became quite a N P )
where she became quite a sensation, she was climbing
sensation, she was climbing aboard
sensation, she was climbing L L E OB e L
sensation, she was climbing aboard boats, she was
aboard boats, she was sunbathing, she was sometimes
sunbathing, she was sometimes I ]
sunbathing, she was sometimes thinking those boats because
thinking those boats because RN )
thinking those boats because she weighed £1300. The problem
she weighed £1300. The problem came
she weighed £1300. The problem IR
she weighed £1300. The problem EI R RG]
she weighed £1300. The problem came up when crowds
she weighed £1300. The problem R R UG O R L L R
came up when crowds wouldn’t ()]
came up when crowds wouldn’t SO LI
came up when crowds wouldn’t stop crowding around her
came up when crowds wouldn’t SR LG T LR LT b
came up when crowds wouldn’t ORI G R YT T
stop crowding around her and no matter
stop crowding around her and no el i
stop crowding around her and no matter how many times
matter how many times YNl da e el
matter how many times YN da o bR el |
matter how many times YA TR e R
matter how many times YA R L R Ny L
authorities warned these crowds to
authorities warned these crowds Y)Y
authorities warned these crowds RS CVEVZTR
authorities warned these crowds to stay away, children
authorities warned these crowds IV A U R G
to stay away, children were gathering around the walrus as
gathering around the walrus as well,
gathering around the walrus as W G
gathering around the walrus as well, they just kept coming
well, they just kept coming back
well, they just kept coming T & sl
well, they just kept coming Yl &l
well, they just kept coming back and of course walrus
back and of course walrus Y
back and of course walrus attacks aren’t that
back and of course walrus attacks aren’t that common but
attacks aren’t that common but NI
attacks aren’t that common but walruses can
attacks aren’t that common but TR - R 8 1= 8
attacks aren’t that common but walruses can typically sleep
walruses can typically sleep Y0
walruses can typically sleep about 20
walruses can typically sleep LR 0
walruses can typically sleep about 20 hours a day and this
about 20 hours a day and this )
about 20 hours a day and this LG
about 20 hours a day and this one kept having her sleep
one kept having her sleep interrupted and so eventually
interrupted and so eventually YNl da e el
interrupted and so eventually YN a1t
interrupted and so eventually YT da o A e et e
interrupted and so eventually s R R s 1
authorities came to this el e3¢ 1a]
authorities came to this ol e e e Te|
authorities came to this A R
decision and the director-general for fisheries
director-general for fisheries 14
director-general for fisheries I
director-general for fisheries put out a statement explaining
put out a statement explaining e
put out a statement explaining it to
put out a statement explaining TR RG Y
put out a statement explaining RGN ([
put out a statement explaining it to the public. It read:
TR
Was this the only option open to
Was this the only option open eI TiAa e et e
Was this the only option open IR e A R
Was this the only option open IR e ARG A
to authorities? Well that is )
to authorities? Well that is the question that a lot of
the question that a lot of people
the question that a lot of L L
the question that a lot of S TR A
the question that a lot of I T D]
the question that a lot of RIS R R
people are asking right now, especially as the public and
especially as the public and experts,
especially as the public and A IR G0
especially as the public and experts, wildlife experts,
experts, wildlife experts, )
experts, wildlife experts, N E
experts, wildlife experts, N )
experts, wildlife experts, there has been a
experts, wildlife experts, N R N i)
there has been a fierce backlash. What a lot of experts
backlash. What a lot of experts Py
backlash. What a lot of experts are pointing out is that the
are pointing out is that the e eI
are pointing out is that the walrus is an endangered species
walrus is an endangered species and
walrus is an endangered species AR
walrus is an endangered species and that perhaps more focus
and that perhaps more focus il
and that perhaps more focus AT TR )
and that perhaps more focus should have been put on
should have been put on il
should have been put on figuring out
should have been put on AL LR
should have been put on figuring out how to move the
figuring out how to move the eIy
O LG RIN R G R Gl Y
O LG RIN R G R Gl VR
O LG RIN R G R Gl walrus away or perhaps
figuring out how to move the walrus away or perhaps focusing
walrus away or perhaps focusing on how
walrus away or perhaps focusing R R
walrus away or perhaps focusing on how to change
walrus away or perhaps focusing RO E L R T
on how to change human behaviour,
on how to change human N ENA L V2
on how to change human behaviour, how to put more
behaviour, how to put more steps
behaviour, how to put more SR
behaviour, how to put more steps in place
behaviour, how to put more S RN GRS
behaviour, how to put more steps in place for crowd
steps in place for crowd control.
steps in place for crowd e laiage MR a1 4
steps in place for crowd el aee IR A E )
DL IR G director-general
Ll I T director-general of the
director-general of the e
director-general of the fisheries has
director-general of the TR LR ]
director-general of the fisheries has been saying as
fisheries has been saying as 11
fisheries has been saying as VG
fisheries has been saying as SR RisY
fisheries has been saying as WS IR A
fisheries has been saying as they did try to figure out how
they did try to figure out how to
they did try to figure out how ety
they did try to figure out how eI
they did try to figure out how et R R E e
they did try to figure out how eI R R L TR T
they did try to figure out how RO O R U
to move the walrus but they I GIR &I
to move the walrus but they couldn’t figure out
to move the walrus but they couldn’t figure out how
to move the walrus but they couldn’t figure out how to
te move the walrus but they couldn’t figure out how to do
couldn’t figure out how to do that in a way that would be
that in a way that would be )
that in a way that would be I Re
that in a way that would be R A e sl
that in a way that would be R e R
that in a way that would be safe for Freire and that in
that in a way that would be R e R AR
safe for Freire and that in the il
safe for Freire and that in the end they had to prioritise
end they had to prioritise human safety versus animal
human safety versus animal welfare, and in
human safety versus animal NI R R
human safety versus animal welfare, and in the end
human safety versus animal IR R R G R R U
welfare, and in the end they e EnIE
welfare, and in the end they e R a3t s
welfare, and in the end they took this decision and
welfare, and in the end they S AL R U
welfare, and in the end they took this decision and they say
took this decision and they say this was a
took this decision and they say )[R TR
took this decision and they say this was a way to put her down
this was a way to put her down 3
this was a way to put her down in what
this was a way to put her down LR LR
this was a way to put her down in what they called a humane
in what they called a humane "
OK, we will
0 GRTTR T R EE
OK, we will leave it there. T4
OK, we will leave it there. Thank you
OK, we will leave it there. =S TR s
OK, we will leave it there. Thank you very much.
LR
And you can
LN R TTN o I
And you can get a lot more on )
And you can get a lot more on N
And you can get a lot more on the BBC News
And you can get a lot more on R P R e )
And you can get a lot more on the BBC News website as
And you can get a lot more on WA TR R A
And you can get a lot more on WA T R N LT
the BBC News website as well as Y
the BBC News website as well as R o M e 1e
the BBC News website as well as a special report on
the BBC News website as well as RN e N I R U
a special report on the one-year
a special report on the NI
a special report on the N IR AU
a special report on the one-year of the Taliban
one-year of the Taliban e e
one-year of the Taliban e a
one-year of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.
You can reach me on Twitter - I R T | Rl
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
It’s one year since the Taliban swept into Kabul
and retook control of Afghanistan,
prompting scenes of chaos, as people tried to flee.
One year on, life for women and girls in particular
is very different, with harsh rules,
including restrictions on education and employment.
The agent of the author, Sir Salman Rushdie,
who Is in a US hospital following a stabbing attack,
has said he is on the road to recovery but it will be long.
The author’s son said R RN R CEL
sense of humour remained intact.
Dozens of people have died at a church
in the Egyptian city of Giza after a fire broke out,
causing a stampede.
The authorities say at least 41 people were killed,
many of them children.
They blamed the blaze on an electrical fault
in the air conditioning system.
Now on BBC News, S OG R R GRS
In 2010, the Himalayan nation of Nepal
was one of 13 countries to commit to doubling
its wild tiger populations by 2022.
Nepal is now the only country to have achieved that goal.
Tigers are making a remarkable comeback here in Nepal.
Their numbers more than doubling in the last ten years.
Tigers are the majestic creatures.
Being assigned in the protection duties,
t’s an henour, you know, it’s a privilege.
It’s a small victory in a battle to bring them back
It is definitely something R R
It does not come a3
The common area that the tiger and prey species and humanity
NIRRT R o) GRS A VAN R G 8
R R O R R W E in tiger attacks on humans.
NIy R I and more number of people,
definitely there is going to be conflict.
So, it is going to be a challenging job for us to,
you know, maintain peace between two species.
Private Pinky Adhikari has been newly stationed
at Bardiya National Park in western Nepal.
Her job here is to protect the park’s endangered
elephants, rhinos and tigers.
After morning exercise, R R R T R g
We’ve been given rare access to go with them.
One of the key factors of Nepal’s success has been
N DT T ) against poaching
and that’s involved the military.
Armed units like this one patrol across the park daily.
Her unit’s captain is Ayush Jung Bahadur Rana.
Tigers are the majestic creatures.
There are two types of feeling when you come in head
toc head with them.
It is "Oh my God, what a majestic creature is that!"
And the other feeling RO W AT AT Rk
So, that’s the type of feeling you get when you encounter
when you encounter a tiger.
So, being assigned in the protection duties,
it’s an honour.
It’s a privilege to be part of something that is really
big, you know.
So, what are you looking for on this patrol?
I mean, like, we’re looking for any illegal encroachment
of people or domestic animals.
These are the basic things that we look at
DO RN R I E (8
Do you have the power to shoot?
Only - only if we have any life-threatening encounters
with the wild animals or it is the poachers.
But that is the last resort.
That is the last thing we would want to do.
Just outside the National Park, Indigenous leader Bhadai Tharu
patrols his community forest.
It’s part of a key corridor that allows tigers to move
between protected areas in Nepal
and neighbouring India.
This used to be a grazing area for cattle but was reforested
by Bhadal’s community.
He was cutting grass N MR R e AR TS
100 other people when a tiger attacked.
He lost his left eye.
LR S R TRV to be a royal hunting ground.
NEWSREEL: This is a land whose people have always lived under
the menace of marauding tigers.
When Queen Elizabeth visited the country in 1961,
she took part in a tiger hunt.
NEWSREEL: And, yes, there was a tiger.
King Mahendra had fulfilled a time honoured obligation
of a host in Nepal and provided OGN N IR ]
a tiger to shoot.
IR G RV V= I BRGNS
The next prey was a rhino.
The rhino was also killed.
Hunting, poaching, and habitat loss has pushed
tigers towards extinction.
And that was the end NN G SR EIR
Since the beginning of the 20th century, their numbers globally
have dropped by more than 95%.
But here in Nepal QIR
of a remarkable recovery.
The rangers are taking part in a nationwide tiger census.
Over 800 camera pairs have been hidden across the park.
You just installed this camera.
How long will you keep it here for?
So you are going to be having over 1,000 hours
of footage look at?
And when you’re analysing the footage, how do you make
sure that your count is accurate?
With fewer than 4,000 wild tigers left in the world,
every tiger counts.
The census results show that tiger numbers here in Nepal
have more than doubled in the last ten years.
The area where tigers were once hunted is now being managed
SR I RG] e R ety
This grassland is cut N le 0la1d
and there’s man-made waterholes here.
IR Lol R TT the tigers’ main prey.
Before this area became L R R S G E G
was a village here.
Bishnu Shrestra TR RS AL
QIO EE GG EIN 1
It’s a better environment for tigers.
Yes, yes.
LR d RIS
And you’re also looking IR E LI -
increasing water sources across the national park.
Yes.
Until now we have created 180 water ponds here.
50 water pond is with solar.
Is there a chance that with these interventions that
you’re pushing the tiger population beyond what’s
sustainable for the size of the park?
No.
We are creating many water pond and grassland,
particularly for the prey species and the tiger.
We have sufficient space and prey density in the park,
50 we are managing the tigers in a sustainable way.
That evening we see signs of the return of the tiger
close to where we’re sleeping.
Just behind our camp, fresh tiger footprints have
MR ELR R G R -e- ]
We think they are from an adult female tiger -
we saw a lot of deer last night on the grassland
and there’s water here,
so the footprints in the sand here lead
all the way to the water.
This camp is run by conservationist Manoj Gautam.
It is definitely something R R
It does not come R
And it has been costing O R L
and so much more.
The common area that the tigers and prey species and humanity
S EI TR R ]y &
We head out inte the villages
just outside the park’s boundaries,
into the communities that live with the tigers.
Here in these villages,
the lives of humans and tigers are intertwined.
Some in the community live off QR HU R TS A8
built around the park.
Others have to take the risk of entering the jungle
Samjhana lost her mother-in-law in a tiger attack last year.
She was deep inside the national park, cutting
grass for their cow.
Samjhana heard the story from those who were there.
The government pays around US$8,000 in compensation
to tiger victims’ families.
But because Samjhana’s T R LR s
the national park, she has been told she doesn’t
qualify for it.
She is still fighting for some kind of financial help to put
towards her boys’ education.
This is the tiger that is S LR N 4GRS,
mother-in-law and two other people.
Now behind bars in Kathmandu zoo.
Right now the national park is actively trying to increase
the tiger population, how do you feel about that?
Protests broke out in June after a leopard attacked
villagers, a week after a woman IR LR R
The community demanding authorities do more
to protect them.
The protests turned viclent.
Police opened fire on the crowd, killing
an 18-year-old girl and injuring others,
sparking further outrage.
The community lives in terror.
So, there Is a price OEIR QR TR E L 1
for the world to rejoice with the news that Nepal has
successfully doubled its tiger numbers.
When a tiger kills a human, authorities track them down
and take them captive.
16 people have been killed R EIAL R
One of the tigers now in captivity is being held
behind the chief B E il
This tiger killed one human in the last year in the Rajipur
area, so we captured and kept in this tiger holding cage.
How do you know it’s GRS
We closely monitor through camera in the incident area,
after identification, N A LR LAl
in holding cage.
Do you do that because there is pressure from the community?
Or is there a real threat that once a tiger has killed
a human, that they will attack again?
There is a chance to attack the human again, by the tiger,
if the tiger killed one person previously.
So, this tiger has been here for one year now,
you can see it’s not happy about being in captivity.
What is the long-term plan for this tiger?
We have ordered a satellite collar for this tiger.
After consultation with our department we will do something
regarding his release.
Bhadai Tharu calls a meeting of his community protection
This is a generation that will have to navigate
the return of the tigers.
Susila, who Is also part of the community protection
unit, runs this after-school class.
Susila also worked as a tour guide in the National Park.
You have to see tigers in the wild to fully appreciate
them, she says.
So, we head back into the park together.
I’m looking for tiger and leopard, this is the track
O F T QISR oy 1 to the river to drink.
And sometimes we get e
Susila takes us to a RGO
And after hours of waiting, a tiger suddenly appears.
It is magnificent to see a male tiger walking along here,
one of over 100 tigers now here in Bardiya National Park,
part of a growing tiger population here in Nepal.
It is definitely something to be celebrated, because as we
know everywhere around the world, the conservation
stories that we often get to read are loudly depressing,
and the number of species we are losing on a daily basis,
the habitat loss IR R A G A L) 2
And Nepal brings a freshness to the arena of conservation.
They have participated in this, they have rejoiced
in the success as well, and they are paying
with their lives and terror, and that | think needs
to be acknowledged more.
Because if it is not acknowledged, the world cannot
come together to find FR AR R E
Despite what happened to her mother-in-law,
Samjhana continues to risk entering the national park.
For the soldiers, the challenge is to keep the peace.
We are the mediators, so it’s our duty to bring peace
between two species.
And so it’s the both - | would say the protection
of the tiger is our responsibility, but at the same
time protection of civilians Is also our main responsibility.
Let’s take a look at the weather
Let’s take a look at the Y R e
Let’s take a look at the S R e
Let’s take a look at the weather for the week
Let’s take a look at the N GER N R U A CUEEF
Let’s take a look at the N U RR U C I E Pl
weather for the week ahead, it T
weather for the week ahead, it e
weather for the week ahead, it has all changed, with a warning
has all changed, with a warning e
has all changed, with a warning TR e 1]
has all changed, with a warning TRt i
has all changed, with a warning for extreme heat expires,
(AT I T D Tl I 1] temperatures will come
for extreme heat expires, temperatures will come down, it
temperatures will come down, it il
temperatures will come down, it IR
temperatures will come down, it will feel cooler, back down to
will feel cooler, back down to )
will feel cooler, back down to R R T
will feel cooler, back down to the seasonal average and there
the seasonal average and there il
the seasonal average and there IR
the seasonal average and there will be some
the seasonal average and there IR R R e i)
the seasonal average and there will be some welcome rain in
will be some welcome rain in )
will be some welcome rain in iR aet]
will be some welcome rain in R gt R
will be some welcome rain in the form of thunderstorms but
the form of thunderstorms but with high rainfall totals there
with high rainfall totals there i
with high rainfall totals there e GE
with high rainfall totals there G 1]
with high rainfall totals there could be some localised surface
could be some localised surface water flooding because the
water flooding because the IO
water flooding because the TS
water flooding because the ground is so hard and dry. The
ground is so hard and dry. The TGN
ground is so hard and dry. The ML LEIEHICR G
ground is so hard and dry. The high pressure that kept us hot
high pressure that kept us hot and dry
high pressure that kept us hot L
high pressure that kept us hot and dry as moving eastwards,
and dry as moving eastwards, E{LGYL ]
and dry as moving eastwards, allowing low pressure to shower
allowing low pressure to shower ey
allowing low pressure to shower its hand from the south, this
its hand from the south, this il
its hand from the south, this will help to keep off those
will help to keep off those thunderstorms --
will help to keep off those thundersterms -- spark
will help to keep off those thunderstorms -- spark off. And
thunderstorms -- spark off. And that
thunderstorms -- spark off. And G A
thunderstorms -- spark off. And R AR
thunderstorms -- spark off. And A AR eI- N s
thunderstorms -- spark off. And AR R IR I EN
thunderstorms -- spark off. And that is true on Monday morning
that is true on Monday morning and
that is true on Monday morning IR e
that is true on Monday morning NI a0 e a ]
that is true on Monday morning B e e sl
that is true on Monday morning G S R A e
and another band of showers moving eastwards across Wales
moving eastwards across Wales as
moving eastwards across Wales RN
moving eastwards across Wales as well. Most of the rest of
moving eastwards across Wales TR I R A R A
as well. Most of the rest of us i
as well. Most of the rest of us LY
as well. Most of the rest of us could be dry on Monday morning
could be dry on Monday morning with
could be dry on Monday morning ORI
could be dry on Monday morning LRI (N
could be dry on Monday morning with sunny spells, cloudy,
with sunny spells, cloudy, i d
with sunny spells, cloudy, rather humid feeling. Watch out
rather humid feeling. Watch out e
rather humid feeling. Watch out TR )
rather humid feeling. Watch out for those thunderstorms,
rather humid feeling. Watch out R G GGG G R G
for those thunderstorms, they feTI0!
for those thunderstorms, they could pop
for those thunderstorms, they (T G ]
for those thunderstorms, they could pop up anywhere through
could pop up anywhere through )
could pop up anywhere through the afternocon but
could pop up anywhere through the afternoon but they will be
the afternoon but they will be =1
the afternoon but they will be fairly hit
N CIGTT R G R fairly hit and
N CIGTT R G R E AL R
N CIGTT R G R AL R R
N CIGTT R G R fairly hit and miss, the heat
fairly hit and miss, the heat still hands on, temperatures in
still hands on, temperatures in )
still hands on, temperatures in QAT
still hands on, temperatures in QAL PV
still hands on, temperatures in the high 20s, maybe 30 Celsius
the high 20s, maybe 30 Celsius e
the high 20s, maybe 30 Celsius T
the high 20s, maybe 30 Celsius I - OIGIT
the high 20s, maybe 30 Celsius for some. Overnight on Monday
for some. Overnight on Monday )
for some. Overnight on Monday into Tuesday
for some. Overnight on Monday NGRSVl
for some. Overnight on Monday inte Tuesday it is
for some. Overnight on Monday into Tuesday it is warm, muggy
into Tuesday it is warm, muggy and
into Tuesday it is warm, muggy Y Biale et e et ol
into Tuesday it is warm, muggy and uncomfortable for
into Tuesday It is warm, muggy and uncomfortable for sleeping,
and uncomfortable for sleeping, plenty
and uncomfortable for sleeping, A
and uncomfortable for sleeping, plenty of rain
and uncomfortable for sleeping, VARG L]
and uncomfortable for sleeping, plenty of rain around and areas
plenty of rain around and areas of cloud too,
plenty of rain around and areas MR CULRC TR G
plenty of rain around and areas of cloud too, this is how
plenty of rain around and areas R R TR G e R )
of cloud too, this is how the start
of cloud too, this is how the Eled
of cloud too, this is how the e )
of cloud too, this is how the start of the day
of cloud too, this is how the SRR G EVA ]
of cloud too, this is how the start of the day on Tuesday,
start of the day on Tuesday, still
start of the day on Tuesday, still on a warm note so
still on a warm note so temperatures
still on a warm note so IO
still on a warm note so NG ORI R A
still on a warm note so NSO R C SR U
still on a warm note so temperatures no lower than the
temperatures no lower than the e
temperatures no lower than the mid-teens in Celsius for many.
mid-teens in Celsius for many. I
mid-teens in Celsius for many. And then on Tuesday the low
And then on Tuesday the low N
And then on Tuesday the low N
And then on Tuesday the low pressure is certainly with us,
pressure is certainly with us, this
pressure is certainly with us, G
pressure Is certainly with us, this is where it will be
this is where it will be approximately.
this is where it will be AU AR L
IRV LT AL T approximately. These areas of
approximately. These areas of rain
approximately. These areas of I
approximately. These areas of EIEICLG
approximately. These areas of rain are likely to change
approximately. These areas of I ARG EL R
rain are likely to change so )
rain are likely to change so W sl G
rain are likely to change so the details on
rain are likely to change so WSS R R
rain are likely to change so the details on this subject to
the details on this subject to I
the details on this subject to quite a lot of change but some
guite a lot of change but some A
quite a lot of change but some heavy, persistent rain probably
heavy, persistent rain probably e
heavy, persistent rain probably for much
heavy, persistent rain probably Tt (e Re
heavy, persistent rain probably for much of Scotland on
for much of Scotland on Tuesday, moving down into
Tuesday, moving down into T e a]
Tuesday, moving down into northern England, this band of
northern England, this band of QI8
northern England, this band of QLG AL
northern England, this band of thundery rain will gradually
thundery rain will gradually |
thundery rain will gradually messed southwards and
messed southwards and I Ll LR
messed southwards and eastwards. Look
messed southwards and NI LG e &1 4
messed southwards and NI LG R
eastwards. Look at the temperature
eastwards. Look at the D CLOGCR G
eastwards. Look at the U AR G
eastwards. Look at the NIRRT
temperature contrast, the heat hangs on towards the south and
hangs on towards the south and LI
hangs on towards the south and east, maybe
hangs on towards the south and I TV YT
hangs on towards the south and east, maybe 27 across East
east, maybe 27 across East L[]
east, maybe 27 across East Anglia but a lot cooler across
Anglia but a lot cooler across )
Anglia but a lot cooler across the North and
Anglia but a lot cooler across R e R
Anglia but a lot cooler across N U ERERG R
Anglia but a lot cooler across the North and the west. And
the North and the west. And this
the North and the west. And G
the North and the west. And this is where that band of
this is where that band of QI8
this is where that band of QLG AL
this is where that band of thundery rain is
this is where that band of QLG AU
this is where that band of thundery rain is likely to be
thundery rain is likely to be on Wednesday, a lot further
on Wednesday, a lot further i)
on Wednesday, a lot further NG ]
on Wednesday, a lot further south and east so some wet
south and east so some wet weather
south and east so some wet N GG
south and east so some wet weather here, there
south and east so some wet Y G TR )
weather here, there are Y-
weather here, there are LR e
weather here, there are localised weather warnings in
localised weather warnings in place, more thunderstorms of
place, more thunderstorms of e
place, more thunderstorms of course mostly
place, more thunderstorms of T RS L
place, more thunderstorms of course mostly acress southern
course mostly across southern England,
course mostly acress southern England, down through south
England, down through south Wales
England, down through south YN ]
England, down through south T YR R
England, down through south Y R - R ld
England, down through south N YR MR RN R
Wales on the far south-west whereas
Wales on the far south-west Y YN R T le s d
Wales on the far south-west whereas further north it
Wales on the far south-west T Y IR i e R A
whereas further north it is probably
whereas further north it is LY=L AU (Y
whereas further north it is probably mostly dry with
whereas further north it is L AU AR A O E L Chls
probably mostly dry with plenty of cloud
probably mostly dry with plenty eI e 0la s ]
probably mostly dry with plenty of cloud around and
of cloud around and temperatures
of cloud areund and U CLOLR S
of cloud around and temperatures for all have now
temperatures for all have now e
temperatures for all have now iR e d
temperatures for all have now returned back down to where
returned back down to where they
returned back down to where QA1)
returned back down to where QA GRS
returned back down to where QA G R
returned back down to where they should be at this time
returned back down to where QAT GRS QIR AR
they should be at this time of Crld
they should be at this time of year as we head through the
year as we head through the Ty
year as we head through the rest of the working week we
rest of the working week we start to
rest of the working week we AR
rest of the working week we start to see North Atlantic
rest of the working week we AR N [ e s W Sa T a T 11s
start to see North Atlantic air )
start to see North Atlantic air move through, back to
move through, back to ey
move through, back to N |
move through, back to A R )
move through, back to A M TN R R
westerlies and these weather ey
westerlies and these weather R
westerlies and these weather e R R
westerlies and these weather L R R ("R ()
westerlies and these weather fronts will try to push and
westerlies and these weather NN R R RTINS
fronts will try to push and as |l
fronts will try to push and as T
fronts will try to push and as N LR e
fronts will try to push and as N RN e e
fronts will try to push and as well so weather fronts down
well so weather fronts down LI R )
well so weather fronts down towards the north-west of
towards the north-west of ol IR
towards the north-west of Scotland, outbreaks of rain
Scotland, outbreaks of rain 7YY
Scotland, outbreaks of rain RGN
Scotland, outbreaks of rain here throughout the day on
here throughout the day on Thursday, also Western Wales
Thursday, also Western Wales and Northern
Thursday, also Western Wales B et R Bl )
Thursday, also Western Wales and Northern Ireland too,
and Northern Ireland too, e
and Northern Ireland too, I ]
and Northern Ireland too, cloudier here and quite breezy.
cloudier here and quite breezy. To further south and east the
To further south and east the warmer
To further south and east the e i
To further south and east the e A
To further south and east the A UG
To further south and east the A S A
To further south and east the R U C AR
To further south and east the warmer it is likely to be and
warmer it is Likely to be and L
warmer it is likely to be and in any sunshine temperatures
in any sunshine temperatures could
in any sunshine temperatures TR
in any sunshine temperatures could be higher than this and
could be higher than this and likely
could be higher than this and AN
could be higher than this and QRIS
could be higher than this and likely to stay dry. Maybe not
likely to stay dry. Maybe not W] Y-8
likely to stay dry. Maybe not W QR (8
likely to stay dry. Maybe not s AL
likely to stay dry. Maybe not completely dry for the rest of
completely dry for the rest of )
completely dry for the rest of R O
completely dry for the rest of the week, various weather
the week, various weather ey
the week, various weather fronts to try to move through
UL R R G R (R TR Ty but
UL R R G R (R TR Ty IS
fronts to try to move through but always wetted the further
but always wetted the further west you are with low pressure
west you are with low pressure centred towards
west you are with low pressure AR LG LR
west you are with low pressure centred towards the north and
centred towards the north and )
centred towards the north and R A
centred towards the north and the west End this is Friday
the west End this is Friday again, more likely to be dry
again, more likely to be dry LI R YA
again, more likely to be dry towards eastern areas. Now
towards eastern areas. Now temperatures are
towards eastern areas. Now N R 14
towards eastern areas. Now temperatures are back down
LRI GERE L O TR [ temperatures are back down to
temperatures are back down to )
temperatures are back down to QEENCC
temperatures are back down to the average, we
temperatures are back down to QNG R GG
temperatures are back down to the average, we are looking at
the average, we are looking at )
the average, we are looking at A
QNI LRV R UL [ ANV
QNI LRV R UL [ AN VIR
QNI LRV R UL [ the low 20s for much
QNI LRV R UL [ R Rt e R
the average, we are looking at the low 20s for much of England
the low 20s for much of England and Wales. The high teens for
and Wales. The high teens for much of Scotland and Northern
much of Scotland and Northern )
much of Scotland and Northern so temperatures
much of Scotland and Northern RGO
much of Scotland and Northern so temperatures have returned
so temperatures have returned to normal and
so temperatures have returned et e G e e
so temperatures have returned to normal and then on Friday we
to normal and then on Friday we Py
to normal and then on Friday we are expecting these weather
are expecting these weather ey
are expecting these weather fronts to push
are expecting these weather O R T R G
are expecting these weather fronts to push through, high
fronts to push through, high )
fronts to push through, high R
fronts to push through, high pressure is not too far away,
pressure is not too far away, just
pressure is not too far away, PR
pressure is not too far away, just down towards the south and
Just down towards the south and [
just down towards the south and G
just down towards the south and R A AT
just down towards the south and R AT AT
just down towards the south and G A AT AL &
just down towards the south and the west. If we look at Europe
the west. If we look at Europe )
the west. If we look at Europe N R
the west. If we look at Europe G R RN )
the west. If we look at Europe the heaters easing their into
the heaters easing their into T4
the heaters easing their into TR e
the heaters easing their into TR a s
the heaters easing their into TR AN
the heaters easing their into next week but a good start to
next week but a good start to G
next week but a good start to build back again and this area
build back again and this area of
build back again and this area el
build back again and this area LI
build back again and this area of high pressure could drag on
of high pressure could drag on e
of high pressure could drag on our way once more
of high pressure could drag on R AR U IR
of high pressure could drag on our way once more so we may not
our way once more so we may not Ty
our way once more so we may not YR )
our way once more so we may not N R R
our way once more so we may not S R NI
our way once more so we may not have the last of the
our way once more so we may not N R R R
our way once more so we may not A R N R R R
have the last of the heat for )
have the last of the heat for Mg
have the last of the heat for the summer just
have the last of the heat for GRS S
You’re watching BBC News.
Our top stories:
A year on from the Taliban retaking control
of Afghanistan, a special report on the women and girls
who’ve been denied LA S e
and their childhoods.
If | finish this school, | start university,
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from the school.
Sir Salman Rushdie’s family say he’s on the road
to recovery but has life-changing injuries,
as more details emerge about the man charged
More than 40 worshippers die at a church in Egypt,
after a fire rips through the building during mass.
And, queen of the mountains -
the Norwegian climber who’s on the verge of setting
a very special record.
LRCISR AT
A very warm welcome to the programme.
It’s now Monday in Afghanistan, LR I )
the Taliban swept back into the Afghan capital, Kabul,
marking their takeover of the country
and sparking scenes like these at the airport -
thousands trying to leave in fear of what could Lie ahead.
One year on, life for women and girls in particular
is very different, with harsh rules,
including restrictions on education and employment.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet,
who was in Kabul during the Taliban takeover,
LR G T =R R this special report.
I RuEh R e
Afghanistan is a conservative country,
by the ultraconservative Taliban.
Spaces which had R R Rl
RN A AR LT
We met three generations of women whose lives speak
loudly about their world.
Many are afraid.
LS A LR RTE T (] identified.
This woman used to be FRA NI il
in the finance ministry.
Last year the Taliban told her, stay at home.
A man would take her job.
TRANSLATION: | worked for more than 17 years
in the finance ministry.
It was difficult with juggling family and work,
but | went to university and got my masters degree.
We spent so much R O S
Now we are back to zero.
Everything is finished.
More than 60 female L B e 20
have banded together.
LS A E I R T [ of the exchanges
on their messaging group:
Women haven’t completely disappeared from the streets
or ministries, like health, education, security.
L TR o k[ only for women.
This market has just reopened in the western city of Herat.
This was the first day.
Women, a bit nervous.
Shops, still empty.
LR ¥ ‘'
This is your shop? Today it’s closed.
Oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old Suhaila is excited.
She’s reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
But she should be in her last year of school.
Suhaila was the top student in her class.
But the Taliban shut U A R N
Really, | am very sad.
If | finish this school, EXE LI 13
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from school.
Was it hard for you? No school, ne shep.
| think it’s not for me,
and for all of the girls of Afghanistan,
it’s @ sad memory...
did miss school.
It’s hard here, too, IV N
in the Central Highlands.
This is one of Afghanistan’s poorest provinces.
Since the Taliban took WU
And there’s still no aid to their government.
For the destitute and desperate,
agonising choices.
This woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
She’s only 6 years old.
TRANSLATION: She’s toe young.
But | give her away IR N N Rt
So my other children don’t die of hunger.
It’s still very hard
but now she can eat MOl SanE Ele
| had no other option R NV
Child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in Afghanistan,
but not this young.
We’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
TRANSLATION: Her in-laws told me
they will take care of her like their own child
because she’s so young.
They told me, don’t worry.
What mother wouldn’t worry?
What child wouldn’t weep?
A new generation takes shape in a new Afghanistan.
The Taliban say the rights of boys and girls within Islam
will be respected.
But one year on, there I UL R G e
who were learning to lead, RS iR E I i R
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Kabul.
The son of Sir Salman Rushdie says
his father suffered life-changing injuries
In a knife attack on Friday,
but that his feisty and defiant sense of humour
remains intact.
The author has been taken off a ventilator,
after being stabbed at an event in New York State.
The govenor of New York says they will always stand up
for freedom of thought.
Our correspondent Nomia Igbal has the latest.
Inside the hospital, I E R IR i
But a glimmer of hope for his family,
as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
In a statement, his son, R IO DI PRI M
Zafar also praised the audience members
at the literary event on Friday where his father was stabbed.
He said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
Salman Rushdie’s agent told us
he is on the long road to recovery.
The writer suffered RTINS
He faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old American suspect Hadi Matar has already appeared
in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of
attempted murder and attempted assault.
Prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from New Jersey
to the event here in Chautauqua,
in Western New York.
They say he bought a ticket, NS GV
allowing him to attend the talk Mr Rushdie was due to give.
For decades, Salman Rushdie went into hiding
E TR Tl The Satanic Verses, led to Iran
Issuing a fatwa in 1989.
Many Muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
It is reported that police think Hadi Matar may
have had sympathies for the Iranian regime,
but an official motive has A TR e
Earlier, New York’s state governor
spoke outside the institution where the stabbing happened.
New York State will always stand up
to protect freedom of expression,
freedom of speech,
and we condemn the cowardly e R NIERE IR
And we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate
the sanctity of a place like Chautaugua.
Questions are being EH O R
there were not tougher checks RGNS E A U
given the huge amount RGN R AT I
had faced for decades.
Nomia Igbal, BBC News.
The government in Egypt says at least 40 people
have died, many of them children,
in a fire at a church where thousands of people
had gathered for Sunday worship.
Dozens of others were injured.
It’s reported an electrical fire broke out
at the Coptic church in Giza,
IR GRS of the capital Cairo.
Our correspondent Sally Nabil sent this report
RG]
A Sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
Behind these windows,
Egyptian Christian worshippers died.
The Abu Sifin church AR o )
busy neighbourhoed in Giza.
The fire killed dozens, including many children.
People rushed into the building
trying to save as many ] N
This woman lost her sister-in-law.
TRANSLATION: She had five children.
Three daughters, who are three, RN R U e N
and two boys.
My heart is on fire for all these victims.
The people I’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
They want to know exactly how and why their loved ones died.
There will be questions too for the church itself
and for the emergency services.
Initial reports suggest R R LR
by an electrical fault.
People here told us QR R L L
and the church LR ER LI g
When the electricity was turned on again,
there was an overload.
LU IR0 Fire was coming out
of the air-cenditioning
and then spread to the rest RGNt lesi P
It was on the third and fourth floors.
Many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
A major investigation is now under way.
Inspectors from the public O R 1)
already checked the scene.
There was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives
behind this incident, so far.
But the Christian community here say they’ve had enough.
Many of their churches have been targeted
AT ET I RN R S T
Sally Nabil, BBC News, Cairo.
To North Korea now, where state media is reporting
that he country’s leader has e N LR
from Russian President Vladimir Putin
seeking to establish closer TR RN R e ed
Scott Snyder who’s a Senior Fellow for Korea Studies
at the Council on Foreign Relations said President Putin
could be seeking to use e Gl R E L T
of Ukraine that Russian T e T R
I think it represents a possible convergence
of interests between MAEE R et B ]
Last week, the Russian ambassador to North Korea
suggested that North Korean e Y LR e T s B R !
in doing reconstruction work in the breakaway provinces
in the Ukraine,
and North Korea had R EL R S
of recognising these breakaway provinces.
And so, what it looks like is the possibility
that there could be some kind of some kind of support
by North Korea in the form of labour in these areas,
probably in return for substantial cash contributions
to the flailing North Korean economy.
Scott Snyder, from the Council on Foreign Relations.
Stay with us on BBC News - B R N
Putting the cat out, or not -
the German town T N A N - Rt a
Washington, the world’s most political city,
is today assessing the political health
of the world’s most powerful man.
LULLL RN have a relationship
with Ms Lewinsky that was not appropriate.
In fact, it was wrong.
In Seuth Africa, 97 people have been killed today,
in one of the worst days SR
between rival Black groups.
Over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
MAN: Czechoslovakia R R
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
Russia is observing a national day of mourning
IR QTR ET ) gl (6 N IR Rl RN (el
We are all with them now, within our hearts.
The Pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more
than 2.5 million people R R Al o
"Stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"Well, well,” joked the Pope,
"so, you want me I el L YA
This is BBC News, the main story this hour:
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan, its women and girls are still being
denied education and employment.
The son of author Sir Salman Rushdie says his injuries
are life changing, but that his defiant sense of humour remains
intact, after he was stabbed.
Many of us have been through lockdowns in recent
years - but in the German town Walldorf, it’s cats who’ve been
on a curfew.
But they have, in the last few hours, legally been allowed
to leave their homes for R R IR e 4
Authorities there introduced a cat-lockdown in May,
banning them from leaving the house without a lead
to stop them injuring or killing an endangered bird
species.
But the lockdowns will occur reqularly and if owners don’t
follow the rules, they’ll face MR RGeS LR RS
thousands of euros.
Jessi Morgan is CEO of Predator Free New Zealand
I -
To see you, what do you make of vty
To see you, what do you make of e
To see you, what do you make of what is in Germany? It’s a
To see you, what do you make of RN E I AR S R 8 2
what Is in Germany? It’s a very NG
what is in Germany? It’s a very interesting move
what is in Germany? It’s a very NG RN
what is in Germany? It’s a very NG R A G
interesting move by the government there. Cats are
LGN R G IR LR WY
government there. Cats are WL LIRS Y
government there. Cats are highly skilled hunters and
highly skilled hunters and great predators around the
great predators around the country, around the world,
country, around the world, 1884
country, around the world, L
country, around the world, SRR LI
country, around the world, RN LI GE
country, around the world, NN L LR R
sorry and depending on where they
sorry and depending on where GG
sorry and depending on where they are located, they could do
they are located, they could do )
they are located, they could do severe damage
they are located, they could do XA EI B R
they are located, they could do XA DR G
severe damage to native LR
severe damage to native TGN
severe damage to native 10 G DR
severe damage to native GG DR RS
severe damage to native GG DR EVEE]
severe damage to native wildlife. Do you have a problem
wildlife. Do you have a problem with cats
wildlife. Do you have a problem R R )
wildlife. Do you have a problem with cats where you
wildlife. Do you have a problem N R Y R 1)
wildlife. Do you have a problem N R RN CR ]
wildlife. Do you have a problem with cats where you are in New
with cats where you are in New Zealand? Yes, in New Zealand we
Zealand? Yes, in New Zealand we have
Zealand? Yes, in New Zealand we YWY
Zealand? Yes, in New Zealand we R
Zealand? Yes, in New Zealand we LY R
Zealand? Yes, in New Zealand we have a lot of flightless birds
have a lot of flightless birds and
have a lot of flightless birds IR
have a lot of flightless birds and birds that nest on the
and birds that nest on the IO
and birds that nest on the ground and so that evolved in
ground and so that evolved in New Zealand without
ground and so that evolved in N LE I EL LR G T )
New Zealand without any introduced
New Zealand without any intreduced mammalian
New Zealand without any introduced mammalian predators,
introduced mammalian predators, )
introduced mammalian predators, ey
introduced mammalian predators, R 0]
introduced mammalian predators, R ]
introduced mammalian predators, so cats are a huge problem
introduced mammalian predators, R R R R I
so cats are a huge problem here e
so cats are a huge problem here g
so cats are a huge problem here T R
so cats are a huge problem here R E R e
so cats are a huge problem here for our native species who are
for our native species who are basically defenceless against
basically defenceless against =
basically defenceless against cat. So cats
basically defenceless against N )
basically defenceless against S N e Nl
basically defenceless against R R e N )
basically defenceless against cat. So cats are not native to
cat. So cats are not native to where
cat. So cats are not native to R
cat. So cats are not native to TR TI 10
cat. So cats are not native to RV TETCR)]
cat. So cats are not native to where you are in New Zealand
where you are in New Zealand 4
where you are in New Zealand I
where you are in New Zealand T O (X2 RN L ol -
where you are in New Zealand but devil’s advocate, they are
but devil’s advocate, they are i)
but devil’s advocate, they are native across Europe. Surely
native across Europe. Surely this
native across Europe. Surely G
native across Europe. Surely QIR EWIGIG
native across Europe. Surely this is just wildlife doing its
this is just wildlife doing its thing? Yeah,
this is just wildlife doing its QIR AR
this is just wildlife doing its thing? Yeah, well these birds,
thing? Yeah, well these birds, by my understanding, these
by my understanding, these D
by my understanding, these ORI
by my understanding, these RGO EI )
by my understanding, these crested larks are highly
crested larks are highly endangered and down to a few
endangered and down to a few i
endangered and down to a few last breeding pairs, so I’m
last breeding pairs, so I’m guessing the local government
guessing the local government s
guessing the local government Rl
guessing the local government R
guessing the local government IR HLR N
guessing the local government IR R N LTI
guessing the local government is trying to do anything they
Is trying to do anything they can
Is trying to do anything they TR )
is trying to do anything they can to protect these birds
is trying to do anything they RN RO SR
can to protect these birds and reducing
can to protect these birds and L RO
can to protect these birds and reducing the roaming of
reducing the roaming of Il d
reducing the roaming of domestic cats is
reducing the roaming of NS R SRRV
domestic cats is really I s el
domestic cats is really Tyl g &l
domestic cats is really Iy el R GG
domestic cats is really important but they also
domestic cats is really I e A S G R S R
domestic cats is really e NS G T K
important but they also need a strategy
important but they also need a YOV )
important but they also need a OV B L
important but they also need a strateqy around stray cats and
strategy around stray cats and feral
strategy around stray cats and T e
strategy around stray cats and T R R ]
strategy around stray cats and TR RN )
strategy around stray cats and feral cat to ensure they
strategy around stray cats and G S R RN U S LG
ICEIN R G IR G TR Tl e
ICEIN R G IR G TR not being
feral cat to ensure they are not being created on by other
not being created on by other =l
not being created on by other |
not being created on by other R
not being created on by other I R
not being created on by other w: I O R R S ]
IR RO D I T
IR RO D I TRy
w: A RGN QISR RN
w: A RGN QISR TR R )
w: A RGN QISR TR R LAY
w: A RGN QISR TR 1 LA R ]
w: N RGN L QISR TR A R R
if the cats are native to the IR TR
if the cats are native to the area, because what is predating
area, because what is predating on
area, because what is predating AR )
area, because what is predating R
area, because what is predating on those cats, and
area, because what is predating RO R L R N T8
on those cats, and obviously )
on those cats, and obviously e
on those cats, and obviously )
on those cats, and obviously there is a high density of cats
there is a high density of cats with cats being introduced and
with cats being introduced and el
with cats being introduced and T ls |
with cats being introduced and s B - Ts|
with cats being introduced and owned and looked after at home
owned and looked after at home and potentially protected from
and potentially protected from those
and potentially protected from TR EL ]
and potentially protected from those predators so their
those predators so their ey
those predators so their numbers are probably out of
VDT T I LT whack
numbers are probably out of whack from what they
numbers are probably out of whack frem what they would
numbers are probably out of whack from what they would be
whack from what they would be naturally occurring in that
naturally occurring in that YR
naturally occurring in that R
naturally occurring in that YR
naturally occurring in that L ]
naturally occurring in that area. There is a bit of a
area. There Is a bit of a - lag 8
CIE RN R R O =g |
CIE RN R R O gt a4
area. There is a bit of a I B A1 1 Lo
area. There is a bit of a carrot and stick approach of
carrot and stick approach of fines
carrot and stick approach of |
carrot and stick approach of R R Gl
carrot and stick approach of fines and lockdowns, more the
fines and lockdowns, more the stick
fines and lockdowns, more the G
fines and lockdowns, more the RGN
fines and lockdowns, more the RN IR A
fines and lockdowns, more the NI R A s
fines and lockdowns, more the stick side of it but what
fines and lockdowns, more the N AR A R = s [ ]-
stick side of it but what does Y
stick side of it but what does ER L]
stick side of it but what does LR
stick side of it but what does a good cat owner look like?
a good cat owner look like? Responsible
a good cat owner look like? S CY 1
a good cat owner look like? Responsible cat ownership is
Responsible cat ownership is really important and not
really important and not letting
really important and not e R
really important and not Y R R ]
really important and not letting your cats roam is
letting your cats roam is actually
letting your cats roam is Ela G VD]
letting your cats roam is actually an important
R 1 R actually an important part of
actually an important part of [CE L
actually an important part of keeping your cat safe and
keeping your cat safe and QNN
keeping your cat safe and NN BRG]
keeping your cat safe and NN BRG RG]
keeping your cat safe and preventing them from getting
preventing them from getting run over or
preventing them from getting TR i Els ]
preventing them from getting run over or harmed by
preventing them from getting O R I U R A O s
run over or harmed by other things
run over or harmed by other QIR
run over or harmed by other QILERLRGTY
run over or harmed by other things in the environment. The
things in the environment. The e
things in the environment. The other things we recommend in
other things we recommend in New Zealand are D6 in your cat
New Zealand are D6 in your cat )
New Zealand are D6 in your cat e
New Zealand are D6 in your cat so it doesn’t add to
New Zealand are D6 in your cat N R R R ]
so It doesn’'t add to the e ]
so it doesn’t add to the unwanted population of
NI R LR R [) unwanted population of kittens
unwanted population of kittens and
unwanted population of kittens NI e et )
unwanted population of kittens and accurate shipping your cat
and accurate shipping your cat )
and accurate shipping your cat so that
and accurate shipping your cat R A
and accurate shipping your cat ARG A A S
and accurate shipping your cat so that if it is found
so that if it is found wandering it can be
RO E L AR (L L] wandering it can be returned
wandering it can be returned YA
wandering it can be returned safely. As owners when you take
safely. As owners when you take Y
safely. As owners when you take acat
safely. As owners when you take N s )
safely. As owners when you take R R
safely. As owners when you take R A R O IR
safely. As owners when you take a cat inte your home as an
a cat into your home as an Tyl achis
a cat inte your home as an Mg g =]
a cat inte your home as an M aEhi g =Rl
a cat inte your home as an e R RS
important companion it is really important that you have
really important that you have )
really important that you have T
really important that you have the means to keep your cats
the means to keep your cats Y a1
the means to keep your cats i
the means to keep your cats a1 0 s ]
the means to keep your cats home as much as possible and
the means to keep your cats O L CREL R
home as much as possible and | think
home as much as possible and | i QAL
home as much as possible and | GG E
home as much as possible and | think that is a change for
home as much as possible and | QIO AR L LR (Tl FI
think that is a change for many parts of
think that is a change for many (IR R R
think that is a change for many parts of the world
think that is a change for many [l R RO R R E G
think that is a change for many I R RO R U R MGG
parts of the world where we have
parts of the world where we YU
parts of the world where we YT
parts of the world where we Y RS e el 1
parts of the world where we have let our cats home in
parts of the world where we AN R R R
have let our cats home in the past
have let our cats home in the I A Yo T
have let our cats home in the L TR )
have let our cats home in the past because we were unaware of
past because we were unaware of )
past because we were unaware of the damage that they did to
the damage that they did to the LR
the damage that they did to the R RGN LR G F TS
the damage that they did to the native wildlife. OK, thanks for
native wildlife. OK, thanks for yEL b
native wildlife. OK, thanks for making the time for us,
making the time for us, EI b1
making the time for us, E LR
Now, let’s turn to an animal
Now, let’s turn to an animal you
Now, let’s turn te an animal you probably wouldn’t want
Now, let’s turn to an animal you probably wouldn’t want as a
you probably wouldn’t want as a pet,
you probably wouldn’t want as a (AL E e
For the first time in decades Florida’s Fish
and Wildlife Conservation Commission is to allow daytime
AT R (@I EL G
They say it’s to make the area safer.
Alligator hunting season starts on Monday and runs
Every year 10,000 hunters apply for 7,000 licenses in a lottery
style selection process.
It’s estimated there are 1.3 million alligators
in the state, but not NS U AL L
the change.
Earlier, | spoke to Pete Corradino, who is a wildlife
WG IR Ll of Everglades Day Safari.
| asked what the changes would mean.
Hunting is semething that has
been going on for quite a long time but what has changed now
is they are going to allow 24-hour hunting and what my
opposition to is the changes that are going to happen
R RG] take our tourists.
So Everglades Day Safari takes guests out on a air boat ride
and that is specifically R FLCR L)
Lake Trafford where there are thousands of alligators
and by opening up the hunting season
to daylight hours, it is going to put hunters and tourists
in conflict with each other and
potentially putting people in harms way,
so that is the situation we are looking at
starting tomorrow.
But the Fish and Wildlife Commission says 1.3
million alligators is simply too many, something has to be
done.
If that is their take on it, that is not really
what is going on.
We got 1.3 million alligators, maybe even more.
Historically we had probably 4 million alligators but over
the course of the 20th century, alligators were hunted nearly
They were put on the endangered species list and their
populatioen numbers have come back very well,
but what their basis R IETI8]
Issues, I’m not exactly sure.
There have been 30 fatalities in the last 75 years caused
by wild alligators.
L GEICER T LN S of seven, actually,
probably about 12-15 alligator attacks and this ranges
from alligators biting people when
they are swimming to people picking up alligators
NG sl B
So that is each year and that is not a lot,
so I’m not exactly sure why they
think doing this is going to make anything safer.
In fact by putting people out there with
guns hunting while you’ve got tourists on our boats
Is probably the most unsafe thing
you can do.
But officials also argue that playing for these
licenses means people paying for these licenses is bringing
money into the state.
Yeah, that is really N R A
It is not to manage the population, it is simply
I oL R purposes and to
make money for the state.
| want to tell you now N R R R e
highest mountains, also known as the ‘Super Peaks’,
Each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres,
more than 26,000 feet.
Climbing all 14 is a badge of honour
in the mountaineering community, and doing
so in record time is the biggest honour of them all.
Now a Norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just
that, as the BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Kristin Harila carries a heavy burden.
She has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain
in the world, but she can barely pause for a moment.
LRGN [ R e
We had like, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
The rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
But climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
Kristin only took up moeuntain climbing seven years ago,
but she is clearly a quick study.
She is now on course to complete one of the sport’s
most impressive achievements.
As everyone knows, Mount Everest is the world’s
tallest peak at 8849 metres.
There are 13 other mountains that come in at a height
above 8000 metres, and Kristin has climbed 11 of them.
Now she only has three more to complete the set
and she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
At the moment, Nepal’s Nirmal Purja holds the record,
doing so in six months and six days.
If Kristin beats his time she hopes it
will send quite a message.
ROl GEIE YIS like, people believe men
are more strong.
But in reality, the women are just as strong as the men
CICRN RO R T I R PR e TR bt N N S LR
Kristin has until November RIS A el
After a quick trip home to Norway, she will head
to Nepal and Tibet for the final phase.
The last super peaks I I
Now let’s take you to Mexico City where families
gathered at one of Mexico’s fastest growing artistics
parades since the pandemic.
lkaba Koyl has this report
Welcome to the parade where G
Welcome to the parade where LG LT ELS
Welcome to the parade where mythical animals coated in
mythical animals coated in WEYZilh]
mythical animals coated in dazzling bright colours dance
dazzling bright colours dance )
dazzling bright colours dance the day away. They are inspired
the day away. They are inspired WL
the day away. They are inspired by Mexican folklore. Circus
RN R LGl Py i
GRL DT B (LG RV e
GRL DT B (LG RV AR R
GRL DT B (LG RV iR iR
GRL DT B (LG RV iR a3
artists show off their skills on
artists show off their skills R L
artists show off their skills MR R Thds]
artists show off their skills on stilts with gymnastics and
on stilts with gymnastics and N[
on stilts with gymnastics and music, and
on stilts with gymnastics and (- s A1
on stilts with gymnastics and music, and it is
on stilts with gymnastics and L R AR
on stilts with gymnastics and music, and it is a summer
music, and it is a summer favourite among young
music, and it Is a summer favourite among young people.
favourite among young people. 1 {014
favourite among young people. L )
favourite among young people. LR
favourite among young people. I R AT 4]
favourite among young people. But the events got interrupted
But the events got interrupted T )
But the events got interrupted NN R
But the events got interrupted because of the pandemic.
because of the pandemic. TRANSLATION: During the
TRANSLATION: During the pandemic we
TRANSLATION: During the EN R R G|
TRANSLATION: During the pandemic we locked ourselves
pandemic we locked ourselves in.
pandemic we locked ourselves IR G
pandemic we locked ourselves in. Children did not go outside
ARG TIGICL LR G Rl [ 1
ARG TIGICL LR G Rl [ NN
in. Children did not go outside at all. We adults did because
at all. We adults did because Y
at all. We adults did because el
at all. We adults did because we had to earn a living
at all. We adults did because R R R R IG R RN LT
at all. We adults did because we had to earn a living but the
we had to earn a living but the children
we had to earn a living but the I I )
we had to earn a living but the IR ]
we had to earn a living but the children needed to get out. Now
children needed to get out. Now that
children needed to get out. Now R
G N LG L R G [ TV [ that we have this, we came to
that we have this, we came to enjoy
that we have this, we came to LA
that we have this, we came to LAY
that we have this, we came to enjoy it. The children can
enjoy it. The children can enjoy
enjoy it. The children can RO
enjoy it. The children can RGN
enjoy it. The children can enjoy themselves and learn more
enjoy themselves and learn more FYe L
enjoy themselves and learn more Y e tlietle T
enjoy themselves and learn more about our culture. Each
about our culture. Each IO
about our culture. Each sculpture represents elements
sculpture represents elements Tee I8t
sculpture represents elements TN e a4
sculpture represents elements TN e e
sculpture represents elements from different animals and none
from different animals and none PYTY
from different animals and none IR IHCR
from different animals and none are alike. TRANSLATION: It
from different animals and none NIV
are alike. TRANSLATION: It is NG
are alike. TRANSLATION: It is interesting to bring alive
interesting to bring alive )
interesting to bring alive those monsters that
interesting to bring alive NI R G R )
interesting to bring alive those monsters that we might
those monsters that we might have
those monsters that we might V-]
those monsters that we might LYY BN Tld
those monsters that we might have in our dreams. Everyone
have in our dreams. Everyone can
have in our dreams. Everyone =B TG
have in our dreams. Everyone NN TR el
have in our dreams. Everyone RN TR R e0le N0
have in our dreams. Everyone NN TGN F etle- N T
can build a creature but it Y
can build a creature but it R )
can build a creature but it R EL G
can build a creature but it does take up a lot of time. At
does take up a lot of time. At )
does take up a lot of time. At !
does take up a lot of time. At LR A
does take up a lot of time. At the end of the parade the
the end of the parade the Alebrijes are placed on display
Alebrijes are placed on display and
Alebrijes are placed on display e
Alebrijes are placed on display and prizes are awarded for the
and prizes are awarded for the T
and prizes are awarded for the TR
and prizes are awarded for the TN 4
and prizes are awarded for the RN
and prizes are awarded for the best one. It has become so
best one. It has become so popular in
best one. It has become so T EIR TR G P Ao
best one. It has become so popular in Mexico City, entire
popular in Mexico City, entire families can’t resist taking
families can’t resist taking part.
A reminder of our top story:
IR
ISR A
It Is now one year since the
It is now one year since the Taliban swept
It is now one year since the LG R R
It is now one year since the Taliban swept into Kabul and
Taliban swept into Kabul and i) 4
Taliban swept into Kabul and retook Afghanistan, prompting
retook Afghanistan, prompting e Nl R
retook Afghanistan, prompting e R R
retook Afghanistan, prompting e N R A E
retook Afghanistan, prompting scenes of chaos as people tried
scenes of chaos as people tried to flee.
scenes of chaos as people tried Rl
scenes of chaos as people tried to flee. One year on, life for
to flee. One year on, life for women and girls in particular
women and girls in particular 3
women and girls in particular R
women and girls in particular is very different with harsh
s very different with harsh s
s very different with harsh rules including restrictions on
rules including restrictions on X STt s
rules including restrictions on education and employment. You
education and employment. You can get
education and employment. You wh ]
education and employment. You can get much more
education and employment. You wh ARG
education and employment. You can get much more on all the
can get much more on all the stories
can get much more on all the RO ]
can get much more on all the RO R )
can get much more on all the RO RN
can get much more on all the RO ROl
can get much more on all the stories on the BRC News website
stories on the BBC News website NE )
stories on the BBC News website a0
stories on the BBC News website RN T
stories on the BBC News website or the BRC News at
stories on the BBC News website or the BBC News at including
WA GLN:T o R Ll el [y this
or the BBC News at including R[]
or the BBC News at including this special report from Kabul
this special report from Kabul and
this special report from Kabul GRS R
this special report from Kabul and beyond, a year of Taliban
and beyond, a year of Taliban R
and beyond, a year of Taliban L
and beyond, a year of Taliban rule, and this story and
rule, and this stery and oElga[al|FIE
rule, and this stery and particulars, the Afghan
particulars, the Afghan cyclists
particulars, the Afghan o (R4
particulars, the Afghan cyclists who fled to pursue
cyclists who fled to pursue e
cyclists who fled to pursue YOI o]l
cyclists who fled to pursue their Olympic dreams, a female
their Olympic dreams, a female cycling team that fled to
cycling team that fled to Italy. From all of
cycling team that fled to 1A R T
cycling team that fled to Italy. From all of us here in
Italy. From all of us here in )
Italy. From all of us here in Rl
Italy. From all of us here in the team in London, thanks for
the team in London, thanks for your
the team in London, thanks for s e
the team in London, thanks for IR oI R
the team in London, thanks for I I N R
the team in London, thanks for your company and we shall see
your company and we shall see you
your company and we shall see G
your company and we shall see you here next
your company and we shall see T AR
your company and we shall see you here next time on BBC News.
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
It’s one year since the Taliban swept into Kabul and retook
control of Afghanistan,
prompting scenes of chaos as people tried to flee.
One year on, life for women LI [T EPRT o Tg oI FT 8
s very different -
WG I RIS R including restrictions
LGRS e
The agent of the author Sir Salman Rushdie,
who Is in a US hospital following a stabbing attack,
has said he is on the road to recovery but it will be long.
The author’s son said R RN R CEL
sense of humour remained intact.
Dozens of people have died at a church in the Egyptian
city of Giza after a fire broke out, causing a stampede.
The authorities say at least 41 people were killed -
many of them children.
They blamed the blaze on an electrical fault
in the air conditioning system.
Now on BBC News, Dateline London with Shaun Ley.
Hello, and welcome to the programme, which brings
together leading UK commentators with the foreign
correspondents who write, blog, podcast and broadcast
from the dateline London.
This week, a meeting between Boris Johnson
and the energy companies about the ticking time bomb
which is the capping of energy bills.
The cap will rise further in October.
The meeting achieved nothing.
The British have a government that apparently must wait
for action until the Conservatives have chosen
their leader, the country’s T AN R
There was another meeting which ended without result too,
New York’s Attorney General summoned Donald Trump
G [TIF a1 LTV g S tax affairs.
He pleaded the Fifth then repeated the words same answer
to every question NS R
The former president, who would be president again,
hadn’t kept shtum when the FBI had raided his Florida home.
To discuss those events RGN s R ]
are Eunice Goes, a Portuguese academic and writer
who teaches comparative sl
Janet Daley, born in the United States.
A ‘60s progressive who by the 1980s was a Conservative,
now writing a weekly column in the Sunday Telegraph.
And Thomas Kielinger, who has been a foreign
correspondent for German media, including in Washington DC
during the Carter and Reagan presidencies.
He has written biographies of Churchill and of both Queens
Lovely to have you all ORI R G RTER L EL
Let me start with you, Eunice, on the question of energy.
How busy a summer has it been NG N R E
Europe in terms of trying to address the energy crisis
which is upon us and which will loom ever larger
as the winter approaches?
Well, it has been extremely busy managing not only
the expectations of voters but also managing the acrimony
between member states N R R e R h R e
LR N R G R G (] s going to be a competition
for resources.
And we saw that with a little bit of blame gaming,
southern Europe saying a few things to Germany
in particular, saying a few things about Germany’s
dependency on Russian oil.
With the Spanish government saying, well, we do not live
above our means energy-wise.
But eventually there is a kind of an agreement to ration
or reduce energy consumption WAL CE S &
There is that request.
And then you also have action RGN
And across Europe, European governments have been putting
in place packages that RN R iRl R7 Y
but like drastic cuts on VAT to energy bills,
subsidies to help families to face those incredible energy
In Germany, | think they are increasing by five
times from what they were last year.
There is also plans R N RO RN - N0
In Spain for instance there are plans to reduce
the temperature at which buildings should be.
So kind of a more efficient and clever way of using energy.
And | think everyone is praying WA OER R RS
somewhat mild, so that we don’t use overcapacity.
There is also the whole issue around ensuring that Europe
has enough supply.
That was a very big concern N R N A
essentially were cut out almost in some cases completely
of the supply of gas from Russia.
So now they’re getting it from other sources.
And | think reserves are at the moment around 70%
of what it should be, N
Trying to build them up before the winter hits?
So we are getting there but the situation is very dire.
In France for instance, it has a lot of nuclear energy.
Nuclear power stations are now closed down,
they are in maintenance because, well, they were not
sufficiently maintained during the pandemic.
And of course drought conditions, heat waves
and so on do not help for the maintenance
of those energy.
So It has been very, very, very busy.
Even for the Italian government, which was
simultaneously collapsing as it was trying to work
Yes.
Because of course the situation is very, very dire for
The dilemma that we have in Britain for many families,
eating or heating.
14y R =1 many Eurepean households
are facing too.
And Italy, the situation is particularly dire because it
has been 20 years of economic stagnation.
We have 10 millien Italian...
We have 10% of the Italian population living below
QRO Tg AN N R I B L
SRR T
SR GRG0 R LR LR R AT of a trigger for the collapse
of the Draghi government because they were seeing that
not enough support was been given to families.
And of course these are populist, right-wing
parties that of course want to create instability,
to create, to trigger TR s : B
And now they are poised to win the forthcoming
Janet, there was a headline in one newspaper in the UK
R E A OGP L TR
Give us a bit B Rl s
Well, | can’t honestly see what the point was of that
meeting because Boris is now a lame duck Prime Minister.
He admits that he has no political and moral authority,
so why did he have the meeting?
| mean, one hopes that in the back channels,
you know, there are plans in Whitehall, there are
plans going on.
But the plans that can be offered are pretty makeshift.
I mean, nobedy actually has an answer to this problem
HERGLERa:laa aiRe-1g0 i
And, as you say, it is bringing into light all the political
problems that have been e AN R )
European countries.
Italy doesn’t have a government B L BT e
and purposes.
Macron is absolutely paralysed between the far right
Yes.
The German government is in a rather sticky coalition
and all of these problems have suddenly come into sharp focus
N Y R R
And it is an odd sort of crisis because governments themselves
can be blamed for not making the preparation
that was necessary, for not seeing this possibility coming.
Unlike a war, for which your own government can’t be blamed.
Sure.
So they are going to carry the can and the risk is that
populist parties will TN SRt R
It is easy In a sense to create a kind of rhetorical blame
for the present government, insinuation that the interests
of ordinary people, especially the poorer elements of ordinary
people, have not T NEe b
You can make a really sort of impressive populist platform
and we could end up with some really dire consequences.
(WLl R G o I G o1 you know, the analogy
with Weimar Germany.
| mean, when there Is a crisis and people can’t eat
or they can’t heat their homes, they are going to perhaps do
nasty things, led by people who are quite unscrupulous
enough to exploit that situation.
Thomas, that fear always is at the back of minds
in Germany, isn’t it because of 20th-century history?
Yes.
But in terms of how Germany is approaching this
at the moment, they are at least having a debate
ELIN AL [
They’re having a debate about it and | doubt
whether this dire picture that Janet is painting might
actually come to pass.
Because even alternative parties on the right and those
parties that you describe, they know fully well
that the crisis before is almost insoluble.
to have said to Boris Johnson when he came to ask for her
permission to be Prime Minister.
She Is supposed to have said, and he himself circulated this
remark of hers.
"l wonder how anyone can N RN N e NIRRT
SN
And that was only 2019.
And the accumulation of these problems have led to some very
welcome rethinking about policy in the energy sector because,
| mean, the sins of the Merkel era are coming home to roost.
Our dependency and the allies are rubbing it in.
They don’t need to rub it in, we know it fully well!
It has led to the most astonishing about turns
in people’s thinking.
Fortunately, Germany has a large gas reserve.
We have 75 capacity, LI R
Germans are traditionally good savers!
But that will not tie MR E G
So we are hoping also that the winter may not
Sorry, it’s worth bearing in mind that the United States
is energy self-sufficient and they’ve still got a problem
and it’s because the price of the commodity has gone
through the roof.
Even if you have all the stores and all the capacity stored up,
you still have a problem dealing with the present price
QTR [ LT because of world demand.
Yeah, curiously that is aiding the current people in power
because people understand what a hard situation
that they find.
And we need to come to our senses to really allow
ourselves a bit of patience, R R TR G
understanding that it takes time.
For the new Prime TR E R i =T
And it will lead, in Europe, to a new reckoning in terms
of economic policies because the subsidising
of energy prices, you know, from price caps to the cutting
of VAT and so on, this will have an impact
on national budgets.
Subsidising, all the things we wag our finger at
when we see it in Latin America or in sub-Saharan Africa.
But it’s happening.
We say governments shouldn’t do this, it is appalling.
But in Europe, governments have been subsidising energy
for companies and for private consumers because it’s
essentially unsurmountable.
Also, something must be done about the profit levels of some
of these companies.
But we have just had two years of governments subsidising
QTR
In this country...
Through the Covid pandemic?
Yes.
| mean, the economies of the West were put
into induced comas and governments printed money
to create the wealth that R N Rt s
in the real economy.
Now that in itself is a very dangerous situation
and if you’re going to add to that additional subsidising
of energy through money printing, because that is
the only way that you can do it, it is a terrifying prospect
because money, the currencies are going to become ludicrous.
They’re going to become valueless, like the old
LCUNCES D1 in what you say.
| have a bigger fear LR G e A R
relationship with Russia.
People might be beginning ORI S CH PR
is it a good idea to continually support Ukraine
in their fight with Russia?
| mean, the mother of all el R R R 2 d
in Ukraine and I’m worried about the consensus in my
country, which is still holding firm about...
But will it hold through the winter?
If they all claim that this is due to this war in Ukraine,
people might begin to politically change their mind.
| hope not.
| hope not.
Because Russia is in danger R [ e E I
If people actually do find...
Just wait a little longer, it will collapse, hopefully.
Yeah, but if we, if Western T R i e g kY
sources of energy then the oil and gas which are Russia’s only
exports, Russia’s only income...
We’ll be less dependent on it.
Well, they will go down the pan.
Janet, 1 just want to pick up on what you were saying
about the concerns about Covid and putting the economy
into deep freeze and printing money and so on.
Does that mean that you think probably Liz Truss
is on the right ground when she says, look,
I’m going to rely on cutting taxes and growing the economy?
I’m not prepared...
You’re smiling away!
Even despite the kinds RN R U R G
1B e
Is that going to hold very long?
Well, | can tell you that EINLRE IR - Rl
of a cost of living crisis is not just politically stupid,
People are going to be wondering whether they can
afford to heat their homes, whether they can afford to eat
three meals a day, whether they can afford
toc feed their children.
That is not the time e R
ISR GRS LR (LG you can say lowering taxes,
RN REEI S is not going to put money
in their pockets to pay for the bills.
Well, it will leave you more of your dispoesable income...
Yeah, but not enough.
..If you’re not LLLEALR NS
But she is not actually talking about, apart from corporation
tax and VAT, she’s not talking EL A Y R EV G
She is talking about not raising them, which is
Rishi Sunak is suggesting.
The naticnal insurance rise.
Or reversing the cut G E R T EY L %]
Insurance.
Yes, the National Insurance rise, she was going to cancel.
Does it engender enough capital to pay for the bills?
No, it doesn’t engender L L RGN AR
If you take even more money out of people’s take-home pay...
Well, of course, yeah.
Rishi Sunak has a different approach.
He wrote an article on Friday FW LI R LEG
effectively, he is prepared RGO Y
additional cost of energy bills, which is quite something
to hear a Conservative former Chancellor say.
s it just desperation?
Somebody who started his political career claiming
tc be a Thatcherite.
Who has Nigel Lawson’s portrait...
G ELR TGV N T g il in his office when he was
I think he Is essentially trying to make kind
of distinguish himself from Liz Truss in the hope
that he will sound more ANAL G
But | think it is going to be, | think he is so behind
the Conservative, Liz Truss, in terms of leadership contest
that he has no chance, T I TS G R CYegl ]
happens.
But he’s not saying that in response to what Liz Truss
was saying.
He was the one who instituted ARG e
insurance contribution and she XXV R R GRS R
And those of us, some of us, commentators criticised him
at the time for kind of Gordon Brown economics.
But he did not do Gordon Brown economics, Janet.
No, no, but hang on, let me make the point.
He is not saying what he is saying in response
to what she Is saying.
He was the one who started it and she is saying
that she would O A a2
What he’s trying to do is try to come up as somebody
who understands economics, as opposed to the solutions
U N e A
Cutting taxes to sort the cost of living crisis.
Yeah, but...
That’s the inflation you’re going to have in October.
All right, let me go back to your figure about inflation.
Taxes in this country are now at the highest they have been
for 70 years.
Now, that is a figure el ehE i
And | cannot see how, faced with a cost of living
crisis and faced with the energy crisis, you could
consider, even consider putting up direct taxation.
Let me just end that thought IS E RS Ela il
what was being said earlier in this discussion.
Energy doesn’t appear to be very fashionable
for politicians out SRR
I can remember talking to the then-energy minister
in the Brown government, in the early part of
the century, telling me we’ve really got to do something
about gas storage.
(K2 W TR L VR &L about Donald Trump.
Janet, we have had three significant legal moves,
you could say four actually T A R e e e atale s
of the Attorney General saying he is prepared to actually
release the details of the warrant and why
they were searching Mar-a-Lago in Florida.
What do you make of the week’s events between Donald Trump
Well, everything in Donald Trump’s presidency
was unprecedented, TR e R e 1l
for his inaugural address waving his fists in the air
like a tinpot dictator, to the moment that he refused
to accept the normal transition of government from one elected
government to another.
To the moment that he cheered on an army of people
ransacking the Capitol.
| mean, none of this, including the arrival of armed
FBI officers at his home, has any precedent in American,
iIn modern American history.
It is absolutely staggering.
Now, it sounds as If, | never bought the theory
that the FBI and the Department of Justice were doing some sort
of vengeful attack at the behest of the Biden government.
That was absurd, they would never take such a risk
because if nothing else it would canonise him
and his followers are like a religious cult,
so that would not be a very clever thing to do.
So clearly they had something specific in mind.
And it seems now, they’re hinting that the documents that
they’re searching for involve nuclear classified information,
which it would be very, very serious if he was holding
those in his private, in his own private property.
And it is particularly R Ao e s
Hillary Clinton repeatedly for using a private e-mail
address to do government LI L R U
that she was risking classified information by doing this
on a private e-mail server.
And do you remember the chant "lock her up”?
Yes.
| mean, now, and he used VR G R GG
about the people who took R T la a8
The fifth Amendment is a guarantee by the Constitution
that you will not have to incriminate yourself.
He just took the fifth Amendment God knows how many
times in this four-hour session he had with the Attorney
You wonder what it would take to dent the following,
But I’m sure, on the hardcore faithful, Trump faithful,
this will have no impact, just as nothing had any impact.
LU TR TSRV VR BT evidence is produced.
But | am dying to see the evidence that is produced.
Both sides feeling energised ahead of the midterms,
Funice.
You have got the Democrats thinking Roe v Wade will allow
them to win some independents, who will be unhappy
with the effect, we say it no longer has a precedent
to guarantee abortion rights in every state of the union.
And you’ve got Republicans, in a sense, kind of fired up
by this attack on Trump, which, conveniently for Mr Trump,
has forced a lot of prominent Republicans to kind of rally
to his cause again.
I’m not sure that both parties have reasons to be happy
for those very same reasons.
The Republicans on the one hand, | don’t think
an association with Donald Trump is quite excellent
for the Republican base because of course, as Janet
mentioned earlier, the followers of Donald Trump,
it is a cult but they are not the majority of the Republican
i
And they will need to attract moderate Republican voters
in order to win an election.
And for other Republicans to be re-elected in the mid-term
I Sub L wi
So that association with Donald Trump and in particular
with his unlawful, his complete neglect and disrespect
for the rule of law because that is essentially
what it Is, for the ALK ileS
ST G E ) essentially what is.
When all these discussions around nuclear power
and nuclear weapons programme information that he was holding
in Mar-a-Lago are starting Y N R R
a lot of sensible voters will be quite worried
and they will not think that it is a good reason
to support him.
The Democrats on the other hand, it is not clear either
that they will make wins out NEG Y R IR AL
L IR G LR G there are very volatile.
We saw for instance in Kansas there was a referendum which,
to everyone’s surprise, the referendum on guaranteeing...
The protection remains in the state constitution,
yeah.
But in many other Republican 3 IR U RO R
become much, much harder.
What | think will help the Democrats is the inflation
reduction act that has been signed, is about to be
voted in Congress.
Because this was going to put money into people’s pockets.
This is a good story for Democrats to go
RO Rl R T TN S e e
So much so that lots I RN EL I
supported the bill.
And so that is | think what is going to help
Mg e
But ultimately, both the parties are in deep
There are some plausible alternatives to Trump.
Ron DeSantis, you know.
The governor of Florida, yeah, if he gets re-elected.
Even Mike Pence conceivably.
There are people who are on the right of the party,
politically, who can attract for sound principled reasons
those Republicans, those sort of right wing Republicans.
But the Democrats, who are they going to choose?
LR T possibly run again.
And his vice president, Kamala Harris, is a complete
So she would normally be the inheritor, the vice
president.
So who are the Democrats going to propose?
Let me bring Thomas in because you watched
a beleaguered Democrat administration in an energy
i
Do you feel when you look at Biden it is Jimmy Carter
all over again?
Not really because the two periods are so different.
Carter had the oil crisis, which was the prevailing
problem of the ‘70s.
And that compared to the multiplicity of the crisis
that we face nowadays TR hE LR Y
What | think, and | come back to what Janet said,
when you add all these things which are in balance
iIn America, | think Donald Trump is the one
accident that | wished EL I R U AL
American history.
Yes, yes.
He has really completely upset the apple cart.
He has ceased traditions of political behaviour
which were still in place under Reagan and have completely
fallen by the wayside.
And it is such a disastrously divided nation now that
I grieve for the country that | used to love
for its stability that we used to look up to.
Yes, they had their problems but Ronald Reagan and so forth,
but Trump, the degree IR TR
were Is frightening.
The thing is, it could only RN N R G RO
war was there.
| mean, he didn’t come out of nowhere and he could not
have been elected If that terrible schizoephrenic
And he doesn’t have a creed that you can propose
R GERET T R something to follow...
He doesn’t even understand et 3s A
He knows nothing about America.
He went to a very good private school.
| went to a perfectly ordinary American high school.
| had to learn AN et s 3aL A s ]
| don’t understand how somebody with his background,
coming from his family, can manage to be quite
so ignorant about the political culture that he is supposed
to be presiding over.
VI G TN T
Let me end, we’ve got about a minute each
for you to pose a thought AN e
About a minute on the pressing issue of, the British
are talking about and Europeans too, drought.
Drought, yes.
I think it is a growing concern.
Every year gets worse.
Now it is France, southern Europe, Portugal and Spain have
faced drought for many years.
AT AT IR G RO a very agonising debate
in the Iberian Peninsula about what we are going to do
to tackle drought.
There is the wildfires because this essentially half
the country is on fire because of those drought conditions.
Now it is France and we are seeing now in northern Europe.
And this is climate change and we still have a lot
of governments, including in this country, in denialism
about what to do to face climate change.
We had the contender R e R AN I R T
in the United Kingdom W T ETTT T R G IR s
about solar panels at a time when there is energy shortages
CO TR =R R the things that you need to do
to prevent these drought conditions.
It Is very, very serious.
Thomas, let’s talk about realism in politics
and the position of the Greens in Germany.
Well, it is something to do with what people think
G ERZEH R RUSET G EE benefited our thinking
I know it is a bit immoral to think about it when you look
at the suffering of the Ukrainian people.
But the turnaround in current MO E GBS
brought some good changes of opinion and inward
[N TR R G G L]
Amongst them | would count N LR G LR
NS W ARG ]
They have begun to say goodbye RN ARG TR R e
of creeds and what have you.
Sacred cows and so on.
Green, wanting to paint the world green virtually
In every aspect of the word.
And they’re now having to learn the reality of how you deal
with the crisis when you are in government.
And they are in government, which is a huge challenge
for a party which used RO G
and protest marches and so forth.
Janet, last thought on globalisation.
Can you sum up the threat.
Yes, one of the situations we have learnt from that
situation, the dependence on Russian energy,
the dependence on cheap manufactured goods from China
s that maybe globalisation YR Zl N
L IR G R EE R I R War that we were all friends
now, we were all relatively democratic, free societies,
not China, could somehow reach LY iR R s R e
and trade goods for everybody’s interests, that is over.
And we now realise with China’s threat to Taiwan and Hong Kong
that it is not a great idea to be buying all our cheap
manufactured goods from China and it is certainly not a great
idea to be dependent on Russia for energy.
Janet Daley, Eunice Goes, Thomas Kielinger, thank
you all very much.
| mentioned that headline with Boris Johnson in the paper
from Friday saying "PM attends meeting."
It reminds me of a headline from the 1930s, when Ramsay
MacDonald had been Prime Minister for many years
and was so fond of trying to achieve international peace
that it is said that there was an English newspaper
headline Prime Minister Visits Country.
I hope you’ll visit Dateline again next weekend.
From all of us, goodbye.
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
Our top stories:
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan,
a special report on the women and girls who’ve been denied
education, employment, and their childhoods.
If | finish this school, | start university,
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from the school.
Sir Salman Rushdie’s family say NN R R R R 18
but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge
about the man charged N R e @
More than 40 worshippers die at a church in Eqypt
after a fire rips through the building during mass.
And, queen of the mountains.
The Norwegian climber who’s on the verge of setting
a very special record.
It’s now Monday in Afghanistan, and a year
since the Taliban swept back into the Afghan capital Kabul,
marking their takeover of the country and sparking
scenes like these at the airport - thousands trying
to leave in fear of N R R -]
One year on, life for women LI [T EPRT o Tg oI FT 8
is very Rt e R R e Bt
including restrictions
LGRS e
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet,
who was in Kabul during the Taliban takeover,
LR G T =R R this special report.
I RuEh R e
Afghanistan is a conservative country,
by the ultraconservative Taliban.
Spaces which had R R Rl
RN A AR LT
We met three generations of women whose lives speak
loudly about their world.
Many are afraid.
LS A LR RTE T (] identified.
This woman used to be FRA NI il
in the finance ministry.
Last year the Taliban told her, stay at home.
A man would take her job.
TRANSLATION: | worked for more than 17 years
in the finance ministry.
It was difficult with juggling family and work,
but | went to university and got my masters degree.
We spent so much R O S
Now we are back to zero.
Everything is finished.
More than 60 female L B e 20
have banded together.
LS A E I R T [ of the exchanges
on their messaging group:
Women haven’t completely disappeared from the streets
or ministries, like health, education, security.
L TR o k[ only for women.
This market has just reopened in the western city of Herat.
This was the first day.
Women, a bit nervous.
Shops, still empty.
LR ¥ ‘'
This is your shop? Today it’s closed.
Oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old Suhaila is excited.
She’s reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
But she should be in her last year of school.
Suhaila was the top student in her class.
But the Taliban shut U A R N
Really, | am very sad.
If | finish this school, EXE LI 13
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from school.
Was it hard for you? No school, ne shep.
| think it’s not for me,
and for all of the girls of Afghanistan,
it’s @ sad memory...
did miss school.
It’s hard here, too, IV N
in the Central Highlands.
This is one of Afghanistan’s poorest provinces.
Since the Taliban took WU
And there’s still no aid to their government.
For the destitute and desperate,
agonising choices.
This woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
She’s only 6 years old.
TRANSLATION: She’s toe young.
But | give her away IR N N Rt
So my other children don’t die of hunger.
It’s still very hard
but now she can eat MOl SanE Ele
| had no other option R NV
Child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in Afghanistan,
but not this young.
We’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
TRANSLATION: Her in-laws told me
they will take care of her like their own child
because she’s so young.
They told me, don’t worry.
What mother wouldn’t worry?
What child wouldn’t weep?
A new generation takes shape in a new Afghanistan.
The Taliban say the rights of boys and girls within Islam
will be respected.
But one year on, there I UL R G e
who were learning to lead, RS iR E I i R
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Kabul.
The son of Sir Salman Rushdie says his father suffered
life-changing injuries in a knife attack on Friday -
but that his "feisty LI S e RN
AL E IR 1w
The author had been taken off a ventilator after being
stabbed at an event in New York State.
The Governor of New York says they will always stand up
for freedom of thought.
Our correspondent Nomia L ER G IS
Inside the hospital, I E R IR i
But a glimmer of hope for his family,
as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
In a statement, his son, R IO DI PRI M
Zafar also praised the audience members
at the literary event on Friday where his father was stabbed.
He said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
Salman Rushdie’s agent told us
he is on the long road to recovery.
The writer suffered RTINS
He faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old American suspect Hadi Matar has already appeared
in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of
attempted murder and attempted assault.
Prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from New Jersey
to the event here in Chautauqua,
in Western New York.
They say he bought a ticket, NS GV
allowing him to attend the talk Mr Rushdie was due to give.
For decades, Salman Rushdie went into hiding
E TR Tl The Satanic Verses, led to Iran
Issuing a fatwa in 1989.
Many Muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
It is reported that police think Hadi Matar may
have had sympathies for the Iranian regime,
but an official motive has A TR e
Earlier, New York’s State Governor spoke outside
QRGO O] where the stabbing happened.
New York State will always stand up
to protect freedom of expression,
freedom of speech,
and we condemn the cowardly e R NIERE IR
And we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate
the sanctity of a place like Chautaugua.
Questions are being EH O R
there were not tougher checks RGNS E A U
given the huge amount RGN R AT I
had faced for decades.
Nomia Igbal, BBC News, Pennsylvania.
The government in Egypt says at least 40 people have died,
many of them children, in afire at a church
where thousands of people had gathered for Sunday worship.
Dozens of others were OGN
It’s reported an electrical fire broke out
at the Coptic church in Giza
IR GRS of the capital Cairo.
Our correspondent Sally Nabil sent this report
RG]
A Sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
Behind these windows,
Egyptian Christian worshippers died.
The Abu Sifin church AR o )
busy neighbourhoed in Giza.
The fire killed dozens, including many children.
People rushed into the building
trying to save as many ] N
This woman lost her sister-in-law.
TRANSLATION: She had five children.
Three daughters, who are three, RN R U e N
and two boys.
My heart is on fire for all these victims.
The people I’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
They want to know exactly how and why their loved ones died.
There will be questions too for the church itself
and for the emergency services.
Initial reports suggest R R LR
by an electrical fault.
People here told us QR R L L
and the church LR ER LI g
When the electricity was turned on again,
there was an overload.
LU IR0 Fire was coming out
of the air-cenditioning
and then spread to the rest RGNt lesi P
It was on the third and fourth floors.
Many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
A major investigation is now under way.
Inspectors from the public O R 1)
already checked the scene.
There was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives
behind this incident, so far.
But the Christian community here say they’ve had enough.
Many of their churches have been targeted
AT ET I RN R S T
Sally Nabil, BBC News, Cairo.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Syrian state media say Israel TR e e la e Ta 4
on targets in Tartus, on Syria’s west coast.
Reports say three soldiers were killed.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says several
missiles hit the vicinity of a village where Iranian
militias allied with the Assad ORI G IR
The Saudi state-owned oil giant Aramco has announced record
profits of more than $48 billion for the second quarter
of this year.
The world’s biggest oil producer’s net income has
almost doubled year-on-year.
Oil prices are up in the wake of Russia’s attack on Ukraine
and increasing demand after the pandemic.
At least one person has died after an explosion rocked
a shopping centre and caused a fireworks warehouse to catch
IR Y [ I FRS (I W
Videos on social media show large clouds of black smoke
in the sky and people running away as a building collapsed.
To North Korea now, where state media is reporting
that the country’s leader has e N SRS R i A
president Vladimir Putin seeking to establish closer
ties between the two countries.
Scott Snyder, who’s a Senior Fellow for Korea Studies
at the Council on Foreign Relations, said President Putin
could be seeking to use e Gl R E L T
of Ukraine that Russian T e T R
I think it represents a possible convergence
of interests between MAEE R et B ]
Last week, the Russian ambassador to North Korea
suggested that North Korean e Y LR e T s B R !
in doing reconstruction work in the breakaway provinces
in the Ukraine,
and North Korea had R EL R S
of recognising these breakaway provinces.
And so, what it looks like is the possibility
that there could be some kind of some kind of support
by North Korea in the form of labour in these areas,
probably in return for substantial cash contributions
to the flailing North Korean economy.
Stay with us on BBC News. Still to come:
Putting the cat out, or not -
the German town T N A N - Rt a
Washington, the world’s most political city,
is today assessing the political health
of the world’s most powerful man.
LULLL RN have a relationship
with Ms Lewinsky that was not appropriate.
In fact, it was wrong.
In Seuth Africa, 97 people have been killed today,
in one of the worst days SR
between rival Black groups.
Over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
MAN: Czechoslovakia R R
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
Russia is observing a national day of mourning
IR QTR ET ) gl (6 N IR Rl RN (el
We are all with them now, within our hearts.
The Pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more
than 2.5 million people R R Al o
"Stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"Well, well,” joked the Pope,
"so, you want me I el L YA
This is BBC World News, AR R L S
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan, its women and girls are still being
denied education and employment.
The son of author Sir Salman Rushdie says his injuries
are life changing, but that his defiant sense of humour remains
intact, after he was stabbed.
Many of us have been through lockdowns in recent
years, but in the German town L A R R R ]
on a curfew.
But they have, in the last few hours, legally been allowed
to leave their homes for R R IR e 4
Authorities there introduced a cat-lockdown in May,
banning them from leaving the house without a lead,
to stop them injuring or killing an endangered bird
species.
But the lockdowns will occur reqularly and if owners don’t
follow the rules, they’ll face MR RGeS LR RS
thousands of euros.
Jessi Morgan is the CEO of Predator Free New Zealand
Trust, she gave me her Y ad R RN o]
NEEHGRLE T ELE
It’s a very interesting move by the government there.
O T s 1) ISR s
great predators around the country, around the world,
sorry and depending on where they are located,
they could do severe damage to native
Do you have a problem with cats where you are in New Zealand?
Yes, in New Zealand we have a lot of flightless
birds and birds that N R ]
ground and so that evolved in New Zealand without any
introduced mammalian predators, so cats are a huge problem
here for our native species who are
basically defenceless against cat.
So cats are not native to where you are in New Zealand
but devil’s advocate, they are native across Europe.
Surely this is just wildlife doing its
[l
Yeah, well these birds, by my understanding,
these crested larks are highly endangered and down to a few
last breeding pairs, so I’m guessing the local
OIS MR YT [ to do anything they
can to protect these birds and reducing the roaming
of domestic cats is really I e A S G R S R
a strategy around VAL L]
feral cats to ensure they are not being predated
on by other cats.
| think it’s interesting IR N T R L)
to the area, because what is predating
on those cats?
And obviously there is a high density of cats
with cats being introduced and owned and loocked
after at home and potentially protected from those predators
R G V] CICR R
whack from what they would be naturally occurring
in that area.
There is a bit of a carrot and stick approach of
fines and threats of lockdowns, arguably much more the stick
side of it but what does a good cat owner look Llike?
Responsible cat ownership A e LR T
letting your cats roam is actually an important part
of keeping your cat safe and preventing them
from getting run over I LR G
things in the environment.
The other things we recommend in New Zealand are desexing
your cat so it SRR ORI
unwanted population of kittens and microchipping your cat
RO E L AR (L L] wandering it can be returned
safely to its owners.
As owners when you take a cat into your home as an important
companion it is really important that you have
the means to keep your cats home as much as possible
and | think that is a change for many
parts of the world where we have let our cats roam
in the past because we were unaware of
the damage that they did to the native wildlife.
From
Al 1IR3
From cats to alligators, probably not something you
probably not something you would
probably not something you TR e 4
probably not something you TR 5 1
probably not something you would want as a
probably not something you R R
In the state of Florida in the US, there are 1.3
million of them and every year ten,000 people apply
for licences to cull the animals.
7,000 of them are given out but hunting has always been
restricted to nighttime, that is, until this year.
But not everyone is happy at the prospect of hunting
taking place during the day.
Pete Corradino is a wildlife biologist and owner
of Everglades Day Safari.
Hunting is something that has been going on for quite a long
time but what has changed now is they are going to allow
24-hour hunting and what my opposition to is the changes
that are going to happen is right where we take our
So Everglades Day Safari takes guests out on a air boat ride
and that is specifically on a place called Lake Trafford
where there are thousands of alligators and by opening up
the hunting season to daylight hours, it is going to put
hunters and tourists NNt iR N s R e
and potentially putting people in harms way,
so that is the situation we are looking at starting tomorrow.
But the Fish and Wildlife Commission says 1.3 million
alligators is simply too many, something has to be done.
If that is their take on it, that is not really
what is going on.
We got 1.3 million alligators, maybe even more.
Historically we had probably 4 million alligators but over
the course of the 20th century, alligators were hunted
nearly to extinction.
They were put on the endangered species list and their
populatioen numbers have come back very well,
but what their basis is for safety issues,
Nl (BTN
There have been 30 fatalities in the last 75 years caused
by wild alligators.
LGRS LR S of seven, actually, probably
about 12-15 alligator attacks and this ranges from alligators
biting people when they are swimming to people picking up
alligators and getting bitten.
So that is each year and that is not a lot,
so I’m not exactly sure why they think doing this
is going to make anything safer.
In fact by putting people out there with guns hunting
while you’ve got tourists on air boats is probably
the most unsafe thing you can do.
But officials also argue that applying for these licenses
means people paying for these licenses is bringing money
Yeah, that is really N R A
It is not to manage the population, it is simply
for recreational purposes and to make money for the state.
| want to tell you now about the the world’s 14
highest mountains - also known as the ‘Super Peaks’
Each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres -
more than 26,000 feet.
Climbing all 14 is a badge of honour in the mountaineering
community - and doing so in record time is the biggest
Now a Norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just
that - as the BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Kristin Harila carries a heavy burden.
She has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain
in the world, but she can barely pause for a moment.
LRGN [ R e
We had like, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
The rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
But climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
Kristin only took up moeuntain climbing seven years ago,
but she is clearly a quick study.
She is now on course to complete one of the sport’s
most impressive achievements.
As everyone knows, Mount Everest is the world’s
tallest peak at 8849 metres.
There are 13 other mountains that come in at a height
above 8000 metres, and Kristin has climbed 11 of them.
Now she only has three more to complete the set
and she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
At the moment, Nepal’s Nirmal Purja holds the record,
doing so in six months and six days.
If Kristin beats his time she hopes it
will send quite a message.
ROl GEIE YIS like, people believe men
are more strong.
But in reality, the women are just as strong as the men
CICRN RO R T I R PR e TR bt N N S LR
Kristin has until November RIS A el
After a quick trip home to Norway, she will head
to Nepal and Tibet for the final phase.
The last super peaks I I
Now let’s take you to Mexico City where families
gathered at one of Mexico’s fastest growing artistics
parades since the pandemic.
lkaba Koyl has this report.
Welcome to the Alebrijes Parade, where mythical animals
coated in dazzling bright colours dance the day away.
They are inspired VR UL G
Circus artists show off their skills on stilts
with gymnastics and music, and it’s a summer favourite
among young people.
But the event got interrupted because of the pandemic.
TRANSLATION: During the pandemic we locked
ourselves in.
Children did not go Ll
We adults did because we had to earn a living but the children
needed to get out.
Now that Iztapalapa is giving us this, we came to enjoy it.
The children can enjoy themselves and learn more
Each sculpture represents elements from different animals
and none are alike.
They call them the Alebrijes.
TRANSLATION: It is interesting to create and bring to life
those monsters that we might have in our dreams.
Everyone can build a creature but it does take up
At the end of the parade the Alebrijes are placed
on display and prizes are awarded for the best one.
It has become so popular in Mexico City, entire families
can’t resist taking part.
lkaba Koyi, BBC News.
T e Bl Igs
Much more on those stories on )
Much more on those stories on N
Much more on those stories on the BBC News
Much more on those stories on R P R e )
Much more on those stories on the BBC News website or on the
the BBC News website or on the BBC
the BBC News website or on the 1l ST
the BBC News website or on the BBC News app. Do stay with BBC
BBC News app. Do stay with BBC el
BBC News app. Do stay with BBC LR
You can reach me on Twitter - I R T | Rl
Thanks for watching, see you T4
Thanks for watching, see you TSR
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
It’s one year since the Taliban swept into Kabul and retook
control of Afghanistan, prompting scenes of chaos
as people tried to flee.
One year on, life for women EL T ER LW E g (LT ETRTRY S
different, with harsh rules OGRS dla il
LGRS e
The agent of the author Sir Salman Rushdie,
who Is in a US hospital following a stabbing attack,
has said he is on the road R A T 1
IR G TR
The author’s son said R RN R CEL
sense of humour remained intact.
Dozens of people have died at a church in the Egyptian
city of Giza after a fire broke out, causing a stampede.
The authorities say at least 41 people were killed,
many of them children.
They blamed the blaze on an electrical fault
in the air-cenditioning system.
Now on BBC News, it’s HARDtalk O IR
NI CT LR 018
According to research in the US and the UK,
roughly one in 100 people is transgender.
But the fact that the debate about transgender rights has
become a political and even health care battleground isn’t
driven so much by the numbers, but more by conflicting
TG
My guest today has a prominent e B R R
Shen Faye is trans, a writer and a former lawyer.
Is all this attention on issues of sex, gender and identity
making it easier to be trans, or not?
Shon Faye, welcome to HARDtalk.
Thank you for having me.
It’s great to have you here.
| also have a copy of your book, The Transgender Issue,
which you wrote.
Published last year.
It’s described on the cover as a landmark bestseller.
And in the intervening months since you published it,
the transgender story, as we put it, the issues around
transgender rights has SRR LR e
in the political debate.
Would it be right to assume that you are delighted those
Issues are so prominent?
SHON LAUGHS Er, | think...
In one way, | feel vindicated.
The argument that | make in the book, essentially,
is that there has been an explosion in discussion
of transgender people across all forms of media
and in politics.
But what | argue in the book is that trans people are often
not at the centre of these conversations, and the actual
Issues facing most trans people day to day do not form
the substance of what is being discussed in the media.
And | think we’ve seen this a lot recently in our own Tory
leadership election here in the UK, where often this
s used as a sort of sound bite IR LA R N
with politicians, but doesn’t actually address the key issues
facing a group which all evidence shows are somewhat
marginalised, likely R I I eal e |
against and in some cases suffer greatly still.
we’ll talk a little bit about politics and politicians
and the stands they take on this issue in a moment.
But let’s start with the public.
Do you think the public generally has a clear
understanding of what it means to be trans?
Well, | mean, the public is guite a diverse group
of people, but | think what most people watching this
will think is that probably, in the last few years,
there seems to have been an explosion in discussion
ol [ER (o] [
For some people, it feels like trans people are suddenly
everywhere, where they e N h N e
Of course, that’s not true.
And | think a lot of people R it R I R N
the intense media focus on such a small population,
O TR R G ET RS of the population.
A lot of people feel this debate is very fraught,
[T} is very fraught.
And | think suspect sometimes that they’re not getting decent
infermation from certain parts of the media.
So what | wanted to do was put something out there that gave
people a sense of confidence in talking about these issues
and this group of people.
And just to be very clear and basic about it, would it be
right, if | was to just do QRN S G EL B S sl
of what it means to be trans - it is, in essence, a person
whose sexual sense of themselves, their gender
identity, Is at odds with the biological sex
that they were born into?
| think that’s a pretty robust definition, yes.
And | think, within that, there is a huge spectrum
of experience, because obviously your experience
of being trans is inflected by so many things, right?
Whether your social background, e EER LR
I3[ 18"2
SR IR R TG NG T 6 range of experiences.
And of course, even within the label "trans™,
some people medically transition, some people
are non binary - they reject the gender binary altogether.
So it is an umbrella term to describe a diverse
range of experience.
And as you’ve just suggested, therefore, personal experience
LRI A e el to understanding.
If you don’t mind, I’d love to just talk a little bit
C1o TV QYT personal experience.
You were born in the south-west of England.
Yes.
Raised as a boy.
But it seems from very early in your life, you felt at odds
with that identity.
And | just wonder how easy it was for you to make that
transition to telling the world that you were not and could not
O[04 - ER LGS
IOk I FVE A
e[ AT T
My teenage years were spent in the early 2000s,
which was a time where even gay people, the level of kind
of acceptance and tolerance in society for gay people
was not where it is today, Y R E [ o
And when | was growing up, there was so little
representation of trans people.
Where It was there, it was as objects of ridicule.
And so, growing up in that environment, knowing that | had
a dissonance with certain aspects of gender that
were being imposed on me, but not having any reference
point.
You assume you’re the only A URL R R I N
And so it took a long time and a couple of evolutions...
Interesting you say a couple of evolutions.
Because | think I’m right in saying that for a time
you came out as gay.
Yes.
As a gay male.
And then you still felt at odds with this identity and you,
in the end, after university, after, | think, qualifying
as a lawyer, you came out as a transgender
ST LU
You felt you were a female.
Because we’re talking a lot about the mental health issues,
QNG AN which this happens.
How difficult was that for you to do?
| mean, extremely difficult.
Again, as | point to in R SRR Gl E 41
Is a systemic issue for all trans people.
I’m probably at the more privileged end of the spectrum
of trans people.
I’m middle class, you know?
University educated.
But for me, | was NN I
| had a lot of issues in my late teens and early 20s
that | think were tied directly to a feeling of being lost.
| wouldn’t say that’s entirely due to gender,
but certainly it’s a major factor when you feel
existentially on some levels different to people around you.
And what I’m keen to point to in the book is that this
s unfortunately all too SRS )
So, for example, 64% of trans young people in school now
in Britain say they are bullied for being LGBT, and over half
of those never tell anyone EL TR
That was my experience, too.
| was bullied for being gender-nonconforming,
LD G feminine - as you say.
At that time, the only reference point if you were
presenting or you were raised N L R L R R e
of construed as feminine, then people would assume that
you were gay.
And so, yeah, unfortunately, R R G R R
been at school, all the evidence shows actually
trans young people are coming out earlier and earlier,
and that means they’re encountering hostility
INn some cases earlier.
And there’s quite a lot of data now on this.
| mean, self-harm is a problem for people
who are in this situation.
And suicide is also more common amongst trans young people
than amongst the rest of the population.
Did you ever get into that dark place yourself?
Well, | did
But also, | think there’s RN U
as a public-facing trans person that you have to make yourself
a spectacle of trauma or of difficulty.
And I’m not necessarily here to be a professional
victim myself.
I certainly struggled with my mental health.
That’s something I’ve spoken about very publicly.
I think it’s important as a public-facing trans woman
to not sanitise my experience everywhere, because I’ve
reached a point in my 30s.
IR G R (N often, my own personal
experience as do the case studies in my book,
which | would probably be e N W e
point towards a society that unfortunately creates a hostile
environment in which mental health problems for trans
people are sort of reinforced.
And | think it’s really important to stress,
too, that when we say QR RGO RE G
of mental health problems amongst trans people,
it can almost potentially lead to a narrative where trans
people themselves are sort of painted as inherently
unstable or pathologized as mentally ill, as they have
been for a lot of the 20th century.
It could feed in to some RGN LR R
that trans people find it harder to get jobs,
they find it harder to deal with the housing system -
all sorts of different ways in which life appears,
for a lot of trans people, to be very tough.
Well, one in four trans people in the UK will experience
I
That’s staggeringly high.
And the reasons for that start unfortunately often
in your family home, fear of family or community
rejection.
And from there you can be set MER RGN
And of course, with that comes attendant mental health issues.
And it’s clear in the book that you feel this should be
absolutely top of the agenda when it comes to the discussion
of what it means to be transgender in the UK,
or other countries IR G R MO G ]
But if we are honest, it is not top of the discussion at all.
No, it is not.
What we find in the UK right now, and you referred
to the fact that it even I R A R e [ e e
about the future of RO AL |
and who will be the next Prime Minister, what we find
s the debate centres on a few issues which are concerned
with rights and how transgender people fit in a society when it
comes, for example, to treatment in the Prison
Service, treatment within organised sport.
Those are the issues which consistently get
T Ta e Nl lYg (e R
Yes, they do, because...
| mean, the title of the book, The Transgender Issue,
is a Trojan Horse because what the essential argument
of the book and why | use that title is that often when people
talk about the trans IR R RS
they’re not really talking about the challenges
facing trans people.
They are talking about anxieties in society at large
Gl P ]yl cisgender people.
But that’s entirely understandable, is it not?
Because as | said at the very beginning, roughly one in 100
people Is trans.
Therefore 99% of the population is not trans.
And it is inevitable that those 99% will want to work out how
trans people fit and how they, as non-trans people,
relate to trans people.
| think, yeah, of course, people will want to do that.
But | think, at the same time, where there becomes a problem
with that is that trans people are constantly reframed
as a new thing, as a new group that sort of turned up knocking
on the door, asking to be let in.
Sometimes literally, if you’re talking about public space.
And actually, what | would VAR ([ )0
are already here.
We’re already living ElU SR
And the reality is that we’re not a theaoretical
or conceptual problem.
And | think that’s a huge problem with some of the ways
in which the issues that are amplified in the media
is that we get into this theoretical debate about
whether I’m a woman or the nature of sex and gender.
And they’re a bit of a smokescreen.
But it’s not theoretical to many women.
And | guess this is where one of the deepest fault lines lies
in the debate about transgender rights, because there are many
women - women - who say they are deeply unhappy
with the notion that trans women should be given access
to all of the spaces, including the safe spaces that
women say they need to feel secure in society.
IR NIRRT
Yes.
No, | do understand that.
| actually have a lot of sympathy for the anxieties
that are in play in this discussion, in terms of fear
of male viclence.
And male violence against women tends to be perpetrated by men
known to women - usually an intimate partner
or family member.
Or the lack of space and women’s safe spaces
and refuge services, which have been cut by successive Tory
governments so that one in two NG UL RGO
space in the UK.
Neither of those issues are about trans women.
Those are about successive Conservative governments
and about a broader problem with male viclence.
And | think it’s worth saying that 16% of trans women
in the UK in the past year will have experienced domestic
abuse at the hands of a partner or ex-partner.
So what | am focusing IR Rl R R B R
are often struggling with gender-based violence
in similar ways to the ways that cisgender women are.
And for me, it’s much more about coming together to resist
austerity and cuts and a devaluation of
N RN LR s v
That’s where you want to put the debate.
But it’s not necessarily where, you know, some proeminent women,
including long-time feminists, TR e
to be right now.
Now, not so long ago on this show, we had Dr Kathleen Stock
She was an academic who wrote NG A
She says she was hounded out of her academic post
by the trans activist community and supporters
of that community.
She says, and I’m going to quote you now, that actually
She’s just trying to ensure that women’s rights
are not undermined.
She says, "Genuine female-only services and spaces "aren’t
a character slur upon all men, "nor are they a character slur
on trans women.
"They are simply safequarding measures "designed to protect
women and girls.”
Do you understand where she and many other self-styled
feminists are coming from?
| understand where they’re coming from.
Because, | mean, I’ve read A N R &
| mean, she describes trans people’s lives
as an immersive fiction.
Stephen, even if | said to you, "Your Life is an immersive
fiction” - it’s exactly what | said before, isn’t it?
It’s abstraction and a theoretical discussion
about real people that exist.
And when we look at trans R
of gender-based violence - of misogynist violence,
frankly, when it’s domestic and sexual viclence
at the hands of cis male ex-partners, which is exactly
the same patterns as women who are seeking safe spaces.
What | am interested in is not these arguments that look
at exclusion of entire groups, but if we cannot accommodate
all women currently - which we can’t, not even
all non-trans women - there is something wrong
politically with how we’re investing in women’s services.
| understand what you’re saying.
| just wonder whether you feel, right now, despite the success
of your book, whether you’re losing the argument?
Because In certain different spheres it seems the movement
RO R CTa il BT don’t want it to be.
For example, the Equality and Human Rights Commission has
declared that trans women can be excluded from some contexts,
from some female-only changing rooms and bathroom facilities.
In sports, for example, we’ve got some key sports
like swimming and rugby, which have now, at an official
level, said, "No, trans women can’t compete.”
So do you feel you’re losing the argument?
| mean, that’s an interesting question.
| think there is a question here about interpretation
of the Equality Act - is what you were discussing
But | think, to be honest, all women are losing currently
because we have existed under successive Conservative
governments which are not prioritising any women at all.
And if you look globally, there is an attack on trans
people’s bodily autenomy and, as we see in the US,
there is an attack on women’’s bodily autonomy by the right.
All women have a big storm coming.
And for me, it’s about coming OGRS LN G EL
context and the fact that it’s important for us to be fighting
for safety from violence I LR LG T L 4,
Perhaps the most significant battleground of all right now,
particularly in the UK - R ST R XY IS
too - is over health care and young people and how one
deals with children who are LRI R E I RG]
s often called body dysphoria.
Who feel that they are inhabiting a body that doesn’t
G ]y identity.
And we’re talking about kids - very young kids in some cases.
What do you think the right thing to do is in those cases?
Well, I think the first thing to say there is that there
s ne one right thing to do.
LR R situation in every case.
Every child is different.
AT e, 116 i [a ] FIE A I D
We have to talk in generalisations for
QNI IO R 4] discussion, for the purposes
But every child will have a different relationship
with gender, and even children experiencing gender dysphoria,
there can be, like, a huge difference in experience.
In the book, | look CI R R A
| speak to a family of a young trans girl who, at the time
| spoke to her, was still in primary school.
She had socially transitioned.
Obviously, young children do not medically transition.
And the alleviation of her distress from when she was
allowed to go into school G BT R el e s ey ]
understand her to be a girl, even though she was assigned
male at birth, the alleviation S S TR E I R R
she was before, that for me is the convincing argument
TG
And | think it’s about looking at balancing...
What we have to look at with young people
is balancing the severe distress that gender dysphoria
can cause versus all potential options for them.
Of course, potential risks.
And a constant review T RN IR L
But what Is really going on here?
TR TR GG is extraordinary.
There seems to have been this exponential sort of explosion
in the numbers of children who are being taken to clinics
and who are being reported as experiencing gender
dysphoria in recent years.
You know, | think the figures that were used
in The New Statesman magazine not so long ago -
IO VRO T RV I b were referred to the Gender
LT (AT G Yoy L0y Service in the UK.
By 2018, that number had risen from 40 to 1,800.
Now, that suggests that perhaps TR R E el e Ne]
are experiencing something fundamentally different.
It’s just standards of diagnosis and the way
clinicians are dealing with this is fundamentally changing.
Is that what you think?
Well, | actually think...
NULET AL [T e to your earlier question
about my experience growing up.
As | said to you, when | was growing up,
when | turned on the television R N R
the Internet was very ropey in those days -
but | didn’t see any trans people, so therefore | did not
come out until my 20s.
What is happening now, I think, is that more and more young
people are aware of the existence of gender
diversity, of trans people, of gender-nonconforming people.
And so a lot of young people are able to give voice
to what some people have always felt.
You know, it’s those statistics about the rise in referrals
to gender identity development services for young people can
be used as a sort R R il
But provided the services are good, it’s good...
Yeah, well, the Tavistock Clinic, which is at the centre
of what has been happening, the Government has now said it
should be closed down.
Its gender identity services are going to be closed down
And when you talk about experiences, let’s talk
about one particular S
| just wonder whether it gives you pause.
YN[ LRI with her own experience.
She was put on puberty blockers at the age of 16.
And a year later, she says she was receiving testosterone
When she was 20, she had a double mastectomy.
"The further my transition went, "the more | realised
| wasn’t a man "and never would be."
Something went very badly wrong there.
People like Janice Turner and other journalists who call
G VTR T T [ CR R 1 isn’t an isolated example.
Too often things are going badly wrong -
and that needs R R A1 ¥
| mean, Keira Bell’s surgical interventions all happened
in adulthood, and...
Sure, but she was put on the...
Puberty blockers have become a big issue.
Yes.
She was put on them at 16.
Which is a reversible treatment.
Puberty blockers are R e R e
She made the decision as an adult, and | think
all adults should [ EVN G T LG 2
That to me seems analogous...
Should children have S T a1 010 A4
| mean, children do.
We have legal rights TRl I N e e
You know, there was the Gillick I TR A e a1
children should be able to access contraception,
for example.
Puberty blockers, which are MR R I el s
of gender dysphoria for trans young people, were originally
prescribed to children A s T T ey
Most treatments given to trans young people were actually
developed for noen-trans LG R
And the other thing | wanted to say is that whilst
Keira Bell’s apparent distress with the decisions
that she made is very real, | feel its use in this context
is analogous to what you see in the US.
As we’re seeing right now with the anti-abortion lobby
is that you can get very powerful stories
of abortion regret.
But would most feminists E R E L I T
I mean, the plaintiff in Roe versus Wade, Roe later came
ICRED RG]l that she created case law over.
The reality is that human lives are much more messy
when we allow them autonomy.
But what we do not allow is one person’s regret to curb
the principle of autonomy generally.
These are complex issues - there’s no doubt about that.
One thing Is clear is IR R R L R i ]
as you put it in the title of your book, the transgender
Issue, has created deep divisions within the feminist
movement.
Yes.
Now, you’re a woman, FRi R L
Do you regard yourself as a feminist?
Yes, | think most trans women do, because our experiences
of the constraints of gender roles, our experiences of,
unfortunately, gender-based violence and harassment put us
in great sympathy, AN SR G L P
with feminist principles.
SR G N[ R T if you do - and you’re very
clear you do - how do you build bridges to so many...?
You know, sometimes they’re LRI E R I R e
And I’ve already cited Janice Turner.
I could cite JK Rowling and others who are adamant
that they are feminist to the core, but they feel that
you and the community RN AU N R EV &
making arguments that are anti-feminist, that
are undermining many of the rights that women had
fought for, for decades FN R et ld
How do you build bridges?
Well, | mean, one of the sort of realities of feminism,
wherever it has existed throughout history, is that it
has always had quite deep divisions.
There are divisions over sex work, pornography,
SNIEN MG TR -]
It’s a movement that often is involving women
LU TR TR for reasons of great passion.
And that can involve A R
T RN T in bridge building.
| do think things have become highly polarised
and it’s unhelpful.
To me, | think LY
Because one of the problems | think with this discussion
s that a lot of it has happened on social media,
RGNS G N1 problem there with people
entrenching themselves LRSS
When you give people an audience, when it becomes
very tribal, people don’t want R MO A
And one of the reasons that B RO R R LR T
a tool so that people can have some thoughts.
Not everyone has to agree with everything | say
in the book, but hopefully that will build a bridge.
And | have actually had messages and emails from women,
feminists, who have said that it has shifted their position.
We might not agree on everything, but it has
somewhat shifted their position in the privacy
I dala -]
And that’s the best IR R e
Shon Faye, sadly we’re out of time, but | thank you very
much indeed for joining LTS
Thank you for having me.
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
NUIRFIWAI G e @
with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan,
a special report on the women and girls who’ve been denied
education, employment, and their childhoods.
If | finish this school, | start university,
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from the school.
Sir Salman Rushdie’s family say NG RO R R I A
but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge
about the man charged O I e @
Farewell to Freya.
S L R LT} (ER LT G TR
And, queen of the mountains.
The Norwegian climber who’s
on the verge of setting a very special record.
It’s now Monday in Afghanistan, and a year
since the Taliban swept back into the Afghan capital Kabul,
marking their takeover of the country and sparking
scenes like these at the airport - thousands trying
to leave in fear of N R R -]
One year on, life for women EL T ER LW E g (LT ETRTRY S
different - with harsh rules OGRS dla il
LGRS e
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet,
who was in Kabul during the Taliban takeover,
LR G T =R R this special report.
I RuEh R e
Afghanistan is a conservative country,
by the ultraconservative Taliban.
Spaces which had R R Rl
RN A AR LT
We met three generations of women whose lives speak
loudly about their world.
Many are afraid.
LS A LR RTE T (] identified.
This woman used to be FRA NI il
in the finance ministry.
Last year the Taliban told her, stay at home.
A man would take her job.
A man would take her job.
TRANSLATION: | worked for more than 17 years
in the finance ministry.
It was difficult with juggling family and work,
but | went to university and got my masters degree.
We spent so much R O S
Now we are back to zero.
Everything is finished.
More than 60 female L B e 20
have banded together.
LS A E I R T [ of the exchanges
on their messaging group:
Women haven’t completely disappeared from the streets
or ministries, like health, education, security.
L TR o k[ only for women.
This market has just reopened in the western city of Herat.
This was the first day.
Women, a bit nervous.
Shops, still empty.
LR ¥ ‘'
This is your shop? Today it’s closed.
Oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old Suhaila is excited.
She’s reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
But she should be in her last year of school.
Suhaila was the top student in her class.
But the Taliban shut U A R N
Really, | am very sad.
If | finish this school, EXE LI 13
but | can’t go to university
because I’m not graduated from school.
Was it hard for you? No school, ne shep.
| think it’s not for me,
and for all of the girls of Afghanistan,
it’s @ sad memory...
did miss school.
It’s hard here, too, IV N
in the Central Highlands.
This is one of Afghanistan’s poorest provinces.
Since the Taliban took WU
And there’s still no aid to their government.
For the destitute and desperate,
agonising choices.
This woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
She’s only 6 years old.
TRANSLATION: She’s toe young.
But | give her away IR N N Rt
So my other children don’t die of hunger.
It’s still very hard
but now she can eat MOl SanE Ele
| had no other option R NV
Child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in Afghanistan,
but not this young.
We’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
TRANSLATION: Her in-laws told me
they will take care of her like their own child
because she’s so young.
They told me, don’t worry.
What mother wouldn’t worry?
What child wouldn’t weep?
A new generation takes shape in a new Afghanistan.
The Taliban say the rights of boys and girls within Islam
will be respected.
But one year on, there I UL R G e
who were learning to lead, RS iR E I i R
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Kabul.
So
ST NED)Y
So many challenges
Se many challenges one year on,
So many challenges one year on, )
So many challenges one year on, so much more to discuss
So many challenges one year on, BB e R A
so much more to discuss later. We
so much more to discuss later. ||
so much more to discuss later. Wwe will be live to
so much more to discuss later. Wwe will be Live to Kabul
so much more to discuss later. Wwe will be live to Kabul to
We will be live to Kabul to e
We will be live to Kabul to )
We will be live to Kabul to talk to the International
talk to the International ety
talk to the International e N
talk to the International Committee of the
talk to the International NN ARG
talk to the International Committee of the Red Cross to
Committee of the Red Cross to e
Committee of the Red Cross to I 0
Committee of the Red Cross to talk about their
Committee of the Red Cross to NN G 14 4
Committee of the Red Cross to L N G R LS U
talk about their work there, A
talk about their work there, Wi gg YA\
talk about their work there, currently. All that to come on
currently. All that to come on )
currently. All that to come on the programme.
The son of Sir Salman Rushdie says his father suffered life
changing injuries in a knife attack on Friday,
but that his "feisty LI S e RN
AL E IR 1w
The author has been taken off a ventilator after being
stabbed at an event in New York State.
Our North America correspondent Nomia Igbal has the latest.
Inside the hospital, I E R IR i
But a glimmer of hope for his family,
as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
In a statement, his son, R IO DI PRI M
Zafar also praised the audience members
at the literary event on Friday where his father was stabbed.
He said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
Salman Rushdie’s agent told us
he is on the long road to recovery.
The writer suffered RTINS
He faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old American suspect Hadi Matar has already appeared
in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of
attempted murder and attempted assault.
Prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from New Jersey
to the event here in Chautauqua,
in Western New York.
They say he bought a ticket, NS GV
allowing him to attend the talk Mr Rushdie was due to give.
For decades, Salman Rushdie went into hiding
E TR Tl The Satanic Verses, led to Iran
Issuing a fatwa in 1989.
Many Muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
It is reported that police think Hadi Matar may
have had sympathies for the Iranian regime,
but an official motive has A TR e
Earlier, New York’s State governor spoke outside
QRGO O] where the stabbing happened.
New York State will always stand up
to protect freedom of expression,
freedom of speech,
and we condemn the cowardly e R NIERE IR
And we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate
the sanctity of a place like Chautaugua.
Questions are being EH O R
there were not tougher checks RGNS E A U
given the huge amount RGN R AT I
had faced for decades.
Ever
AR
Ever since the attack on Friday, world leaders have been
Friday, world leaders have been issuing
Friday, world leaders have been NGRS
Friday, world leaders have been LRGN
Friday, world leaders have been issuing words of solidarity for
Issuing words of solidarity for 3
issuing words of solidarity for S FI ]
issuing words of solidarity for Sue Salman Rushdie.
Issuing words of solidarity for Sue Salman Rushdie. President
Sue Salman Rushdie. President ]
Sue Salman Rushdie. President A INE I R
Sue Salman Rushdie. President IR L]
Sue Salman Rushdie. President N A LR s e
Biden released a statement praising the author for his
praising the author for his TSR
praising the author for his refusal to
praising the author for his RN )
praising the author for his S IR N Rt st s
praising the author for his TR N R s st e s e ls
(VIR O Rl I E G I
Nomia Igbal, BBC News, Pennsylvania.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
North Korean state media say the Russian president,
Vladimir Putin, has called for stronger ties
Mr Putin said it would help NG R RS f14
and stability of the Korean peninsula and wider region.
Some experts say Russia may want North Korean labourers
to carry out work in some of the seized territory in
In Eqypt, at least 41 people have died in a fire at a Coptic
church in the city of Giza IR G R N
LRI which took hold during mass, is
being blamed on an electrical
fault in the air conditioning system.
LRIV NI L g B pledged to rebuild the church.
Pakistani and Indian border guards have taken part
in a ceremony at the Wagah border post as both countries
celebrate the 75th anniversary I RGEIRRL S
It was a theatrical ritual symbolising the countries’
hostility after independence, but the display ended
R GV ER G ELCY
A walrus nicknamed Freya, popular in the Oslo Fjord
In Norway, has been put down.
Authorities had warned earlier this week that they
were considering the measure after issuing warnings
about crowds getting too A RO R G e e
The BBC’s Azadeh Moshiri has this report.
By all accounts, Freya the e eI
By all accounts, Freya the walrus was having a good
walrus was having a good M
walrus was having a good summer. Leaving the Arctic to
summer. Leaving the Arctic to go
summer. Leaving the Arctic to U]
summer. Leaving the Arctic to goona
summer. Leaving the Arctic to UERIY
summer. Leaving the Arctic to go on a euro trip, she landed
go on a euro trip, she landed in Oslo
go on a euro trip, she landed LEE ORI
go on a euro trip, she landed in Oslo Fjord whereby
go on a euro trip, she landed NS CRIG R I AL R DL,
in Oslo Fjord whereby mid-July i)
in Oslo Fjord whereby mid-July !
in Oslo Fjord whereby mid-July AN R e a il
in Oslo Fjord whereby mid-July iR e ]
in Oslo Fjord whereby mid-July she had become a popular
she had become a popular attraction. Nicknamed after the
attraction. Nicknamed after the [ ETY
attraction. Nicknamed after the Norse goddess
attraction. Nicknamed after the XL G I
attraction. Nicknamed after the Norse goddess of love and
Norse goddess of love and X
Norse goddess of love and N AR
Norse goddess of love and beauty Freire was making a
beauty Freire was making a splash, chasing after ducks,
splash, chasing after ducks, clambering onto boats to
clambering onto boats to AT s
clambering onto boats to sunbathe and weighing £1300
sunbathe and weighing £1300 e Al
sunbathe and weighing £1300 sometimes even sinking them.
sometimes even sinking them. But things became problematic
But things became problematic Y
But things became problematic when people wouldn’t stay away.
when people wouldn’t stay away. 1)
when people wouldn’t stay away. So much
when people wouldn’t stay away. e Nt ]
when people wouldn’t stay away. So much so that
when people wouldn’t stay away. NI R R E i e
when people wouldn’t stay away. So much so that after several
So much so that after several warnings
So much so that after several IR )
So much so that after several IR R 1)
So much so that after several warnings to the public
warnings to the public YNl da e el
warnings to the public authorities decided to put her
CIG T Tl L R G T T A i
authorities decided to put her down. TRANSLATION: .
authorities decided to put her down. TRANSLATION:. Public
down. TRANSLATION:. Public Y
down. TRANSLATION:. Public Safety has
down. TRANSLATION:. Public I A A
down. TRANSLATION:. Public A N M R
Safety has been prioritised, animal welfare a priority,
animal welfare a priority, et Ela]
animal welfare a priority, human life and wealth come
human life and wealth come e
human life and wealth come T sl
human life and wealth come ARl
human life and wealth come MTRERLE GRS
human life and wealth come first and that was decisive
first and that was decisive I
first and that was decisive IR
first and that was decisive this time. Sleep is important
this time. Sleep is important to walruses, they kidnapped
to walruses, they kidnapped over
to walruses, they kidnapped N
to walruses, they kidnapped over hours today, and
to walruses, they kidnapped IR L LV AL I L
to walruses, they kidnapped over hours today, and her sleep
over hours today, and her sleep Ty
over hours today, and her sleep was getting interrupted, there
was getting interrupted, there ey
was getting interrupted, there were even
was getting interrupted, there RN R ]
was getting interrupted, there were even reports she had
were even reports she had Rl
were even reports she had started chasing onlookers away.
started chasing onlookers away. But
started chasing onlookers away. )
started chasing onlookers away. R N e
started chasing onlookers away. RO R )]
started chasing onlookers away. But there has been a backlash
But there has been a backlash to
But there has been a backlash Ry
But there has been a backlash to the authority’s decision.
to the authority’s decision. T
to the authority’s decision. It’s been dear
to the authority’s decision. AT
to the authority’s decision. It’s been dear -- very
It’s been dear -- very slailatlid
It’s been dear -- very difficult to get our heads
difficult to get our heads around why she was euthanised
around why she was euthanised and
around why she was euthanised R ]
around why she was euthanised IR )
around why she was euthanised DR ]
around why she was euthanised and there were so many
around why she was euthanised R R R E I KL
around why she was euthanised and there were so many at other
and there were so many at other P el s ]
and there were so many at other actions that could have been
actions that could have been taken first, there are ways of
taken first, there are ways of crowd control that can change
crowd control that can change )
crowd control that can change N el tle
crowd control that can change N i e TlaR e 2
crowd control that can change the behaviour of people much
the behaviour of people much i d
the behaviour of peeple much easier than trying to change
easier than trying to change )
easier than trying to change N el tle
easier than trying to change N i e TlaR e 2
easier than trying to change N e R
easier than trying to change N R R R E e
the behaviour of the walrus. T )
the behaviour of the walrus. AR Y
the behaviour of the walrus. Walruses are a protected
Walruses are a protected o]
Walruses are a protected R
Walruses are a protected LR LG
Walruses are a protected species and while it’s rare for
species and while it’s rare for Russ to attack a human it can
Russ to attack a human it can happen.
Russ to attack a human it can (EI
Russ to attack a human it can happen. But experts are asking
happen. But experts are asking Ty
happen. But experts are asking L ad o]
happen. But experts are asking IRl Y
happen. But experts are asking was putting her down really the
was putting her down really the i\
was putting her down really the Ak
Azadeh Moshiri, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News.
A not so happy handshake.
Bad blood at Stamford Bridge as Chelsea draw with Tottenham.
Washington, the world’s most political city,
is today assessing the political health
of the world’s most powerful man.
LULLL RN have a relationship
with Ms Lewinsky that was not appropriate.
In fact, it was wrong.
In Seuth Africa, 97 people have been killed today,
in one of the worst days SR
between rival Black groups.
Over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
MAN: Czechoslovakia R R
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
Russia is observing a national day of mourning
IR QTR ET ) gl (6 N IR Rl RN (el
We are all with them now, within our hearts.
The Pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more
than 2.5 million people R R Al o
"Stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"Well, well,” joked the Pope,
"so, you want me I el L YA
Our top story:
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan, its women and girls are still being
denied education and employment.
Let’s stay with that story now.
We can speak now to Eloi Fillion, head of delegation
in Afghanistan for the e a e e E R e st et AT
LRCISR AT
A very warm welcome to the programme.
A very warm welcome to the DIl el
A very warm welcome to the programme. Our international
programme. Our international T L
programme. Our international correspondent was specifically
correspondent was specifically L]
correspondent was specifically looking at the plight of
W LT | R LR LT T looking at the plight of women
looking at the plight of women and girls
looking at the plight of women LR R
looking at the plight of women and girls in Afghanistan. What
and girls in Afghanistan. What Py
and girls in Afghanistan. What IR s
and girls in Afghanistan. What are your key
and girls in Afghanistan. What I NS A I 0
and girls in Afghanistan. What are your key concerns at the
are your key concerns at the e
are your key concerns at the moment che
are your key concerns at the moment one year on? The key
moment one year on? The key e g
moment one year on? The key e R )
moment one year on? The key R uEa Rl
moment one year on? The key concerns that we all have,
concerns that we all have, e la o]
concerns that we all have, I iR
concerns that we all have, supporting the whole of the
supporting the whole of the SO
supporting the whole of the Afghan population, is the
Afghan population, is the LD
Afghan population, is the deepening of the economy crisis
deepening of the economy crisis el
deepening of the economy crisis which is putting people in
which is putting people in it dla oL
which is putting people in difficult situations and just
difficult situations and just aYihl]
difficult situations and just R
difficult situations and just trying to put food
difficult situations and just LRGSR
difficult situations and just trying to put food on their
trying to put food on their =]
trying to put food on their table, and when we look at the
table, and when we look at the T
table, and when we look at the achievement, the organisation
achievement, the organisation o)
achievement, the organisation Al ]
achievement, the organisation U LS
achievement, the organisation since one year now, we can see
since one year now, we can see that
since one year now, we can see R R N ii e e
since one year now, we can see MBI N )
since one year now, we can see HEIRNI NS e I N e
that these efforts are not L
that these efforts are not UL
that these efforts are not enough to basically respond to
enough to basically respond to )
enough to basically respond to G|
enough to basically respond to GO R P EEL S
enough to basically respond to the growing needs of the
GG IGELL N R G [ population. We have
the growing needs of the population. We have supported
population. We have supported o)
population. We have supported e N s
population. We have supported since last year over 33
since last year over 33 (e
since last year over 33 L% R
since last year over 33 hospitals in order for them to
hospitals in order for them to o e e
hospitals in order for them to W TN
hospitals in order for them to continue running, and
hospitals in order for them to W IEN ORI AEL LR
hospitals in order for them to continue running, and in that
continue running, and in that ey
G VR LLLARL R RG] G e
G VR LLLARL R RG] these hospitals, over
VR ARL R R =1 these hospitals, over 100,000
these hospitals, over 100,000 e
these hospitals, over 100,000 E R )
these hospitals, over 100,000 E T e o -]
these hospitals, over 100,000 babies have been born since the
babies have been born since the LG
babies have been born since the TR
babies have been born since the COIHRILTR R G
babies have been born since the beginning of this year, and we
beginning of this year, and we PIe Y
beginning of this year, and we are just worried about how
are just worried about how ey
are just worried about how N
are just worried about how NIRRTl
are just worried about how TN LR TR
are just worried about how these babhies will be able
are just worried about how I N TR TR o R e
these babies will be able to et
these babies will be able to survive in
these babies will be able to e AR )
these babies will be able to AN R Rt
these babies will be able to survive in the future due to
survive in the future due to )
survive in the future due to G
survive in the future due to N
survive in the future due to the lack of job
VAR R R TN TR (] the lack of job opportunities
the lack of job opportunities and
the lack of job opportunities R )
the lack of job opportunities and the downgrade of the
and the downgrade of the g
and the downgrade of the economy situation and
and the downgrade of the e AL R R
and the downgrade of the e N A OE NN R R 1L
and the downgrade of the economy situation and se on and
economy situation and so on and )
economy situation and so on and R e B
economy situation and so on and so forth. In
economy situation and so on and R e R a1
economy situation and so on and R e T R g 2
economy situation and so on and so forth. In terms of foreign
so forth. In terms of foreign 1A
so forth. In terms of foreign E1G A L Y
so forth. In terms of foreign aid, obviously a lot of that
aid, obviously a lot of that O] L]
aid, obviously a lot of that stopped when the teller
=LY R ARG E] stopped when the teller man
stopped when the teller man e
stopped when the teller man talked over a
stopped when the teller man E LR D LS
stopped when the teller man talked over a year ago. What is
talked over a year ago. What is )
talked over a year ago. What is the situation now? There is a
the situation now? There is a e
the situation now? There is a i
the situation now? There is a lot of humanitarian support
lot of humanitarian support that
lot of humanitarian support G A
lot of humanitarian support G E NN
lot of humanitarian support that is being done by
that is being done by the organisation | work for and
organisation | work for and many others including the UN
many others including the UN e
many others including the UN nNnaie
many others including the UN N
many others including the UN but it is falling short, that
but it is falling short, that humanitarian aid, to what the
humanitarian aid, to what the |
humanitarian aid, to what the aid was
humanitarian aid, to what the EIL R ]
humanitarian aid, to what the aid was being provided a year
aid was being provided a year ago
aid was being provided a year LA
aid was being provided a year age ina
aid was being provided a year ago in a sense that there is no
ago in a sense that there is no RN na a1
ago in a sense that there is no investment is being done, the
investment is being done, the ELTN
investment is being done, the banking system is still not
banking system is still not ]
banking system is still not working properly, no investment
working properly, no investment ]
working properly, no investment )
working properly, no investment R s e
working properly, no investment ENE R I R LN ELE b
working properly, no investment can be done privately or in the
can be done privately or in the public sector. And, of course,
public sector. And, of course, that
public sector. And, of course, ey
public sector. And, of course, that has an impact on the
that has an impact on the e
that has an impact on the Lol e}
that has an impact on the T LI BT
that has an impact on the number of jobs which are
number of jobs which are O EY
number of jobs which are L E R e
number of jobs which are available for the population
available for the population and what the humanitarian
and what the humanitarian sector can
and what the humanitarian A la =R
and what the humanitarian A e R R N
and what the humanitarian sector can cater is not enough
sector can cater is not enough e
sector can cater is not enough el
sector can cater is not enough T By
sector can cater is not enough T RGN
sector can cater is not enough T R R LR 1 4
sector can cater is not enough T B LR )
for all the needs that are el l]
for all the needs that are IR YT
for all the needs that are LR 1
for all the needs that are growing because the whole
growing because the whole economy is in collapse. So,
economy is in collapse. So, G
economy is in collapse. So, given what you have just said,
given what you have just said, vty
given what you have just said, e
given what you have just said, what is the long-term outlook
what is the long-term outlook e
what is the long-term outlook for Afghanistan under Taliban
for Afghanistan under Taliban rule? What are
for Afghanistan under Taliban [OICX AT LI IR O
for Afghanistan under Taliban rule? What are they doing to
rule? What are they doing to have
rule? What are they doing to Nl
rule? What are they doing to have an economic
rule? What are they doing to Y N ot st en- T 1ale]
rule? What are they doing to Y N et e e R e ]
have an economic scenario that can
have an economic scenario that 1o 14
have an economic scenario that can support the country going
can support the country going forward? So,
can support the country going TR E O K T S
can support the country going IR EIO KA PRI A
can support the country going forward? So, it is very
forward? So, it Is very elailatlts
forward? So, it Is very difficult to predict
forward? So, it is very difficult to predict how the
difficult to predict how the situation
difficult to predict how the TR e R ld
difficult to predict how the situation will evolve .
difficult to predict how the R R RS L e
situation will evolve. At the e
situation will evolve. At the moment, the signals are not
moment, the signals are not really
moment, the signals are not (AN
moment, the signals are not really positive. Be it from the
really positive. Be it from the )
really positive. Be it from the LR
really positive. Be it from the side of what the government,
side of what the government, %l
side of what the government, LR
side of what the government, LR
side of what the government, led by the Islamic Emirates,
led by the Islamic Emirates, can
led by the Islamic Emirates, EhL N
led by the Islamic Emirates, I AL
led by the Islamic Emirates, can do, and a well
led by the Islamic Emirates, CUE AN R L
led by the Islamic Emirates, can do, and a well and how the
can do, and a well and how the e la e e I
can do, and a well and how the NGO E R s
can do, and a well and how the international community will
international community will have to find solutions to
have to find solutiens to support
have to find solutions to RO
have to find solutions to support the Afghan population
support the Afghan population 3
support the Afghan population inthe
support the Afghan population RGN hailatlid
support the Afghan population in the difficult and complex
in the difficult and complex situations everyone is facing.
situations everyone is facing. So, in
situations everyone is facing. LR
situations everyone is facing. So, in that prospect, for
So, in that prospect, for humanitarian
So, In that prospect, for humanitarian organisations such
humanitarian organisations such as
humanitarian organisations such LRI
humanitarian organisations such as us, the situation is very,
as us, the situation is very, very concerning. Is at the
RGN LR L [ Taliban
very concerning. Is at the Taliban showing any signs of
Taliban showing any signs of wanting to negotiate and
wanting to negotiate and W R Y
wanting to negotiate and co-operate with organisations
co-operate with organisations such as
co-operate with organisations ORI
co-operate with organisations R L L]
co-operate with organisations LR VLR U
co-operate with organisations such as yours, and other - you
such as yours, and other - you G
such as yours, and other - you e
such as yours, and other - you GTER I
such as yours, and other - you know - foreign investors and
know - foreign investors and I
know - foreign investors and foreign donors
know - foreign investors and CLRGERE
know - foreign investors and foreign donors in order to
foreign donors in order to ali0]
foreign donors in order to LRI
foreign donors in order to bring more - you know - aid
bring more - you know - aid coming
bring more - you know - aid RGN
bring more - you know - aid coming in, money coming in, so
coming in, money coming in, so that
coming in, money coming in, so GE R
coming in, money coming in, so that they can support the
that they can support the g
that they can support the economy going forward? From our
economy going forward? From our perspective
economy going forward? From our R
economy going forward? From our AT )
economy going forward? From our perspective as a humanitarian
perspective as a humanitarian organisation, and for the ICRC
organisation, and for the ICRC in particular, the
in particular, the collaboration
in particular, the o Lo e = e le e R Thda
in particular, the collaboration with the
collaboration with the government of the Islamic
government of the Islamic A
government of the Islamic A e Tle
government of the Islamic e e ar
government of the Islamic A e A R
Emirates at our level is ]
Emirates at our level is E LR il
Emirates at our level is working perfectly fine. We have
working perfectly fine. We have that
working perfectly fine. We have wEa
working perfectly fine. We have eI N
working perfectly fine. We have that level of trust
working perfectly fine. We have WA R R R
working perfectly fine. We have that level of trust that allows
that level of trust that allows us
that level of trust that allows TR )
that level of trust that allows us to work together.
that level of trust that allows TR GRS G TR Y
us to work together. We specifically
us to work together. We o LYul il (AT 14 3
us to work together. We specifically work very much
specifically work very much A
specifically work very much closely with the Ministry of
closely with the Ministry of I T
closely with the Ministry of Public Health, for instance.
Public Health, for instance. YiTae]
Public Health, for instance. R aa)
Public Health, for instance. With the present
With the present administration, and
With the present S (L R R
With the present administration, and we are
administration, and we are (a7
administration, and we are constructively building up
constructively building up programmes and progressing in
programmes and progressing in e aslaie sl
programmes and progressing in T et il e oLt 101y
programmes and progressing in our common endeavours support
our common endeavours support )
our commeon endeavours support e ]
our commeon endeavours support R R ]
our commeon endeavours support M R
our commeon endeavours support the service to be delivered to
the service to be delivered to )
the service to be delivered to the population. But, of course,
the population. But, of course, )
the population. But, of course, I
the population. But, of course, there are a
the population. But, of course, IR
the population. But, of course, R
the population. But, of course, there are a lot of negotiations
there are a lot of negotiations Y
there are a lot of negotiations L]
there are a lot of negotiations ]
there are a lot of negotiations RGPS O]
there are a lot of negotiations R LIRS R G 1
LI LT R R R [ governments of
LI LT R R R [ G R R
we going on between the governments of the world’s and
governments of the world’s and e
governments of the world’s and our government but there are a
DG I SN S G LR e
DG I SN S G LR N
our government but there are a lot of complex
our government but there are a R R RIS
our government but there are a R R S RENEA NG LC
our government but there are a lot of complex issues linked to
lot of complex issues linked to how
lot of complex issues linked to TR
lot of complex issues linked to how the sanctions are being
how the sanctions are being E LR
how the sanctions are being E[ T
how the sanctions are being applied, links to political
applied, links to political considerations,
applied, links to political W DL RS
applied, links to political considerations, links to
considerations, links to positioning of
considerations, links to WL
considerations, links to positioning of one or the other
positioning of one or the other el
positioning of one or the other Y e 10
positioning of one or the other which are making progress in
which are making progress in s
which are making progress in R A R R e A a1
terms of how the international community should
terms of how the international LI DA T GRS
terms of how the international community should be supporting
community should be supporting Y
community should be supporting a country like Afghanistan
a country like Afghanistan s
a country like Afghanistan links to the existing needs of
links to the existing needs of its population, and the
its population, and the reality.
LTIV E [T AT oy [ 5 U AR )
LTIV E [T AT oy [ reality. There is so
its populatien, and the reality. There is so much to
reality. There is so much to do.
reality. There is so much to 4
reality. There is so much to I
reality. There is so much to do. It is almost overwhelming.
do. It is almost overwhelming. Floise
do. It is almost overwhelming. Eloise Fillion, thank you for
Eloise Fillion, thank you for EIU]
Eloise Fillion, thank you for talking to us about the
talking to us about the situation at
talking to us about the R R
talking to us about the situation at that you are
situation at that you are LN
situation at that you are IR
situation at that you are missing in the Kabul.
They are known as the Super VR R ey
14 highest mountains.
Each one has a summit A R E 0l
Climbing all 14 is a badge of honour for any mountaineer,
and doing so in record time is the biggest honour
Now, a Norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just
that, as the BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Christian carries
ISR E R e
Christian carries a heavy burden.
Christian carries a heavy N
Christian carries a heavy burden. She has just finished
burden. She has just finished e N
burden. She has just finished I R G Y
burden. She has just finished scaling the 11th highest
scaling the 11th highest T ola sl
scaling the 11th highest mountain in
scaling the 11th highest R =B E s
scaling the 11th highest mountain in the world. But
scaling the 11th highest I IR R e I R
mountain in the world. But she can barely
mountain in the world. But she I G VA I
mountain in the world. But she UL IR RS
mountain in the world. But she U IR VR I
mountain in the world. But she UL G A R IR
can barely pause for a moment. I
can barely pause for a moment. LR GIEE
can barely pause for a moment. These things don’t climate
These things don’t climate NI IR )
These things don’t climate themselves. We have
These things don’t climate NI A Y]
These things don’t climate themselves. We have a couple of
themselves. We have a couple of a4
themselves. We have a couple of Rl
themselves. We have a couple of S ]
themselves. We have a couple of S LR
themselves. We have a couple of N L LR e
themselves. We have a couple of rock falls and the rest have
rock falls and the rest have T
rock falls and the rest have L
rock falls and the rest have XL LD
rock falls and the rest have been at logistical problems in
been at logistical problems in waiting times for climbing the
waiting times for climbing the T ola sl
waiting times for climbing the T Iola e R
waiting times for climbing the T Iole e Ml e
waiting times for climbing the e TR e e e
waiting times for climbing the e I )
waiting times for climbing the mountain has not been so - not
mountain has not been so - not )
mountain has not been so - not so much problems. Christian
so much problems. Christian i\
so much problems. Christian VA S
so much problems. Christian A
so much problems. Christian VAL R 1]
so much problems. Christian only took up mountain climbing
only took up mountain climbing seven
only took up mountain climbing D eI
only took up mountain climbing TR YR
only took up mountain climbing N R TS T1 4
only took up mountain climbing seven years ago, but she is
seven years ago, but she is WG
seven years ago, but she is CEVE]
seven years ago, but she is clearly a quick study and is
clearly a quick study and is Tl
clearly a quick study and is T R a]
clearly a quick study and is R R e
clearly a quick study and is now on course to complete one
now on course to complete one S a
now on course to complete one SRy
now on course to complete one of the sport’s
now on course to complete one of the sport’s most
now on course to complete one IRGEEY SR R R
of the sport’s most impressive Y
of the sport’s most impressive achievements. As everyone
achievements. As everyone (G
achievements. As everyone knows, Mount Everest is the
knows, Mount Everest is the iy
knows, Mount Everest is the world’s highest peak. At 8849
world’s highest peak. At 8849 R
world’s highest peak. At 8849 e L
world’s highest peak. At 8849 LT
world’s highest peak. At 8849 metres. There are 13 other
metres. There are 13 other mountains that
metres. There are 13 other T T R s E e a i)
metres. There are 13 other mountains that come in
metres. There are 13 other I ET R G E e - L
NS R TR G T I G R R i
mountains that come in at a height above
mountains that come in at a [T TR o]0)
mountains that come in at a height above 8000 metres, and
height above 8000 metres, and CeL3dls]
height above 8000 metres, and Kristin has claimed 11 of them.
Kristin has claimed 11 of them. Now,
Kristin has claimed 11 of them. A )
Kristin has claimed 11 of them. Now, she only has three more to
Now, she only has three more to o0
Now, she only has three more to RG]
Now, she only has three more to compete the set
Now, she only has three more to WSRO LC LG
Now, she only has three more to S S RO UC IR
compete the set and she wants to
compete the set and she wants e s le)
compete the set and she wants s Nid
compete the set and she wants I
compete the set and she wants R LR L A0
compete the set and she wants to do it as quickly as
to do it as quickly as [ N
to do it as quickly as possible. At the moment,
possible. At the moment, VEIES
possible. At the moment, Nepal’s man has the record and
Nepal’s man has the record and i
Nepal’s man has the record and TR ¢l ls]
Nepal’s man has the record and TGN
Nepal’s man has the record and if Kristin beats his time she
it Kristin beats his time she Y
it Kristin beats his time she R
if Kristin beats his time she Rl
if Kristin beats his time she R (T )
if Kristin beats his time she R T TG
it Kristin beats his time she hopes it will send quite a
(LTINS LGV U
hopes it will send quite a message. | think that is just -
message. | think that is just - TG
message. | think that is just - N GG
message. | think that is just - people believe that men are
people believe that men are )
people believe that men are more strong but in reality
more strong but in reality the women
more strong but in reality the NI
more strong but in reality the women are just as strong as the
women are just as strong as the men
women are just as strong as the P10
women are just as strong as the a1l
women are just as strong as the men are in the mountain, and
men are in the mountain, and )
men are in the mountain, and e
men are in the mountain, and ]
men are in the mountain, and there is no difference
men are in the mountain, and M N,
there is no difference between us. Kristin
there is no difference between T e
there is no difference between us. Kristin has until
there is no difference between T e Rl e d | BT Tat e - Ts
us. Kristin has until Nevember to
us. Kristin has until Nevember s
us. Kristin has until Nevember ]
us. Kristin has until November RN
us. Kristin has until November RIS A el
us. Kristin has until November RN e i
us. Kristin has until November RN At S ]
to set a new record. After a 144
to set a new record. After a quick trip home to Norway,
to set a new record. Aftera quick trip home to Norway, she
quick trip home to Norway, she il
quick trip home to Norway, she will head to Nepal and Tibet
will head to Nepal and Tibet e
will head to Nepal and Tibet TR
will head to Nepal and Tibet for the final phase. The last
for the final phase. The last super
for the final phase. The last L
for the final phase. The last super peaks in her super sites.
super peaks in her super sites. iR
super peaks in her super sites. LT G ELR
super peaks in her super sites. Tim Allman, BBC News. Well, it
Tim Allman, BBC News. Well, it il
Tim Allman, BBC News. Well, it IR
Tim Allman, BBC News. Well, it will be incredible
Tim Allman, BBC News. Well, it IR st -
Tim Allman, BBC News. Well, it will be incredible if she does
will be incredible if she does 3
will be incredible if she does Ty
will be incredible if she does T R
will be incredible if she does it achieve that. Let’s
will be incredible if she does (TG AR A S S T ]
it achieve that. Let’s bring you
it achieve that. Let’s bring O
it achieve that. Let’s bring IR R
it achieve that. Let’s bring you all of the sports news.
I’m Tulsen Tollett, and this IR IR R
where we start with Premier League football,
and a heated ending to the 2-2 draw at Stamford Bridge
between Chelsea and Tottenham that saw both managers sent
s
Thomas Tuchel and Antonio Conte had already received yellow
cards after a flare up earlier in the game,
at the conclusion saw both managers handed a red card.
It came after a Harry Kane goal six minutes into stoppage time
saw the match finish level, despite Chelsea holding
the advantage twice, and both managers played down
the incident after the game.
B[V
| just compared
| jJust compared to players who have
| jJust compared to players who )
| just compared to players who YU NN i
| just compared to players who FYCE NIRRT
| just compared to players who (EY NI R Tl
| just compared to players who (EN R A R T R 1)
have a bit of fight on the bill,
have a bit of fight on the 1[I
have a bit of fight on the bill, but nothing happens,
bill, but nothing happens, 1)
bill, but nothing happens, nobody gets
bill, but nothing happens, G NG R
bill, but nothing happens, nobody gets injured, and the
nobody gets injured, and the place, if you have a harder
place, if you have a harder &1
place, if you have a harder &l IR
place, if you have a harder tackle, or, fair tackle and you
tackle, or, fair tackle and you R4
tackle, or, fair tackle and you don’t go
tackle, or, fair tackle and you LR Y EL N
tackle, or, fair tackle and you don’t go later and apologise,
don’t go later and apologise, e
don’t go later and apologise, it is not
don’t go later and apologise, TR i
don’t go later and apologise, (AR A
don’t go later and apologise, (A A AR e
don’t go later and apologise, it is not it is Premier League
itis not it is Premier League ALl
itis not it is Premier League football. wWell,
itis not it is Premier League football. Well, Premier
it is not it is Premier League football. Well, Premier League
football. Well, Premier League football
football. Well, Premier League T oL B el sl
football. Well, Premier League football returned to
football. Well, Premier League L B e R )
football. Well, Premier League football returned to the city
football returned to the city Ll Ol
football returned to the city LIOTLLIETCY
football returned to the city ground after an absence.
Nothingham Forest secured
a 1-0 victory over West Ham.
Taiwo Awoniyi with the winner RN
Goalkeeper Dean Henderson saving a second-half penalty
from Declan Rice - another unforgettable day
for a side who were bottom RG]
12 months ago.
Later on Monday, Liverpool host L E Rl - i bl
LG G R LER TS T for their first win
of the new campaign.
at home by Arsenal on the opening day,
while Liverpool did
just enough to earn PRy A G
something their manager has been reflecting on.
You can
N R LR
You can lose a game, but you have
You can lose a game, but you R )
You can lose a game, but you have to learn from it and in
have to learn from it and in this
have to learn from it and in RN
have to learn from it and in RIS
have to learn from it and in this case, it is
have to learn from it and in NI AR w14
have to learn from it and in R AR (a1
this case, it is exactly the )
this case, it is exactly the NN )
this case, it is exactly the NN -
this case, it is exactly the NI N s
this case, it is exactly the same because it felt Llike
this case, it is exactly the same because it felt Like if
this case, it is exactly the AR A AR R
same because it felt Like if we o
same because it felt like if we would have
same because it felt like if we R L
same because it felt like if we would have lost it was
same because it felt Like if we would have lost it was exactly
would have lost it was exactly )
would have lost it was exactly QCR G
would have lost it was exactly QR
would have lost it was exactly the feeling | had when | left
the feeling | had when | left )
the feeling | had when | left the stadium,
the feeling | had when | left Rl P 01 4
the feeling | had when | left the stadium, but we
the feeling | had when | left R R G e
the stadium, but we didn’t. That
the stadium, but we didn’t. G A
the stadium, but we didn’t. That is the good news. We got a
That is the good news. We got a (i
That is the good news. We got a point. Now, let’s go.
Simona Halep has won the Canadian Open in Torento
after a tough three set win over Brazil’s Beatriz Haddad
The Romanian who’s now R i ke
S S GIL LT R (= taking the first set,
and despite losing the second, showed enough quile to claim
the 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 win and a 24th WTA title,
moves her back inside QR CRR R OR
While in the Canadian Masters in Montreal, Spaniard Pablo
TR E R R i R down to beat the eighth seeded
The Pole was unbeaten in five finals before this,
and Carreno Busta became R IR EM AR a1
Now let’s take you to Mexico City where families
gathered at one of Mexico’s fastest growing artistic
parades since the pandemic.
lkaba Koyl has this report.
Welcome to the Alebrijes Parade, where mythical animals
coated in dazzling bright colours dance the day away.
They are inspired VR UL G
Circus artists show off their skills on stilts
with gymnastics and music, and it’s a summer favourite
among young people.
But the event got interrupted because of the pandemic.
TRANSLATION: During the pandemic we locked
ourselves in.
Children did not go Ll
We adults did because we had to earn a living but the children
needed to get out.
Now that Iztapalapa is giving us this, we came to enjoy it.
The children can enjoy themselves and learn more
Each sculpture represents elements from different animals
and none are alike.
They call them the Alebrijes.
TRANSLATION: It is interesting to create and bring to life
those monsters that we might have in our dreams.
Everyone can build a creature but it does take up
At the end of the parade the Alebrijes are placed
on display and prizes are awarded for the best one.
It has become so popular in Mexico City, entire families
can’t resist taking part.
lkaba Koyi, BBC News.
Now, we have all of the top business
Now, we have all of the top R AN R 4
Now, we have all of the top business stories next including
business stories next including )
business stories next including et aa i Ty
business stories next including R TR g1
business stories next including the enoermous profits made
business stories next including the enermous profits made by
business stories next including the enoermous profits made by a
the enormous profits made by a I
the enoermous profits made by a Saudi Arabian company. Stay
Saudi Arabian company. Stay with us. |
Saudi Arabian company. Stay ORI R i
Saudi Arabian company. Stay with us. | will give
Saudi Arabian company. Stay with us. 1 will give you
Saudi Arabian company. Stay with us. | will give you the
with us. | will give you the et
with us. | will give you the details in
with us. | will give you the AL ]
with us. | will give you the AL
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
This is BBC News with the latest Business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
Printing money - the world’s largest oil exporter,
Saudi Aramco, makes over $48 billion in profits
in in the second quarter - that’s a 90% increase.
Japan’s economy continues to grow at a healthy pace,
seeing the third continuous I R R A E L
Plus, uncharted waters.
container vessel RIS e 72
A special report on this potential shipping revolution.
If you
VTV FA
If you have just joined us, L]
If you have just joined us, good to have
If you have just joined us, LR R EY R
If you have just joined us, good to have you with
If you have just joined us, LR R YR L IR LG RIS
We begin with the soaring IR R EO)A
AEN gyl &3 and central banks grapple
with rising inflation and a cost of living crisis,
the world’s biggest oil company
announces record-breaking N
LR DR Wy =LY XTI RS R A R e
than $48 billion in T R R G R e
quarter of this year.
The eye-watering sum marks a 90% year-on-year
increase and the biggest jump
in earnings for the world’s largest energy exporter
since its public listing three RN
But what is the outlook for oll prices this year and beyond?
LR E IR DRV I R T EEL N SIS
in the price
of energy worldwide - prices have come off the highs
reached earlier this year B R R e A e e
on the horizon in Europe and other key economies
globally, there are differing T LN R e RO R e
the price of the oll Is headed.
Let’s talk this through with Craig Erlam -
Senior Market Analyst at Oanda.
Senior Market Analyst at Oanda.
Aramco, huge sums of money made, and
Aramco, huge sums of money MEL I R
Aramco, huge sums of money made, and the boss says it is
made, and the boss says it is I
made, and the boss says it is R
made, and the boss says it is poised to raise output if asked
poised to raise output if asked to
poised to raise output if asked R0
poised to raise output if asked to by the
poised to raise output If asked to by the government to maximum
to by the government to maximum capacity of 12 million barrels
capacity of 12 million barrels Y
capacity of 12 million barrels a day, give us your outlook for
a day, give us your outlook for )
a day, give us your outlook for RN
a day, give us your outlook for QR R
a day, give us your outlook for G R R LK
a day, give us your outlook for the price of 0il? You summed it
the price of oil? You summed it up
the price of oil? You summed it TR
the price of oil? You summed it up quite well in the intro, its
up quite well in the intro, its eye watering,
up quite well in the intro, its SR I S
up quite well in the intro, its R U A G
up quite well in the intro, its eye watering, now one of the
eye watering, now one of the iy
eye watering, now one of the world’s largest companies and
world’s largest companies and P g I
world’s largest companies and exporters, we are seeing record
exporters, we are seeing record ey
exporters, we are seeing record IR 1
exporters, we are seeing record profits across the beard
exporters, we are seeing record profits across the board pretty
profits across the board pretty St 1ile1]
profits across the board pretty much in
profits across the board pretty e B R )
profits across the board pretty e BRI N
profits across the board pretty much in the oil sector, no
much in the oil sector, no A
much in the oil sector, no surprise that Saudi Aramco has
surprise that Saudi Aramco has Al
surprise that Saudi Aramco has e ]
surprise that Saudi Aramco has done the same,
surprise that Saudi Aramco has RO IR
surprise that Saudi Aramco has done the same, they had the
done the same, they had the potential to
done the same, they had the I S RIS
done the same, they had the IS R EIR Lo 108
done the same, they had the potential to raise output over
potential to raise output over )
potential to raise output over the last year but chosen not
the last year but chosen not il
the last year but chosen not to. That is one
the last year but chosen not IR AR NN
the last year but chosen not LR AN R
the last year but chosen not to. That is one of the things
to. That is one of the things that people may find
that people may find difficult to understand. In
that people may find difficult RIS R e 1 1Y
that people may find difficult to understand. |n terms of
that people may find difficult R NE IS LR R
to understand. In terms of the L)
to understand. In terms of the outlook for
to understand. In terms of the e i
to understand. In terms of the M S R
to understand. In terms of the outlook for oil it’s incredibly
outlook for oil it’s incredibly e e1:)]
outlook for oil it’s incredibly s e
outlook for oil it’s incredibly e IR )]
outlook for oil it’s incredibly uncertain as you can imagine,
uncertain as you can imagine, Y
uncertain as you can imagine, we do have an extremely tight
we do have an extremely tight iy
we do have an extremely tight while market because the market
while market because the market 3
while market because the market )
while market because the market is so strong
while market because the market XIS
while market because the market EES SN I 518
while market because the market is so strong but supply is not,
IR LTI IVA R [ ey
IR LTI IVA R [ e
IR LTI IVA R [ SOt R T
IR LTI IVA R [ therefore we have seen big
therefore we have seen big G
therefore we have seen big spikes in the price of oil as
spikes in the price of oil as )
spikes in the price of oil as everybody knows from
spikes in the price of oil as VA G R IRTE
spikes in the price of oil as everybody knows from when they
everybody knows from when they Ty
everybody knows from when they have been filling up their
have been filling up their 1
have been filling up their cars. We have
have been filling up their e L T
have been filling up their IR T
have been filling up their cars. We have seen a pullback
cars. We have seen a pullback 20% over
cars. We have seen a pullback IO A )
cars. We have seen a pullback 20% over the last month, driven
20% over the last month, driven by a
20% over the last month, driven ERGIT
20% over the last month, driven by a couple of factors, one the
by a couple of factors, one the fact
by a couple of factors, one the Ea )
by a couple of factors, one the Elal )
by a couple of factors, one the fact we are seeing demand
fact we are seeing demand starting
fact we are seeing demand Sl iR
fact we are seeing demand starting to subside the demand
starting to subside the demand i) 4
starting to subside the demand i
starting to subside the demand e SR A
starting to subside the demand outlook is subside in many
outlook is subside in many T
outlook is subside in many cases, the
outlook is subside in many CI IR ORI
outlook is subside in many CI IR G- A
outlook is subside in many cases, the threat of recession
cases, the threat of recession and
cases, the threat of recession LR Gy
cases, the threat of recession R a4
cases, the threat of recession and that’s not really
cases, the threat of recession LRGN A (VA
cases, the threat of recession and that’s not really why we
and that’s not really why we e
and that’s not really why we want to
and that’s not really why we N R )
and that’s not really why we N RN
and that’s not really why we want to see prices falling but
want to see prices falling but that
want to see prices falling but G A
want to see prices falling but eI AR Y
want to see prices falling but that is the reality
want to see prices falling but AR G CE UG
want to see prices falling but that is the reality here, it
that is the reality here, it always
that is the reality here, it E[CZL I
that is the reality here, it always buys time for these oil
always buys time for these oil producers
always buys time for these olil IO IER )
always buys time for these olil producers to catch up
producers to catch up production targets which they
production targets which they weren’t able to
production targets which they e NE L RN
production targets which they N NE L RO i
production targets which they weren’t able to hit after years
weren’t able to hit after years N
weren’t able to hit after years of underinvestment, and the
of underinvestment, and the A
of underinvestment, and the surprise surge in demand we saw
surprise surge in demand we saw 3
surprise surge in demand we saw inthe
surprise surge in demand we saw in the aftermath
surprise surge in demand we saw RGN i 0t B R
surprise surge in demand we saw RO i e B )
in the aftermath of the pandemic,
In the aftermath of the pandemic, hopefully
in the aftermath of the pandemic, hopefully this has
pandemic, hopefully this has TG
pandemic, hopefully this has bought some time look Like we
bought some time look like we o
bought some time look like we would see price spikes a few
would see price spikes a few months ago and keep oil and
months ago and keep oil and W R
months ago and keep oil and double-digit territory. It is
double-digit territory. It is 9]
double-digit territory. It is tricky to
double-digit territory. It is (o SRR |
double-digit territory. It is (o SRR o = ]
double-digit territory. It is tricky to predict and so
tricky to predict and so important to get it right for
Iyh gl a8 iy e |
Iyh gl a8 iy e B
Iyh gl a8 iy central banks making
[yh gl Rl aids central banks making decisions
central banks making decisions FYe L
central banks making decisions YR e
central banks making decisions AR R a
central banks making decisions about interest rates in
central banks making decisions A R TR R
=L NN LA NG months ahead and
about interest rates in the months ahead and governments
months ahead and governments in s
months ahead and governments in el
months ahead and governments in R A
months ahead and governments in R AU
months ahead and governments in terms of how they can help
terms of how they can help a3
terms of how they can help households cope with the cost
households cope with the cost of
households cope with the cost AL
households cope with the cost ARG
households cope with the cost of living prices, which is to a
of living prices, which is to a great degree, driven by the
great degree, driven by the W
great degree, driven by the G 134
great degree, driven by the high cost of energy?
high cost of energy? Absolutely, it’s difficult for
Absolutely, it’s difficult for government
Absolutely, it’s difficult for AT
Absolutely, it’s difficult for government what they don’t want
government what they don’t want 1y
government what they don’t want VRSN 0]
government what they don’t want VT e 1
government what they don’t want be supporting the use of fossil
be supporting the use of fossil G
be supporting the use of fossil fuels so they want to walk a
fuels so they want to walk a fine
fuels so they want to walk a R
fuels so they want to walk a MRS
fuels so they want to walk a fine line between supporting
fine line between supporting families and businesses through
families and businesses through difficult. But also not wanting
difficult. But also not wanting to
difficult. But also not wanting el e )
difficult. But also not wanting to incentivise demand in these
to incentivise demand in these I YTy
to incentivise demand in these areas especially when we look
areas especially when we look 1
areas especially when we look YR 1
areas especially when we look R e A
areas especially when we look at what is happening with
at what is happening with regards to Russia right now,
regards to Russia right now, R
regards to Russia right now, G a1
regards to Russia right now, that’s not what they want to
regards to Russia right now, ORI RIS AN R R
that’s not what they want to be doing so trying to find a fine
doing so trying to find a fine line
doing so trying to find a fine MRS
doing so trying to find a fine line between stimulating
line between stimulating SN
line between stimulating demand, and supporting
demand, and supporting households which is finding so
households which is finding so challenging. But the outlook is
challenging. But the outlook is )
challenging. But the outlook is R0l
challenging. But the outlook is so incredibly uncertain at
challenging. But the outlook is RO A IR R Gl
so incredibly uncertain at this Lilis
so incredibly uncertain at this LAl
so incredibly uncertain at this point in time because of
so incredibly uncertain at this LRI S VR R U
point in time because of the global environment we are in
global environment we are in and
global environment we are in R )
global environment we are in LRGN
global environment we are in DR e 0la
global environment we are in and the sheer amount of
and the sheer amount of e la %1018
and the sheer amount of uncertainty with regard to the
uncertainty with regard to the war in
uncertainty with regard to the AR )
uncertainty with regard to the AR A s
uncertainty with regard to the AR EI s R s
uncertainty with regard to the war in Ukraine and the ongoing
war in Ukraine and the ongoing P i ai ]
war in Ukraine and the ongoing P e
war in Ukraine and the ongoing G N R A )
war in Ukraine and the ongoing aftermath of the global
aftermath of the global pandemic. All of these factors
pandemic. All of these factors into the oil price and makes
into the oll price and makes )
into the oll price and makes QR0
into the oll price and makes QI
into the oil price and makes the job of central banks more
the job of central banks more difficult, they
the job of central banks more ol il 0] R R Y ]
the job of central banks more difficult, they tend to look
difficult, they tend to look past energy prices that is
past energy prices that is worth noting
past energy prices that is GBS
past energy prices that is worth noting but there are
worth noting but there are e
worth noting but there are other fix
worth noting but there are NG R)
worth noting but there are MU R G R
worth noting but there are NSRRI R
other fix the cost to AN YR ]
other fix the cost to businesses when they had to
businesses when they had to pass on
businesses when they had to R R IR OIS
businesses when they had to pass on prices this has a
pass on prices this has a Eluisld
pass on prices this has a Eluee s
pass on prices this has a Elar R
pass on prices this has a Elat R R )
pass on prices this has a Ela R e R r Y
pass on prices this has a factor in the course size of
factor in the course size of inflation which central
G AN R G R T R N inflation which central banks
inflation which central banks W)Y
inflation which central banks pay close attention to. | think
pay close attention to. I think )
pay close attention to. | think N AN Y
pay close attention to. | think the considerable uncertainty
the considerable uncertainty il
the considerable uncertainty (N1esY%
the considerable uncertainty will carry on until
the considerable uncertainty AN E 4
the considerable uncertainty (T A N (S G R
the considerable uncertainty (W A NS G L R
will carry on until the end of )
will carry on until the end of the year
will carry on until the end of G
will carry on until the end of ORI LR
will carry on until the end of the year and until 2023 as
the year and until 2023 as N
Joining me now RO ELLC R
Global Power & Energy Research Director at Frost and Sullivan.
If we just talk about Aramce,
If we just talk about Aramco, WIS
If we just talk about Aramco, WILEEH
If we just talk about Aramco, huge sums of money made, the
huge sums of money made, the wWpi]eElp
huge sums of money made, the S EIV R
huge sums of money made, the company says it is poised to
company says it is poised to Nl F L)
company says it is poised to increase output daily. There is
increase output daily. There is Y
increase output daily. There is A
increase output daily. There is A
increase output daily. There is R T
increase output daily. There is R I -]
increase output daily. There is a lot of pressure on Saudi
a lot of pressure on Saudi YT IE]
a lot of pressure on Saudi Arabia and OPEC to increase
Arabia and OPEC to increase N
Arabia and OPEC to increase provision of
Arabia and OPEC to increase R Rl
Arabia and OPEC to increase DR R
Arabia and OPEC to increase provision of oil on global
provision of oil on global R
provision of oil on global I Rt
provision of oil on global IR L
provision of oil on global IR A
provision of oil on global I R B AR R TNl
provision of oil on global R R N AR s B
markets but it is limited in s
markets but it is limited in R
markets but it is limited in IO R BTN
markets but it is limited in OB DR o Lel
terms of increasing capacity? As Craig said,
terms of increasing capacity? XN AEIL T 1]
terms of increasing capacity? As Craig said, there is
As Craig said, there is e
As Craig said, there is potential of Saudi Aramco
potential of Saudi Aramco e e sl
potential of Saudi Aramco s R
potential of Saudi Aramco wanted to significantly
wanted to significantly RTee )
wanted to significantly R L
wanted to significantly increase output, and the
increase output, and the AL
UGNV (T T oy [ kingdom but the
UGNV (T T oy [ LG N TR CT Y
increase output, and the kingdom but the reality is that
kingdom but the reality is that )
kingdom but the reality is that RN
kingdom but the reality is that QR R
kingdom but the reality is that QR 0]
kingdom but the reality is that the price of $100 a barrel
the price of $100 a barrel a1l
the price of $100 a barrel LR R
the price of $100 a barrel worked well for Saudi Aramco
worked well for Saudi Aramco T
worked well for Saudi Aramco )
worked well for Saudi Aramco has a company means they
worked well for Saudi Aramco R E I AU LR U S A1
has a company means they can )
has a company means they can make significant profits
make significant profits now, )
make significant profits now, I b
make significant profits now, there are downsides coming in
there are downsides coming in s
there are downsides coming in R A R
there are downsides coming in terms of how the Russia
there are downsides coming in R R N AR E T
terms of how the Russia Ukraine war
terms of how the Russia Ukraine T s 8 a0y
terms of how the Russia Ukraine T s 8 T - e
terms of how the Russia Ukraine war continues to unfold and
war continues to unfeld and )
war continues to unfold and IR
war continues to unfold and also the slowdown in the global
also the slowdown in the global g
also the slowdown in the global economy which will take the
economy which will take the T ¥td
economy which will take the FIE It
economy which will take the Y e a
economy which will take the I adi
economy which will take the heat out of oil prices and
heat out of oil prices and could see some falls in the
could see some falls in the e
could see some falls in the latter part of
could see some falls in the FlC RO
could see some falls in the I AU LS
could see some falls in the F R R U R IR
latter part of the year into 2023,
latter part of the year into 2023. From their perspective
2023. From their perspective pushing
2023. From their perspective LG
2023. From their perspective pushing up production is
pushing up production is probably not a big priority the
probably not a big priority the price is roughly where they
price is roughly where they e
price is roughly where they want it
price is roughly where they N A
price is roughly where they want it now. Where
price is roughly where they T i AR )
price is roughly where they T A AR YR R T
price is roughly where they want it now. Where are you in
want it now. Where are you in s
want it now. Where are you in el
want it now. Where are you in RO R i
want it now. Where are you in terms of what you
want it now. Where are you in R RIS VLG
terms of what you are predicting the price of oil
predicting the price of oil il
predicting the price of oil will do this
predicting the price of oil R GIERCELS
predicting the price of oil W R L
predicting the price of oil (W SRR L Rl
predicting the price of oil (R QR I LR RO
will do this year and into the ey
will do this year and into the new year
will do this year and into the (Al T
will do this year and into the new year because we have just
new year because we have just e |
new year because we have just R e
new year because we have just T R T
new year because we have just mentioned there are differing
mentioned there are differing YN
mentioned there are differing T 1 )
mentioned there are differing views, one says oil prices
views, one says oil prices i
views, one says oil prices e GE
views, one says oil prices could be around $85 a barrel
could be around $85 a barrel and
could be around $85 a barrel R
could be around $85 a barrel and you look
could be around $85 a barrel R G
could be around $85 a barrel and you look at Goldman Sachs
and you look at Goldman Sachs they
and you look at Goldman Sachs QS ATV
and you look at Goldman Sachs they say well over $100 and
SSRGS (VT T R
they say well over $100 and that’s a
SSRGS (VT T O R
they say well over $100 and that’s a big difference, in
that’s a big difference, in s
that’s a big difference, in RO R i
that’s a big difference, in terms of what it
that’s a big difference, in RO R e aiaii
that’s a big difference, in RO R LR R e
that’s a big difference, in ISR R AR e S
terms of what it will cost all N
terms of what it will cost all A
terms of what it will cost all of us trying to keep our homes,
of us trying to keep our homes, etc?
of us trying to keep our homes, Al
of us trying to keep our homes, A ar
of us trying to keep our homes, Al A F]
of us trying to keep our homes, etc? It is a big difference, it
etc? It is a big difference, it s
etc? It is a big difference, it is challenging to predict or
s challenging to predict or i)
s challenging to predict or TR
s challenging to predict or I AR E]
s challenging to predict or IR U R
s challenging to predict or prices I’ve been in this
prices I’ve been in this (Y
prices I’ve been in this LGS GF]
prices I’ve been in this industry a long time and | have
industry a long time and | have L
industry a long time and | have LN
industry a long time and | have seen prices approach to hundred
seen prices approach to hundred and $20 a barrel and the
and $20 a barrel and the 11
and $20 a barrel and the reality we
and $20 a barrel and the (e AT RIS
and $20 a barrel and the reality we think is little
reality we think is little probably be in the 90
reality we think is Little probably be in the 90 - 100
probably be in the 90 - 100 EULER
probably be in the 90 - 100 EU IR GO
probably be in the 90 - 100 range, there are varying
range, there are varying amounts
range, there are varying e 0l e
range, there are varying I RS S
range, there are varying IS S CRE
range, there are varying amounts of upside and downside
amounts of upside and downside effect probably keeping it in
effect probably keeping it in that range, that’s where we see
that range, that’s where we see 3
that range, that’s where we see it setting
that range, that’s where we see (TS g
that range, that’s where we see it setting but obviously, this
it setting but obviously, this Ty
it setting but obviously, this means that energy costs
't setting but obviously, this means that energy costs are
means that energy costs are L
means that energy costs are going to stay considerably high
going to stay considerably high e
going to stay considerably high T ]
going to stay considerably high TR R L
going to stay considerably high for the foreseeable future,
for the foreseeable future, Yt (1
for the foreseeable future, especially a lot of the big
especially a lot of the big N
especially a lot of the big energy costs
especially a lot of the big O RS EELTEG)
energy costs headlined especially in
energy costs headlined Y AL
energy costs headlined especially in Europe are
energy costs headlined AR O LR LA UG
G LTI VAT AV RN L to gas
especially in Europe are linked LR (-1
especially in Europe are linked to gas prices and that is
to gas prices and that is partly decoupled on this, there
partly decoupled on this, there Py
partly decoupled on this, there e
partly decoupled on this, there IR R e ]
partly decoupled on this, there are other factors which will
are other factors which will (G
are other factors which will [ R R
are other factors which will (S R R A R LY
keep those prices especially high
keep those prices especially L
keep those prices especially high at the moment. The world’s
high at the moment. The world’s higgest oil
high at the moment. The world’s biggest oil companies, BP,
biggest oil companies, BP, Aramco, mobile
biggest oil companies, BP, Yl PR T Rl
biggest oil companies, BP, Aramco, mobile will continue to
Aramco, mobile will continue to R )
Aramco, mobile will continue to make huge amounts of the
make huge amounts of the LN
make huge amounts of the O LT
make huge amounts of the profits. The leader of
make huge amounts of the TR L CEL R RO
profits. The leader of the Labor Party Keir Starmer
Labor Party Keir Starmer calling
Labor Party Keir Starmer = (LG
Labor Party Keir Starmer | HENRGT
Labor Party Keir Starmer calling on the taxes on profits
calling on the taxes on profits made by the likes of BP
calling on the taxes on profits NEL R AU U X R L
made by the likes of BP and N
made by the likes of BP and i TR
made by the likes of BP and Shell, what do you think about
Shell, what do you think about that
Shell, what do you think about G ENETGT T 4
Shell, what do you think about that argument? Politically,
that argument? Politically, e
that argument? Politically, ]
that argument? Politically, it’s a good
that argument? Politically, (N LG RN
that argument? Politically, it’s a good move because it
(LRI [ 1Tl [N LT T il
(LRI [ 1Tl [N LT T will put
(LRI [ 1Tl [N LT T (&
it’s a good move because it will put a distance between him
will put a distance between him and
will put a distance between him R )
will put a distance between him N R R e e 2 )
will put a distance between him and the Conservative party, and
and the Conservative party, and )
and the Conservative party, and be popular
and the Conservative party, and (R T T EIR )]
and the Conservative party, and be popular with a lot of
be popular with a lot of TGN
be popular with a lot of people. These are businesses
people. These are businesses that do
people. These are businesses LI B
people. These are businesses LI R E R
people. These are businesses LI EN R e )
people. These are businesses that do have to make money to a
that do have to make money to a NG
that do have to make money to a O RO
that do have to make money to a degree they have to do future
degree they have to do future T e
degree they have to do future T 1 s
degree they have to do future T A )
investment and have shareholders
investment and have I GRS
investment and have shareholders there is only so
shareholders there is only so 1
shareholders there is only so IR
shareholders there is only so far you want to put a wonderful
far you want to put a wonderful e
far you want to put a wonderful tax on energy companies that
tax on energy companies that il
tax on energy companies that IR
tax on energy companies that R E R ]
tax on energy companies that R ORI
tax on energy companies that will have to reinvest, but that
will have to reinvest, but that 3
will have to reinvest, but that )
will have to reinvest, but that R A (i)
will have to reinvest, but that is a very strong line to take
LR B I R LR (R ] 1
LR B I R LR (R ] R )
is a very strong line to take RGN
is a very strong line to take at the moment, politically.
at the moment, politically. e
at the moment, politically. R
at the moment, politically. Cost of living top of
at the moment, politically. A ARG R G
Cost of Living top of the LU
Cost of Living top of the agenda for all of them.
The soaring price of energy is impacting most key economies
For the world’s third biggest - Japan - we’ve just had
the fastest figures on economic growth.
It saw expansion of 2.2%
in the months of April L LTI
Bumper growth was expected as Japan eased Covid
restrictions in March and pent up consumer demand was met.
But what lies ahead with concerns about the impact
of a global economic slowdown and a resurgence of Covid-19
cases in Japan.
The government in Japan has called a meeting
today to respond to the risks.
Let’s go live to Shizuoka and discuss this with
Seljiro Takeshita who is at there at University.
These economic growth numbers ey
These economic growth numbers N d
These economic growth numbers were lower on project did, give
were lower on project did, give us
were lower on project did, give R0l
were lower on project did, give TR R LG
were lower on project did, give us your take on how Japan is
us your take on how Japan is L
us your take on how Japan is going at
us your take on how Japan is LIS O
us your take on how Japan is going at the moment? The
going at the moment? The a1l 10
going at the moment? The a1l e
going at the moment? The numbers are slightly below the
numbers are slightly below the expectation,
numbers are slightly below the AL
numbers are slightly below the L A R
numbers are slightly below the expectation, lots of demand
expectation, lots of demand ]
expectation, lots of demand NNk e
expectation, lots of demand came back quite
expectation, lots of demand R L TR 0
came back quite nicely especially in the service area
especially in the service area el
especially in the service area which had been stagnated for
which had been stagnated for I
which had been stagnated for quite some time partly because
quite some time partly because of
quite some time partly because SRy
quite some time partly because SRR
quite some time partly because SR AN R
quite some time partly because of the success of conservatism
of the success of conservatism -
of the success of conservatism by the Japanese
of the success of conservatism RGP N R e
by the Japanese people N
by the Japanese people themselves and
by the Japanese people TSR RS T
themselves and excessively 1A I
themselves and excessively cautious government that
cautious government that basically held
cautious government that CERIE (A G
cautious government that basically held off, especially
basically held off, especially a0
basically held off, especially i T
basically held off, especially I T e
basically held off, especially service areas especially in
service areas especially in I YTy
IR TN LT ELV Y I I
IR TN LT ELV Y AR R
IR TN LT ELV Y areas like travel. What
IR TN LT ELV Y I AR R LR A
IR TN LT EIN A e AN R R L AR
areas like travel. What is the government
areas like travel. What is the ALY
areas like travel. What is the A ATC AN
areas like travel. What is the AN A S TR GER LI
government likely to announce today, they
PTG AT CRGER LI T UV ARG L
PTG AT CRGER LI T today, they are having a
today, they are having a meeting
today, they are having a W ESLELY
today, they are having a NGRS
today, they are having a SN LRL R
today, they are having a meeting in terms of measures
meeting in terms of measures they may introduce to help
they may introduce to help economic growth? One of the
economic growth? One of the ey
economic growth? One of the e R )
economic growth? One of the et R N )
economic growth? One of the worries we have is
economic growth? One of the IR EXR RN o]
worries we have is surging inflation, a word
worries we have is surging T {F A R O B )
worries we have is surging inflation, a word we haven’t
inflation, a word we haven’t heard for two decades, |
heard for two decades, | N e
heard for two decades, | N R s
heard for two decades, | remember when |
heard for two decades, | NI SR R E )
heard for two decades, | NI SR AR
heard for two decades, | remember when | made a speech
remember when | made a speech two
remember when | made a speech RYETES
remember when | made a speech two years ago people were
two years ago people were laughing at me, when | used
laughing at me, when | used that word.
laughing at me, when | used WEIR ]
laughing at me, when | used that word. Is a shocker
laughing at me, when | used MBI O LR i e T )
laughing at me, when | used that word. Is a shocker to cope
that word. Is a shocker to cope with
that word. Is a shocker to cope R )
that word. Is a shocker to cope T RNy
that word. Is a shocker to cope T RN N
that word. Is a shocker to cope T R AR e E
with the rise of material el
with the rise of material prices is certainly something
prices is certainly something Y
prices Is certainly something we have to cope with. This
prices is certainly something we have to cope with. This is
we have to cope with. This is XY EI L
we have to cope with. This is separated by the war in Russia
separated by the war in Russia and
separated by the war in Russia LRI
separated by the war in Russia LRI
separated by the war in Russia NGRS e T
separated by the war in Russia and Ukraine -- Ukraine and
and Ukraine -- Ukraine and [ ITAE]
and Ukraine -- Ukraine and S ITAEE]
RO RNAET Rl TR L AR R
RO RNAET Rl TR L Russia in the global
and Ukraine -- Ukraine and Russia in the global supply
Russia in the global supply problem which
Russia in the global supply SO RIS
Russia in the global supply problem which raises prices in
problem which raises prices in Nyakane, the war between China
Nyakane, the war between China and
Nyakane, the war between China R )
Nyakane, the war between China IR R sl
Nyakane, the war between China and the United States, and we
and the United States, and we have labour shortages is as
have labour shortages Is as ol
have labour shortages is as well so
have labour shortages is as IR )
have labour shortages is as IR N e
have labour shortages is as well so we have trouble
well so we have trouble watching
well so we have trouble NI
well so we have trouble watching as far as negativity
watching as far as negativity N
watching as far as negativity R
watching as far as negativity of the future is concerned. We
of the future is concerned. We it
of the future is concerned. We might see
of the future is concerned. We DTN T 11
of the future is concerned. We might see further shutdown
might see further shutdown T )
might see further shutdown R
might see further shutdown R
might see further shutdown Y NN 1RSI
might see further shutdown because we are seeing a
because we are seeing a resurgence of Covid-19, there
resurgence of Covid-19, there Py
resurgence of Covid-19, there ]
resurgence of Covid-19, there e
resurgence of Covid-19, there R
resurgence of Covid-19, there N R R A
resurgence of Covid-19, there are a lot of anxieties and
are a lot of anxieties and question
are a lot of anxieties and IR EILS
are a lot of anxieties and question marks to be answered
question marks to be answered Tee I8t
question marks to be answered T E I L
question marks to be answered from here onwards. What is the
from here onwards. What is the government likely to do
from here onwards. What is the W EN NS VAGE R
from here onwards. What is the WSO R R R isY
government Likely to do to try and
OGN R CIR GG R G Y N e e e
OGN R CIR GG R G Y N e Tl e e Y
OGN R CIR GG R G Y N e T e - e X
OGN R CIR GG R G Y IR N Al
and counter those risks? The ey
and counter those risks? The TSRl e
and counter those risks? The TR
and counter those risks? The new cabinet is a
and counter those risks? The ALY R
and counter those risks? The new cabinet is a very factional
new cabinet is a very factional e
new cabinet is a very factional lead cabinet, they are going
lead cabinet, they are going e
lead cabinet, they are going for balance
lead cabinet, they are going T EIE e N e
lead cabinet, they are going for balance rather than growth,
for balance rather than growth, |
for balance rather than growth, IR R e
for balance rather than growth, | don’t there will be in my
| don’t there will be in my T NEL
| don’t there will be in my personal opinion transitional
personal opinion transitional LR
personal opinion transitional changes, that said they will
changes, that said they will Ty
changes, that said they will VR ]
changes, that said they will have to clarify the stance is
have to clarify the stance is 1
have to clarify the stance is TS
have to clarify the stance is TN s
have to clarify the stance is I IR R
have to clarify the stance is TV LR RGN o
have to clarify the stance is Mr Abe did in the past about
Mr Abe did in the past about Japan’s standpoint as far as
Japan’s standpoint as far as L
Japan’s standpoint as far as energy is
Japan’s standpoint as far as O AR N I )
Japan’s standpoint as far as energy is concerned because
energy is concerned because that
energy is concerned because G A
energy is concerned because eI AR Y
energy is concerned because that is the acute problem we
that is the acute problem we Py
that is the acute problem we are getting from the Russian
are getting from the Russian aggression and for that reason
aggression and for that reason |
aggression and for that reason K14
aggression and for that reason | think Japan has to
aggression and for that reason I think Japan has to sustain
I think Japan has to sustain and
I think Japan has to sustain R ELN03
I think Japan has to sustain and clarify that position, that
and clarify that position, that 3
and clarify that position, that )
and clarify that position, that is one thing
and clarify that position, that R NCR QIR G
and clarify that position, that is one thing the Prime Minister
s one thing the Prime Minister has
s one thing the Prime Minister TR )
s one thing the Prime Minister has to clarify before
s one thing the Prime Minister R R E A S GG
s one thing the Prime Minister has to clarify before he goes
has to clarify before he goes ]
has to clarify before he goes oh to
has to clarify before he goes MR e
has to clarify before he goes on to another stage. Thank you,
on to another stage. Thank you, Y
on to another stage. Thank you, L
on to another stage. Thank you, we shall watch with interest.
Now, to the uneven pace of China’s economic recovery.
Fla (IR TR VSR ] industrial output expanding
by 3.8% in July from a year earlier,
but that is lower than the 4.6%
estimate by analysts.
And when it comes to what China’s consumers are up
to, well, retail sales grew by 2.7% which again
s lower than expected.
Let’s go to our Asia business hub and Joao Da Silva...
This shows just how fragile the economic
This shows just how fragile the (AN 18
This shows just how fragile the economic recovery in China is,
economic recovery in China is, to key economic indicators
to key economic indicators LI eaEll
to key economic indicators industrial output and retail
industrial output and retail sales coming
industrial output and retail X R IR
industrial output and retail sales coming well below
R IR eI
R IR e R
sales coming well below S R LG
expectations of analysts, L]
expectations of analysts, showing that domestic
showing that domestic manufacturing continues to
manufacturing continues to underperform in the world’s
underperform in the world’s Yo sl
underperform in the world’s second economy,
underperform in the world’s R e T 31 AR
underperform in the world’s second economy, officials have
second economy, officials have taken
second economy, officials have AR
second economy, officials have taken note of
second economy, officials have EI NN A
second economy, officials have taken note of this they say
taken note of this they say that
taken note of this they say GE RN I8
taken note of this they say that the recovery continues but
that the recovery continues but ey
that the recovery continues but its foundation is
that the recovery continues but R A e Bl
that the recovery continues but its foundation is not solid.
its foundation is not solid. el e
its foundation is not solid. Economic growth
its foundation is not solid. T [ R
its foundation is not solid. Economic growth in China is of
Economic growth in China is of e
Economic growth in China is of course facing
Tyl ORI RG T E R course facing multiple risks,
course facing multiple risks, S a1 e
course facing multiple risks, TSR
course facing multiple risks, R )
course facing multiple risks, whether we are talking about
whether we are talking about EIg
whether we are talking about major manufacturing centres or
major manufacturing centres or tourist destinations, Chinese
tourist destinations, Chinese ey
tourist destinations, Chinese )
tourist destinations, Chinese cities are facing strict
cities are facing strict pandemic lockdowns in this
pandemic lockdowns in this B
pandemic lockdowns in this BT
pandemic lockdowns in this B R e il
pandemic lockdowns in this R R R il el Y
latest data reflects the SOl
latest data reflects the disruption and uncertain she
disruption and uncertain she )
disruption and uncertain she the situation is
disruption and uncertain she QN OE R A R
disruption and uncertain she GO L RN - )
the situation is creating, a reminder
the situation is creating, a s TR e
the situation is creating, a reminder that in
the situation is creating, a I (R E R R
the situation is creating, a reminder that in the June
reminder that in the June quarter, China’s economy
quarter, China’s economy narrowly
quarter, China’s economy narrowly escaped
quarter, China’s economy RGN K
quarter, China’s economy narrowly escaped a contraction,
narrowly escaped a contraction, )
narrowly escaped a contraction, R s EL G
narrowly escaped a contraction, so policymakers in China
narrowly escaped a contraction, R s LA RO LG
so policymakers in China are very much focused on pushing up
very much focused on pushing up el 1o
very much focused on pushing up economic growth this morning we
economic growth this morning we YT
economic growth this morning we had the unexpected announcement
had the unexpected announcement e iR
had the unexpected announcement TR e el
had the unexpected announcement from the central bank
had the unexpected announcement TR R i N &L
had the unexpected announcement TR e R S
from the central bank it is (YIS
from the central bank it is lowering interest rates but at
lowering interest rates but at )
lowering interest rates but at T
lowering interest rates but at TN
lowering interest rates but at NN
(IO ELC R EL R T 1 QLN R R G R
(IO ELC R EL R T 1 QL R A R G O I A
the same time the government is very much focused on the zero
very much focused on the zero Covid-19
very much focused on the zero LR T )]
very much focused on the zero WL T E T R o)
very much focused on the zero LR EE G R CR G L
Covid-19 approach to the pandemic and
Covid-19 approach to the ERLEIEEL R OIS
Covid-19 approach to the pandemic and this is the
pandemic and this is the balancing act that has this
balancing act that has this B
balancing act that has this BT
balancing act that has this BRI e R
balancing act that has this latest data shows is becoming
latest data shows is becoming increasingly challenging. Thank
increasingly challenging. Thank you
increasingly challenging. Thank TR R [ie)
increasingly challenging. Thank you so much for
increasingly challenging. Thank TR I R ()
increasingly challenging. Thank you so much for the details on
you so much for the details on that.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Regulated train fares in England will rise below
the rate of inflation next year to help people with the cost
RN [Ny IN QNG ENG ELEE I
Before the Covid pandemic, fares were raised in January
each year, based on the retail prices index measure
of inflation from RO
As well as being lower than RPI, the increase will be
delayed until March.
The City of London has seen the highest number
of restaurant closures in the UK since the beginning
QB G ERE ]
One in seven businesses there shutting down as the switch
N R = G T RS
RGO RIEsEI R
Before the coronavirus pandemic, the capital
was adding restaurants, bucking a trend for closures
HEGLERER G Rie
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: ISR et R o
An all-electric and crewless e e R R
I WL Z )R
A special report on this potential shipping revolution.
Washington, the world’s most political city,
is today assessing the political health
of the world’s most powerful man.
LULLL RN have a relationship
with Ms Lewinsky that was not appropriate.
In fact, it was wrong.
In Seuth Africa, 97 people have been killed today,
in one of the worst days SR
between rival Black groups.
Over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
MAN: Czechoslovakia R R
CROWD CHANT: Czechoslovakia R R
Russia is observing a national day of mourning
IR QTR ET ) gl (6 N IR Rl RN (el
We are all with them now, within our hearts.
The Pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more
than 2.5 million people R R Al o
"Stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"Well, well,” joked the Pope,
"so, you want me I el L YA
A year on from the Taliban retaking control of
Afghanistan, its women and girls are still being
denied education and employment.
Sir Salman Rushdie’s family say NG RO R R I A
but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge
about the man charged N R e @
Most of us have heard about self-driving cars
and trains, but could un-manned ships soon navigate the seas?
Well, we’re going to Norway now, where an all-electric -
and what’s expected to be - first autonomous, container
ship, is beginning the first steps of a two-year pilot.
From Porsgrunn in southern Norway, Adrienne Murray
has this report.
aNHnT
WL Y
Cruising quietly through
SN DRG]
Cruising quietly through a Norwegian field, this ship is
Norwegian field, this ship is yEL b
Norwegian field, this ship is making waves. It is sailing to
making waves. It is sailing to Y
making waves. It is sailing to a nearby
making waves. It is sailing to R LA e
making waves. It is sailing to a nearby port on a
making waves. It is sailing to a nearby port on a voyage
making waves. It is sailing to N EE A A R L R L
a nearby port on a voyage that 3
a nearby port on a voyage that )
a nearby port on a voyage that TR B
a nearby port on a voyage that TR I - 4
a nearby port on a voyage that is a mission. At this
is @ mission. At this T e e
is @ mission. At this fertiliser plant
Is a mission. At this fertiliser plant up
is a mission. At this fertiliser plant up to
Is a mission. At this fertiliser plant up te 100
fertiliser plant up te 100 T s e
fertiliser plant up te 100 T N )
fertiliser plant up te 100 N s [ |
fertiliser plant up te 100 containers are loaded onto
fertiliser plant up te 100 P I e N R e R
containers are loaded onto the ship.
containers are loaded onto the G G
containers are loaded onto the ship. Here in the dock, this
ship. Here in the dock, this A
ship. Here in the dock, this AN
ship. Here in the dock, this looks Like an
ship. Here in the dock, this looks like an ordinary cargo
looks like an ordinary cargo ship
looks like an ordinary cargo iR
looks like an ordinary cargo R A
looks like an ordinary cargo I AL S G
looks like an ordinary cargo ship but under the deck there
ship but under the deck there 3
ship but under the deck there is no
ship but under the deck there LGN
ship but under the deck there NGRS
ship but under the deck there RN R LTI
ship but under the deck there is no engine or diesel. It is
NG R I powered
s no engine or diesel. It is N RN R
s no engine or diesel. It is powered instead by batteries.
powered instead by batteries. )
powered instead by batteries. There is a
powered instead by batteries. I E AR F 18
powered instead by batteries. WG A
powered instead by batteries. GRS E e A
powered instead by batteries. I ECAE RS E AR S &
There is a capacity of almost a seven megawatt hour, and to
seven megawatt hour, and to el
seven megawatt hour, and to power 90
seven megawatt hour, and to (VR CHF
seven megawatt hour, and to VR EE I
seven megawatt hour, and to R CH R
seven megawatt hour, and to power 90 Tesla cars and that is
power 90 Tesla cars and that is 0o (0]
power 90 Tesla cars and that Is supplied with clean hydro
supplied with clean hydro energy.
supplied with clean hydro GG
supplied with clean hydro energy. And, if
supplied with clean hydro LG I YN G T T
supplied with clean hydro energy. And, if everything is
energy. And, if everything is shipshape,
energy. And, if everything is R AR
energy. And, if everything is IR R L]
energy. And, if everything is shipshape, to years from
energy. And, if everything is I IR R R 2
shipshape, to years from now, )
shipshape, to years from now, there won’t be
shipshape, to years from now, ORI R
shipshape, to years from now, ORI L R
shipshape, to years from now, ORI CR I AL A 1]
there won’t be any crew on board
there won’t be any crew on bhoard at
there won’t be any crew on eI lElN
there won’t be any crew on eI 1
there won’t be any crew on eI I RE G
there won’t be any crew on board at all. In the beginning,
board at all. In the beginning, i
board at all. In the beginning, | will
board at all. In the beginning, BTy
board at all. In the beginning, | will be driving the ship,
| will be driving the ship, )
| will be driving the ship, more or
| will be driving the ship, NN I
| will be driving the ship, more or less, as | do today,
more or less, as | do today, and more
more or less, as | do today, N Bt la ]
more or less, as | do today, N AR e
more or less, as | do today, and more and what will
more or less, as | do today, N R e R 1 )
more or less, as | do today, B MR O R RN
and more and what will be taken over
and more and what will be taken A
and more and what will be taken over by electronics, robotics.
over by electronics, robotics. Data
over by electronics, robotics. IR el
over by electronics, robotics. IR B R i
over by electronics, robotics. IR SR R ]
over by electronics, robotics. EIER et SR R
Data collected will train an E{LL sl
Data collected will train an ElGI I !
Data collected will train an ElOI I LR OEL (Y
Data collected will train an algorithm and eventually radar
algorithm and eventually radar SENSOrS
algorithm and eventually radar sensors and
algorithm and eventually radar AN N s ek
DR Ll ileE]l TG Yo
sensors and artificial intelligence cameras
VR R4 {[oF:] intelligence cameras will help
intelligence cameras will help )
intelligence cameras will help G
intelligence cameras will help the vessel navigate by itself.
the vessel navigate by itself. IR
the vessel navigate by itself. Docking, loading cargo,
Docking, loading cargo, recharging batteries will also
recharging batteries will also )
recharging batteries will also TR e
recharging batteries will also be automated. Both
recharging batteries will also TN I R
be automated. Both the T e e
be automated. Both the T X |
be automated. Both the fertiliser and shipping
(T VTR G eIl [v G e
(T VTR G eIl [v industries are big
fertiliser and shipping industries are big images, but
industries are big images, but around
industries are big images, but IO R (O e Le 0]
industries are big images, but IO OO L0 R A 0o 4
industries are big images, but around 40,000 truck journeys
around 40,000 truck journeys each
around 40,000 truck journeys IRl
around 40,000 truck journeys IR IR
around 40,000 truck journeys each year will be
around 40,000 truck journeys IR IR (N R LG
around 40,000 truck journeys each year will be taken off the
each year will be taken off the LN
each year will be taken off the roads, saving 1000 tons of CO2.
reads, saving 1000 tons of CO2. Now,
reads, saving 1000 tons of CO2. TS
reads, saving 1000 tons of CO2. YA
roads, saving 1000 tons of CO2. A AR A
roads, saving 1000 tons of CO2. Now, it is crew, supported by
Now, it is crew, supported by ETPiaeda e lanle 0Y
Now, it is crew, supported by autonomous systems. Then it
autonomous systems. Then it il
autonomous systems. Then it IR
autonomous systems. Then it will be autonomous
autonomous systems. Then it will be autonemous systems
will be autonomous systems I ]o L a0}
will be autonomous systems e R
will be autonomous systems supported by crew
will be autonomous systems e e R A A ]
will be autonomous systems I R R A Ll
will be autonemous systems supported by crew on board. And
supported by crew on board. And then in
supported by crew on board. And N R ]
supported by crew on board. And N ER RN s ]
supported by crew on board. And N ERE O s Bid
supported by crew on board. And WO ELRE G Rl
supported by crew on board. And U NIRRT
then in the end it will be ETPiaeda e lanle 0Y
then in the end it will be autonomous systems supported
autonomous systems supported and watched
autonomous systems supported LR L e R
autonomous systems supported and watched by crew in the
and watched by crew in the control
and watched by crew in the e ladge Mo tie
and watched by crew in the control centre. Voyages will be
ool WL ARG |
ool WL ARG monitored from
ool WL ARG eI Rie R
ool WL ARG IRt R R ]
ool WL ARG monitored from the land and,
control centre. Voyages will be monitored from the land and, if
monitored from the land and, if LG R
monitored from the land and, if L ]
monitored from the land and, if needed, a human could step in.
needed, a human could step in. SuEI
needed, a human could step in. Smaller, unmanned boats are
Smaller, unmanned boats are taking to the water, while
taking to the water, while ETPiaeda e lanle 0Y
taking to the water, while e e i IR Y]
taking to the water, while autonomous subsea drones have
autonomous subsea drones have EIE
autonomous subsea drones have already made a splash. This
already made a splash. This Norwegian is pioneering the
Norwegian is pioneering the technology. We are bringing
technology. We are bringing personnel to a remote centre.
personnel to a remote centre. It
personnel to a remote centre. I
personnel to a remote centre. s
personnel to a remote centre. It is less costly than having
It is less costly than having them on the
It is less costly than having N EG ]
It is less costly than having them on the ocean. Technology
them on the ocean. Technology 3
them on the ocean. Technology T )
them on the ocean. Technology T T )
them on the ocean. Technology is more safe than
them on the ocean. Technology TR N R e sl et la]
Is more safe than human IR
Is more safe than human operations. More autonomous
operations. More autonomous barge projects are on the
barge projects are on the horizon
barge projects are on the haorizon in
barge projects are on the horizon in Norway
barge projects are on the (eF RN I VR ]
barge projects are on the horizon in Norway with long
horizon in Norway with long road
horizon in Norway with long LI e
horizon in Norway with long LI TR E
horizon in Norway with long road distances that has
road distances that has advantages. But new regqulations
advantages. But new regulations Py
advantages. But new regulations are needed, and applying this
are needed, and applying this to big
are needed, and applying this R
are needed, and applying this to big ships on ocean crossings
to big ships on ocean crossings 3
to big ships on ocean crossings LGN
to big ships on ocean crossings is unlikely any time soon. |
is unlikely any time soon. | think
is unlikely any time soon. | i QAL
is unlikely any time soon. | I R R
is unlikely any time soon. | think that the technology needs
think that the technology needs to
think that the technology needs R
think that the technology needs NG|
think that the technology needs to be matured even more, and
to be matured even more, and you
to be matured even more, and RN
to be matured even more, and R
to be matured even more, and you have to have energy systems
you have to have energy systems and
you have to have energy systems EL RG]
you have to have energy systems GG ISR QU
you have to have energy systems and propulsion systems that
and propulsion systems that require very little
require very little maintenance.
LoV N1 () maintenance. Until now,
maintenance. Until now, ETPiaeda e lanle 0Y
maintenance. Until now, autonomous shipping has been
autonomous shipping has been Male s lae: |
autonomous shipping has been uncharted water, but soon, crew
uncharted water, but soon, crew RS
uncharted water, but soon, crew lists of vessels
uncharted water, but soon, crew MR A T LR G
uncharted water, but soon, crew lists of vessels could be
T O BT CR T navigating always
lists of vessels could be navigating always coastline.
navigating always coastline. e
navigating always coastline. TMMEse
navigating always coastline. A& LI
navigating always coastline. But talk about cybersecurity.
Cybersecurity has come to the fore in 2022
as coordinated cyber-attacks impact organisations worldwide.
In the shadow of tensions LSOO LRGN
hybrid warfare is the new reality, and geopolitics
and cybersecurity are now inextricably linked.
Joining me now is Dr Francis Gaffney, Director
of threat intelligence at Mimecast.
Welcome to the programme. Se,
Welcome to the programme. So, 3
Welcome to the programme. So, s
Welcome to the programme. So, AN ]
Welcome to the programme. So, it is interesting to look back
it is interesting to look back ]
it is interesting to look back R
it is interesting to look back on this year
it is interesting to look back RO
it is interesting to look back on this year so far
it is interesting to look back RO IR R EIE - TS
on this year so far because many predicted Russia would
many predicted Russia would launch a large-scale attack,
launch a large-scale attack, S
launch a large-scale attack, cyber attacks, on the West
cyber attacks, on the West during
cyber attacks, on the West RO
cyber attacks, on the West during the war in
cyber attacks, on the West IR RGN {E T
cyber attacks, on the West during the war in Ukraine. What
during the war in Ukraine. What s
during the war in Ukraine. What is happening? Good morning to
is happening? Good morning to IR
is happening? Good morning to you. Yes, indeed. So, the cyber
you. Yes, indeed. So, the cyber P e 3
you. Yes, indeed. So, the cyber el R )
you. Yes, indeed. So, the cyber attacks we were expecting, we
attacks we were expecting, we have seen them
attacks we were expecting, we T R R
attacks we were expecting, we have seen them at a
attacks we were expecting, we N R T RO R ]
attacks we were expecting, we have seen them at a low level,
have seen them at a low level, e
have seen them at a low level, but what
have seen them at a low level, N LR )
have seen them at a low level, but what we are really saying
but what we are really saying s
but what we are really saying is opportunistic attacks where
is opportunistic attacks where Y
is opportunistic attacks where 10
is opportunistic attacks where we are seeing your
is opportunistic attacks where TGN B L
is opportunistic attacks where we are seeing your own inbox,
we are seeing your own inbox, peoples inboxes, being
peoples inboxes, being g ]
peoples inboxes, being bombarded with spam,
bombarded with spam, e eIl
bombarded with spam, opportunistic attacks, this
opportunistic attacks, this e
opportunistic attacks, this el
opportunistic attacks, this sort of thing. That is not new,
sort of thing. That is not new, 3
sort of thing. That is not new, is it?
sort of thing. That is not new, Tl
sort of thing. That is not new, TR AL e
sort of thing. That is not new, TR AL el
sort of thing. That is not new, is it? That sort of thing, spam
LRSI L E S ey RO PR Ely in
LRSI L E S ey RO PR Ely LRI
LRSI L E S ey RO PR Ely in your inbox
LRSI L E S ey RO PR Ely LRGSR
s it? That sort of thing, spam LRGP 11
s it? That sort of thing, spam in your inbox or mobile phone.
in your inbox or mobile phone. We have been dealing with that
We have been dealing with that e
We have been dealing with that RN
We have been dealing with that for years, haven’t we? Most
for years, haven’t we? Most definitely,
for years, haven’t we? Most LISl LTI
for years, haven’t we? Most definitely, but when we see
definitely, but when we see W T
definitely, but when we see geopolitical events such as the
geopolitical events such as the I3E ]
geopolitical events such as the Russian invasion,
geopolitical events such as the O EL RN M Fli 8
Russian invasien, Nancy R
Russian invasien, Nancy AR
Russian invasien, Nancy Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan, even
Pelosi’s visit te Taiwan, even Salman
Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan, even Salman Rushdie’s attack,
Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan, even Salman Rushdie’s attack, we
Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan, even Salman Rushdie’s attack, we see
Salman Rushdie’s attack, we see Y
Salman Rushdie’s attack, we see S G
Salman Rushdie’s attack, we see a spike and
Salman Rushdie’s attack, we see a spike and these are the
a spike and these are the opportunistic people
a spike and these are the IO S (L L
opportunistic people hoping people will click on these
people will click on these links and then what will happen
links and then what will happen then
links and then what will happen LG
links and then what will happen then is it
links and then what will happen NI R
links and then what will happen I NECR R N ]
links and then what will happen INECR R L2 e s |
then is it the more advanced threat
then is it the more advanced e T 0]
then is it the more advanced QT T R ]
then is it the more advanced QT -l R o )
then is it the more advanced threat actors pick up on this
threat actors pick up on this and
threat actors pick up on this AR
threat actors pick up on this IR R e
threat actors pick up on this IR E R %
threat actors pick up on this IR R B e RN ]
and that will start the more EITa I
and that will start the more malicious attacks. But in terms
malicious attacks. But in terms of
malicious attacks. But in terms Sl AR
malicious attacks. But in terms of Russia’s activity this year,
of Russia’s activity this year, G
of Russia’s activity this year, IR
of Russia’s activity this year, given the fact that it has been
given the fact that it has been Py
given the fact that it has been a subject
given the fact that it has been R el ]
given the fact that it has been a subject to much more
a subject to much more Sl
a subject to much more stringent sanctions from the
stringent sanctions from the west and
stringent sanctions from the AR e
stringent sanctions from the R e
stringent sanctions from the AR et
west and other economies as well,
west and other economies as (IR VY
west and other economies as (IR T
west and other economies as well, what has Russia been
well, what has Russia been doing as far as we know? So, we
doing as far as we know? So, we Ty
doing as far as we know? So, we Rl
doing as far as we know? So, we N R T NE )
doing as far as we know? So, we have seen these attacks on
have seen these attacks on RT3 aa T netle)
have seen these attacks on infrastructure big they have
infrastructure big they have s
infrastructure big they have not been
infrastructure big they have A TS
infrastructure big they have A N e i
infrastructure big they have LRI N T e e
not been as successful because TG
not been as successful because people are more savvy to these
people are more savvy to these et e
people are more savvy to these Rt R s e ]
people are more savvy to these R Rl e R
people are more savvy to these incursions into the cyber
incursiens into the cyber domain
incursiens into the cyber [ 1= eI a o)
incursiens into the cyber S IEI s oL
incursiens into the cyber N IEI s B
incursiens into the cyber domain and it is a
incursiens into the cyber U EIE L R S R E o)
incursiens into the cyber L EIE L R R R UGG
domain and it is a space where they
domain and it is a space where GG
domain and it is a space where they are trying to sort of
they are trying to sort of e
they are trying to sort of ST e Bl
they are trying to sort of defer blame to
QR ICR G LR R el defer blame to somebody else so
defer blame to somebody else so that
defer blame to somebody else so GE R
defer blame to somebody else so that they would not
that they would not (w1 VA
that they would not T VAR
that they would not necessarily’s The and
that they would not T VAR LU G
that they would not necessarily’s The and attacks )
necessarily’s The and attacks ) them. Imagine
necessarily’s The and attacks ) G T EL LG TN
necessarily’s The and attacks ) them. Imagine China, and of
them. Imagine China, and of I
them. Imagine China, and of - TR
them. Imagine China, and of course, the recent visit on the
course, the recent visit on the part of Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan
part of Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan and
part of Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan R )
part of Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan N R a1t i)
part of Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan R i e E R
part of Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan IR i e R R F
and the aftermath that is TG
and the aftermath that is followed. To
and the aftermath that is T IR el e
and the aftermath that is followed. To what extent is
followed. To what extent is China a greater threat when it
China a greater threat when it comes to war in cyberspace and
comes to war in cyberspace and IR
comes to war in cyberspace and KA
comes to war in cyberspace and I EA A
comes to war in cyberspace and AR AR E T
comes to war in cyberspace and Russia? It is hard to
comes to war in cyberspace and AR AR FIG RO R
Russia? It is hard to tell T )
Russia? It is hard to tell R ]
Russia? It is hard to tell TN N
Russia? It is hard to tell TR N T
Russia? It is hard to tell SR NN R
because when one sees these advanced
because when one sees these O Z e BT
because when one sees these advanced threat actors, but
advanced threat actors, but EXaag]o A i
advanced threat actors, but EL o V[ L A G T |
advanced threat actors, but attribution, knowing who has
attribution, knowing who has Al
attribution, knowing who has AL
attribution, knowing who has done it, is actually very
done it, is actually very Rttt
done it, is actually very difficult. It is actually
difficult. It is actually Y
difficult. It is actually really in the world of
really in the world of government and law enforcement
government and law enforcement to identify. Sewage
to identify. Sewage organisations are particularly
organisations are particularly K
organisations are particularly LTk 1
organisations are particularly exposed? Any business, really,
exposed? Any business, really, T Y
exposed? Any business, really, N
exposed? Any business, really, Al
exposed? Any business, really, AT
exposed? Any business, really, N R R Y
exposed? Any business, really, N IE R N e
because It will be those sort of
because it will be those sort of down
because it will be those sort SEs e R EIl
because it will be those sort of down chain. So,
because it will be those sort of down chain. Se, anyone who
of down chain. So, anyone who may be
of down chain. Se, anyone who may be sympathising with Taiwan
may be sympathising with Taiwan or maybe supports business in
or maybe supports business in Taiwan. So,
or maybe supports business in I L]
or maybe supports business in Taiwan. So, you may see
Taiwan. So, you may see professional services, legal
professional services, legal a3
professional services, legal e e e )
professional services, legal X8 e TR e e e
professional services, legal services because sometimes the
services because sometimes the attack would go down stream
attack would go down stream where
attack would go down stream YN
attack would go down stream where it is less likely to have
where it is less likely to have Y
where it is less likely to have RIS
where it is less likely to have a bigger protection
where it is less likely to have R LD e R g ]
a bigger protection from SNl e
a bigger protection from g T ]
a bigger protection from government, and then the attack
government, and then the attack o
government, and then the attack would move
government, and then the attack T Gl R ]
government, and then the attack would move upstream into the
government, and then the attack I G RS e R R
would move upstream into the - )
LT GRS R T R R G e Nl )
LT GRS R T R R G the ultimate target that rat
the ultimate target that rat 4
the ultimate target that rat (Nt
the ultimate target that rat NIl
the ultimate target that rat but might be national
but might be national RT3 aa T netle)
but might be national NI ag et - sl
but might be national RSNt A R
but might be national infrastructure and those kinds
infrastructure and those kinds of things. We have all been
of things. We have all been WOorn
of things. We have all been worn countless
of things. We have all been R e R Y
of things. We have all been worn countless times about
worn countless times about G
worn countless times about this. You would assume and hope
this. You would assume and hope that
this. You would assume and hope QR O
this. You would assume and hope that governments and major
that governments and major organisations are ready and
organisations are ready and prepared?
organisations are ready and I kL
organisations are ready and prepared? Most definitely, but
prepared? Most definitely, but you
prepared? Most definitely, but s
prepared? Most definitely, but you do get threat fatigue
prepared? Most definitely, but you do get threat fatique where
you do get threat fatigue where people, if
you do get threat fatique where people, if you are always on,
people, if you are always on, always been conscious of these
always been conscious of these i e e
always been conscious of these SR G
always been conscious of these different things, eventually
different things, eventually people ( especially those who
people ( especially those who Py
people ( especially those who are working from home, the
are working from home, the hybrid
are working from home, the VTR 30|
are working from home, the VTR
are working from home, the hybrid working - because good,
hybrid working - because good, successful
hybrid working - because good, e e T
hybrid working - because good, successful attacks would
successful attacks would actually pray
successful attacks would Ela G AIE A
successful attacks would Ela O (A E A N R
successful attacks would Ela O A E A N R T
successful attacks would Ela G (A E A R R R
actually pray on those sorts of R Al R
actually pray on those sorts of vulnerabilities that the
actually pray on those sorts of R R R e R R d
actually pray on those sorts of R R R e R R
vulnerabilities that the VPN is e
vulnerabilities that the VPN is (R GR
vulnerabilities that the VPN is not working, that people may
not working, that people may leave
not working, that people may R e
not working, that people may leave their laptop along, these
leave their laptop along, these ey
leave their laptop along, these el
leave their laptop along, these sorts of things. These attacks
sorts of things. These attacks ]
sorts of things. These attacks )
sorts of things. These attacks N e TR
sorts of things. These attacks can be successful. So, it
sorts of things. These attacks can be successful. So, itis
can be successful. So, itis CEL
can be successful. So, It is EJINLRGC]
can be successful. So, It is keeping fresh and
can be successful. So, It is IR LLRGE
can be successful. So, it is IR L R G E U
keeping fresh and the awareness training, making sure people
training, making sure people Py
training, making sure people e
training, making sure people N el N
training, making sure people NN RO A i
training, making sure people are aware of what attack
CIE VL E IR RV EL =T methodology
CIE VL E IR RV EL =T ST G AT
CIE VL E IR RV EL =T LSOO YRR T |
are aware of what attack LSOO YRR T TG
are aware of what attack S GUL G R L L RT-L 6
methodology is being used. OK. T4
methodology is being used. OK. IEL SN
methodology is being used. OK. Thank you. It
LG I TR ETELL O ¢ I EL ST
LG I TR ETELL O ¢ Thank you. It is always
Thank you. It is always fascinating.
Thank you. It is always fascinating.
Thank you. It is always ALY A Y
Thank you. It is always fascinating. Let’s look
Thank you. It is always fascinating. Let’s look at
fascinating. Let’s look at financial markets before we
fascinating. Let’s look at HOEL N I QA S IR T
financial markets before we say goodbye. We have mentioned
goodbye. We have mentioned EIE
goodbye. We have mentioned already today
goodbye. We have mentioned ECE LA CL E R S
goodbye. We have mentioned already today economic news out
already today economic news out N
already today economic news out of Japan and China, and you can
of Japan and China, and you can T
of Japan and China, and you can see that Japan is
of Japan and China, and you can RO ELRET)
of Japan and China, and you can see that Japan is up over 1%.
see that Japan is up over 1%. e
see that Japan is up over 1%. The main market, despite the
The main market, despite the lower than
The main market, despite the RGN A e ]
The main market, despite the lower than expected growth rate
lower than expected growth rate e
lower than expected growth rate TR R e o sl
lower than expected growth rate for the second quarter. Let’s
for the second quarter. Let’s T4
for the second quarter. Let’s &
for the second quarter. Let’s O & )
for the second quarter. Let’s (T € R N[
for the second quarter. Let’s (& RGN R
for the second quarter. Let’s IS G R R
for the second quarter. Let’s (Y R N (R R L
look at the price of oil. Down by
look at the price of oil. Down AL
look at the price of oil. Down by nearly 8%. That
look at the price of oil. Down WAEELVE: /LA
look at the price of oil. Down WACELVR: Y R L AR
by nearly 8%. That is in )
by nearly 8%. That is in response to the news that
by nearly 8%. That is in IR RO R U E]D
response to the news that Iran )
response to the news that Iran Co could
response to the news that Iran R T GR e T
response to the news that Iran Co could increase production.
Co could increase production. Have a
Co could increase production. RS G OBV
Co could increase production. Have a everyday and | will you
Have a everyday and | will you LR
After a week where, somewhere in the UK,
we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30
Celsius or above every single day,
we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
Moving into the new week.
Could see 30 Celsius somewhere in eastern England today,
[T o LY RGN
been through the weekend.
Thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us,
as we look into the days ahead.
We could see some just NI T [
England and Wales today - but by no means everywhere,
so some areas will remain stubbornly dry,
while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
Eastern Scotland perhaps getting
some thundery showers.
Further north, it’s the more ARG IR IR
and eastern Scotland BRI e gt R e E B
It’s cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible
somewhere in eastern England.
Overnight Monday into Tuesday, showers pushing up from
the south - could be heavy and thundery,
particularly for southern counties of England,
persistent rain sits log iRl ]
It’s certainly e R T i Ela s
and Northern Ireland, but still very warm and humid
Gl 33 (1w of England and Wales
as we start off on Tuesday.
Through the day on Tuesday, though,
low pressure really does come to take hold across the UK.
It’s @ messy weather picture.
Well, it means it’s quite hard for us to pin down the exact
details of where eI I3
through the day.
But basically, it’s a chance of showers just about anywhere
across England and Wales, RO S AU A
T ETe’S
For Scotland and Northern Ireland,
more cloud around and some outbreaks
of rain and quite a cool northerly
breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost
that 30 Celsius in eastern England.
By Wednesday, well, low pressure still close by,
but it’s focused very much to the south of the UK -
high pressure, in fact, TR e
in across Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Wednesday looks dry for Scotland
and Northern Ireland, if cloudy at times, and it
looks like any early A RN
I e 0] England and Wales.
But a real focus perhaps on southern
England for some more intense downpours on Wednesday -
so that could be the day TR R R R R A ]
Just 23 Celsius - down ten degrees
on the figures through the weekend.
And then, for the end of the week,
we very much pick up Nl S a el e
westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through,
but actually, not bringing, RGO a1 0]
in the way of rainfall.
We will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end
of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
LGN[R classical music festival.
Curated by us, enjoyed by you.
There’s nothing quite like the BBC Proms._
For exclusive coverage...
People come here to escape.
We want to prove that we are the best.
Magic’s about te happen.
People want to see the performance.
We can’t afford to get this wrong.
Let’s go do this.
Go, go, go, go!
The whole industry has been completely decimated. Up to my eyes!
Not even going near the bathroom.
We’ll be tested, but we’ll smile.
We are back in four...
Newsrooming...not for everyone. Argh!
60 Minutes are sending female reporters to war zones.
You’re a war zone on two legs!
She contracted HIV through a blood transfusion.
We used to have a serious news audience,
and we started serving them glamour.
I’d get that interview. Let’s do It.
| pla nto putupafi A\ e
How does she do it, huh? Nightmare off screen.
Camera goes on her - magic.
| always come good when it counts. You’re incredible.
Watch all episodes.
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Jon Kay and Sally Nugent.
Our headlines today.
One year since the Taliban took power in Afghanistan,
we have a special report on women in the country and what the takeover
means for their future.
Labour unveils proposals to tackle soaring energy bills
by freezing the price cap.
We speak to leader Sir Keir e
The family of Salman Rushdie thank those who rushed to help the author
when he was stabbed on stage at a literary event in New York.
when he was stabbed on stage at a literary event in New York.
Just one tablet an hour from [ YT e
Just one tablet an hour from Manchester to London today instead
Manchester to London today instead of
Manchester to London today instead SRy
Manchester to London today instead SRGIIE
Manchester to London today instead SR NIEI R
Manchester to London today instead RGN N
Manchester to London today instead of the usual three as an
Avanti workers refuse to work extra AihicH
Boiling over at the Bridge.
How it was the managers who were sent off in yesterday’s
fiery London derby between Chelsea and Tottenham
in what proved a gripping encounter.
Coming to the end of the heatwave, I
Coming to the end of the heatwave, through the week, temperatures will
through the week, temperatures will return to
through the week, temperatures will iR e Ry
through the week, temperatures will NGB e Na N
through the week, temperatures will NG ERa R R ey
through the week, temperatures will (OGRS R R AU
through the week, temperatures will return to close to where they should
return to close to where they should )
return to close to where they should TN
return to close to where they should )
return to close to where they should R R
return to close to where they should T RGN
return to close to where they should RO R IR LS
return to close to where they should RO R IR R L
return to close to where they should be at the time of year and we are
be at the time of year and we are L]
be at the time of year and we are looking at
be at the time of year and we are LS
be at the time of year and we are looking at some thunderstorms
looking at some thunderstorms developing almost anywhere which
developing almost anywhere which could
developing almost anywhere which TR
developing almost anywhere which R R ee i E
It’s Monday the 15th of August.
Our main story.
It’s exactly a year since the Taliban seized
power in Afghanistan, ending 20 years of US-led
I 1S R T[]
A turbulent 12 months in the country TR T MR e el e e u e
and a huge reduction of women’’s rights, with girls largely banned
from secondary schools.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet has been
to see how the Afghan people have adapted to life under
the new regime.
I RuEh R e
Afghanistan is a conservative country.
But the rules are now set by the ultraconservative Taliban.
Spaces which had opened up for women R A RN
We met three generations of women whose lives speak
loudly about their world.
Many are afraid.
They don’t want to be identified.
This woman used to be a senior official in the finance ministry.
Last year the Taliban told her, stay at home.
A man would take her job.
| worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
It was difficult with family and work, but | went to university
and got my masters degree.
We spent so much time to get here.
Now we are back to zero.
Everything is finished.
More than 60 female civil servants have banded together.
They shared some of the exchanges on their messaging group.
We earned our jobs.
If we accept this it means we have betrayed ourselves.
What’s cur crime ?
They want me to give VAR R A T
If we do this we are removing IR IR E A
Please don’t give up.
Women haven’t N SV EEIG
From the streets or ministries like health, education, security.
There are spaces only for women.
This market has just reopened in the western city of Herat.
This was the first day.
Women, a bit nervous.
Shops, still empty.
Yes.
This is your shop?
Today it’s closed.
Oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old Suhaila is excited.
UKD RGNS shop with big sister.
But she should be in her last year of school.
Suhaila was the top student in her class.
But the Taliban shut U A R N
| am very sad.
If I’d finished school | would start university but | can’t go
to university because I’m not graduated from school.
Was it hard for you?
No school, no shop.
| think it’s not for me, and for all of the girls
of Afghanistan it’s R R s A

Citation: BBC News, 00:35 15/08/2022, BBC1 London, 325 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BFB2606?bcast=137276032 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)