works back in from the west.
So those are the three o’clock temperatures,
for most of us between five and ten degrees.
During Saturday night, then, we are in that relatively cold air.
We will see some further wintry showers in places.
It does stay quite breezy out there,
so temperatures in many spots will hold above freezing.
Quite chilly, though, especially in eastern Scotland.
And then we get into Sunday, and you do have to squint at the chart
to see it, but there’s a little ridge of high pressure just trying
to nose its way in. What that is likely to do is bring fewer showers.
It’ll tend to calm down the shower activity. I think we will see some.
At times, some of them could even be wintry,
but there will be spells of sunshine, too. A decent amount of
dry weather out there.
Temperatures generally between four and ten degrees.
And then you can see behind me
our next frontal system beginning
to work its way in from the west,
a warm front which will push eastwards as we get into Monday.
There’s another wedge of mild air between this warm front
and this cold front, also quite a lot of cloud.
50 Monday likely to be quite a cloudy day.
There’ll be some spots of mainly light rain and drizzle,
some heavier rain getting into parts of Scotland
and Northern Ireland, quite windy in the north.
But a milder feel to the weather, double digits for many of us, 11
degrees for Aberdeen, 12 for Cardiff, for Plymouth and Belfast.
As we move out of Monday into Tuesday,
this cold front slips southwards.
But it will be a weakening feature, because pressure will be building.
You can see that area of high pressure starting to
build its way in. So not too much rain on this cold front.
In fact, we’ll start to see some spells of sunshine developing,
especially across the northern half of the UK.
We are back into some slightly chillier air by this stage.
But seven to eleven degrees,
that’s still a touch above the average for this point inJanuary.
Now, as we move out of Tuesday into Wednesday,
well, our area of high pressure starts to build a little more
strongly northwards across the UK,
so many of us by this stage will be dry.
There could be some frost and fog around in the morning,
but then we’ll get to see some spells of sunshine,
the greatest chance of seeing cloud
and rain always across the north
of the UK, particularly the northern
half of Scotland, and relatively
mild, nine, ten or eleven degrees.
And this kind of weather really takes us
towards the end of next week and into the following
weekend. Our area of high pressure never too far away.
It may be that briefly it slips 3 little further southwards,
allowing a more meaningfulfrontal system to move across
the far north, bringing some rain at times, and certainly across northern
areas it is likely to be relatively windy at times through next week.
But generally speaking, with that area of high pressure taking charge,
it will be drier. The chance of some frost and fog, especially in the
south, but the weather looking much less wintry through the week ahead.
If you’re having a bad day in Dubai,
you’re really not having a bad day.
How many handbags do you have?
I don’t know.
Little latte, just for the doggies.
Dubai, right? HE MUGHS
0h! Come on!
Come on...
Looking for something, Clara?
0h, Sandra, do you know the password to Dad’s computer?
He asked me to set up a direct debit for his TV licence.
Have you tried "Rogeriscool?"
Paying your TV licence needn’t be a drama.
Yeah, that’s worked.
Choose the way that’s easiest for you at tvlicensing.co.uk.
Click that thingy.
President Tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists
who are sowing chaos.
They say that their movement is peaceful and blame
the authorities for provoking the violence.
The unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices,
but this country’s corrupt authoritarian regime
is unpopular.
Some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former
presidential residence and the mayor’s office.
The buildings were burned out, and you can see here all these
cars were also set on fire.
You can hear, again, the shots, but maybe it’s the military
and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not
to approach the square because they closed the square
in order to prevent people from gathering.
Many people fear that the violence will drag on.
Along with protests, many shops were looted.
This 22—year—old man said that while he supports the demands
of protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"It’s really scary, and we feel we have no protection,"
this woman says.
This is one of the electronic shops that was looted
in Almaty, and I think the looters tried to burn this
place as well because it still smells of smoke.
This mass unrest is a huge blow for Almaty, which is
the financial capital of Kazakhstan.
It’s not clear yet if the violence is over or how
much damage has been done to the authority
of Kazakhstan’s hardline leader.
Abdujalil Abdurasulov, BBC News, Almaty.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The US Supreme Court has begun hearing arguments
about the legality of President Biden’s vaccinate
or test mandate for large businesses.
Opponents say he does not have the authority to impose
the rule without going through Congress.
Backers say it will save lives.
Judgement is not expected for several days.
NATO’s Secretary—Generaljens Stoltenberg says Russia
is continuing its military build—up
near Ukraine, posing a real risk of a new armed
conflict in Europe.
Mr Stoltenberg repeated that NATO remains ready to talk
to Russia but warned the allies would impose a heavy
price for any further Russian aggression.
Austria’s Chancellor Karl Nehammer has tested
positive for coronavirus.
The 19—year—old, who took over as Chancellor a month ago,
is in self—isolation and says he isn’t showing any symptoms.
He’s issued a statement saying, "There is no need to worry.
"I am fine and doing well."
One of the best—known black Hollywood actors
of the past century, Sidney Poitier, has died.
He was 94.
He was the first Black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor,
and his success paved the way for generations
of other black artists.
His films, including In The Heat of the Night
and Guess Who’s Coming To Dinner?
reflected an America struggling with issues of racism
and prejudice at the height of the Civil Rights movement.
His impact ultimately transcended the silver screen.
Our correspondent Lizo Mazimba looks back on the life
of a Hollywood icon.
# In the heat of the night...
Sidney Poitier’s Virgil Tibbs, a man of authority...
I’m a police officer.
..intelligence and a steely determination never to back
down — the kind of qualities that defined Poitier
on screen and off.
He made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man
of status — something almost unheard of for
black performers then.
And with roles like an escaped convict in The Defiant Ones
and a struggling husband in A Raisin in the Sun,
he tackled prejudice head on.
Maybe I’ll get down on my black knees.
All right, Mr Charlie.
All right, Mr Great White Father.
You just give us that money!
And we won’t come out there and dirty up your
white folks’ neighbourhood.
The era, of course, meant he had a burden his white
counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight
of being a symbol.
But he bore it with dignity.
In Lilies of the Field, playing a travelling handyman,
helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
Sing it over.
The winner is Sidney Poitier.
He won the Academy Award — the first black performer ever
to receive the Oscar for a leading role.
In the years that followed, he became Hollywood’s biggest
star, redefining how audiences saw Black characters with films
like To Sir, with Love.
You will call me ‘Sir’ or ‘Mr Thackeray’.
The young ladies will be addressed as ‘Miss’,
the boys by their surnames.
Some of what I am was reflected in those movies.
It was, in a way, I was saying to an audience, "This
is who I am.
"Look at me."
More controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely
successful doctor engaged to a white woman
in Guess Who’s Coming To Dinner.
I love your daughter.
There is nothing I wouldn’t do to try to keep her as happy
as she was the day I met her.
Some criticised it, saying the impression it gave
was of an interracial relationship that was only
acceptable because his character was so perfect
and accomplished.
Hello!
He also directed ‘805 comedy Stir Crazy —
the first movie from an African—American film—maker
to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in
the United States.
What are you doing?
I’m getting bad!
In his later years, he was awarded the Presidential Medal
of Freedom by Barack Obama, who today said Sidney Poitier
epitomised dignity and grace.
Oprah Winfrey paid tribute, saying:
While Denzel Washington said:
Those words two decades after he celebrated him
at the Academy Awards.
A0 years, I’ve been chasing Sidney.
They finally give it to me.
What do they do?
They give it to him the same night.
I’ll always be following in your footsteps.
There’s nothing I would rather do.
APPLAUSE.
That same night, Poitier also received an honorary Oscar.
Hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail
for so many...
They call me Mr Tibbs.
..and who entertained millions more.
Sidney Poitier — one of the greats.
Sidney Poitier, who has died.
Novak Djokovic has thanked people around
the world for their support as he awaits a decision
on his deportation from Australia.
The world number one men’s tennis player
remains in immigration detention in Melbourne
ahead of the Australian Open
after being denied entry to the country on Wednesday.
Government officials say he isn’t being held captive
and is free to leave any time.
Shaimaa Khalil reports from Melbourne.
This is the immigration detention hotel where
Novak Djokovic is being kept.
Adnan Chopani has been here forfive months now,
after being moved from another facility.
I live in level two and Djokovic lives in level one.
That is the food we’ve been served every day in containers.
We found a maggot and mould on the bread and we’ve been
reporting it but unfortunately, there has no
action been taken.
Outside the hotel, there was dancing and music,
but also anger and frustration among Novak Djokovic’s
supporters.
It’s unclear if the tennis star will remain here until Monday,
when his legal team will challenge the cancellation
of his visa.
Novak Djokovic is waiting for a court decision
on whether he’ll be able to stay and compete
in the Australian Open or be deported.
Whatever happens, this has gone way beyond tennis.
The world number one is now at the centre of a political
and diplomatic storm.
Djokovic arrived on Wednesday with an exemption, granted
by Tennis Australia and the state of Victoria.
But the Border Force has revoked his visa,
saying he did not meet the rules of entry.
His mother Dijana said on Thursday that he was being
kept like a prisoner.
Australia’s Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews
hit back, saying there was nothing stopping
him from leaving.
Mr Djokovic is not being held captive in Australia.
He is free to leave at any time that he chooses to do
so, and Border Force will actually facilitate that.
The tennis star posted on Instagram, thanking his fans
around the world.
Another player has now had her visa cancelled.
Renata Voracova from the Czech Republic is understood to be
detained in the same hotel as Djokovic.
The Australian Open is one of the biggest sporting events
here but it’s turning into a big international
embarrassment for the government.
Shaimaa Khalil, BBC News, Melbourne.
This is BBC News.
A reminder of the main story this hour:
A court in the US state of Georgia has given life
sentences to three white men who murdered the young black
Ahmaud Arbery while he was outjogging.
More on that now.
We’re joined by Yasmin Cader,
who is director of the Trone Center forJustice and Equality
at the American Civil Liberties Union.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. What
Thank you for joining us. what is your
Thank you forjoining us. What is your reaction to the
is your reaction to the verdict? My reaction is this
verdict? My reaction is this verdict is significant for many
verdict is significant for many reasons. The first one is that
reasons. The first one is that we have to remember this
we have to remember this conviction almost never
conviction almost never happened. It wasn’t until
happened. It wasn’t until Ahmaud Arbery’s family and his
Ahmaud Arberrs family and his community
Ahmaud Arbery’s family and his community mobilised, organised
community mobilised, organised and demanded a full
and demanded a full investigation that these
investigation that these individuals were even arrested.
individuals were even arrested. So the
individuals were even arrested. 50 the significance of this
So the significance of this verdict in my mind is very much
verdict in my mind is very much the fact that it almost never
the fact that it almost never fame
the fact that it almost never came to be. You have got to be
fame to be. You have got to be relieved
came to be. You have got to be relieved obviously at the
relieved obviously at the verdict after all that, because
verdict after all that, because as you say, initial reluctance
as you say, initial reluctance to arrest and charge these men
to arrest and charge these men until that footage emerged?
until that footage emerged 7 That’s
until that footage emerged? That’s right. But I think that
That’s right. But I think that when you say relief, what that
when you say relief, what that brings to mind to me is
when you say relief, what that brings to mind to me isjust
brings to mind to me is just how
brings to mind to me isjust how much more work we have to
how much more work we have to do. I mean, this verdict, these
do. I mean, this verdict, these sentences, they don’t fully
sentences, they don’t fully reflect in any way what the
reﬂect in any way what the type of
reflect in any way what the type of systemic changes that
type of systemic changes that we need to make sure in
we need to make sure in this country. Yeah, and do you
country. Yeah, and do you think the sentence therefore sends
the sentence therefore sends out a wider message that has
out a wider message that has been needed for a long time,
been needed for a long time, that may be a couple of years
that may be a couple of years ago this sentence, this verdict
ago this sentence, this verdict may not have come about, and
may not have come about, and now there is change, albeit too
now there is change, albeit too late and too slow, but changes
late and too slow, but changes happening? I think the change
happening? I think the change that this community is seeking
that this community is seeking is much broader than these
is much broader than these sentences. The change that this
sentences. The change that this community is seeking is one in
community is seeking is one in which somebody like Ahmaud
which somebody like Ahmaud Arbery would be alive today. He
Arbery would be alive today. He never would have been seen as a
never would have been seen as a threat simply by
never would have been seen as a threat simply byjogging in
threat simply byjogging in this neighbourhood where he
this neighbourhood where he lived, ten minutes away. He
lived, ten minutes away. He would be part of an integrated
would be part of an integrated community, even though we are
community, even though we are 70 years past the Brown versus
70 years past the Brown versus Board of Education decision
Board of Education decision which said that we shouldn’t be
which said that we shouldn’t be segregated anymore in education
segregated anymore in education or in other systems. He would
or in other systems. He would have been recognised in life,
have been recognised in life, not just in
have been recognised in life, notjust in his death, through
not just in his death, through this really
notjust in his death, through this really retributive
this really retributive mechanism. I guess your hope
mechanism. I guess your hope therefore is that there is real
therefore is that there is real fast and significant change
fast and significant change now, of course, alongside
now, of course, alongside verdicts in the George Floyd
verdicts in the George Floyd use
verdicts in the George Floyd case and other cases of its
rase and other rases of its nature?
case and other cases of its nature? Yes, and about changes
nature? Yes, and about changes much broader than these
much broader than these individual cases all these
individual cases all these individual verdicts. But
individual verdicts. But instead, that that change is
instead, that that change is one of systemic in nature, that
one of systemic in nature, that really reimagined all of these
really reimagined all of these systems and really seeks equity
systems and really seeks equity for all.
systems and really seeks equity forall. I’m
systems and really seeks equity for all. I’m afraid that’s all
for all. I’m afraid that’s all we have time for, but thank you
we have time for, but thank you very much for
we have time for, but thank you very much forjoining us.
As coronavirus cases continue to rise across India,
new movement restrictions have come into effect for people
in the capital Delhi over the weekend.
Restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed
until Monday morning.
Russell Trott reports.
This shop sells everything for the kitchen and more. But with
the kitchen and more. But with fewer customers and takings
fewer customers and takings down, the owner has been badly
down, the owner has been badly hit by the pandemic. Yet
hit by the pandemic. Yet despite India’s capital Delhi
despite India’s capital Delhi locking down over the weekend,
locking down over the weekend, he remains update. TRANSLATION:
he remains update. TRANSLATION: The way Corona cases are on the
The way Corona rases are on the rise this
The way Corona cases are on the rise this lockdown, the weekend
rise this lockdown, the weekend curfew is a much. —— must. For
curfew is a much. -- must. For the past few years
curfew is a much. —— must. For the past few years we have
the past few years we have faced losses and we will face
faced losses and we will face the same in the future. I will
the same in the future. I will be happy on the amount of cases
be happy on the amount of cases are lower and there is no
are lower and there is no lockdown. As the authorities
lockdown. As the authorities grapple with a
lockdown. As the authorities grapple with afresh surge in
grapple with a fresh surge in rases
grapple with afresh surge in cases partly fuelled by the
rases partly fuelled by the fast
cases partly fuelled by the fast spreading Omicron variant,
fast spreading Omicron variant, most businesses here are still
most businesses here are still recovering from last year’s
recovering from last year’s outbreak that overwhelm
outbreak that overwhelm hospitals and crematoriums. But
hospitals and crematoriums. But daily use
hospitals and crematoriums. But daily case numbers had since
daily rase numbers had since then
daily case numbers had since then stayed reasonably low,
then stayed reasonably low, until last week. All residents
until last week. All residents beside essential workers will
beside essential workers will now be asked to stay home from
now be asked to stay home from Friday night until Monday
Friday night until Monday morning full up this is a big
morning full up this is a big concern, big challenge. We have
concern, big challenge. We have seen that over the last 80
seen that over the last 80 days, the figure has gone very
days, the figure has gone very high, from 10,000 cases to more
high, from 10,000 cases to more than a million, so with this
than a million, so with this the number will be much higher
the number will be much higher in the previous days. After a
in the previous days. After a wave of Delta variant
wave of Delta variant infections brought the
infections brought the healthcare systems to its
healthrare systems to its knees,
healthcare systems to its knees, more than 200 thousand
knees, more than 200 thousand peopla died.
knees, more than 200 thousand people died. India’s known
peopla died. India’s known Covid
people died. India’s known Covid deaths are the world’s
Covid deaths are the world’s third—highest toll behind the
third-highest toll behind the US
third—highest toll behind the US and Brazil, but
US and Brazil, but underreporting is widespread in
underreporting is widespread in some studies have estimated its
some studies have estimated its actual toll could be up to ten
actual toll could be up to ten times higher. The Omicron
times higher. The Omicron variant is expected to hit
variant is expected to hit hard, but with fewer cases
hard, but with fewer cases expecting to need hospital
expecting to need hospital treatment, some experts warn
treatment, some experts warn another lockdown and its
another lockdown and its economic impact is just not
economic impact is just not worth it.
A letter, posted to a man in Northern Ireland
with no surname or address on the envelope, butjust his
first name and a 57—word biography, has managed
to find its way to the right place.
Our Ireland correspondent Emma Vardy has the story.
"Feargal, lives across the road from the Spar.
"His me and da used to own it."
No house number, no street name, a few things much more
personal than that.
The first thing I noticed was the amount of detail
on the envelope and basically, my biography.
"Moved to Waterford after he got married."
Despite nothing more than a short story and half
a postcode, yesterday this letter found its way
straight to Feargal Lynn.
I laughed so much.
Right through it all, to playing guitar, through to,
"Friends with the fellow who owns the butchers in
Waterford."
Feargal had taken to writing letters to people over lockdown
as a way to brighten the gloom,
but never expected such a strange reply.
The letter was from an old friend in Belfast,
who perhaps could have found out his address but thought
this way was a bit more fun.
We were talking about the pandemic, we were talking
about mental health and the need to brighten
the mood a bit.
Did she actually expect it to reach you?
I think she just took a punt.
"Plays guitar and used to run discos in the poker hall."
It happened to be that Feargal’s local postman
was also a childhood friend.
We’ve had some strange addresses over the years,
but this is the most bizarre.
The first line, "Feargal who lived across from the Spar."
The number of times we played in his front garden as wee
boys, I knew right away who it was.
This could give other people ideas, if they don’t
know an address.
Oh, that would be a nightmare!
And inside the letter, just a cheery hello and a recipe
for coleslaw that Feargal had been asking about,
but it meant much more than that.
There’s so much letters these days that’s meaningless,
it’s financial, it’s this demand
and it’s so nice to receive something so personal.
"Friends with the fellow who runs the butchers
"in Waterford too.
BTlm, Northern Ireland."
So, could letters make a comeback over email
in future, as something a lot more enjoyable?
Well, we’ll keep you posted!
Emma Vardy, BBC News.
Let’s return new to the tributes being paid
to Sidney Poitier, whose pioneering films in the 19505
and 605, shone alight on racism and social prejudice.
He’s died at the age of 94.
He was the first Black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor,
and his groundbreaking work paved the way for generations
of other Black artists.
Cheryl Boone Isaacs is the founding director
of The Sidney Poitier New American Film School
at Arizona State University and former president
of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences,
best known for organising the Oscars.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Is it
Thank you for joining us. Is it possibla to
Thank you forjoining us. Is it possible to describe how
possible to describe how influential he was for black
inﬂuential he was for black actors
influential he was for black actors and black people? I
actors and black people? I would say so. Sidney Poitier
would say so. Sidney Poitier was a major beacon of light
was a major beacon of light that came on the scene and on
that came on the scene and on the screen many decades ago,
the screen many decades ago, and through his life’s work,
and through his life’s work, whether in front of or behind
whether in front of or behind the camera, has had a major
the camera, has had a major impact on the creative world.
impact on the creative world. And especially for Black
And especially for Black communities and Black
communities and Black storytellers. And it is such an
storytellers. And it is such an honour for me to be able to be
honour for me to be able to be part of his legacy that we are
part of his lagacy that we are going to
part of his legacy that we are going to carry into the future.
going to carry into the future. He was a great man, a great
He was a great man, a great philosopher, a philanthropic...
philosopher, a philanthropic... Ideas and avenues, civil rights
Ideas and avenues, civil rights activists, and like I said, a
activists, and like I said, a tremendous force in the
tremendous force in the creative world. I know we have
creative world. I know we have pictures of you with Sidney
pictures of you with Sidney Poitier, just give us some of
Poitier, just give us some of your favourite
Poitier, just give us some of yourfavourite memories
Poitier, just give us some of your favourite memories of him?
your favourite memories of him? One thing I will always say is
One thing I will always say is Sidney, who even physically and
Sidney, who even physically and in person was so dynamic, the
in person was so dynamic, the energy just wafted off of
in person was so dynamic, the energyjust wafted off of him,
energy just wafbed off of him, and
energyjust wafted off of him, and when he would see me, and I
and when he would see me, and I am certain with others as well,
am certain with others as well, but certainly when he would see
but certainly when he would see me he would class his hands
me he would class his hands together in a grin from ear to
together in a grin from ear to ear. That would always lift
ear. That would always lift 7°“-
ear. That would always lift you, it didn’t matter how you
you, it didn’t matter how you might be feeling for the day.
might be feeling for the day. He won a lifetime achievement
He won a lifetime achievement award from the Academy, and of
award from the Academy, and of course you were there and you
course you were there and you remember it well? Very much so.
remember it well? Very much so. He was awarded the Board of
He was awarded the Board of Governors, at that time I was
Governors, at that time I was on the board, bestowed upon him
on the board, bestowed upon him one of our highest honours, and
one of our highest honours, and honorary Oscar
one of our highest honours, and honorary Oscarfor his
one of our highest honours, and honorary Oscar for his work in
honorary Oscar for his work in film and for his philanthropic
film and for his philanthropic adventures. Very much, very
adventures. Very much, very much needed and very happy to
much needed and very happy to be part of all of that. And of
be part of all of that. And of course, most people think of
course, most peopla think of him as
course, most people think of him as an actor, but he was an
him as an actor, but he was an activist, Director, he had his
activist, Director, he had his own production company, there
own production company, there was so much more to him than
was so much more to him than just acting, wasn’t there?
just acting, wasn’t there? Absolutely. And it is with that
Absolutely. And it is with that lagacy that
Absolutely. And it is with that legacy that we are going to
lagacy that we are going to move
legacy that we are going to move forward and make sure that
move forward and make sure that that lagacy
move forward and make sure that that legacy stays alive, and
that lagacy stays alive, and that
that legacy stays alive, and that we impart all of the
that we impart all of the greatness of Mr Poitier on
greatness of Mr Poitier on future storytellers. How do you
future storytellers. How do you think his legacy is left?
think his legacy is left? Obviously so many actors and
Obviously so many actors and actresses stand on his
actresses stand on his shoulders now? That is exactly
shoulders now? That is exactly right, he did pave the way for
right, he did pave the way for many, for many filmmakers as
many, for many filmmakers as well as people like myself. His
well as people like myself. His influence was massive, just
influence was massive, just massive. And not least Denzel
massive. And not least Denzel Washington, obviously a huge
Washington, obviously a huge actor now, he obviously paid
actor now, he obviously paid tribute to him all those years
tribute to him all those years ago. Absolutely. Denzel
ago. Absolutely. Denzel Washington, we always think of
Washington, we always think of the two of them on the night of
the two of them on the night of the Oscars when Denzel
the Oscars when Denzel Washington won an Oscar for
Washington won an Oscar for Best Actor, and Halle Berry for
Best Actor, and Halle Berry for Best Actress, and Mr Poitier
Best Actress, and Mr Poitier receiving his historic honorary
receiving his historic honorary Oscar was a major, major
Osrar was a major, major evening, and
Oscar was a major, major evening, and I
Oscar was a major, major evening, and Ijust... It
evening, and Ijust... It filled
evening, and Ijust... It fillad my
evening, and Ijust... It filled my heart and I cried my
filled my heart and I cried my eyes out, it was special. And
eyes out, it was special. And so many tributes obviously
so many tributes obviously coming in from around the world
coming in from around the world today, what have you heard that
today, what have you heard that has moved you from other people
has moved you from other peopla and
has moved you from other people and made
has moved you from other peopla and made you
has moved you from other people and made you think, yeah, you
and made you think, yeah, you know, it is my friend, that is
know, it is my friend, that is the person I knew? It is always
the person I knew? It is always wonderful to see how others
wonderful to see how others react to his presence on this
react to his presence on this planet and the legacy for the
planet and the legacy for the future. I have been having
future. I have been having quite a few interviews myself
quite a few interviews myself today, so
quite a few interviews myself today, sol
quite a few interviews myself today, so I am going to curl up
today, so I am going to curt up pretty soon
today, so I am going to curl up pretty soon and read everything
pretty soon and read everything I possibly can to absorb the
I possibly ran to absorb the entire day.
I possibly can to absorb the entire day. And just finally,
entire day. And just finally, if you ran
entire day. And just finally, if you can sort of put your
if you ran sort of put your finger on one
if you can sort of put your finger on one of his favourite
finger on one of his favourite movies or things that he has
movies or things that he has done over his time, what
done over his time, what springs to mind for you when
springs to mind for you when you think of him? I think of In
you think of him? I think of In the Heat of the Night, " they
the Heat of the Night, ' they all me
the Heat of the Night, " they call me MrTibbs." Thank you for
all me MrTibbs.‘ Thank you for bringing us
call me MrTibbs." Thank you for bringing us your memories there
bringing us your memories there Sydney party air, I know you
Sydney party air, I know you have had a long day, thank you
have had a long day, thank you for bringing us those thoughts.
for bringing us those thoughts. -- Sidney
for bringing us those thoughts. —— Sidney Poitier.
A volcano perched on top of one of Ecuador’s famous
Galapagos Islands has erupted, producing
a spectacular lava flow.
The one—mile—high Wolf volcano is located on Isabela Island,
home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that
helped inspire Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution
following his visit in 1835.
Fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife
populations, or to humans.
Thanks for watching, do stay tuned.
Thanks for watching, do stay tuned.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night to many western parts
of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday, much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a black man,
in the state of Georgia, have been sentenced
to life in prison.
The case became a focus of protests by the Black Lives
Matter movement.
The US have questioned Kazakhstan’s decision to seek
Russian military support to deal with a wave
of violent unrest.
Russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
Dozens of people have been killed during nationwide
protests, triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
One of the best known black Hollywood actors of the past
century, Sidney Poitier, has died.
He was 94.
Mr Poitier was the first black man to be awarded Best Actor
at the Academy Awards in 1964 and paved the way
for a new generation of stars.
Now, many of us remember the TV drama Grange Hill
for its gritty storylines and very catchy theme tune.
It first aired in 1978, running for 30 years and now,
it’s going to be turned into a film with some
of the original characters expected to return as
grandparents.
Jayne McCubbin has been chatting to some
of the original cast members.
GRANGE HILL THEME MUSIC PLAYS.
There was the theme tune...
Born bom bom born, ba—na ba—na nah nah, bam ba—na ba—na—na,
bow bow bow...
..there was the gritty realism...
Move your arm, fat man.
It was just like a real British show, wasn’t it?
Showing, like, kids in their natural habitats,
so to speak.
Yeah, cheeky and naughty.
What’s he talking about?
It’s not true.
Controversial storylines.
Did you just say No in school?
Idid.
Good girl.
Just say no!
Now, like an unheard—of decent school dinner,
there is going to be a second helping.
My name is Neil Mattocks.
I am a higher level teaching assistant.
I run a podcast about Grange Hill called Sausage On A Fork.
The very first episode I remember watching,
I was about six years old and there was lads fighting
on the telly, and Ijust thought, "This is amazing.
"This is like nothing I’ve ever seen."
I’m Alison Valentine and I played Fay in Grange Hill
— Faye Lucas.
The biggest thing which caused the biggest stir was my thing —
I’m not sure what it was — with my teacher, Mr King.
My name is Lee MacDonald and I played Zammo in Grange
Hill.
So, the transformation from this happy—go—lucky Zammo
character to stealing off of Roland, licking the drugs
off the floor in one of the scenes at the end,
you know, was horrific.
Zammo!
Drown, you scum.
The BBC expelled Grange Hill after a 30—year run in 2008,
but open auditions for the next gen Grange Hill silver screen
stars start soon.
My name is Celynjones.
I’m the co—writer of Grange Hill The Movie
and in a previous life, I also played Mr Green
in Grange Hill — the English teacher.
Sir Phil Redmond suggested that it was time to bring back
Grange Hill.
I think bringing back Grange Hill was sort
of like the Bat Signal, and — that he couldn’t ignore
from Wayne Manor any longer!
By taking the best of the old and mixing with the new,
they hope it pulls in the parents for nostalgia
and their teens for a new edgy outing.
Jayne McCubbin, BBC News.
Now on BBC News, it’s time for Click.
This week, we are back! CES is on and we are in Vegas to see
on and we are in Vegas to see the show, so strapping! It’s
the show, so strapping! It’s going to be weird but it’s
going to be weird but it’s going to be wonderful. How is
going to be wonderful. How is that for you? It has got quite
that for you? It has got quite excitable. Can I take my finger
excitable. (“an I take my finger out? Yes, you
excitable. Can I take my finger out? Yes, you may!
That’s it from us, from CES. We will be back in Vegas next
will be back in Vegas next year. Next year. Next year. Not
year. Next year. Next year. Not a rasino
year. Next year. Next year. Not a casino or convention centre
a casino or convention centre insight!
—— insight!
Welcome to CES 2022. From Vegas! It’s been touch and go
Vegas! It’s been touch and go but we made it, and there’s
but we made it, and there’s plenty
but we made it, and there’s planty of
but we made it, and there’s plenty of tech here. Yeah, not
plenty of tech here. Yeah, not as much as we were expecting,
as much as we were expecting, to be honest. In fact, quite a
to be honest. In fact, quite a big lot -- a lot of
to be honest. In fact, quite a big lot —— a lot of big names
big lot -- a lot of big names pulled out
big lot —— a lot of big names pulled out late in the day due
pulled out late in the day due to you know what but it means
to you know what but it means that the world’s biggest
that the world’s biggest picture feels smaller. There
picture feels smaller. There are still plenty of gadgets. I
are still planty of gadgets. I will
are still plenty of gadgets. I will look at some for the home
will look at some for the home in a minute but in the
in a minute but in the meantime, fancy
in a minute but in the meantime, fancya
in a minute but in the meantime, fancy a brew? It has
meantime, fancy a brew? It has been time for a teabag already.
been time for a teabag already. This is the brew tea maker and
This is the brew tea maker and you ran put in
This is the brew tea maker and you can put in any loose tea or
you can put in any loose tea or
you ran put in any loose tea or tea bags and
you can put in any loose tea or tea bags and you set it for
tea bags and you set it for exactly how long you want the
exactly how long you want the teacher be brewing for, so it
teacher be brewing for, so it hopefully make you your perfect
hopefully make you your perfect couple. Mine is I would say
couple. Mine is I would say about 3.5 minutes. Can you do
about 3.5 minutes. (“an you do that? I
about 3.5 minutes. Can you do that? I will
about 3.5 minutes. (“an you do that? I will try
about 3.5 minutes. Can you do that? I will try and oblige. It
that? I will try and oblige. It is a handy self—cleaning
is a handy self—cleaning function there as well. 3.5
function there as well. 3.5 minutes, please.
function there as well. 3.5 minutes, please. Yeah, not a
minutes, please. Yeah, nota bad couple
minutes, please. Yeah, not a bad couple of... T. Where...? I
bad couple of... T. where...? I will. She’s gone.
bad couple of... T. Where...? I will. She’s gone. That should
will. She’s gone. That should keep him busy for a bit. Now
keep him busy for a bit. Now these days, we are having more
these days, we are having more food delivery than ever so
food delivery than ever so could this be a solution? Fresh
could this be a solution? Fresh portal allows you to set it too
portal allows you to set it too hot or cold signal delivery
hot or cold signal delivery should be kept at
hot or cold signal delivery should be kept atjust the
should be kept at just the right
should be kept atjust the right temperature. The finished
right temperature. The finished product will help if I have UPC
product will help if I have UPC lights to sanitise and a camera
lights to sanitise and a camera to monitor your
lights to sanitise and a camera to monitor yourfood but the
to monitor your food but the problem is
to monitor yourfood but the problem is you do need to cut a
problem is you do need to cut a big hole in your house to put
big hola in your house to put it in, and he
big hole in your house to put it in, and he is today’s
it in, and he is todars delivery
it in, and he is today’s delivery which is rather
delivery which is rather unusual some yoga. One issue
unusual some yoga. One issue with deliveries as they often
with deliveries as they often come with way more packaging
come with way more packaging than you need. But I will be
than you need. But I will be after later. But clear drop
after later. But dear drop hopes to
after later. But clear drop hopes to overcome the problem
hopes to overcome the problem of not enough soft plastics
of not enough soft plastic being
of not enough soft plastics being recycled with this, a
being recycled with this, a device that compresses them.
device that compresses them. You ran
device that compresses them. You can either put in plastic
You ran either put in plastic bags like
You can either put in plastic bags like this or any soft
bags like this or any soft packaging. This is a prototype,
packaging. This is a prototype, the finished product will be
the finished product will be two—thirds of this size, but
two-thirds of this size, but this is
two—thirds of this size, but this is what happens. And this
this is what happens. And this is what the plastic comes out
is what the plastic comes out looking like once it is
looking like once it is condensed. I’ve been told this
condensed. I’ve been told this is probably the quantity of
is probably the quantity of your average family over to
your average family over to month—end being like this
month—end being like this instead of big, puffy bags
instead of big, puffy bags makes it easier to be ground
makes it easier to be ground down and recycled. Anyhow, I
down and recycled. Anyhow, I will pop it there because I
will pop it there because I need to get to the kitchen. As
need to get to the kitchen. As it happens, I’m not much of a
it happens, I’m not much of a fan of plain yoghurt but there
fan of plain yoghurt but there is a reason I have this year.
is a reason I have this year. Firstly, let me put some in the
Firstly, let me put some in the bowl. This is a spoon tech and
bowl. This is a spoon tech and the company claims that through
the company claims that through a mild electric current that
a mild electric current that mns
a mild electric current that runs through it, your
a mild electric current that runs through it, yourfruit
runs through it, your fmit should
runs through it, yourfruit should taste better. ——
should taste better. -- SpoonTEK.
should taste better. —— SpoonTEK. When I am using at
SpoonTEK. when I am using at the food
SpoonTEK. When I am using at the food will cover this silver
the food will cover this silver dot and my finger will
dot and my finger will naturally cover it so the light
naturally cover it so the light will come onto show it is
will come onto show it is definitely working to test it I
definitely working to test it I am going to be blindfolded so I
am going to be blindfolded so I cannot tell the difference
cannot tell the difference between this, the functioning
between this, the functioning spoon, and these two do not. I
spoon, and these two do not. I will put this on and Omar, can
will put this on and Omar, ran you mix things
will put this on and Omar, can you mix things up so
will put this on and Omar, can you mix things up sol
will put this on and Omar, can you mix things up so I do not
you mix things up so I do not know which spoon I am using?
know which spoon I am using? 0K. It’s here somewhere. Bleep.
0K. It’s here somewhere. Bleep. 0K,
0K. It’s here somewhere. Bleep. OK, this tastes like yoga. ——
OK, this tastes like yoga. -- yoghurt. The
OK, this tastes like yoga. —— yoghurt. The taste of the same
yoghurt. The taste of the same as the first spoon. Strangely,
as the first spoon. Strangely, that mouthful sort of tested
that mouthful sort of tested better? But I don’t know. If I
better? But I don’t know. IfI was not
better? But I don’t know. If I was not thinking about it I
was not thinking about it I would not notice a difference.
would not notice a difference. It’s like you feel an electric
It’s like you feel an electric current or anything but I would
current or anything but I would guess this is the right spoon.
guess this is the right spoon. It is. OK. I was genuinely not
It is. OK. I was genuinely not expecting that. Let’s give it a
expecting that. Let’s give it a go again. I think this is the
go again. I think this is the spoon. No. No. And I really
spoon. No. No. And I really thought it was not the first
thought it was not the first one. Maybe it was like the
one. Maybe it was like the first time. Let’s do it again.
first time. Let’s do it again. Not so sure this time. I’m
Not so sure this time. I’m going to go for this being the
going to go for this being the spoon. And it is! OK, two out
spoon. And it is! OK, two out of three. And it could be luck
of three. And it could be luck but I don’t know. It was two
but I don’t know. It was two out of three and the difference
out of three and the difference was so small I wonder if all
was so small I wonder if all would be more substantial if
would be more substantial if something tasted stronger but I
something tasted stronger but I don’t know, but my very
don’t know, but my very scientific test. When it’s time
scientific test. when it’s time to
scientific test. When it’s time to leave the house, especially
to leave the house, especially if you’re going to be away for
if you’re going to be away for a whila, you
if you’re going to be away for a while, you may be concerned
a whila, you may be concerned about
a while, you may be concerned about security and here is
about security and here is something that has taken things
something that has taken things on a level from the old timers
on a level from the old timers which that makes it look like
which that makes it look like someone is in when the lights
someone is in when the lights go on and off. Let me set it
go on and off. Let me set it up. There we go. Simple. It has
up. There we go. Simple. It has a sense or in its wet nose if
a sense or in its wet nose if it is day or night. Done. ——It
it is day or night. Done. --It has a
it is day or night. Done. ——It has a sensor in it so it knows
has a sensor in it so it knows if it is day or night. Home
if it is day or night. Home Shadows aims to create the
Shadows aims to create the illusion that there are people
illusion that there are peopla moving
illusion that there are people moving around in the room and
moving around in the room and to me, it did look like a bit
to me, it did look like a bit of a glitchy light, which I
of a glitchy light, which I suppose would indicate someone
suppose would indicate someone was in. It doesn’t exactly look
was in. It doesn’t exactly look like this. Yeah, maybe we would
like this. Yeah, maybe we would be better off having Omar
be better off having Omar coming around our house. I
coming around our house. I think he was willing to do it
think he was willing to do it for me. All right, moving on.
for me. All right, moving on. Have a guess. What are these? A
Have a guess. what are these? A dance game?
Have a guess. What are these? A dance game? No, this is a clue.
dance game? No, this is a clue. I will!
dance game? No, this is a due. Iwill! 0K.
dance game? No, this is a clue. Iwill! 0K. And
dance game? No, this is a clue. I will! 0K. And another.
dance game? No, this is a clue. Iwill! 0K. And another. I’ve
Iwill! 0K. And another. I’ve got it. This is FastPong, table
got it. This is FastPong, table tennis training device. The
tennis training device. The eight tiles are filled with
eight tiles are filled with sensors that measure the speed
sensors that measure the speed and accuracy of your turns. It
and accuracy of your turns. It has been invented by a 2010
has been invented by a 2010 World Championship
World Championship quarterfinalist. And it is
quarterfinalist. And it is currently being tested by the
currently being tested by the Winchester under 11 is
Winchester under 11 is runner-up
Winchester under 11 is runner—up on one particular
mnner-up on one particular Saturday in
runner—up on one particular Saturday in 1983. The system
Saturday in 1983. The system ran
Saturday in 1983. The system can work with any type of ball
can work with any type of ball launcher and the innovation
launcher and the innovation here is of course these
here is of course these ﬂashing
here is of course these flashing target tiles which can
ﬂashing target tiles which ran be
flashing target tiles which can be programmed to play loads of
be programmed to play loads of different aiming games. I am
different aiming games. I am happy I’m getting the ball back
happy I’m getting the ball back at all. MER, any plaintiffs for
at all. MER, any plaintiffs for me? I think you have to first
me? I think you have to first look at the ball without the
look at the ball without the target --
look at the ball without the target —— Amir. Leave the
target -- Amir. Leave the target to your
target —— Amir. Leave the target to your peripheral
target to your peripheral vision. Why is this better than
vision. why is this better than an
vision. Why is this better than an actual practice partner?
an actual practice partner? Basically you are gamifying
Basically you are gamifying your experience. This is the
your experience. This is the language but the young
language but the young generation understands better.
generation understands better. And we tried to bring them to
And we tried to bring them to the actual sport than just
the actual sport than just competing, to have some
competing, to have some activity. All
competing, to have some activity. Alljam. You don’t
activity. All jam. You don’t get that
activity. Alljam. You don’t get that with a human trainer.
get that with a human trainer. Yes! I think I hit one of the
Yes! I think I hit one of the rameras
Yes! I think I hit one of the cameras smoking in the face a
cameras smoking in the face a second ago is about is an
second ago is about is an achievement. After his table
achievement. After his table has career finished,
achievement. After his table has careerfinished, Amir
achievement. After his table has career finished, Amir moved
has career finished, Amir moved from Iran to South Korea to
from Iran to South Korea to study sports science and
study sports science and FastPong was born. He says that
FastPong was born. He says that professionals can use this to
professionals ran use this to improve
professionals can use this to improve the reaction time,
improve the reaction time, agility and decision—making and
agility and decision—making and amateurs can use the
amateurs can use the accompanying app to record the
accompanying app to record the accuracy and speed, find their
accuracy and speed, find their weaknesses and get advice on
weaknesses and get advice on how to overcome them. Up until
how to overcome them. Up until now, training and data analysis
now, training and data analysis has been achieved using
has been achieved using expensive high—speed cameras so
expensive high-speed cameras so this may
expensive high—speed cameras so this may make training more
this may make training more accessible to all. Including a
accessible to all. Including a msty old
accessible to all. Including a rusty old player like me. I’m
msty old player like me. I’m getting into
rusty old player like me. I’m getting into it, I’m
getting into it, I’m remembering that I need to keep
remembering that I need to keep my legs moving, don’t stand
my legs moving, don’t stand still. And just lean into it.
still. And just lean into it. Now, the tiles are above the
Now, the tiles are above the level of the table so if I’m
level of the table so if I’m trying to go for real accuracy,
trying to go for real accuracy, I kind of get the feeling that
I kind of get the feeling that I cannot do it with something
I rannot do it with something that is
I cannot do it with something that is not exactly the same
that is not exactly the same level as the table. Would that
level as the table. Would that be right? Not really because
be right? Not really because the object here is just hitting
the object here is just hitting a disc area and not needing to
a disc area and not needing to be like one millimetre up and
be like one millimetre up and down. It’s not an issue,
down. It’s not an issue, actually. So
down. It’s not an issue, actually. 50 this is about
actually. So this is about target
actually. 50 this is about target practice, and the speed
target practice, and the speed of the ball. Of course if you
of the ball. Of course if you want to have a different speed,
want to have a different speed, the machine, there are a lot of
the machine, there are a lot of different type of machines out
different type of machines out there they can provide you with
there they ran provide you with a
there they can provide you with a different speed. 0K,
there they can provide you with a different speed. OK, I’m
a different speed. OK, I’m going to go for the cameraman.
going to go for the cameraman. Yes! £1000 worth of damage!
Yes! £1000 worth of damage! Looks. --
Yes! £1000 worth of damage! Looks. —— oops. Hello and
Looks. -- oops. Hello and welcome
Looks. —— oops. Hello and welcome to the Week in Tech.
welcome to the Week in Tech. News from CES coming up at
News from CES coming up at first, it was the week Verrills
first, it was the week Verrills found Elizabeth Holmes was
found Elizabeth Holmes was convicted by a jury on four
convicted by a jury on four counts of fraud. The blood
counts offraud. The blood testing
counts of fraud. The blood testing firm collapsed in 2018
testing firm collapsed in 2018 after was found homes of my
after was found homes of my claims about the technology
claims about the technology were false. Blackberry has
were false. Blackberry has turned off the board for its
turned off the board for its operating system with the
operating system with the company saying its iconic
company saying its iconic phones will no longer reliably
phones will no longer reliably function. And the James Webb
function. And the james Webb Space
function. And the James Webb Space Telescope is fully
Space Telescope is fully deployed, Ray, it’s tennis
deployed, Ray, it’s tennis court sized sunshield will
court sized sunshield will allow scientists to capture
allow scientists to rapture images of
allow scientists to capture images of faraway stars. All
images of faraway stars. All right, quick CS round—up for
right, quick G round-up for you as
right, quick CS round—up for you as promised, and one of the
you as promised, and one of the TRANSLATOR: to come out of Las
TRANSLATOR: to come out of [as Vegas this
TRANSLATOR: to come out of Las Vegas this year augmented
Vegas this year augmented reality smart glasses. Here is
reality smart glasses. Here is TCL’s
reality smart glasses. Here is TCL’s next where there, giving
TCL’s next where there, giving the
TCL’s next where there, giving the equivalent of 140 inch
the equivalent of 140 inch screen visible from A0 metres
screen visible from 40 metres and
screen visible from A0 metres and weighing 75 g.
screen visible from A0 metres and weighing 75 9. Meanwhile a
and weighing 75 9. Meanwhile a micro LED stereo for industry
micro LED stereo for industry tasks from Vuzik and Sony
tasks from Vuzik and Sony mobility is starting to make
mobility is starting to make electric cars. This is its
electric cars. This is its concept SUV dubbed the vision
concept SUV dubbed the vision 502. And Labrador showed off
502. And Labrador showed off the self—driving shelves or
the self—driving shelves or should that be shelf driving,
should that be shelf driving, fetch and carrying stuff at
fetch and carrying stuff at home and useful for those of us
home and useful for those of us with mobility issues. Finally
with mobility issues. Finally maximise your efficiency by
maximise your efficiency by automating your T—shirt
automating your T-shirt folding.
automating your T—shirt folding. Russell’s students
folding. Russell’s students built this prototype from SD
built this prototype from SD printed hinges. It detects the
printed hinges. It detects the tops and starts the motors.
tops and starts the motors. Freshly folded tops are
Freshly folded tops are released through a trapdoor.
released through a trapdoor. May the force T with you.
May the force T with you. Have we done this gag before? I
we done this gag before? I think they are
we done this gag before? I think they arejust
we done this gag before? I think they are just trying to
think they are just trying to get us to cover our bases. This
get us to cover our bases. This is the
get us to cover our bases. This is the air zone mask, it is a
is the air zone mask, it is a French company and it is for
French company and it is for peopla who
French company and it is for people who really, really need
people who really, really need to breathe clean air. It kills
to breathe clean air. It kills bacteria and viruses on the way
bacteria and vimses on the way in. There
bacteria and viruses on the way in. There is a silicon mould
in. There is a silicon mould which sucks into your
which sucks into your face giving you a really good seal,
giving you a really good seal, as evidenced by the line around
as evidenced by the line around mine right now, there goes on
mine right now, there goes on the bottom and then UV light
the bottom and then UV light kills the viruses and bacteria
kills the vimses and bacteria before you
kills the viruses and bacteria before you breed them. Is it
before you breed them. Is it comfortable? Not really, and
comfortable? Not really, and you have to lug around the
you have to lug around the battery pack. Yours looks nice.
battery pack. Yours looks nice. This is the Aero nest mask
This is the Aero nest mask ventilation kit, so you can
ventilation kit, so you ran attach
ventilation kit, so you can attach this to any mask. The
attach this to any mask. The idea is, if you want a bit of
idea is, if you want a bit of air to breathe in the inside of
air to breathe in the inside of your mask, it comes through
your mask, it comes through here, so it tickles your nose
here, so it tickles your nose and mouth, the thing is, if you
and mouth, the thing is, if you feel suffocated when wearing a
feel suffocated when wearing a mask, this may help. But the
mask, this may help. But the only thing is you don’t have to
only thing is you don’t have to wear something far heavier,
wear something far heavier, more chunky and vibrates on
more chunky and vibrates on your cheek a bit. Really?
your cheek a bit. Really? Goodness me. Yeah, a bit like a
Goodness me. Yeah, a bit like a bone conduction headphones,
bone conduction headphones, something doesn’t feel quite
something doesn’t feel quite right. You do feel the air, you
right. You do feel the air, you are breathing at him. Let’s
are breathing at him. Let’s move on as we said earlier, CES
move on as we said eartier, CES has been
move on as we said earlier, CES has been massively impacted by
has been massively impacted by the ongoing pandemic. Loads of
the ongoing pandemic. Loads of companies and people who simply
companies and peopla who simply can’t be
companies and people who simply can’t be there. That’s right,
can’t be there. That’s right, james
can’t be there. That’s right, James Clayton has been looking
james Clayton has been looking at how
James Clayton has been looking at how the show has changed and
at how the show has changed and how it is for the exhibitors.
how it is for the exhibitors. Last year all of this, the
Last year all of this, the robots, the gadgets, gizmos,
robots, the gadgets, gizmos, won’t hear. The show was
won’t hear. The show was entirely digital and it was
entirely digital and it was something. Being able to touch
something. Being able to touch products, hear
something. Being able to touch products, hearwhat
something. Being able to touch products, hear what things
products, hear what things sound and look like in real
sound and look like in real life, all gone. This year, the
life, all gone. This year, the organisers were determined that
organisers were determined that the show must go on. However
the show must go on. However CES is coincided with record
CES is coincided with record Covid cases here in the US, so
Covid rases here in the US, so would anyone
Covid cases here in the US, so would anyone turn up? We have
would anyone turn up? We have been here at CES for about two
been here at CES for about two hours, it’s the opening day and
hours, it’s the opening day and you expected to be absolutely
you expected to be absolutely rampant. And to be fair some
rampant. And to be fair some peopla have
rampant. And to be fair some people have turned up, but the
peopla have turned up, but the numbers
people have turned up, but the numbers are way down. Right
numbers are way down. Right here you would expect there to
here you would expect there to be exhibitors, but many simply
be exhibitors, but many simply haven’t turned up. Google,
haven’t turned up. Google, Amazon, Microsoft and many more
Amazon, Microsoft and many more have withdrawn, citing safety
have withdrawn, citing safety worries. That is what Mark
worries. That is what Mark wanted to do. Founder of
wanted to do. Founder of British headphone company
British headphone company metres, he would have pulled
metres, he would have pulled out but had already paid
out but had already paid $50,000, and with no refund,
$50,000, and with no refund, decided to say. This was a
decided to say. This was a massive investment. We have
massive investment. We have seen people building behind us,
seen people building behind us, and overnight they have pulled
and overnight they have pulled out. It involves people
out. It involves peopla pressing
out. It involves people pressing the flats, say hello
pressing the ﬂats, say hello to people,
pressing the flats, say hello to people, washing your hands a
to peopla, washing your hands a lot, you can’t
to people, washing your hands a lot, you can’t beat it. So
lot, you can’t beat it. So should
lot, you can’t beat it. 50 should this have been
should this have been cancelled, should have been a
cancelled, should have been a in-person
cancelled, should have been a in—person event? I think it
in-person event? I think it should
in—person event? I think it should have been cancelled. It
should have been cancelled. It should be vibrant and buzzing,
should be vibrant and buzzing, and it is not. That is the
and it is not. That is the downside. That said, we are
downside. That said, we are still seeing people, and we’re
still seeing peopla, and we’re still doing
still seeing people, and we’re still doing business. Not all
still doing business. Not all of major companies stayed away.
of major companies stayed away. Samsung, for example kata ——
Samsung, for example kata -- had a major
Samsung, for example kata —— had a major exhibit, including
had a major exhibit, including this TV by Samsung which allows
this TV by Samsung which allows you to buy, sell and display
you to buy, sell and display NFTplumac. I don’t understand
NFI’plumac. I don’t understand why you
NFTplumac. I don’t understand why you would want to do that,
why you would want to do that, but Samsung has done it anyway.
but Samsung has done it anyway. But many other big companies
But many other big companies did not turn up. While many of
did not turn up. whila many of the big
did not turn up. While many of the big beasts failed to show
the big beasts failed to show up, and it was done in numbers,
up, and it was done in numbers, many peopla
up, and it was done in numbers, many people did come. Was not a
many peopla did come. Was not a total
many people did come. Was not a total washout as unexpected.
total washout as unexpected. The organisers here say they
The organisers here say they have done everything they can
have done everything they ran including
including mandating vaccines and giving everyone a lateral
and giving everyone a lateral ﬂow
and giving everyone a lateral flow test. But there are some
ﬂow test. But there are some that
flow test. But there are some that believe this show should
that believe this show should not have gone ahead in person.
not have gone ahead in person. That was James, and I
not have gone ahead in person. That wasJames, and I am
not have gone ahead in person. That was James, and I am joined
That wasjames, and I am joined now by the
That was James, and I am joined now by the Executive Vice
now by the Executive Vice President of CES, welcome to
President of CES, welcome to our little corner of our show.
our little corner of our show. Thanks for being here, I am so
Thanks for being here, I am so excited to have you. There have
excited to have you. There have been a staggering number of
been a staggering number of rases
been a staggering number of cases of Covid this week, on
rases of Covid this week, on Monday in
cases of Covid this week, on Monday in the US
cases of Covid this week, on Monday in the U51 million new
Monday in the U51 million new cases. Is it irresponsible to
cases. Is it irresponsibla to have an
cases. Is it irresponsible to have an in—person show in a
have an in—person show in a circumstance like that? I think
circumstance like that? I think what we have done is we have
what we have done is we have always done, what is the right
always done, what is the right health measures we can put in
health measures we ran put in place? In the
health measures we can put in place? In the summer we went
place? In the summer we went and said that the entire show,
and said that the entire show, you have to have a vaccine to
you have to have a vaccine to get into the show. And we felt
get into the show. And we felt that was really one of the most
that was really one of the most important things that we could
important things that we could put in place to make sure we
put in place to make sure we were doing things right. We
were doing things right. We know there are people who won’t
know there are peopla who won’t be
know there are people who won’t be able to make it to CES in
be able to make it to CES in person and we want them to
person and we want them to connect with us digitally, but
connect with us digitally, but for those who are ready, who
for those who are ready, who are vaccinated, you are wearing
are vaccinated, you are wearing mask and following our
mask and following our policies, we also wanted to
policies, we also wanted to have a show for them and give
have a show for them and give them what they needed to do to
them what they needed to do to continue to grow their
continue to grow their business. Many major tech firms
business. Many major tech firms have pulled out, citing safety
have pulled out, citing safety concerns. Who is right? Them or
concerns. who is right? Them or you? These are
concerns. Who is right? Them or you? These are unprecedented
you? These are unprecedented times and people need to make
times and people need to make decisions that are right for
decisions that are right for them. We have had about 10% of
them. We have had about 1096 of our
them. We have had about 10% of our exhibitors pull out, when
our exhibitors pull out, when you have... Only 10%?
our exhibitors pull out, when you have... 0nly10%? So when
you have... Only 1096? So when you look at the
you have... 0nly10%? So when you look at the total number,
you look at the total number, we had over 2300 exhibitors,
we had over 2300 exhibitors, 901:
we had over 2300 exhibitors, 90% that wanted to come, ten
9096 that wanted to come, ten that
90% that wanted to come, ten that didn’t. You are closing a
that didn’t. You are closing a day earty, are
that didn’t. You are closing a day early, are you refunding
day early, are you refunding exhibitors that they’s fee?
exhibitors that they’s fee? Because we have extended the
Because we have extended the show until 31 January on the
show until 31 january on the digital
show until 31 January on the digital platform, they are
digital platform, they are still going to connect with our
still going to connect with our attendees, get leads from the
attendees, get leads from the show, set up appointments, so
show, set up appointments, so actually the physical part is
actually the physical part is closing but the show continues
dosing but the show continues to go on until
closing but the show continues to go on until 31 January so
to go on until 31january so they ran do
to go on until 31 January so they can do business. So you
they ran do business. So you are not
they can do business. So you are not refunding them the
are not refunding them the extra day? No because they are
extra day? No because they are still doing business,
still doing business, connecting and having great
connecting and having great value connections they can
value connections they can connect with. Thank you for
connect with. Thank you for having us on this unexpectedly
having us on this unexpectedly large stage. I know! Thank you
large stage. I know! Thank you for coming.
Welcome to CS where there is
Welcome to G where there is always
Welcome to CS where there is always something you can see.
always something you ran see. Including
always something you can see. Including this cabinet we can
Including this cabinet we ran make
Including this cabinet we can make anything float. They have
make anything ﬂoat. They have put her
make anything float. They have put her fumes and watches in
put her fumes and watches in here for retail shops, but
here for retail shops, but today they have put my
today they have put my microphone inside. The founders
microphone inside. The founders are magicians, they won’t tell
are magicians, they won’t tell me how it is done. I am going
me how it is done. I am going to need that back. 0K, there
to need that back. 0K, there you go! It is magic. LAUGHS
to need that back. 0K, there you go! It is magic. LAUGHS. As
you go! It is magic. MUGHS. As always, more
you go! It is magic. LAUGHS. As always, more and more things
always, more and more things are getting connected to the
are getting connected to the Internet. This is a smart tap,
Internet. This is a smart tap, I ran ask my
Internet. This is a smart tap, I can ask my voice assistant,
I ran ask my voice assistant, Alexa, ask
I can ask my voice assistant, Alexa, ask for 500 millimetres
Alexa, ask for 500 millimetres of water. There we go. Exactly
of water. There we go. Exactly 500 millilitres, very clever.
500 millilitres, very clever. If this means the Wi—Fi goes
If this means the wi-Fi goes off.
If this means the wi-Fi goes off, I can’t
If this means the Wi—Fi goes off, I can’t make a cup of tea?
off, I can’t make a cup oftea? Absolutely
off, I can’t make a cup of tea? Absolutely off, you always have
Absolutely off, you always have tea, the motion controls sensor
tea, the motion controls sensor will continue to operate. ——
will continue to operate. -- absolutely
will continue to operate. —— absolutely not. This is the
absolutely not. This is the Soapy hand washing kiosks, very
Soapy hand washing kiosks, very important in these times to
important in these times to wash your hands. I have to
wash your hands. I have to follow the instructions on the
follow the instmctions on the screen
follow the instructions on the screen and the camera inside is
screen and the camera inside is making sure that I follow all
making sure that I follow all the gestures properly and...
the gestures property and... # Happy
the gestures properly and... # Happy birthday to you...
# Happy birthday to you... Remember that?
# Happy birthday to you... Rememberthat? Now
# Happy birthday to you... Remember that? Now all my hand
Remember that? Now all my hand washing data is uploaded to the
washing data is uploaded to the cloud! How did I do? Your wash
cloud! How did I do? Your wash was perfect, you did all the
was perfect, you did all the gestures. There we go, super
gestures. There we go, super dean!
gestures. There we go, super clean! This is Battle Racing, 3
dean! This is Battla Racing, a start-up
clean! This is Battle Racing, a start—up from Columbia which I
start-up from Columbia which I think
start—up from Columbia which I think was inspired by an
think was inspired by an Italian— Japanese plumber. I
Italian- japanese plumber. I ran
Italian— Japanese plumber. I can even leave little traps
ran even leave little traps here
can even leave little traps here for the people racing
here for the people racing behind me, and then off I go!
This is Flying Magic Cleaner, the idea is once you have Mac
the idea is once you have Mac -- vacuum your
the idea is once you have Mac —— vacuum your carpet you can
-- vacuum your rarpet you ran suck some
—— vacuum your carpet you can suck some more dust out of the
suck some more dust out of the air. There is a few companies
air. There is a few companies here this year doing facial
here this year doing facial recognition for dogs. Let’s
recognition for dogs. Let’s give it a try. Here is a dog,
give it a try. Here is a dog, you hold that to the camera,
you hold that to the camera, and it has identified as
you hold that to the camera, and it has identified asJohn.
and it has identified as john. What
and it has identified asJohn. What about this dog with the
What about this dog with the pretty hair clip? Is this a
pretty hair clip? Is this a different dog or the same dog?
different dog or the same dog? That is also
different dog or the same dog? That is alsoJohn. LAUGHS
different dog or the same dog? That is alsoJohn. LAUGHS.
different dog or the same dog? That is alsoJohn. LAUGHS. What
That is also john. MUGHS. what do
That is alsoJohn. LAUGHS. What do alcohol and Bitcoin both
do alcohol and Bitcoin both have in common? Every height is
have in common? Every height is followed by a crash. I have
followed by a crash. I have just met Cecilio, a robot
just met Cecilio, a robot bartender. I put my cup here.
bartender. I put my cup here. Show me your ID. Obviously I
Show me your ID. Obviously I look under 21. Cecilio,
Show me your ID. Obviously I look under21. Cecilio, I
Show me your ID. Obviously I look under 21. Cecilio, I will
look under 21. Cecilio, I will have a
look under 21. Cecilio, I will have 3 meta— verse please. 0h
have a meta- verse please. 0h Cecilio, you are
have 3 meta— verse please. 0h Cecilio, you are breaking my
Cecilio, you are breaking my heart, your shaking my
heart, your shaking my cocktails daily. 0h nice, is
cocktails daily. 0h nice, is that pomegranate? And this is
that pomegranate? And this is the perfect gadget for if you
the perfect gadget for if you have been doing sports or
have been doing sports or exercise or
have been doing sports or exercise orjust
have been doing sports or exercise or just walking
have been doing sports or exercise orjust walking around
exercise or just walking around CES all day.
exercise orjust walking around CES all day. It is cryo socks
CES all day. It is cryo socks and it will give me instant
and it will give me instant deep calling on my muscles from
deep falling on my musdas from this
deep calling on my muscles from this canister here, so
deep calling on my muscles from this canister here, sol
deep calling on my muscles from this canister here, so Ijust
this canister here, so Ijust give it a press...
this canister here, so Ijust give ita press... 0h!
this canister here, so Ijust give ita press... Oh! Oh, it
give ita press... Oh! Oh, it is very cold.
That was Chris, and we haven’t quite finished with weird and
quite finished with weird and wonderful yet.
quite finished with weird and wonderfulyet. 0h
quite finished with weird and wonderful yet. Oh good! You
wonderful yet. Oh good! You know that nice feeling you get
know that nice feeling you get when a baby nibbled your
when a baby nibbled your finger? No. Me neither. But
finger? No. Me neither. But someone does, so meet Amagami
someone does, so meet Amagami Ham Ham. Your
someone does, so meet Amagami Ham Ham. Yourfinger in its
Ham Ham. Your finger in its mouth.
Ham Ham. Yourfinger in its mouth. Tell us what it is like?
mouth. Tell us what it is like? Oh, it is squeezing the end of
Oh, it is squeezing the end of my finger. You enjoy that while
my finger. You enjoy that whila I
my finger. You enjoy that while I read the press release. It is
I read the press release. It is designed to recreate somewhat
designed to recreate somewhat pleasing sensation you get when
pleasing sensation you get when human babies and pet animals
human babies and pet animals softly bite on the fingers. It
softly bite on the fingers. It uses a special algorithm to
uses a special algorithm to randomly select from two dozen
randomly select from two dozen nibbling patterns to keep users
nibbling patterns to keep users interested. Are you still
interested. Are you still interested 7
interested. Are you still interested? Fascinated. Most
interested? Fascinated. Most people like the nibbling
people like the nibbling sensation but no they need to
sensation but no they need to teach their children or pets to
teach their children or pets to stop it. Amagami Ham Ham frees
stop it. Amagami Ham Ham frees humankind from the conundrum of
humankind from the conundmm of whether
humankind from the conundrum of whether to pursue or not pursue
whether to pursue or not pursue the forbidden pleasure? How is
the forbidden pleasure? How is that for you? Can I take my
that for you? (“an I take my finger out?
that for you? Can I take my finger out? On that note we
finger out? On that note we will leave it for CES this
will leave it for CES this week. It is good to be back,
week. It is good to be back, though, isn’t it. As ever, you
though, isn’t it. As ever, you ran keep up
though, isn’t it. As ever, you can keep up with the team on
ran keep up with the team on social
can keep up with the team on social media, find us at BBC
social media, find us at BBC dick.
social media, find us at BBC click. Spencer, are you 0K?
dick. Spencer, are you 0K? Thanks
click. Spencer, are you 0K? Thanks for watching, we will
Thanks for watching, we will see you soon.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night to many western parts
of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday, much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
Three white men who murdered Ahmaud Arbery in the US state
of Georgia are given life sentences.
of Georgia are given life sentences.
The family said they never lost faith in justice.
ﬂ
I knew that we would come out with a victory. Yes. I never
with a victory. Yes. I never doubted it. And I knew that
doubted it. And I knew that today would come.
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite in Russian
troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult
to get them to leave.
India locks down the capital Delhi to try and halt a surge
of cases fuelled by the Omicron variant.
You will call me Sir or Mesdar.
And Sidney Poitier, the first black man to win
the Academy Award for Best Actor, has died
at the age of 94.
We take a look back at his life’s work.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a black man,
in the state of Georgia have been sentenced
to life in prison.
Travis McMichael, his father Gregory and their neighbour
Roddy Bryan were convicted of felony murder.
They had chased Mr Arbery while he was jogging,
before he was shot to death.
Their defence had claimed they feared he was planning
to commit a crime.
The McMichaels will spend life in prison without
the possibility of parole.
Roddy Bryan will serve life, but does have the possibility
of parole.
Here’s Georgia Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley
outlining some of the evidence from the trial.
There’s a frame where I believe Ahmaud Arbery, it looks to be
if he’s 20 yards out, that may be close —
30 yards out — it’s the frame of Travis
McMichael lifting the shotgun to fire at Ahmaud Arbery.
And you watch that with context — and when I say ‘context’,
after hearing the evidence in this case and thinking
about a young man that had been running at that point
for almost five minutes — and it is a chilling,
truly disturbing scene.
truly disturbing scene.
Ahmaud’s mother gave her reaction to the sentencing
outside the court.
First, I want to say thank you to God, who made
this all possible.
Yes.
My prayer was to get justice for Ahmaud.
He filed for us in the courts, he gave us a fairjudge,
Judge Walmsley, he heard the testimonies from each
witness.
He gave us a very good verdict and he gave us
a very good sentence.
Our North America correspondent David Willisjoins me now.
David, what has the reaction been to the sentencing in
been to the sentencing in America? Simon, it’s amazing,
America? Simon, it’s amazing, isn’t it, that this death went
isn’t it, that this death went largely unreported for two
largely unreported for two months after it occurred. It
months after it occurred. It was not until that very
was not until that very harrowing video went viral that
harrowing video went viral that [oral
harrowing video went viral that local prosecutors actually
local prosecutors actually started to take some action and
started to take some action and ten weeks after the death of
ten weeks after the death of Ahmaud Arbery before these
Ahmaud Arbery before these three men were arrested. Well,
three men were arrested. Well, today, the
three men were arrested. Well, today, thejudge
three men were arrested. Well, today, the judge described
three men were arrested. Well, today, thejudge described it
today, the judge described it as a very
today, thejudge described it as a very harrowing and
as a very harrowing and chilling incident and he held
chilling incident and he held one minute’s silence in
one minute’s silence in recognition of the terror but
recognition of the terror but he said Ahmaud Arbery must’ve
he said Ahmaud Arbery must’ve endured
he said Ahmaud Arbery must’ve endured as he was being chased
endured as he was being chased for five minutes by these three
for five minutes by these three men in pick up trucks. He
men in pick up trucks. He sentenced Gregory and Travis
sentenced Gregory and Travis McMichael, father and son
McMichael, father and son respectively, to life without
respectively, to life without the possibility of parole. The
the possibility of parole. The other man, William Roddy Bryan,
other man, William Roddy Bryan, the man who took the infamous
the man who took the infamous video footage, he was sentenced
video footage, he was sentenced to life with the possibility of
to life with the possibility of parole but he will be 82 years
parole but he will be 82 years old before he gets to enjoy
old before he gets to enjoy that right, if you live that
that right, if you live that long. It’s a really tragic
long. It’s a really tragic use,
long. It’s a really tragic case, David. Is there a case
use, David. Is there a use that
rase, David. Is there a rase that change
case, David. Is there a case that change is slowly happening
that change is slowly happening in America because obviously we
in America because obviously we have been seeing many of these
have been seeing many of these rases
have been seeing many of these cases recently, high—profile
cases recently, high-profit; rases
cases recently, high—profile cases like that of George
cases like that of George Floyd, and now this one, so is
Floyd, and now this one, so is there a sense of the policing
there a sense of the policing or judicial
there a sense of the policing orjudicial system is changing
or judicial system is changing for the
orjudicial system is changing for the better? It’s an
for the better? It’s an interesting question and now
interesting question and now Ahmaud Arbery’s case is
Ahmaud Arbery’s case is different to George Floyd.
different to George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery was not killed by
Ahmaud Arbery was not killed by a police officer, he was killed
a police officer, he was killed by people who believed they
by people who believed they have the right to act as police
have the right to act as police officers, if you like, as
officers, if you like, as so—called vigilantes and
so—called vigila ntes and indeed,
so—called vigilantes and indeed, his family described
indeed, his family described the death as a modern—day
the death as a modern-day lynching.
the death as a modern—day lynching. They have since, I
lynching. They have since, I might add, expressed their
might add, expressed their delight at the sentence ——
delight at the sentence —— sentences that have been handed
sentences that have been handed out. But Ahmaud Arbery’s death
out. But Ahmaud Arberrs death was part of a
out. But Ahmaud Arbery’s death was part of a sort of national
was part of a sort of national reckoning, as far as racial
reckoning, as far as racial injustice is concerned in this
injustice is concerned in this country. It really came to a
country. It really came to a head, of course, a few months
head, of course, a few months later, following the death of
later, following the death of George Floyd at the hands of a
George Floyd at the hands of 3 Minneapolis police officer.
Minneapolis police officer. David Willis, live from Los
David Willis, live from Los Angeles, thank you indeed for
Angeles, thank you indeed for bringing us up to date with the
bringing us up to date with the use.
The President of Kazakhstan has ordered his security forces
to use lethal force on protesters after days
of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
Russian troops have arrived to support his government.
The US Secretary of State has warned that it may be difficult
to get them to leave.
Our correspondent Abdujalil Abdurasulov is in Kazakhstan’s
largest city Almaty with the latest.
The army of Kazakhstan is standing guard here
on the streets of Almaty.
After days of violence and many protesters killed,
the state security forces seem to be back in control
and when we came close to them, the warning not to approach
is very clear.
GUNSHOT.
Today, the President was clear, too — any more unrest will be
met with lethal force.
TRANSLATION: Terrorists continue to damage state
and private property and use weapons against civilians.
I have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
President Tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists
who are sowing chaos.
They say that their movement is peaceful and blame
the authorities for provoking the violence.
The unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices,
but this country’s corrupt authoritarian regime
is unpopular.
Some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former
presidential residence and the mayor’s office.
The buildings were burned out, and you can see here all these
cars were also set on fire.
You can hear, again, the shots, but maybe it’s the military
and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not
to approach the square because they closed the square
in order to prevent people from gathering.
Many people fear that the violence will drag on.
Along with protests, many shops were looted.
This 22—year—old man said that while he supports the demands
of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"It’s really scary, and we feel we have no protection,"
this woman says.
This is one of the electronics shops that was looted
in Almaty, and I think the looters tried to burn this
place as well because it still smells of smoke.
This mass unrest is a huge blow for Almaty, which is
the financial capital of Kazakhstan.
It’s not clear yet if the violence is over or how
much damage has been done to the authority
of Kazakhstan’s hardline leader.
Abdujalil Abdurasulov, BBC News, Almaty.
As coronavirus cases continue to rise across India,
new movement restrictions have come into effect for people
in the capital Delhi over the weekend.
Restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed
until Monday morning.
Russell Trott reports.
Bharat’s shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
But with fewer customers and takings down, he has been
badly hit by the pandemic.
Yet, despite India’s capital Delhi locking down over
the weekend, he remains upbeat.
TRANSLATION: The way corona cases are on the rise this
lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
For the past two years, we have faced losses
and we will face the same in the future.
I will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there
is no lockdown.
As the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases,
partly fuelled by the fast—spreading Omicron variant,
most businesses here are still recovering from last
year’s outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals
and crematoriums.
But daily case numbers had since then stayed reasonably
low, until last week.
All residents besides essential workers will now be asked
to stay home from Friday night to Monday morning.
This is a big concern, big challenge.
We have seen that over the last eight days,
the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases
to more than one lakh, injust eight days.
So with this period, the number will be much higher
in the previous days.
More than 200,000 people died across India last spring,
after a wave of Delta variant infections that brought
the healthcare systems to its knees.
India’s A81,000 known Covid deaths is the world’s
third highest toll behind the US and Brazil,
but under—reporting is widespread and some studies
have estimated its actual toll could be up to ten times
higher.
The Omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer
cases expected to need hospital treatment, some
experts warn another lockdown and its economic impact is just
not worth it.
Russell Trott, BBC News.
Novak Djokovic has thanked people around the world
for their support as he awaits a decision on his deportation
from Australia.
The world number one men’s tennis player remains
in immigration detention in Melbourne ahead of
the Australian Open after being denied entry
to the country on Wednesday.
Government officials say he isn’t being held captive
and is free to leave any time.
Shaimaa Khalil reports from Melbourne.
This is the immigration detention hotel where
Novak Djokovic is being kept.
Adnan Choopani has been here for five months now
after being moved from another facility.
I live in level two and Djokovic lives in level one.
That is the food we’ve been served every day in containers.
We found a maggot and mould on the bread and we’ve been
reporting it but unfortunately, there has no action been taken.
Outside the hotel, there was dancing and music,
but also anger and frustration among Novak Djokovic’s
supporters.
It’s unclear if the tennis star will remain here until Monday,
when his legal team will challenge the cancellation
of his visa.
Novak Djokovic is waiting for a court decision
on whether he’ll be able to stay and compete
in the Australian Open or be deported.
Whatever happens, this has gone way beyond tennis.
The world number one is now at the centre of a political
and a diplomatic storm.
Djokovic arrived on Wednesday with an exemption, granted
by Tennis Australia and the state of Victoria.
But the Border Force has revoked his visa,
saying he did not meet the rules of entry.
His mother Dijana said on Thursday that he was being
kept like a prisoner.
Australia’s Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews hit
back, saying there was nothing stopping him from leaving.
Mr Djokovic is not being held captive in Australia.
He is free to leave at any time that he chooses to do so,
and Border Force will actually facilitate that.
The tennis star posted on Instagram, thanking his fans
around the world.
Another player has now had her visa cancelled.
Renata Voracova from the Czech Republic is understood to be
detained in the same hotel as Djokovic.
The Australian Open is one of the biggest sporting events
here but it’s turning into a big international
embarrassment for the government.
Shaimaa Khalil, BBC News, Melbourne.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come:
It’s a letter with no surname or address on the envelope,
but a short biography instead.
And it actually got delivered to the right person.
The Japanese people are in mourning
following the death of Emperor Hirohito.
Thousands converged on the Imperial Palace
to pay their respects
when it was announced he was dead.
Good grief!
After half a century
of delighting fans around the world,
Charlie Brown and the rest of the gang
are calling it quits.
The singer Paul Simon
starts his tour of South Africa tomorrow,
in spite of protests and violence
from some black activist groups.
They say international artists
should continue to boycott South Africa
until majority rule is established.
Around the world, people have been paying tribute
to the iconic rock star David Bowie,
who sold 140 million albums
in a career that spanned half a century.
His family announced overnight that he died of cancer
at the age of 69.
The world’s tallest skyscraper opens later today.
The Burj Dubai has easily overtaken its nearest rivals.
This is BBC News.
The latest headlines:
A court in the US state of Georgia has given life
sentences to three white men who murdered the young Black
man Ahmaud Arbery while he was outjogging.
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite in Russian
troops to quell unrest —
saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
As Kazakhstan’s government seeks to tighten its control
of the country, Friday also saw the arrival of troops
from neighbouring Kyrgyzstan
as part of the Russia—led alliance.
The intervention marks the first deployment
by the post—Soviet Collective Security Treaty Organization
to a member state since its creation.
Ahead of crucial talks with Russia next week over
Ukraine’s border, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned
the Kazakh regime over its reliance on Moscow.
There are very particular drivers of what is happening in
drivers of what is happening in Kazakhstan right now, as I
Kazakhstan right now, as I said, but go to economic and
said, but go to economic and political matters, and what is
political matters, and what is happening there is different
happening there is different from what is happening on
from what is happening on Ukraine’s borders. Having said
Ukraine’s borders. Having said that, I think one lesson of
that, I think one lesson of recent history is that once
recent history is that once Russians are in your house, it
Russians are in your house, it is sometimes very difficult to
is sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
Eugene Chausovsky is an analyst with the New Lines Institute,
a foreign policy think tank.
Eugene, do you think Moscow felt like they had to react to
felt like they had to react to this? It is fairly significant
this? It is fairty significant that
this? It is fairly significant that this is the CSTO force has
that this is the GTO force has been
that this is the CSTO force has been used. Absolutely, I think
been used. Absolutely, Ithink from
been used. Absolutely, I think from Russia’s perspective they
from Russia’s perspective they couldn’t afford not to act.
couldn’t afford not to act. Having seen these projects get
Having seen these projects get out of hand quite quickly and
out of hand quite quickly and then paired with what has
then paired with what has happened around the region from
happened around the region from Ukraine to Belarus, I think
Ukraine to Belams, I think Russia
Ukraine to Belarus, I think Russia made the calculus that
Russia made the ralmlus that it
Russia made the calculus that it needed to send in its
it needed to send in its troops, especially once the
troops, especially once the Kazakhstan government
Kazakhstan government officially requested them via
officially requested them via the CSTO. And in the short term
the GTO. And in the short term at least, has
the CSTO. And in the short term at least, has the deployment
at least, has the deployment what do you think? It is hard
what do you think? It is hard to say exactly right now
to say exactly right now because a lot of the
because a lot of the communications and Internet is
communications and Internet is cut off, but I think over the
cut off, but I think over the past 24
cut off, but I think over the past 2A hours or so it does
past 24 hours or so it does seem
past 2A hours or so it does seem like the primary objective
seem like the primary objective of that deployment, which is to
of that deployment, which is to basically secure the strategic
basically secure the strategic sites of the country which
sites of the country which includes military bases,
includes military bases, government buildings and even
government buildings and even airports in the biggest city of
airports in the biggest city of Almaty, that was the primary
Almaty, that was the primary reason for Russia to go in, so
reason for Russia to go in, so Kazakhstan could basically
Kazakhstan could basically address the protesters head—on,
address the protesters head-on, and it
address the protesters head—on, and it seems to be that they
and it seems to be that they have more or less those sites
have more or lass those sites under
have more or less those sites under control. We will see how
under control. We will see how that unfold in the coming days
that unfold in the coming days but for now it appears to be
but for now it appears to be successful. We have seen some
successful. We have seen some pretty dramatic pictures of the
pretty dramatic pictures of the rioting and some very scary
rioting and some very scary reports from our correspondence
reports from our correspondence there of, especially overnight,
there of, especially overnight, machine—guns and gunfire
machine-guns and gunfire sounding,
machine—guns and gunfire sounding, do you think things
sounding, do you think things will stabilise now or do you
will stabilise now or do you think protest could get even
think protest could get even worse? Like I said, it is very
worse? Like I said, it is very difficult at this point because
difficult at this point because we are still early on in this
we are still earty on in this crisis, and
we are still early on in this crisis, and things are fast
crisis, and things are fast moving. But essentially, the
moving. But essentially, the goal of securing those sites
goal of securing those sites like I mentioned has been more
like I mentioned has been more or less achieved, and now it is
or lass achieved, and now it is a
or less achieved, and now it is a matter of targeting what the
a matter of targeting what the government perceives as the
government perceives as the most radical elements. 50
government perceives as the most radical elements. Sol
most radical elaments. So I think
most radical elements. Sol think there will continue to be
think there will continue to be some demonstrations, but I
some demonstrations, but I think the peaceful
think the peaceful demonstrations and things that
demonstrations and things that don’t tmly
demonstrations and things that don’t truly threaten the
don’t tmly threaten the security
don’t truly threaten the security of the government,
security of the government, those could go on for quite
those could go on for quite some time, but for the more
some time, but for the more radical elements, at least as
radical elements, at least as Moscow and Kazakhstan call
Moscow and Kazakhstan all them,
Moscow and Kazakhstan call them, that will be the priority
them, that will be the priority at this point. And we had a
at this point. And we had a warning there from Antony
warning there from Antony Blinken, do you think there is
Blinken, do you think there is reason to worry for 2500
reason to worry for 2500 troops, many of them Russian,
troops, many of them Russian, going into the country? The
going into the country? The troops are already there. I
troops are already there. I think the concern that Antony
think the concern that Antony Blinken had voiced and some
Blinken had voiced and some others are worried about, is
others are worried about, is that these troops, primarily
that these troops, primarily the Russian led troops, will
the Russian lad troops, will stay
the Russian led troops, will stay there for the long—term.
stay there for the long-term. And
stay there for the long—term. And here I am not so that will
And here I am not so that will be the case. The mandate for
be the use. The mandate for those
be the rase. The mandate for those troops
be the case. The mandate for those troops is to secure those
those troops is to secure those sites, I don’t think
sites, I don’t think necessarily it is in
necessarily it is in Kazakhstan’s interest to have
Kaukhstan’s interest to have this
Kazakhstan’s interest to have this prolonged Russian present,
this prolonged Russian present, because it is quite unpopular
because it is quite unpopular for many people. But as long as
for many peopla. But as long as the security
for many people. But as long as the security situation is met,
the security situation is met, I don’t think necessarily it is
I don’t think necessarily it is going to be a long—term
going to be a long—term deployment of Russia, but they
deployment of Russia, but they could always go back in. Eugene
could always go back in. Eugene Chausovsky, thank you so much
Chausovsky, thank you so much indeed from Washington and
indeed from Washington and therefore bring us up—to—date
therefore bring us up-to-date with
therefore bring us up—to—date with that story.
The former US president Barack Obama has led tributes
to the actor Sir Sidney Poitier, who’s died
at the age of 94.
Mr Obama said the star had "opened doors for
a generation of actors".
Sidney Poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking
films which challenged racial stereotypes.
He was the first Black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor,
and his success paved the way for generations
of other Black artists.
Our correspondent Lizo Mzimba looks back on the life
of a Hollywood icon.
# In the heat of the night...
Sidney Poitier’s Virgil Tibbs, a man of authority...
I’m a police officer.
..intelligence and a steely determination never to back
down — the kind of qualities that defined Poitier
on screen and off.
He made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man
of status — something almost unheard of for
black performers then.
And with roles like an escaped convict in The Defiant Ones
and a struggling husband in A Raisin in the Sun,
he tackled prejudice head on.
Maybe I’ll get down on my black knees.
All right, Mr Charlie.
All right, Mr Great White Father.
You just give us that money!
And we won’t come out there and dirty up your
white folks’ neighbourhood.
The era, of course, meant he had a burden his white
counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight
of being a symbol.
But he bore it with dignity.
In Lilies of the Field, playing a travelling handyman,
helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
# Sing it over.
The winner is Sidney Poitier.
He won the Academy Award — the first black performer ever
to receive the Oscar for a leading role.
In the years that followed, he became Hollywood’s biggest
star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films
like To Sir, with Love.
You will call me ‘Sir’ or ‘Mr Thackeray’.
The young ladies will be addressed as ‘Miss’,
the boys by their surnames.
Some of what I am was reflected in those movies.
It was, in a way, I was saying to an audience,
"This is who I am. Look at me."
More controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely
successful doctor engaged to a white woman
in Guess Who’s Coming To Dinner.
I love your daughter.
There is nothing I wouldn’t do to try to keep her as happy
as she was the day I met her.
Some criticised it, saying the impression it gave
was of an interracial relationship that was only
acceptable because his character was so perfect
and accomplished.
Hello!
He also directed ‘805 comedy Stir Crazy —
the first movie from an African—American film—maker
to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in
the United States.
What are you doing?
I’m getting bad!
In his later years, he was awarded the Presidential Medal
of Freedom by Barack Obama, who today said Sidney Poitier
epitomised dignity and grace.
Oprah Winfrey paid tribute, saying:
While Denzel Washington said:
Those words two decades after he celebrated him
at the Academy Awards.
A0 years, I’ve been chasing Sidney.
They finally give it to me, what they do?
They give it to him the same night.
I’ll always be following in your footsteps.
There’s nothing I would rather do.
APPLAUSE.
That same night, Poitier also received an honorary Oscar.
Hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail
for so many...
They call me Mr Tibbs.
..and who entertained millions more.
Sidney Poitier — one of the greats.
Sidney Poitier, who’s died at the age of 94.
A letter posted to a man in Northern Ireland,
with no surname or address on the envelope, butjust his
first name and a 57—word biography, has managed
to find its way to the right place.
Our Ireland correspondent Emma Vardy has the story.
"Feargal, lives across the road from the Spar.
"His me and da used to own it."
No house number, no street name, a few things much more
personal than that.
The first thing I noticed was the amount of detail
on the envelope and basically, my biography.
"Moved to Waterford after he got married."
Despite nothing more than a short story and half
a postcode, yesterday this letter found its way
straight to Feargal Lynn.
I laughed so much.
Right through it all, to playing guitar, to,
"Friends with the fellow who owns the butchers in
Waterford."
Feargal had taken to writing letters to people over lockdown
as a way to brighten the gloom,
but never expected such a strange reply.
The letter was from an old friend in Belfast,
who perhaps could have found out his address but thought
this way was a little more fun.
We were talking about the pandemic, we were talking
about mental health and the need to brighten
the mood a bit.
Did she actually expect it to reach you?
I think she just took a punt.
"Plays guitar and used to run discos in the poker hall."
It happened to be that Feargal’s local postman
was also a childhood friend.
We’ve had some strange addresses over the years,
but this is the most bizarre of them all.
The first line, "Feargal who lived across from the Spar."
The number of times we played in his front garden as wee
boys, I knew right away who it was.
This could give other people ideas, if they don’t
know an address.
Oh, that would be a nightmare!
And inside the letter, just a cheery hello and a recipe
for coleslaw that Feargal had been asking about,
but it meant much more than that.
There’s so much letters these days that’s meaningless,
it’s financial, it’s 3 rates demand
and it’s so nice to receive something so personal.
"Friends with the fella who runs the butchers
"in Waterford too.
"BTlm, Northern Ireland."
So, could letters make a comeback over email
in future, as something a lot more enjoyable?
Well, we’ll keep you posted!
Emma Vardy, BBC News.
And you can get details of all of these stories
and many more by visiting our website at bbc.com/news.
And a reminder of our top story, a court in the US state
story, a court in the US state of Georgia has convicted the
of Georgia has convicted the men convicted of murdering
men convicted of murdering Ahmaud Arbery to life in prison
Ahmaud Arbery to life in prison without parole. Ahmaud Arbery
without parole. Ahmaud Arbery was jogging when the men chased
was jogging when the men chased him in their tracks and shot
him in their tracks and shot him.
Don’t forget you can get more
Don’t forget you ran get more on our
Don’t forget you can get more on our website, ABC.com/ news.
on our website, ABC.comI news. Thanks for
on our website, ABC.com/ news. Thanks for watching and I will
Thanks for watching and I will see you soon. —— BBC.com.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night to many western parts
of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday, much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man,
in the state of Georgia,
have been sentenced to life in prison.
The case became a focus of protests
by the Black Lives Mather movement.
The US have questioned Kazakhstan’s decision
to seek Russian military support
to deal with a wave of violent unrest.
Russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
Dozens of people have been killed during nationwide
protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
One of the best known Black Hollywood actors
of the past century, Sidney Poitier, has died.
He was 94.
Mr Poitier was the first Black man to be awarded Best Actor
at the Academy Awards in 1964, and paved the way
for a new generation of stars.
During the pandemic, thousands of dog thefts
were reported across the UK and Ireland.
This is the story of Molly, one of those stolen dogs,
and the fight to bring her back home.
ﬂ
I would actually rather know that she was dead than to
that she was dead than to imagine the sort of people that
imagine the sort of people that she is with right now. A
she is with right now. A two—year—old. It is the smell
two-year-old. It is the smell that gets you
two—year—old. It is the smell that gets you first and then
that gets you first and then hundreds of these eyes looking
hundreds of these eyes looking back at you. I have seen people
back at you. I have seen peopla taking
back at you. I have seen people taking photographs of dogs. I
taking photographs of dogs. I guarantee that I can on dog for
guarantee that I ran on dog for sala
guarantee that I ran on dog for sale pages
guarantee that I can on dog for sale pages and see those
sala pages and see those pictures.
sale pages and see those pictures. Only a very, very
pictures. Only a very, very small percentage of people are
small percentage of people are actually prosecuted for this.
actually prosecuted for this. She still has love to give them
She still has love to give them still has faith in the human
still has faith in the human race. We haven’t stopped
race. We haven’t stopped fighting for even a single day,
fighting for even a singla day, and
fighting for even a single day, and we never will.
One of my favourite things that I remember about Molly is that
I remember about Molly is that she just had
I remember about Molly is that shejust had so much
I remember about Molly is that she just had so much love
she just had so much love inside her
she just had so much love inside herfor all of us. She
inside her for all of us. She is just so
inside herfor all of us. She isjust so lovable
inside herfor all of us. She is just so lovable and kind.
is just so lovable and kind. The last photo that I took of
The last photo that I took of Molly, only
The last photo that I took of Molly, onlyjust stood there
Molly, onlyjust stood there behind the flowers in those
behind the ﬂowers in those photos,
behind the flowers in those photos, she really looks like
photos, she really looks like she is smiling. Those are the
she is smiling. Those are the last photos I took of her. The
last photos I took of her. The evening that Molly was stolen,
evening that Molly was stolen, we had our back door open. The
we had our back door open. The two dogs were out there, Millie
two dogs were out there, Millie and Molly. Millie came back and
and Molly. Millie came back and there was no sign of Molly. Ten
there was no sign of Molly. Ten minutes passed, then 20
minutes passed, then 20 minutes, and I was still
minutes, and I was still falling
minutes, and I was still calling her, like, I
minutes, and I was still calling her, like, Iwas
calling her, like, Iwas shouting at the top of my lungs
shouting at the top of my lungs at this point. There was just
at this point. There was just no sign, so we started to walk
no sign, so we started to walk the roads and we also took the
the roads and we also took the cars out, drove around,
tars out, drove around, locally, up
cars out, drove around, locally, up to the village. It
locally, up to the village. It was midnight then that we rang
was midnight then that we rang the guards and reported Molly
the guards and reported Molly as missing we suspected her as
as missing we suspected her as stolen. She possibly was
as missing we suspected her as stolen. She possibly wasjust
stolan. She possibly was just picked up.
Thrown in the boat, closed it down. She is in darkness from
down. She is in darkness from that point. Then when it opens
that point. Then when it opens “P
that point. Then when it opens up again, she has no idea where
up again, she has no idea where she is or who she is with.
she is or who she is with. She is being handed over on a rope.
is being handed over on a rope. Her collar is... We don’t know
Her collar is... We don’t know where. It has been removed at
where. It has been removed at that point.
You feel sick and you panic. I said to my man, I would
said to my man, I would actually rather know that she
actually rather know that she was dead than to imagine the
was dead than to imagine the sort of people that she is with
sort of peopla that she is with right now.
sort of people that she is with right now. You would rather go
right now. You would rather go out onto your road and see that
out onto your road and see that someone had knocked your dog
someone had knocked your dog down, you’d rather know that
down, you’d rather know that they had lived their life and
they had lived their life and that they had the most amazing
that they had the most amazing time with her family who love
time with her family who love them and adore them and then
them and adore them and then they are gone. You would rather
they are gone. You would rather know that.
Something we have talked about quite a bit on this programme
quite a bit on this programme in recent weeks is the rise in
in recent weeks is the rise in dog theft during the pandemic.
dog theft during the pandemic. Gangs are involved now, the
Gangs are involved now, the prices of these animals have
prices of these animals have risen 5000, £10,000 a time, or
risen 5000, £10,000 a time, or a dog. Gangs are violent,
a dog. Gangs are violent, constituents knocked to the
constituents knocked to the ground, beaten, stabbed,
ground, beaten, stabbed, threats to their home and
threats to their home and families.
Within less than 12 hours, we
within lass than 12 hours, we had pretty
Within less than 12 hours, we had pretty much an entire
had pretty much an entire campaign going. By the
campaign going. By the following morning, we had
following morning, we had created the first poster and we
created the first poster and we were going door—to—door as well
were going door-to-door as well in
were going door—to—door as well in different places. That next
in different places. That next day after Molly was stolen, we
day after Molly was stolen, we created the actual Bring Molly
created the actual Bring Molly Home Facebook page to post
Home Facebook page to post every day of make it hot, that
every day of make it hot, that is what everyone says to do,
is what everyone says to do, my
is what everyone says to do, may go to handle. Someone will
may go to handh. Someone will dump
may go to handle. Someone will dump her because they won’t be
dump her because they won’t be able to sell her if everyone
able to sell her if everyone knows she is a stolen dog stop
knows she is a stolan dog stop we miss you,
knows she is a stolen dog stop we miss you, Molly. We miss you
we miss you, Molly. We miss you so very much. You are nothing
so very much. You are nothing short of the best, best girl,
short of the best, best girt, and we
short of the best, best girl, and we love you. We hope you
and we love you. We hope you are OK for now. Please don’t
are OK for now. Please don’t forget us and never think
forget us and never think we have given up on you. A week
have given up on you. A week after Molly was stolen, I
after Molly was stolen, I received a message on the
received a message on the Facebook page from a person who
Facebook page from a person who remains anonymous. Who said,
remains anonymous. who said, ran you ring
remains anonymous. Who said, can you ring me? I know who
ran you ring me? I know who stole your
can you ring me? I know who stole your dog.
m:
We call the guards straightaway with that. The Irish police.
with that. The Irish police. when
with that. The Irish police. When we were given information
when we were given information about a
When we were given information about a certain location she
about a certain [oration she had
about a certain location she had passed through, the next
had passed through, the next morning, the guards were at the
morning, the guards were at the property.
CCTV, which has been watched by the guards, she is being seen
the guards, she is being seen being passed on from one person
being passed on from one person to the next. Within 12 hours of
to the next. within 12 hours of being stolen,
to the next. Within 12 hours of being stolen, she had been sold
being stolen, she had been sold twice already.
ﬂ
I have been working for about 25 years for law enforcement.
m:
We are taking this facial data, this tracking, this view in
this tracking, this view in SD and transmitting that over to
and transmitting that over to our entirely new virtual
our entirely new virtual avatar. Both myself and other
avatar. Both myself and other peopla
avatar. Both myself and other people connected to the
people connected to the investigation have received
investigation have received death threats, so it is
death threats, so it is important that we retain our
important that we retain our anonymity for the protection of
anonymity for the protection of both our families and
both our families and ourselves. Demand for
both ourfamilies and ourselves. Demand for puppies
ourselves. Demand for puppies went through the roof. The type
went through the roof. The type of guys we are investigating
of guys we are investigating began to look at any method
began to look at any method they could for obtaining
they could for obtaining puppies. One of the easiest
puppies. One of the easiest W575
puppies. One of the easiest ways to obtain puppies quickly
ways to obtain puppies quickly is to obtain, and the quickest
is to obtain, and the quickest “Y
is to obtain, and the quickest way to do that is to steal it.
way to do that is to steal it. Naturally, dog will have one,
Naturally, dog will have one, possibly two letters a year or
possibly two letters a year or so however, because of the
so however, because of the demand, they need more letters
demand, they need more letters a year. So they pump the
a year. So they pump the animals full of her minds ——
animals full of her minds -- hormones, it
animals full of her minds —— hormones, it is literally
hormones, it is literally letter after letter after
letter after letter after letter. It does terrible things
letter. It does terrible things to the animals in that process
to the animals in that process -- litter.
to the animals in that process —— litter. All I saw in front
-- litter. All I saw in front of me was
—— litter. All I saw in front of me was this beautiful,
of me was this beautiful, broken dog. She smelt
broken dog. She smelt disgusting, she was covered in
disgusting, she was covered in faeces, you’re in, she has a
faeces, you’re in, she has a skin tumour on her side which
skin tumour on her side which was severely infected. I would
was severely infected. I would say that she has definitely
say that she has definitely been used for breeding, which
been used for breeding, which is what happens with so many of
is what happens with so many of these dogs used for moneymaking
these dogs used for moneymaking machines. As she has already
machines. As she has already got stronger, her personality
got stronger, her personality is coming out now. She still
is coming out now. She still has love to give and still has
has love to give and still has faith in the human race, which
faith in the human race, which is even more heartbreaking,
is even more heartbreaking, that we can use, abuse and dump
that we ran use, abuse and dump and they still
that we can use, abuse and dump and they still forgive us and
and they still forgive us and they still want to love us.
Nobody is enforcing the laws that we have, and the laws that
that we have, and the laws that we have a so weak anyway. The
we have a so weak anyway. The police need to much notice, the
police need to much notice, the authorities need to much
authorities need to much notice. Nobody wants to know.
notice. Nobody wants to know. They just
notice. Nobody wants to know. Theyjust keep passing the
They just keep passing the buck,
Theyjust keep passing the buck, and somebody has got to
buck, and somebody has got to stand up, take responsibility
stand up, take responsibility and do something about it. You
and do something about it. You look at a map and work out the
look at a map and work out the best way to get into that site
best way to get into that site safely, climbing through
safely, climbing through hedges, swimming across water,
hedges, swimming across water, whatever you have to do to
whatever you have to do to locate those animals. Usually
locate those animals. Usually your heart is in your mouth
your heart is in your mouth because you have got to be so
because you have got to be so alart
because you have got to be so alert about what is going on
alert about what is going on because at any minute you could
because at any minute you could be in a lot of danger.
ii
It is the smell that gets you first, and then hundreds of
first, and then hundreds of these either looking back at
these either looking back at you. Some of the animals, they
you. Some of the animals, they are in a terrible state, matted
are in a terrible state, matted codes, you can hardly see what
codes, you ran hardly see what breeds they
codes, you can hardly see what breeds they are sometimes. When
breeds they are sometimes. when rages are on
breeds they are sometimes. When cages are on top of each other,
rages are on top of each other, then the
cages are on top of each other, then the faeces and the year in
then the faeces and the year in will drip down from one page
will drip down from one page into another cage. Some of them
into another rage. Some of them are sort
into another cage. Some of them are sort of scrabbling at the
are sort of scrabbling at the rage and
are sort of scrabbling at the cage and standing up with their
rage and standing up with their paws on the
cage and standing up with their paws on the cage. Some are
paws on the rage. Some are whining,
paws on the cage. Some are whining, barking, and then
whining, barking, and then there are others that are so
there are others that are so traumatised that they are at
traumatised that they are at the back of the cage. They are
the back of the rage. They are terrified
the back of the cage. They are terrified and they won’t come
terrified and they won’t come near you.
So usually, it will happen in the middle of the night and it
the middle of the night and it is always terrifying because
is always terrifying because are they going to bring the dog
are they going to bring the dog or are they going to hit you
or are they going to hit you over the head or take the
over the head or take the money? The owners are so
money? The owners are so petrified that you will get the
petrified that you will get the police involved because the
police involved because the first thing they say is if you
first thing they say is if you bring the police down here,
bring the police down here, then we are going to kill your
then we are going to kill your dog stop you just wait and pray
dog stop you just wait and pray that it all goes to plan. And
that it all goes to plan. And nobody gets hurt. And that you
nobody gets hurt. And that you get the dog back. I always say,
get the dog back. I always say, take a slip lead you, through
take a slip lead you, through the slip lead over the dog as
the slip lead over the dog as quick as you can, give them the
quick as you ran, give them the money and just
quick as you can, give them the money and just get out of
money and just get out of there. I know people that have
there. I know people that have remortgage their houses and
remortgage their houses and they have taken out loans. I
they have taken out loans. I can’t tell you how it feels
can’t tell you how it feels when it works. You see the
when it works. You see the owner in floods of tears. I am
owner in ﬂoods of tears. I am usually in
owner in floods of tears. I am usually in floods of tears. It
usually in ﬂoods of tears. It is amazing.
usually in floods of tears. It is amazing. We shouldn’t have
is amazing. We shouldn’t have to be doing that.
m:
We received further anonymous all
We received further anonymous call that information suggested
call that information suggested that Molly had been moved to
that Molly had been moved to the UK. I was
that Molly had been moved to the UK. I wasjust furious. All
the UK. I was just furious. All the work
the UK. I wasjust furious. All the work that we have put in
the work that we have put in wasn’t enough because it
wasn’t enough because it happens so fast.
if:
He runs R&R transport services,
He runs an transport services, and
He runs R&R transport services, and Richie is responsible for
and Richie is responsible for transporting a number of
transporting a number of animals across the Irish Sea
animals across the Irish Sea illiciﬂy.
animals across the Irish Sea illiciﬂy.
ﬂ
I have lived here for many years. I dread having to go
years. I dread having to go that way. I have seen that
that way. I have seen that laurie
that way. I have seen that Laurie there on numerous
Laurie there on numerous occasions. For quite some time
occasions. For quite some time he has been visiting that
he has been visiting that place. --
he has been visiting that place. —— lorry. This one
place. -- lorry. This one particular
place. —— lorry. This one particular time I happen to be
particular time I happen to be driving past. There was a man
driving past. There was a man and a lady, and they had a cage
and a lady, and they had a rage and in
and a lady, and they had a cage and in this cage there was a
and in this rage there was a pug and
and in this cage there was a pug and another dog, a terrier
pug and another dog, a terrier type. I
pug and another dog, a terrier type, Ithink it
pug and another dog, a terrier type, I think it was. And they
type, I think it was. And they took the rage
type, I think it was. And they took the cage to the doggy door
took the rage to the doggy door and they
took the cage to the doggy door and they were feeding the dogs
and they were feeding the dogs into the Laurie. —— lorry. A
into the Laurie. -- lorry. A dog, who I
into the Laurie. —— lorry. A dog, who I believe was Molly,
dog, who I believe was Molly, was on the back of a cart. The
was on the back of a cart. The more I look at the picture of
more I look at the picture of Molly and the more I remember
Molly and the more I remember this dog, and I would say yes,
this dog, and I would say yes, it was Molly on the back of
it was Molly on the back of that card. I have seen dogs
that card. I have seen dogs come out of their with awful
come out of their with awful wounds. I have seen a dog and
wounds. I have seen a dog and she had cigarette burns cars
she had cigarette burns tars all
she had cigarette burns cars all down her neck and down her
all down her neck and down her back. She was in a really bad
back. She was in a really bad way. -- burn
back. She was in a really bad way. —— burn scars. I have seen
way. -- burn stars. I have seen a dog come out of
way. —— burn scars. I have seen a dog come out of their where
a dog come out of their where it has lost the top of its tail
it has lost the top of its tail and there was blood coming out
and there was blood coming out of it. I have seen many, many
of it. I have seen many, many dogs come out of there.
dogs come out of there. Beaches, with their teeth ——
Beaches, with their teeth -- teats are
Beaches, with their teeth —— teats are driving on the floor,
teats are driving on the ﬂoor, where they
teats are driving on the floor, where they have been bred and
where they have been bred and Braden Brad it really breaks
Braden Brad it really breaks your heart. Nobody wants to see
your heart. Nobody wants to see that, nobody wants to
that, nobody wants to witnesses. —— bread and bread.
witnesses. -- bread and bread. However it
witnesses. —— bread and bread. However it is trust in your
However it is trust in your face because nobody is doing
face because nobody is doing anything about it. —— thrust. I
anything about it. -- thrust. I have seen
anything about it. —— thrust. I have seen people taking
have seen people taking photographs of dogs. I
photographs of dogs. I guarantee that I can look on
guarantee that I ran look on dog for sala
guarantee that I can look on dog for sale pages and see
dog for sala pages and see those
dog for sale pages and see those pictures.
The guard contacted the UK police in the area, with what
police in the area, with what info they had, it wasn’t enough
info they had, it wasn’t enough to search any property about
to search any property about time. Nothing came from that,
time. Nothing came from that, and we were lost from that
and we were lost from that point.
The reality is, you can watch
The reality is, you ran watch these
The reality is, you can watch these crimes happening from
these crimes happening from your own bedroom. Springer
your own bedroom. Springer manager. I have seen videos of
manager. I have seen videos of multiple men optioning a dog
multiple men optioning a dog and she is sitting in the
and she is sitting in the middle of them. What do you
middle of them. what do you reckon
middle of them. What do you reckon of her? And they are
reckon of her? And they are shining torches on her,
shining torches on her, ﬂashing
shining torches on her, flashing over her eyes and
ﬂashing over her eyes and making a
flashing over her eyes and making a pitch for her sale. It
making a pitch for her sala. It is really
making a pitch for her sale. It is really horrendous. There is
is really horrendous. There is numerous Facebook groups which
numerous Facebook groups which are solely used for buying and
are solely used for buying and selling dogs. Any registered or
selling dogs. Any registered or licensed breeder would not be
licensed breeder would not be selling on Facebook.
These groups are ongoing continuously, and there is
continuously, and there is nobody monitoring them. The
nobody monitoring them. The magnitude is
nobody monitoring them. The magnitude isjust
nobody monitoring them. The magnitude is just massive.
magnitude is just massive. Every time I login online there
Every time I login online there is more posts.
m:
We often see as well, comments from people who say "I checked
from peopla who say ‘I checked Mollfs
from people who say "I checked Molly’s page every single day
Mollfs page every single day just to see
Molly’s page every single day just to see if she is home". "I
just to see if she is home". ‘I have
just to see if she is home’. ‘I have never
just to see if she is home". "I have never cried so much over a
have never cried so much over a dog that I’ve never met, I hope
dog that I’ve never met, I hope you get her home soon." Molly’s
you get her home soon.‘ Mollfs story has just
you get her home soon." Molly’s story has just grown so big
story has just grown so big that I don’t know what is going
that I don’t know what is going to happen when we finally get
to happen when we finally get to tell.
to happen when we finally get to tell people that she is
to tell peopla that she is back. I
to tell people that she is back. I think is going to be
back. I think is going to be insane. People want to come and
insane. People want to come and meet her, we will have to do a
meet her, we will have to do a kind of drive—by meet and greet
kind of drive-by meet and greet Molly at the
kind of drive—by meet and greet Molly at the gate, I think. It
Molly at the gate, I think. It was actually one of the girls
was actually one of the giris who
was actually one of the girls who was on our Molly team was
who was on our Molly team was looking on websites to see if
looking on websites to see if she could find different stolen
she could find different stolen dogs. That is how they are
dogs. That is how they are often spotted, in ads for sale.
often spotted, in ads for sale. Since December 2019, I would
Since December 2019, I would estimate I have looked at
estimate I have looked at between 10— 20,000 adverts. The
between 10- 20,000 adverts. The adverts
between 10— 20,000 adverts. The adverts have been designed,
adverts have been designed, have been engineered to target
have been engineered to target your heartstrings and from the
your heartstrings and from the very first sentence, it evokes
very first sentence, it evokes the image of a wholesome pat.
the image of a wholesome pat. Animals that are well looked
Animals that are well looked after, but when you scratch the
after, but when you scratch the surface there is any legal and
surface there is any legal and illicit trade. The amounts of
illicit trade. The amounts of money involved in this our eye
money involved in this our eye watering. The awards you can
watering. The awards you ran get from a
watering. The awards you can get from a litter of puppies
get from a litter of puppies mn
get from a litter of puppies nm on
get from a litter of puppies run on average between £20,000
nm on average between £20,000 - £10,000
run on average between £20,000 — £30,000 a litter.
1. II
If you are prosecuted for breeding illicitly, and you are
breeding illiciﬂy, and you are likely to
breeding illicitly, and you are likely to get a very low level
likely to get a very low level fine. So
likely to get a very low level fine. 50 we are looking at
fine. 50 we are looking at between £5 — £750. And of
between is - £750. And of course a very
between £5 — £750. And of course a very small percentages
course a very small percentages of people are actually
of people are actually prosecuted for this.
Very few people are caught
Very few people are taught stealing
Very few people are caught stealing dogs. And very few
stealing dogs. And very few people are charged. And when
peopla are charged. And when they are
people are charged. And when they are charged, they get very
they are charged, they get very minimal sentences.
they are charged, they get very minimalsentences. My
they are charged, they get very minimal sentences. My chocolate
minimal sentences. My chocolate Labrador, if he were stolen it
Labrador, if he were stolen it would be treated in much the
would be treated in much the same way as a laptop. An object
same way as a laptop. An object that has been taken. The fact
that has been taken. The fact that they are sentience, that
that they are sentience, that they are companions, but they
they are companions, but they are family members has not been
are family members has not been taken into consideration
taken into consideration whatsoever. It needs to be
whatsoever. It needs to be taken more seriously by the
taken more seriously by the police, by the courts, by the
police, by the courts, by the politicians that have the
politicians that have the opportunity to change the laws.
ii
It is literally Pandora’s box and we have only scratched the
and we have only scratched the surface. I think the pandemic
surface. I think the pandemic may be exacerbated, but prior
may be exacerbated, but prior to that they had already
to that they had already secured their marketplace. The
secured their marketplace. The people we are dealing with a
peopla we are dealing with a highly
people we are dealing with a highly organised, and hyper—
highly organised, and hyper— mobile. There needs to be far
mobile. There needs to be far more investigators looking at
more investigators looking at this, there needs to be more
this, there needs to be more interaction between the
interaction between the agencies. And until we do that
agencies. And until we do that this problem is not going to go
this problem is not going to go away.
ﬂ
I don’t know how
I don’t know howl
I don’t know how I feel about it. We still are without Molly,
it. We still are without Molly, so to be honest, all we really
so to be honest, all we really rare
so to be honest, all we really care about is getting her home.
rare about is getting her home. No-one
care about is getting her home. No—one is saying that that is
No-one is saying that that is justice, you
No—one is saying that that is justice, you know. This is the
justice, you know. This is the victim impact statement that I
victim impact statement that I had written to be read in
had written to be read in court. "Molly’s theft has
court. "Molly’s theft has affected each of us in
affected each of us in different ways. From anxiety
different ways. From anxiety and paranoia to sleep
and paranoia to sleep deprivation, recurring
deprivation, recurring nightmares, and most of all,
nightmares, and most of all, grief." "We have had our hopes
grief." "We have had our hopes raised up and then chatted on
raised up and then chatted on more than one occasion by
more than one occasion by peopla
more than one occasion by people who have falsely claimed
peopla who have falsely claimed to
people who have falsely claimed to have Molly. —— shattered. We
to have Molly. -- shattered. We have had
to have Molly. —— shattered. We have had countless sleepless
have had countless sleepless nights due to regular intrusive
nights due to regular intrusive thoughts about their conditions
thoughts about their conditions Molly might be kept in now.
Molly might be kept in now. when
Molly might be kept in now. When we finally do get to
when we finally do get to Shep,
When we finally do get to sleep, the nightmares insular.
sleep, the nightmares insular. These are mainly dreams, in
These are mainly dreams, in which we eventually find Molly.
which we eventually find Molly. CRIES. Only to be
which we eventually find Molly. CRIES. Only to bejolted
which we eventually find Molly. CRIES. Only to be jolted awake
CRIES. Only to be jolted awake with the dreadful reminder that
with the dreadful reminder that this is really not the case.
this is really not the rase. She is
this is really not the case. She is still missing. "
Molly! Molly! Say hi! Are you having a great time? Good girl.
having a great time? Good girt. Millie, you
having a great time? Good girl. Millie, you having a nice time?
ﬂ
I actually had a dream last night. I remember in the dream
night. I remember in the dream being with Molly, and I think I
being with Molly, and I think I brought her to meet my mother,
brought her to meet my mother, mum hadn’t seen her yet, but
mum hadn’t seen her yet, but she was back. She was saying,
she was back. She was saying, "It’s not real", and I was
"It’s not real’, and I was saying, "No,
"It’s not real", and I was saying, "No, it’s definitely
saying, "No, it’s definitely real, it’s way more real than
real, it’s way more real than the dreams where I feel like
the dreams where I feel like she is home". And then I woke
she is home". And then I woke “P
she is home". And then I woke up and I was like... Here we go
up and I was like... Here we go again. Hey Molly! You getting
again. Hey Molly! You getting all the pets? All the pretty
all the pets? All the pretty pets? 0h, Molly! 0h, Molly.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night to many western parts
of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday, much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
Three white men who murdered Ahmaud Arbery in the US state
of Georgia are given life sentences.
The family said they never lost faith in justice.
I knew that we would come out with a victory.
Yes. I never doubted it.
And I knew that today would come.
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision
to invite in Russian troops to quell unrest,
saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
India locks down the capital, Delhi, to try and halt a surge
of cases fuelled by the Omicron variant.
You will call me Sir or Mr Thackeray.
And Sidney Poitier,
the first Black man to win the Academy Award
for Best Actor, has died at the age of 94.
We take a look back at his life’s work.
Hello.
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man,
in the state of Georgia,
have been sentenced to life in prison.
Travis McMichael, his father Gregory,
and their neighbour Roddy Bryan
were convicted of felony murder.
They had chased Mr Arbery while he was jogging,
before he was shot to death.
Their defence had claimed
they feared he was planning to commit a crime.
The McMichaels will spend life in prison
without the possibility of parole.
Roddy Bryan will serve life,
but does have the possibility of parole.
Here’s Georgia Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley,
outlining some of the evidence from the trial.
There’s a frame where I believe Ahmaud Arbery,
it looks to be if he’s 20 yards out —
that may be close — 30 yards out —
it’s the frame of Travis McMichael lifting the shotgun
to fire at Ahmaud Arbery.
And you watch that with context —
and when I say ‘context’,
after hearing the evidence in this case
and thinking about a young man
that had been running at that point for almost five minutes —
and it is a chilling, truly disturbing scene.
Ahmaud’s mother gave her reaction to the sentencing
outside the court.
First, I want to say thank you to God,
who made this all possible. Yes.
My prayer was to get justice for Ahmaud.
He filed for us in the courts,
he gave us a fairjudge, Judge Walmsley,
he heard the testimonies from each witness.
He gave us a very good verdict
and he gave us a very good sentence.
Our North America correspondent, David Willis,
told us about reaction to the trial in the US.
Simon, it’s amazing, isn’t it, that this death went largely
unreported for two months after it occurred.
It wasn’t until that very harrowing video went viral
that [oral prosecutors actually
started to take some action,
and ten weeks after the death of Ahmaud Arbery
before these three men were arrested.
Well, today, thejudge described it as a very
harrowing and chilling incident
and he held a minute’s silence
in recognition of the terror that he said
Ahmaud Arbery must’ve endured
as he was being chased for five minutes
by these three men in pick—up trucks.
He sentenced Gregory and Travis McMichael,
father and son respectively,
to life without the possibility of parole.
The other man, William ‘Roddy’ Bryan —
the man who took the infamous video footage —
he was sentenced to life with the possibility of parole,
but he will be 82 years old
before he gets to enjoy that right,
if he lives that long.
Yeah, it’s a really tragic case, David.
Is there a sense that change is slowly, but is taking place
in America, because obviously, we’ve been seeing quite
a few of these cases recently — high—profile racial cases
like that of George Floyd, and now, of course, this one.
Is there a sort of sense that maybe the policing system,
the judicial system is changing for the better?
It’s an interesting question.
Now, Ahmaud Arbery’s case is different to George Floyd —
Ahmaud Arbery was not killed by police officers,
he was killed by people who were —
who believed they had the right to act as police officers,
if you like, as so—called vigilantes and, indeed,
his family described the death as a modern—day lynching.
They have since, I might add, expressed their delight
at the sentences that have been handed out.
But Ahmaud Arbery’s death
was all part of a sort of national reckoning,
as far as racial injustice is concerned in this country,
that really came to a head, of course, a few months later,
following the death of George Floyd
at the hands of 3 Minneapolis police officer.
Yasmin Cader, director of the Trone Center forJustice
and Equality at the American Civil Liberties Union,
gave us her reaction to the trial.
MY
My reaction is that this verdict is significant for many
verdict is significant for many reasons. One of the first is
reasons. One of the first is that we are to remember this
that we are to remember this conviction almost never
conviction almost never happened, and so it wasn’t
happened, and so it wasn’t until the family and his
until the family and his community organised, mobilised
community organised, mobilised and demanded a full
and demanded a full investigation that these
investigation that these individuals were even arrested.
individuals were even arrested. So the
individuals were even arrested. 50 the significance of this
So the significance of this verdict in my mind is very much
verdict in my mind is very much the fact that it almost never
the fact that it almost never fame
the fact that it almost never came to be. You have got to be
fame to be. You have got to be relieved
came to be. You have got to be relieved obviously at the
relieved obviously at the verdict after all of that,
verdict after all of that, because as you say, initial
because as you say, initial enpsz
because as you say, initial enps2 arrest and charge these
enpsz arrest and charge these men
enps2 arrest and charge these men until this footage emerged?
men until this footage emerged? That is right, but I think when
That is right, but I think when you see relief, what that
you see relief, what that brings to mind to me is
you see relief, what that brings to mind to me isjust
brings to mind to me is just how
brings to mind to me isjust how much more work we have to
how much more work we have to do. This verdict, these
do. This verdict, these sentences, they don’t fully
sentences, they don’t fully reflect in any way what the
reﬂect in any way what the type of
reflect in any way what the type of systemic change is that
type of systemic change is that we need to make sure happens in
we need to make sure happens in this country. Yeah, and you
this country. Yeah, and you think the sentence therefore
think the sentence therefore sends out a wider message that
sends out a wider message that is obviously needed for a long
is obviously needed for a long time, is that maybe a couple of
time, is that maybe a couple of years ago this sentence may not
years ago this sentence may not have come about, this verdict
have come about, this verdict may not have come about, and
may not have come about, and now there is change albeit too
now there is change albeit too late and too slow, but changes
late and too slow, but changes happening? I think the chains
happening? I think the chains that this community is seeking
that this community is seeking is much broader than the
is much broader than the sentences. The change this
sentences. The change this community is seeking is one in
community is seeking is one in which so many like Ahmaud
which so many like Ahmaud Arbery would be alive today. He
Arbery would be alive today. He never would have been seen as a
never would have been seen as a threat simply by
never would have been seen as a threat simply byjogging in
threat simply byjogging in this neighbourhood where he
this neighbourhood where he lived ten minutes away. He
lived ten minutes away. He would be part of an integrated
would be part of an integrated community even though we are 70
community even though we are 70 years past the brown versus
years past the brown versus Board of Education decision
Board of Education decision which said that we shouldn’t be
which said that we shouldn’t be segregated anymore in education
segregated anymore in education or in other systems. He would
or in other systems. He would have been recognised in life
have been recognised in life not just in
have been recognised in life notjust in his death through
not just in his death through this really
notjust in his death through this really retroactive
this really retroactive mechanism. I guess your hope
mechanism. I guess your hope therefore is there is real fast
therefore is there is real fast and significant change now of
and significant change now of course alongside verdict in the
course alongside verdict in the George Floyd case in other
George Floyd use in other rases
George Floyd case in other cases of this nature? Yes, and
cases of this nature? Yes, and that
rases of this nature? Yes, and that changes
cases of this nature? Yes, and that changes much broader than
that changes much broader than these individual cases or these
these individual rases or these verdicts,
these individual cases or these verdicts, but instead, that
verdicts, but instead, that that change is one of systemic
that change is one of systemic in nature that are really
in nature that are really reimagined all of these systems
reimagined all of these systems and seeks
equity for all. Let’s get some of the day was my other news
of the day was my other news now.
Opponents say he doesn’t have authority to impose the rule
authority to impose the rule without going through Congress.
without going through Congress. They say it will save lives.
They say it will save lives. Judgement is not expected for
Judgement is not expected for several days.
Later remains ready to talk to Russia but warned the Allies
Russia but warned the Allies would impose a heavy price for
would impose a heavy price for any further Russian aggression.
Austria’s Chancellor Karl Nehammer has tested
positive for coronavirus.
The 19—year—old, who took over as Chancellor a month ago,
is in self—isolation,
and says he isn’t showing any symptoms.
He’s issued a statement saying
"There is no need to worry, I am fine and doing well."
The president of Kazakhstan has ordered his security forces
to use lethal force on protesters after days
of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
Russian troops have arrived to support his government.
The US Secretary of State has warned that it may be difficult
to get them to leave.
Our correspondent, Abdujalil Abdurasulov,
is in Kazakhstan’s largest city Almaty with the latest.
The army of Kazakhstan is standing guard here
on the streets of Almaty.
After days of violence and many protesters killed,
the state’s security forces seem to be back in control,
and when we came close to them,
the warning not to approach is very clear.
GUNSHOT
Today, the President was clear too —
any more unrest will be met with lethal force.
TRANSLATION: Terrorists continue to damage state
and private property and use weapons against civilians.
I have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
President Tokayev portrays the protesters
as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
They say that their movement is peaceful
and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
The unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices,
but this country’s corrupt authoritarian regime
is unpopular.
Some of the biggest clashes took place
here at the former presidential residence
and the mayor’s office.
The buildings were burnt out
and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
You can hear, again, the shots,
but maybe it’s the military and police officers
are firing into the air to warn people
not to approach the square
because they closed the square
in order to prevent people from gathering.
Many people fear that the violence will drag on.
Along with protests, many shops were looted.
This 22—year—old man says that while he supports the demands
of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"It’s really scary, and we feel we have no protection,"
this woman says.
This is one of the electronics shops
that was looted in Almaty,
and I think the looters tried to burn this place as well
because it still smells of smoke.
This mass unrest is a huge blow for Almaty,
which is the financial capital of Kazakhstan.
It’s not clear yet if the violence is over
or how much damage has been done to the authority
of Kazakhstan’s hardline leader.
Abdujalil Abdurasulov, BBC News, Almaty.
US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken
has been talking about the deployment of
Russian troops to Kazakhstan as part
of the post—Soviet Collective Security Treaty Organization.
He had this warning for the Kazakh regime
There are very particular drivers of what is happening
in Kazakhstan right now, as I said, that go to economic
and political matters, and what’s
happening there is different from what’s happening
on Ukraine’s borders.
Having said that, I think one lesson of
recent history is that once Russians are in your house,
it’s sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
One place closely watching events in
Kazakhstan is Belarus.
Both countries are members of the Russian—led
Collective Security Treaty Organisation,
or CSTO,
which has sent peacekeeping forces to Kazakhstan.
Speaking on state TV,
Belarussian President Alexander Lu kashenko
said his forces were not there to kill.
TRANSLATION: We would inform the UN we would like to help
the UN we would like to help Kazakhstan to restore peace.
Kazakhstan to restore peace. You cannot kill, not provide.
You cannot kill, not provide. We are peaceful people. We need
We are peaceful people. We need to stop the war and we are
to stop the war and we are doing exactly that.
A short time ago, I spoke to Franak Viacorka, who’s
a Senior Advisor to Sviatla na Tsikhanouskaya,
the exiled Belarusian opposition leader.
I asked him what reaction there had been in Belarus
to CSTO troops being sent to Kazakhstan.
ii
It is shameful but they should not participate in such
not participate in such operations. They should stay in
operations. They should stay in power by all means also what
power by all means also what are your thoughts on the CSTO
are your thoughts on the GTO in general?
are your thoughts on the CSTO in general? This is the
in general? This is the first time they have been mobilised
time they have been mobilised in its history. What do you
in its history. what do you personally
in its history. What do you personally think of that? It is
personally think of that? It is an artificial organisation that
an artificial organisation that was never used before, it was
was never used before, it was created and this is the very
created and this is the very first time it is used by one of
first time it is used by one of its member states. CSTO is used
its member states. GTO is used by Russia
its member states. CSTO is used by Russia primarily in order to
by Russia primarily in order to keep the Soviet countries under
keep the Soviet countries under control, and Belarus
control, and Belarus participation in CSTO in my
participation in GT0 in my personal
participation in CSTO in my personal opinion must be
personal opinion must be stopped. The situation with
stopped. The situation with Kazakhstan shows we will be
Kazakhstan shows we will be working closely with Belarus
working closely with Belams and
working closely with Belarus and asking them not to
and asking them not to participate in operations. It
participate in operations. It is a fairty
participate in operations. It is a fairly serious situation
is a fairty serious situation in
is a fairly serious situation in Kazakhstan. You don’t think
in Kazakhstan. You don’t think this justifies mobilisation of
this justifies mobilisation of allies to try and calm the
allies to try and calm the situation? The situation in
situation? The situation in Kazakhstan, we pass this in
Kazakhstan, we pass this in 2020, same in Kazakhstan,
2020, same in Kazakhstan, peopla
2020, same in Kazakhstan, people ask for freedom and
people ask for freedom and democracy and they were
democracy and they were brutally cracked down by
brutally cracked down by dictatorships. Russia and
dictatorships. Russia and others should not interfere and
others should not interfere and should not help them to stay
should not help them to stay in power. We believe all the
power. We believe all the crisis can be solved with
crisis ran be solved with dialogue,
crisis can be solved with dialogue, a conversation. All
dialogue, a conversation. All the parties in Kazakhstan, the
the parties in Kazakhstan, the regime in the processes and we
regime in the processes and we are falling for
regime in the processes and we are calling for a peaceful
are calling for a peaceful resolution. Same as in Belarus.
resolution. Same as in Belarus. We are continuing calling for a
We are continuing falling for a peaceful
We are continuing calling for a peaceful resolution and we
peaceful resolution and we don’t want Russian troops come
don’t want Russian troops come to Belarus to help us and solve
to Belams to help us and solve our own
to Belarus to help us and solve our own crisis. He obviously
our own crisis. He obviously worked very close with the main
worked very close with the main Opposition Leader in Belarus.
Opposition Leader in Belarus. What other thoughts about all
what other thoughts about all this?
What other thoughts about all this? We are very concerned,
this? We are very concerned, and at one point they will feel
and at one point they will feel weak and a new wave of protests
weak and a new wave of protests will start, and Russian troops
will start, and Russian troops will appear, so we are asking
will appear, so we are asking the community to prevent it,
the community to prevent it, allow this to happen to
allow this to happen to Belarus. We sincerely believe
Belarus. We sincerely believe Belarusian ‘s can solve their
Belarusian ‘s ran solve their own
Belarusian ‘s can solve their own crisis
Belarusian ‘s ran solve their own crisis by
Belarusian ‘s can solve their own crisis by themselves
own crisis by themselves without help of Russia or any
without help of Russia or any other countries.
Just to bring you a small line of news reaching us
on the situation in Kazakhstan,
because the US State Department have said they have agreed
non—emergency staff and their familes currently
working at the US Consulate in Almaty
can leave if they want to.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
A court in the US state of Georgia has given life
sentences to three white men
who murdered the young black man Ahmaud Arbery while
he was outjogging.
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite in Russian
troops to quell unrest — saying it might be difficult
to get them to leave.
As coronavirus cases continue to rise across India,
new movement restrictions have come into effect for people
in the capital Delhi over the weekend.
Restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed
until Monday morning.
Russell Trott reports.
Bharat’s shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
But with fewer customers and takings down, he has been
badly hit by the pandemic.
Yet, despite India’s capital Delhi locking down over
the weekend, he remains upbeat.
TRANSLATION: The way corona cases are on the rise this
lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
For the past two years, we have faced losses
and we will face the same in the future.
I will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there
is no lockdown.
As the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases,
partly fuelled by the fast—spreading Omicron variant,
most businesses here are still recovering from last
year’s outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals
and crematoriums.
But daily case numbers had, since then, stayed reasonably
low — until last week.
All residents besides essential workers will now be asked
to stay home from Friday night to Monday morning.
This is a big concern, big challenge.
We have seen that over the last eight days,
the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more
than one lakh, injust eight days.
So with this period, the number will be much higher
in the previous weeks.
More than 200,000 people died across India last spring,
after a wave of Delta variant infections that brought
the healthcare systems to its knees.
India’s A81,000 known Covid deaths is the world’s third
highest toll behind the US and Brazil, but under—reporting
is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll
could be up to ten times higher.
The Omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer
cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn
another lockdown and its economic impact is just
not worth it.
Russell Trott, BBC News.
The former US president Barack Obama has led tributes
to the actor Sir Sidney Poitier, who’s died
at the age of 94.
Mr Obama said the star
had "opened doors for a generation of actors".
Sidney Poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking
films which challenged racial stereotypes.
He was the first black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor,
and his success paved the way for generations
of other black artists.
Our correspondent Lizo Mazimba looks back on the life,
of a Hollywood icon.
# In the heat of the night...
Sidney Poitier’s Virgil Tibbs, a man of authority...
I’m a police officer.
..intelligence and a steely determination never to back
down — the kind of qualities that defined Poitier
on screen and off.
He made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man
of status — something almost unheard of for
black performers then.
And with roles like an escaped convict in The Defiant Ones
and a struggling husband in A Raisin in the Sun,
he tackled prejudice head on.
Maybe I’ll get down on my black knees.
All right, Mr Charlie.
All right, Mr Great White Father.
You just give us that money!
And we won’t come out there and dirty up your
white folks’ neighbourhood.
The era, of course, meant he had a burden his white
counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight
of being a symbol.
But he bore it with dignity.
In Lilies of the Field, playing a travelling handyman,
helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
# Sing it over.
The winner is Sidney Poitier.
He won the Academy Award — the first black performer ever
to receive the Oscar for a leading role.
In the years that followed, he became Hollywood’s biggest
star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films
like To Sir, with Love.
You will call me ‘Sir’ or ‘Mr Thackeray’.
The young ladies will be addressed as ‘Miss’,
the boys by their surnames.
Some of what I am was reflected in those movies.
It was, in a way, I was saying to an audience,
"This is who I am. Look at me."
More controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely
successful doctor engaged to a white woman
in Guess Who’s Coming To Dinner.
I love your daughter.
There is nothing I wouldn’t do to try to keep her as happy
as she was the day I met her.
Some criticised it, saying the impression it gave
was of an interracial relationship that was only
acceptable because his character was so perfect
and accomplished.
Hello!
He also directed ‘805 comedy Stir Crazy —
the first movie from an African—American film—maker
to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in
the United States.
What are you doing? I’m getting bad!
In his later years, he was awarded the Presidential Medal
of Freedom by Barack Obama, who today said Sidney Poitier
epitomised dignity and grace.
Oprah Winfrey paid tribute, saying:
While Denzel Washington said:
Those words two decades after he celebrated him
at the Academy Awards.
A0 years, I’ve been chasing Sidney.
They finally give it to me, what do they do?
They give it to him the same night.
I’ll always be following in your footsteps.
There’s nothing I would rather do.
APPLAUSE.
That same night, Poitier also received an honorary Oscar.
Hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail
for so many...
They call me Mr Tibbs.
..and who entertained millions more.
Sidney Poitier — one of the greats.
Sidney Poitier, who’s died at the age of 94.
A letter posted to a man in Northern Ireland
with no surname or address on the envelope, butjust his
first name and a 57—word biography, has managed
to find its way to the right place.
Our Ireland correspondent Emma Vardy has the story.
"Feargal, lives across the road from the Spar.
"His me and da used to own it."
No house number, no street name, a few things much more
personal than that.
The first thing I noticed was the amount of detail
on the envelope and basically, my biography.
"Moved to Waterford after he got married."
Despite nothing more than a short story and half
a postcode, yesterday this letter found its way
straight to Feargal Lynn.
I laughed so much.
Right through it all, to playing guitar, to,
"Friends with the fella who owns the butchers in
Waterford."
Feargal had taken to writing letters to people over lockdown
as a way to brighten the gloom,
but never expected such a strange reply.
The letter was from an old friend in Belfast,
who perhaps could have found out his address but thought
this way was a little more fun.
We were talking about the pandemic, we were talking
about mental health and the need to brighten
the mood a bit.
Did she actually expect it to reach you?
I think she just took a punt.
"Plays guitar and used to run discos in the parochial hall."
It happened to be that Feargal’s local postman
was also a childhood friend.
We’ve had some strange addresses over the years,
but this is the most bizarre of them all.
The first line, "Feargal who lived across from the Spar."
The number of times we played in his front garden as wee
boys, I knew right away who it was.
This could give other people ideas, if they don’t
know an address.
Oh, that would be a nightmare!
And inside the letter, just a cheery hello and a recipe
for coleslaw that Feargal had been asking about,
but it meant much more than that.
There’s so much letters these days that’s meaningless,
it’s financial, it’s 3 rates demand
and it’s so nice to receive something so personal.
"Friends with the fella who runs the butchers
"in Waterford too.
"BTlm, Northern Ireland."
So, could letters make a comeback over email
in future, as something a lot more enjoyable?
Well, we’ll keep you posted!
Emma Vardy, BBC News.
A volcano perched on top of one of Ecuador’s famous
Galapagos Islands has erupted, producing
a spectacular lava flow.
The one—mile—high Wolf volcano is located on Isabela Island,
home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that
helped inspire Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution
following his visit in 1835.
Fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife
populations, or to humans.
That’s about it for me from now. You can get more news on
now. You ran get more news on our
now. You can get more news on our website.
You can reach me on Twitter, I’m @SiPusey.
Thank you for watching and do stay tuned to BBC News.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night to many western parts
of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday,
much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a black man,
in the state of Georgia, have been sentenced
to life in prison.
The case became a focus of protests by the Black Lives
Matter movement.
The US have questioned Kazakhstan’s decision to seek
Russian military support to deal with a wave
of violent unrest.
Russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
Dozens of people have been killed during nationwide
protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
And one of the best known black Hollywood actors
of the past century, Sidney Poitier, has died.
He was 94.
Mr Poitier was the first black man to be awarded Best Actor
at the Academy Awards in 1964 and paved the way
for a new generation of stars.
Coming up in around 10 minutes’ time we’ll have Newswatch,
but first here’s Click.
That is it from us from CES. We’ll be back in Vegas from
We’ll be back in Vegas from next year. Not act can see no
next year. Not act ran see no or
next year. Not act can see no or convention centre insight.
or convention centre insight. -- not a
or convention centre insight. —— not a casino.
THUNDERING, POWERFUL MUSIC PLAYS.
Welcome to CES 2022 from Vegas!
It’s been touch and go but we made it, and there’s
plenty of tech here.
Yeah, not as much as we were expecting,
though, to be honest.
In fact, quite a few big names
pulled out quite late in the day due to you—know—what,
which does mean
that the world’s biggest tech show feels somewhat
smaller, doesn’t it?
There are still plenty of gadgets, though.
Yep, true.
I’ll be looking at a few for the home
in a minute but in the meantime, do you fancy a brew?
I think it’s time for a tea break, don’t you?
You’ve been working hard already, clearly.
Very hard, yes!
This is the Bru tea maker.
Now, you can put in any loose tea or tea bags and then
you set it for
exactly how long you want that tea to be brewing for,
so it’ll hopefully make you your perfect
cuppa.
My perfect cuppa is I’d say about 3.5 minutes.
Can you do that?
OK, I shall try and oblige.
It’s got quite a handy self—cleaning function
in there as well.
With these machines, that’s often the hassle,
isn’t it?
0K.
Set up a 3.5—minute interlude, please.
Yeah, actually.
Not a bad cup of...tea.
Where... 7
0h!
She’s gone.
That should keep him busy for a bit.
Now, these days, we’re having more
food deliveries than ever, so could this be a solution?
Fresh Portal allows you to set it to
hot or cold so your delivery should be kept atjust
the right temperature.
The finished product will have UV—C lights to sanitise it
and a camera
to monitor yourfood, but the problem is you do need
to cut a big hole in your house to put it in.
And here’s today’s delivery, which is rather
unusually some yoguhrt.
One issue with deliveries as they often
come with way more packaging than you need.
That I’ll be after later.
But Clear Drop hopes to overcome the problem
of not enough soft plastics being recycled with this,
a device that compresses them.
You can either put in there plastic bags like this or any
soft
packaging.
This isjust a prototype — the finished product will be
about two—thirds of this size — but this is what happens.
And this is what the plastic comes out
looking like once it’s condensed.
I’ve been told that this is probably the quantity
that your average
family would come up with over the course of two months
and being like this
instead of big, puffy bags does make it a lot easier to be
ground
down at a recycling facility.
Anyhow, I’m going to pop that there because I
need to get to the kitchen.
As it happens, I’m not much of a
fan of plain yoghurt, but there is a reason
that I’ve got this here.
First of all, let me pour some into the bowl.
This is SpoonTEK, and the company claims
that
through a mild electric current that
runs through it, yourfood should taste better.
Now, when I am using it, the food will be covering this
silver
dot here.
And when I’m eating with it, my finger will naturally cover
that silver bit at the back.
So this light
will come on to show that it’s definitely working.
To test it, I’m actually going to be blindfolded so that
I can’t tell the difference between this, the functioning
spoon, and these two that don’t.
I’m going to put this on and Omar, can
you come over and just mix things up a bit so I don’t know
what spoon I’m using?
0K.
It’s here somewhere, I think.
BLEEP.
OK, this tastes like yoghurt.
That tasted exactly the same as it did on the first spoon.
Um, strangely, that mouthful maybe sort of tasted a bit
better?
But I don’t know.
If I wasn’t really thinking about it,
I wouldn’t notice a difference.
It’s not like you feel an electric current or anything.
But I’m going to
guess that this is the right spoon.
MUSICAL FLOURISH.
It is.
0K.
I was genuinely not expecting that!
0K, well, let’s give it a go again.
BLEEP.
I think this is the spoon.
BUZZER BLARES.
No.
IF}
And I really thought it wasn’t the first
I’M-F
Maybe it was luck, I guess, the first time.
Let’s do it again.
BLEEP.
Not feeling so sure this time.
I’m going to go for this being the
spoon.
And it is!
OK, that was two out of three.
And it could be luck but I don’t know!
It was two out of three.
The difference
was so small, I wonder if it would be more
substantial with something that tasted a bit stronger
but I
don’t know!
There’s my really scientific test.
And when it’s time to leave the house, especially
if you’re going to be away for a while, then you may be
concerned about security.
And here’s
something that’s taken things on a level from the old timer
switch that
makes it look like someone’s in when the lights
go on and off.
Let me just set it up.
There we go.
Simple.
It’s got a sensor in it so it knows
if it’s day or night.
Done.
Home Shadows aims to create the illusion that there
are people moving around in the room and
to me, it did just look like a bit of a glitchy light,
which I suppose would indicate someone
was in.
But it doesn’t exactly look like this.
Welcome to CS where there is always something you can see.
Including this cabinet we can make anything float.
They have put perfumes and watches in here for retail
shops, but today they have put my
microphone inside.
The founders are magicians — they won’t tell
me how it is done.
I am going to need that back.
0K, there you go!
It is magic.
LAUGHS.
This
As always, more and more things are getting connected
to the Internet.
This is a smart tap, I can ask my voice assistant.
Alexa, ask for 500 millimetres of water.
There we go.
Exactly 500 millilitres, very clever.
If this means the Wi—Fi goes off, I can’t make a cup of tea?
Absolutely not.
You always have tea, the motion control sensor
will continue to operate.
This is Battle Racing, a start—up from Colombia
which I think was inspired by an
Italian—Japanese plumber.
I can even leave little traps here for the people racing
behind me, and then off I go!
This is Flying Magic Cleaner.
The idea is once you have
vacuumed your carpet you can suck some more dust out
of the air.
There is a few companies here this year doing facial
recognition for dogs.
So let’s give it a try.
Here’s a dog, you hold that to the camera,
and it’s identified asJohn.
And what about this dog, with the pretty hair clip?
Is this a different dog or the same dog?
That is alsoJohn.
LAUGHS.
What do alcohol and Bitcoin both
have in common?
Every high is followed by a crash.
I have just met Cecilia.
This is a robot
bartender.
I put my cup here.
Show me your ID.
She’s asking for my ID.
Obviously I look under 21.
Cecilia, I will have a metaverse please.
Oh Cecilia, you are breaking my heart, you’re shaking my
cocktails daily.
0h nice, is that pomegranate?
And this is the perfect gadget for if you
have been doing sports or exercise orjust walking
around CES all day.
It is Cryosocks, and it will give me instant
deep calling on my muscles from this canister here,
so Ijust give it a press.
0h!
Oh, it’s very cold.
That was Chris, and we haven’t quite finished with weird
and wonderful yet.
Oh good!
You know that nice feeling you get
when a baby nibbles yourfinger?
No.
Me neither.
But someone does, so meet Amagami
Ham Ham.
Yourfinger in its mouth.
That’s strange.
Tell us what it is like?
Oh, it is squeezing the end of my finger.
You enjoy that while I read the press release.
It’s designed to recreate somewhat
pleasing sensation you get when human babies and pet
animals softly bite on the fingers.
It uses a special algorithm to randomly select from two
dozen nibbling patterns to keep users
interested.
Are you still interested?
Fascinated.
Most people like the nibbling sensation but know they need
to teach their children or pets to
stop it or they’ll bite with full force, eventually.
Amagami Ham Ham frees humankind from the conundrum
of whether to pursue or not pursue
the forbidden pleasure.
How is that for you?
Can I take my finger out?
On that note we will leave it for CES for
this
week.
It is good to be back, though, isn’t it.
it is good to be back. Super. Super.
As ever, you can keep up with the team on
social media, find us at BBC Click.
Spencer, are you 0K?
Thanks for watching, we will see you soon.
Hello, and welcome to the first Newswatch of 2022,
with me, Samira Ahmed.
Why, just after Ghislaine Maxwell’s conviction,
did BBC News interview Jeffrey Epstein’s former
lawyer, who has himself been accused of abuse?
And was it right after that guilty verdict to hear
from Ghislaine Maxwell’s brother, Ian, who insists
she is innocent?
The trial of Ghislaine Maxwell on charges of
helping the latejeffrey Epstein to abuse girls
was avidly followed in the media
around the world.
So when she was found guilty in a New York
court last week, it was, of course, breaking news
on the BBC News channel.
A few minutes after the verdict came in, the channel
interviewed this man.
The government was very careful who it used as witnesses.
It did use as a witness the woman who accused
Prince Andrew, accused me, accused many other people,
because the government didn’t
believe she was telling the truth.
In fact, she, Virginia Giuffre, was mentioned in the trial
as somebody who brought young people to Epstein
for him to abuse.
Although this was not made clear on air,
Alan Dershowitz used to be a lawyer
forJeffrey Epstein,
and as he mentioned there, he has, along
with Epstein, been accused of abuse by Virginia Giuffre,
a charge he denies.
Many viewers expressed shock at the interview,
with Michael McElfresh contacting us to say:
And John Moyes added:
Well, the following day,
the BBC acknowledged that those criticisms had a point,
putting out this statement.
There has been no further word yet on that, but in
the meantime they have been more
objections to another BBC interview about this case,
and it took place on New Year’s Eve on
Radio 4’s Today programme, and clips of it were shown
during the day on the news channel.
The guest: Ghislaine Maxwell’s brother Ian, who challenged
the version of events set out in court by her accusers.
the version of events set out in court by her accusers.
I’m not saying that they are lying — I mean, you know,
it may well be that they were victims of
Jeffrey Epstein.
But I do not accept that they were victims
of Ghislaine.
That’s my position, and that’s also her position.
Again, many listeners and viewers were concerned.
Kate Hahamis wondered:
Again, the BBC put out a statement in response,
but this time defending the broadcast.
but this time defending the broadcast.
It said:
It added:
We did want to talk to someone at the BBC about those two
interviews, but were told they had nothing to add
to the statements we’ve heard.
We ran, though, hear more on this now
from Newswatch viewer Sarah Churchwell,
who is professor of American literature and public
understanding of the humanities at London University.
Sarah, you saw that interview with
Alan Dershowitz, what was your concern?
I was horrified. I was really, really outraged.
And it was the phrase, "formidable conflicts"
in your description in your description sticks with me
from the other viewer.
He has multiple conflicts of interest
in this case, and he is himself directly implicated,
as he said.
So not only did he not comment impartially on the Maxwell
verdict, he didn’t comment on the Maxwell verdict
at all.
He took the opportunity to charge Virginia Giuffre
who has accused him of abuse, and to say that the verdict
somehow vindicated him.
So it was, it was problematic on multiple levels because at
no point for a UK audience, or an audience who doesn’t know
who Alan Dershowitz is, and what his very complex
relationship with this case is,
theyjust took him as the "constitutional lawyer"
that he was described as, an impartial,
neutral expert, when in fact he is personally implicated
in the case, and has been accused of criminal wrongdoing,
a very serious criminal wrongdoing.
Could he have been a suitable guest if enough context had
been given about his connections and
his conflicts of interest?
I think he could have been, but it is notjust
that he was a guest, it is that he
wasn’t challenged, either.
He wasjust given their time put
his case out there.
And even when he said "This has cleared
me", at no point was that taken up or challenged.
If he had been interviewed where it had
been made very clear that he represented Epstein,
that he acted for him in the nonprosecution agreement
in Florida that has been so controversial, and then
he had been challenged, and he had
been, you know, robustly interviewed, then I think that
that would have been acceptable.
But the problem was that none of those things
happened.
And we should say of course, Alan Dershowitz, of course,
absolutely denies any involvement in abuse.
Now the BBC have said they are investigating
what went on, you heard that statement.
Will that do?
I guess it depends on what the outcome
of the investigation is.
My personal concern watching it was that at no point did
the presenter say "Wait a minute, are you
implicated, what is your implication", even if
the presenter hadn’t known until that moment,
which of course... they should have done.
But even if, you know, you get to that
point, I would still expect a BBCjournalist to hear
somebody say "This verdict has cleared
me personally", and then ask some of the obvious
follow—up questions.
So for me it will very much matter what the
result of the investigation is.
Two days later Ian Maxwell, Ghislaine’s brother,
was on the Today programme defending him.
What did you think of that decision?
Well, again, it seemed to me as if
there were, it was again, a problematic decision for me.
I think that it felt like preferential treatment,
and I understand that they are saying
that there was somebody there to challenge Ian Maxwell’s
position, and that the story was actually about their
decision to appeal, but...
I have to agree, again with your
viewer, who said that, you know, is this now
going to be the standard practice for people
who are convicted of child sex trafficking?
Because at what point, you know, are we
actually saying that the BBC is going to bring on the relatives
and the interested parties in a criminal case in order
to defend against the verdict that
is, you know, lawful verdict that has been made?
Do you think the BBC needs to rethink
the interviews they do on stories like this?
I do, actually.
I think there was an effort here to create balance,
which of course is very, very important for the BBC to do.
But this feels to me like false balance,
because what you are actually doing is allowing
people who have been convicted of wrongdoing,
this is not people who are charged, people
who have been convicted of wrongdoing, for their
surrogates and proxies to argue
about conviction was somehow problematic or overturned —
or should be overturned.
At that point, the balance in question is somebody
defending a criminal, or arguing that it
wasn’t criminal.
That is not balance, that is not a balanced coverage
of a criminal verdict in a society that obeys
the rule of law.
Sarah Churchwell, thank you so much.
The difficulties tennis star Novak Djokovic has faced
in trying to enter Australia, and the argument that has
prompted over Covid vaccinations, has been widely
covered this week across BBC News.
Some viewers considered the airtime it was
given to be unwarranted, particularly in comparison
with that given to the violence in Kazakhstan —
although the BBC has pointed out that the latter has
featured across its output,
including on the main bulletins.
Dr David Pearson had this to say about Djokovic.
On Wednesday, BBC One bulletins brought news of a notable
achievement.
Here is Clive Myrie on the News at Six.
A British Army officer has become
All
the first woman of colour to complete a solo exhibition
to the South Pole.
Captain Preet Chandi, who is 32, trekked 700 miles
in A0 days, pulling all her equipment on a sledge.
In the report that followed, Captain Chandi talked
about herself as an Asian woman and how she wanted to inspire
others with similar backgrounds.
Nevertheless, Viv Whitten, among other viewers,
was unhappy with the phrase "the first woman of colour"
used in that introduction, and recorded this video.
It was inspiring to hear some positive
non—Covid news about the brave young woman who had recently
trekked to the South Pole.
But totally unnecessary, and irrelevant,
to describe her as a "woman of colour".
We haven’t even noticed her skin colour.
This BBC bias is simply inverse or woke racism which encourages
division and undermines our civil society.
Last Saturday the new channel broadcast live
the funeral service for Archbishop Desmond Tutu
who died on Boxing Day.
Some of the proceedings, though, were interrupted
by studio discussion about the Archbishop’s
life, and that annoyed viewers such asJenny Hempstead.
Finally, the name of the next person to run BBC News
and current affairs was announced on Thursday.
Deborah Turness faces a big task, as evidenced
by these two contrasting messages posted on Twitter.
Here is Paul Morris.
Jeduimru had a different perspective.
As ever, on Newswatch, we will be monitoring how well
BBC News satisfies competing constituencies under Ms Turness
when she takes up post.
In the meantime we’ll be speaking to the outgoing
director of news, Fran Unsworth, in two weeks time.
And do send us any questions or comments you would like us
to put to her, or any of your opinions
about what you see, read hear on BBC News on TV,
radio, online or social media.
You can email:
you can find us on Twitter:
you can also callus:
and do have a look at previous interviews on our website.
That’s all from us, we will be back to hear your thoughts
about BBC News coverage again next week.
Goodbye.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Now here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night
to many western parts of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday,
much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
Hello. This is BBC News.
Our top stories.
Three white men who murdered Ahmaud Arbery
in the US state of Georgia are given life sentences —
the family said they never lost faith in justice.
I knew that we would come out with a victory.
Yes. I never doubted it.
And I knew that today would come.
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite
in Russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be
difficult to get them to leave.
India locks down the capital Delhi to try
and halt a surge of cases fueled by the Omicron variant.
You will call me Sir or Mr Thackeray.
And Sidney Poitier, the first black man
to win the Academy Award for Best Actor, has died,
at the age of 94.
We take a look back at his life’s work.
Hello and welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
In the US, three white men who were convicted
of chasing and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a black man,
in the state of Georgia, have been sentenced to life
in prison.
Travis McMichael, his father Gregory,
and their neighbour, Roddy Bryan, were convicted
of felony murder.
They had chased Mr Arbery while he was jogging,
before he was shot to death.
Their defence had claimed they feared he was planning
to commit a crime.
The McMichaels will spend life in prison without
the possibility of parole, but Roddy Bryan will serve
life, but does have the
possibility of parole.
Here’s Georgia Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley
outlining some of the evidence from the trial.
There’s a frame where I believe Ahmaud Arbery,
it looks to be if he’s 20 yards out —
that may be close — 30 yards out —
it’s the frame of Travis McMichael lifting the shotgun
to fire at Ahmaud Arbery.
And you watch that with context —
and when I say ‘context’,
after hearing the evidence in this case
and thinking about a young man
that had been running at that point for almost five minutes —
and it is a chilling, truly disturbing scene.
Ahmaud’s mother gave her reaction to the sentencing
outside the court.
First, I want to say thank you to God,
who made this all possible. Yes.
My prayer was to get justice for Ahmaud.
He fought for us in the courts,
he gave us a fairjudge, Judge Walmsley,
he heard the testimonies from each — from each witness,
he gave us a very good verdict,
and he gave us a very good sentence.
Our North America correspondent, David Willis,
told us about reaction to the trial in the US.
Simon, it’s amazing, isn’t it, that this death actually went
largely unreported for two months after it occurred.
It wasn’t until that very harrowing video went viral that
local prosecutors actually started to take some action,
and ten weeks after the death of Ahmaud Arbery before these
three men were arrested.
Well, today, thejudge described it as a very
harrowing and chilling incident and he held a minute’s silence
in recognition of the terror that he said Ahmaud Arbery
must’ve endured as he was being chased for five minutes
by these three men in pick—up trucks.
He sentenced Gregory and Travis McMichael,
father and son respectively, to life without the possibility
of parole.
The other man, William ‘Roddy’ Bryan — that’s the man who took
the infamous video footage — he was sentenced to life
with the possibility of parole, but he will be 82 years
old before he gets to enjoy that right,
if he lives that long.
Yeah, it’s a really tragic case, David.
Is there a sense that change is slowly, but is taking place
in America, because obviously, we’ve been seeing quite
a few of these cases recently — high—profile racial cases
like that of George Floyd, and now, of course, this one —
is there a sort of sense that maybe the policing system,
the judicial system is changing for the better?
It’s an interesting question.
Now, Ahmaud Arbery’s case is different to that
of George Floyd — Ahmaud Arbery was not killed by police
officers, he was killed by people who were —
who believed they had the right to act as police officers,
if you like, as so—called vigilantes and, indeed,
his family described the death as a modern—day lynching.
They have since, I might add, expressed their delight
at the sentences that have been handed out.
But Ahmaud Arbery’s death was all part of a sort
of national reckoning, as far as racial injustice
is concerned in this country, that really came to a head,
of course, a few months later, following the death
of George Floyd at the hands of 3 Minneapolis police
officer.
David Willis speaking with me earlier.
The President of Kazakhstan has ordered
his
security forces to use lethal force on protestors,
after days of unrest following a sudden rise
in fuel prices.
Russian troops have arrived to support his government.
The US Secretary of State, has warned that it may be
difficult to get them to leave.
Our correspondent Abdu—Jalil Abdu—Rasulov is in Kazakhstan’s
largest city, Almaty, with the latest.
The army of Kazakhstan is standing guard here
on the streets of Almaty.
After days of violence and many protesters killed,
the state’s security forces seem to be back in control,
and when we came close to them,
the warning not to approach is very clear.
GUNSHOT
Today, the President was clear, too —
any more unrest will be met with lethal force.
TRANSLATION: Terrorists continue to damage state
and private property and use weapons against civilians.
I have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
President Tokayev portrays the protesters
as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
They say that their movement is peaceful
and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
The unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices,
but this country’s corrupt authoritarian regime
is unpopular.
Some of the biggest clashes took place
here at the former presidential residence
and the mayor’s office.
The buildings were burnt out
and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
You can hear, again, the shots,
but maybe it’s the military and police officers
are firing into the air to warn people
not to approach the square because they closed the square
in order to prevent people from gathering.
Many people fear that the violence will drag on.
Along with protests, many shops were looted.
This 22—year—old man says that while he supports the demands
of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"It’s really scary, and we feel we have no protection,"
this woman says.
This is one of the electronics shops
that was looted in Almaty,
and I think the looters tried to burn this place as well
because it still smells of smoke.
This mass unrest is a huge blow for Almaty,
which is the financial capital of Kazakhstan.
It’s not clear yet if the violence is over
or how much damage has been done to the authority
of Kazakhstan’s hardline leader.
Abdujalil Abdurasulov, BBC News, Almaty.
Well, the US Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken,
has been
talking about the deploymernt of Russian troops to Kazakhstan
as part of the the Post Soviet Collective Security Treaty
Organization.
He had this warning for the Kazakh regime over it’s
reliance on Moscow.
There are very particular drivers of what’s happening
in Kazakhstan right now, as I said, that go to economic
and political matters, and what’s happening
in there is different from what’s happening
on Ukraine’s borders.
Having said that, I think one lesson of recent history
is that once Russians are in your house, it’s
sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
Antony Blinken.
One place closely watching events in Kazakhstan
is Belarus.
Both countries are members of the Russian—led Collective
Security Treaty Organisation or CSTO which has sent
peacekeeping forces to Kazakhstan.
Speaking on state TV, Belarussian President Alexander
Lukashenko said his forces were not there to kill.
TRANSLATION: We are not fighting for anyone.
There is only one company of our troops — peacekeepers.
We’ve informed the UN that we would like to help
Kazakhstan to restore peace.
We came to Kazakhstan not to kill or not to fight.
We are peaceful people.
Our servicemen are peaceful people.
We need to stop the fratricidal war and we are doing exactly
that.
Well, earlier I spoke to Eugene Chausovsky,
an analyst with the New Lines Institute think tank,
about the precedent set by this CSTO deployment.
I think from Russia’s perspective
they couldn’t afford not to act.
Having seen these protests get out of hand quite quickly
and then paired with what has happened around the region
from Ukraine to Belarus, I think
Russia made the calculus that it needed to send
in its troops, especially once the Kazakhstan government
officially requested them via the CSTO.
And in the short term at least, has the deployment
worked, do you think?
It’s hard to say exactly right now
because a lot of the communications and internet
is cut off, but I think over the past 2A hours or so it does
seem like the primary objective of that deployment,
which is to basically secure the strategic
sites of the country, which includes military bases,
government buildings and even airports in the biggest city
of Almaty, that was the primary reason for Russia to go in,
so that Kazakhstan could basically address
the protesters head—on,
and it seems to be that they have more or less those sites
under control.
We’ll see how that unfold in the coming days
but for now it appears to be successful.
We have seen some pretty dramatic pictures of
the rioting and some fairly scary reports
from our correspondence
there of, especially overnight, machine—guns being used
and gunfire
sounding, do you think things will stabilise now or do
you think the protests could get even
worse?
Like I said, it is very difficult at this point
because we are still early on in this
crisis, and things are fast moving.
But essentially, the goal of securing those sites
like I mentioned has been more or less achieved,
and now it is a matter of targeting what the
government perceives as the most radical elements.
So I think there will continue to be
some demonstrations, but I think the peaceful
demonstrations and things that don’t truly threaten
the security of the government, those could go on for quite
some time, but for the more radical elements, or at least
as Moscow and Kazakhstan call them, that will be the priority
at this point.
And we had a warning there from Antony
Blinken — do you think there is reason to worry
for 2500 troops, many of them Russian,
going into the country?
Well, the troops are already there.
I think the concern that Blinken had voiced —
and some others — are worried about, is that these troops,
primarily the Russian—led troops,
will
stay there for the long—term.
And here I am not so that will be the case.
The mandate for those troops is to secure those
sites.
I don’t think necessarily it is in
Kazakhstan’s interest to have this prolonged Russian
presence,
because it is quite unpopular for many people.
But as long as the security situation is met,
I don’t think necessarily it is going to be a long—term
deployment for Russia, but they could always
go back in.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come,
we remember the trail blazing black actor
Sidney Poitier, who challenged Hollywood stereotypes.
The Japanese people are in mourning
following the death of Emperor Hirohito.
Thousands converged on the Imperial Palace
to pay their respects
when it was announced he was dead.
Good grief!
After half a century
of delighting fans around the world,
Charlie Brown and the rest of the gang
are calling it quits.
The singer Paul Simon
starts his tour of South Africa tomorrow,
in spite of protests and violence
from some black activist groups.
They say international artists
should continue to boycott South Africa
until majority rule is established.
Around the world, people have been paying tribute
to the iconic rock star David Bowie,
who sold 140 million albums
in a career that spanned half a century.
His family announced overnight that he died of cancer
at the age of 69.
The world’s tallest skyscraper opens later today.
The Burj Dubai has easily overtaken its nearest rivals.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines:
A court in the US state of Georgia has given life
sentences to three white men who murdered the young black
man Ahmaud Arbery while he was outjogging.
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite
in Russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be
difficult to get them to leave.
As coronavirus cases continue to rise across India,
new movement restrictions have come into effect for people
in the capital, Delhi over the weekend.
Restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed
until Monday morning.
Russell Trott reports.
Bharat’s shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
But with fewer customers and takings down, he has been
badly hit by the pandemic.
Yet, despite India’s capital Delhi locking down over
the weekend, he remains upbeat.
TRANSLATION: The way corona cases are on the rise this
lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
For the past two years, we have faced losses
and we will face the same in the future.
I will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there
is no lockdown.
As the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases,
partly fuelled by the fast—spreading Omicron variant,
most businesses here are still recovering from last
year’s outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals
and crematoriums.
But daily case numbers had, since then, stayed reasonably
low — until last week.
All residents besides essential workers will now be asked
to stay home from Friday night to Monday morning.
This is a big concern, big challenge.
We have seen that over the last eight days,
the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more
than one lakh, injust eight days.
So with this period, the number will be much higher
in the previous weeks.
More than 200,000 people died across India last spring,
after a wave of Delta variant infections that brought
the healthcare systems to its knees.
India’s A81,000 known Covid deaths is the world’s third
highest toll behind the US and Brazil, but under—reporting
is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll
could be up to ten times higher.
The Omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer
cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn
another lockdown and its economic impact is just
not worth it.
Russell Trott, BBC News.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
Nato’s secretary—general, Jens Stoltenberg,
says Russia is continuing its military build—up
near Ukraine, posing a real risk of a new armed
conflict in Europe.
Mr Stoltenberg repeated that NATO remains ready to talk
to Russia, but warned the allies would impose a heavy
price for any further Russian aggression.
India has imposed a lockdown in Delhi this
weekend, to try to slow the spread of coronavirus.
Restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed
until Monday morning, with people only allowed
to leave their homes for essential trips.
Austria’s Chancellor Karl Nehammer has tested
positive for coronavirus.
The 19—year—old, who took over as Chancellor a month ago,
is in self—isolation, and says he isn’t showing any symptoms.
He’s issued a statement saying "there is no need to worry,
I am fine and doing well."
The US Supreme Court has begun hearing arguments about the
hearing arguments about the legality of President Biden’s
legality of President Biden’s vaccinate or test
legality of President Biden’s vaccinate or test mandate for
vaccinate or test mandate for large businesses. Opponents say
large businesses. Opponents say he doesn’t have the authority
he doesn’t have the authority to oppose the rule without
to oppose the NI; without going
to oppose the rule without going through Congress. Backers
going through Congress. Backers 55V
going through Congress. Backers say it will save lives. A
say it will save lives. A judgement is not expected
judgement is not expected several days.
US PresidentJoe Biden, and First LadyJill Biden have
been visiting fire—damaged areas in Colorado.
They toured a residential neighbourhood in Lousiville
which had been largely destroyed by flames at the end
of last year.
The fire was driven by heavy winds on Thursday 30 December.
Nearly 1,000 homes were lost and thousands of acres
were scorched in a matter of hours.
Nearly 10,000 people were forced to leave their homes.
Mr Biden said it should serve as a warning.
The situation is a blinking code red for our nation.
code red for our nation. Because the combination of
Because the combination of extreme drought, the driest
extreme drought, the driest period from June to December
period from june to December ever
period from June to December ever recorded, Abba recorded,
ever recorded, Abba recorded, unusually high winds, no snow
unusually high winds, no snow on the ground to start, created
on the ground to start, created a tinderbox. A literal
a tinderbox. A literal tinderbox. And even though it
tinderbox. And even though it was not your backyard, you
was not your backyard, you could feel the ripple effects
could feel the ripple effects of what happened.
The former US president, Barack Obama, has led tributes
to the actor Sir Sidney Poitier, who’s died
at the age of 94.
Mr Obama said the star had "opened doors for
a generation of actors."
Sidney Poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking
films which challenged racial stereotypes.
He was the first black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor,
and his success paved the way for generations
of other black artists.
Our correspondent, Lizo Mazimba looks back on the life,
of a Hollywood icon.
# In the heat of the night...
Sidney Poitier’s Virgil Tibbs, a man of authority...
I’m a police officer.
..intelligence and a steely determination never to back
down — the kind of qualities that defined Poitier
on screen and off.
He made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man
of status — something almost unheard of for
black performers then.
And with roles like an escaped convict in The Defiant Ones
and a struggling husband in A Raisin in the Sun,
he tackled prejudice head on.
Maybe I’ll get down on my black knees.
All right, Mr Charlie.
All right, Mr Great White Father.
You just give us that money!
And we won’t come out there and dirty up your
white folks’ neighbourhood.
The era, of course, meant he had a burden his white
counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight
of being a symbol.
But he bore it with dignity.
In Lilies of the Field, playing a travelling handyman,
helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
Sing it over.
The winner is Sidney Poitier.
He won the Academy Award — the first black performer ever
to receive the Oscar for a leading role.
In the years that followed, he became Hollywood’s biggest
star, redefining how audiences saw Black characters with films
like To Sir, with Love.
You will call me ‘Sir’ or ‘Mr Thackeray’.
The young ladies will be addressed as ‘Miss’,
the boys by their surnames.
Some of what I am was reflected in those movies.
It was, in a way, I was saying to an audience, "This
is who I am.
"Look at me."
More controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely
successful doctor engaged to a white woman in Guess Who’s
Coming To Dinner.
I love your daughter.
There is nothing I wouldn’t do to try to keep her as happy
as she was the day I met her.
Some criticised it, saying the impression it gave
was of an interracial relationship that was only
acceptable because his character was so perfect
and accomplished.
Hello!
He also directed ‘805 comedy Stir Crazy —
the first movie from an African—American film—maker
to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in
the United States.
What are you doing?
I’m getting bad!
In his later years, he was awarded the Presidential Medal
of Freedom by Barack Obama, who today said Sidney Poitier
epitomised dignity and grace.
Oprah Winfrey paid tribute, saying:
While Denzel Washington said:
Those words two decades after he celebrated him
at the Academy Awards.
A0 years, I’ve been chasing Sidney.
They finally give it to me.
What do they do?
They give it to him the same night.
I’ll always be following in your footsteps.
There’s nothing I would rather do.
APPLAUSE.
That same night, Poitier also received an honorary Oscar.
Hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail
for so many...
They call me Mr Tibbs.
..and who entertained millions more.
Sidney Poitier — one of the greats.
Cheryl Boone Isaacs is the founding director
of The Sidney Poitier New American Film School
at Arizona State University and former president
of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences,
best known for organising the Oscars.
Here’s how she remembers him.
if:
He was a major beacon of light that came on the scene and on
that came on the scene and on the screen many decades ago,
the screen many decades ago, and through his life’s work,
and through his life’s work, whether in front of the camera
whether in front of the camera behind the camera, he hasn’t
behind the camera, he hasn’t had a major impact on the
had a major impact on the created world. And especially
created world. And especially for the black community and
for the black community and black storytellers. It is such
black storytellers. It is such an honour for
black storytellers. It is such an honourfor me to be able
black storytellers. It is such an honour for me to be able to
an honour for me to be able to be part of his legacy that we
be part of his lagacy that we are going
be part of his legacy that we are going to carry into the
are going to carry into the future. He was a great man,
future. He was a great man, great philosopher, a
great philosopher, a philanthropic ideas and
philanthropic ideas and avenues, civil rights activist,
avenues, civil rights activist, and like I said, a tremendous
and like I said, a tremendous force in the creative world. I
force in the creative world. I know we have pictures of you
know we have pictures of you with Sydney protea —— Sidney
with Sydney protea -- Sidney Poitier.
with Sydney protea —— Sidney Poitier. Give us some of your
Poitier. Give us some of your favourite memories of him? Even
favourite memories of him? Even physirallv.
favourite memories of him? Even physically, in person, he was
physically, in person, he was so dynamic, you know, the
so dynamic, you know, the energy just wafted off of
so dynamic, you know, the energyjust wafted off of him.
energy just wafbed off of him. And
energyjust wafted off of him. And when he would see me,
And when he would see me, certainly with others as well,
certainly with others as well, but when he would see me, he
but when he would see me, he would cluster his hands
would cluster his hands together and grinning from ear
together and grinning from ear to ear. It would always lift
to ear. It would always lift 7°“-
to ear. It would always lift you, no matter how good you
you, no matter how good you might be feeling for the day.
might be feeling for the day. Most people remember him as an
Most people remember him as an actor but he was an activist, a
actor but he was an activist, a director, he had his own
director, he had his own production company. There was a
production company. There was a much more to him than
production company. There was a much more to him thanjust
much more to him thanjust acting. Absolutely. And it is
acting. Absolutely. And it is with that legacy that we are
with that lagacy that we are going to
with that legacy that we are going to move forward and make
going to move forward and make sure that that legacy stays
sure that that lagacy stays alive.
sure that that legacy stays alive. And that we impart all
alive. And that we impart all the greatness of Sidney Poitier
the greatness of Sidney Poitier in future storytellers. How do
in future storytellers. How do you think his legacy is left?
you think his lagacy is left? Obviously
you think his legacy is left? Obviously so many actors and
Obviously so many actors and actresses stand on his
actresses stand on his shoulders now? That is exactly
shoulders now? That is exactly right. He paved the way for
right. He paved the way for many, filmmakers, as well as
many, filmmakers, as well as peopla like
many, filmmakers, as well as people like myself, this
people like myself, this influence was massive, just
influence was massive, just massive. And not least with
massive. And not least with Denzel Washington, who was a
Denzel Washington, who was a huge actor now, but he
huge actor now, but he obviously paid tribute to him
obviously paid tribute to him all those years ago?
all those years ago? Absolutely. We always think of
Absolutely. We always think of the two of them, the night of
the two of them, the night of the Oscars, when Denzel
the Oscars, when Denzel Washington one and —— won his
Washington one and -- won his doctor for
Washington one and —— won his doctorfor Best Actor,
Washington one and —— won his doctor for Best Actor, and
doctor for Best Actor, and Halle Berry won the Best
Halle Berry won the Best Actress, and Sidney Poitier
Actress, and Sidney Poitier received his historic honorary
received his historic honorary Oscar, that was a major, major
Oscar, that was a major, major evening, and it filled my heart
evening, and it filled my heart and I cried my eyes out. It was
and I cried my eyes out. It was special.
A volcano perched on top of one of Ecuador’s famous
Galapagos Islands has erupted, producing a spectacular lava
flow.
The one—mile—high Wolf volcano is located on Isabela Island,
The one—mile—high Wolf volcano is located on Isabela Island,
home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that
helped inspire Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution
following his visit in 1835.
Fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife
populations, or to humans.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Now here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night
to many western parts of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday,
much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a black man,
in the state of Georgia, have been sentenced
to life in prison.
The case became a focus of protests by the Black Lives
Matter movement.
The US have questioned Kazakhstan’s decision to seek
Russian military support to deal with a wave
of violent unrest.
Russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
Dozens of people have been killed during nationwide
protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
One of the best known black Hollywood actors
of the past century, Sidney Poitier, has died.
He was 94.
Mr Poitier was the first Black man to be awarded Best Actor
at the Academy Awards in 1964 and paved the way
for a new generation of stars.
Now on BBC News, it’s our documentary
Cold Case: The Tunbridge Wells Murders.
And a warning that viewers may find some of the details
distressing.
This is the story of two young women. People were thinking
women. People were thinking this is a serial killer. Their
this is a serial killer. Their murders in a quiet town in the
murders in a quiet town in the 19805. There was quite a lot of
19805. There was quite a lot of blood around Wendy’s had come
blood around Wendrs had come around
blood around Wendy’s had come around the bedding. It became
around the bedding. It became apparent that Caroline hadn’t
apparent that Caroline hadn’t simply just
apparent that Caroline hadn’t simplyjust disappeared. An
simply just disappeared. An extraordinary
simplyjust disappeared. An extraordinary investigation
extraordinary investigation which brought the killer to
which brought the killar to justice. In
which brought the killer to justice. In 2019, we had a
justice. In 2019, we had a breakthrough. Bingo. It looks
breakthrough. Bingo. It looks like he’s got some hard drives
like he’s got some hard drives in there, I would say. An
in there, I would say. An investigation which uncovered
investigation which uncovered the darkest secrets. Looking at
the darkest secrets. Looking at this -
the darkest secrets. Looking at this — excuse me. Oh man who
this - excuse me. Oh man who picked his
this — excuse me. Oh man who picked his victims from among
picked his victims from among the dead. Every single one of
the dead. Every single one of us has that same wish for
us has that same wish for someone we have lost, and that
someone we have lost, and that is that they rest in peace.
is that they rest in peace. Back in the 19805, you’re very
Back in the 19805, you’re very lucky if you saw the inside of
lucky if you saw the inside of police car. Walking various
police car. Walking various beats the town centre. In point
beats the town centre. In point and --
beats the town centre. In point and —— endpoint and remembers
and -- endpoint and remembers the events
and —— endpoint and remembers the events of 1987 in Tunbridge
the events of 1987 in Tunbridge Wells, his home beat. It was
Wells, his home beat. It was still a fairly affluent town.
still a fairty afﬂuent town. It had
still a fairly affluent town. It had a areas of poverty, but
It had a areas of poverty, but there was, I
It had 3 areas of poverty, but there was, I suggest, some
there was, Isuggest, some faded glory.
there was, I suggest, some faded glory. Because there were
faded glory. Because there were no longer be houses anymore,
no longer be houses anymore, they had been split up into
they had been split up into ﬂats
they had been split up into flats or bedsits. It was home
ﬂats or bedsits. It was home to two young
flats or bedsits. It was home to two young women just
to two young women just starting out in life. Wendy
starting out in life. Wendy Knell was 25, working in the
Knell was 25, working in the cafe of the department store
cafe of the department store stock I was the supervisor and
stock I was the supervisor and Wendy worked with a lot of
Wendy worked with a lot of other giris
Wendy worked with a lot of other girls and students from
other girls and students from schools locally. She wanted to
schools locally. She wanted to get married. She wanted
get married. She wanted children, desperately wanted to
children, desperately wanted to have children. But I learned
have children. But I learned later that she had got divorced
later that she had got divorced because I had left the coffee
because I had left the coffee shop by then. It she had gone
shop by then. It she had gone back to --
shop by then. It she had gone back to —— she hadn’t gone back
back to -- she hadn’t gone back to mum and
back to —— she hadn’t gone back to mum and dad, she struck out
to mum and dad, she stmck out on her own,
to mum and dad, she struck out on her own, looking forward to
on her own, looking forward to the next phase in her life.
the next phase in her life. Moving to her own ﬂat to which
Moving to her own ﬂat to which police were called on the 23
police were called on the 2! june,
police were called on the 23 June, following a horrifying
june, following a horrifying discovery.
June, following a horrifying discovery. Officers went into
discovery. Officers went into the ﬂat and they
discovery. Officers went into the flat and they found Wendy
the ﬂat and they found Wendy laying on
the flat and they found Wendy laying on the bed. She was
laying on the bed. She was naked. She was laying on her
naked. She was laying on her right hand side and a duvet
right hand side and a duvet that had been placed over her
that had been placed over her had been pulled back. There was
had been pulled back. There was quite a lot of blood around
quite a lot of blood around Wendrs
quite a lot of blood around Wendy’s had, around the
Wendrs had, around the bedding,
Wendy’s had, around the bedding, and on the bed sheets.
bedding, and on the bed sheets. At 12 o’clock, BBC radio Kent
At 12 o’clock, BBC radio Kent news. Police today issued a
news. Police today issued a fresh appeal for witnesses
fresh appeal for witnesses following a murder of a
following a murder of a Tunbridge Wells manager, Wendy
Tunbridge Wells manager, Wendy Knell, earlier
Tunbridge Wells manager, Wendy Knell, earlierthis
Tunbridge Wells manager, Wendy Knell, earlier this week.
Knell, earlier this week. Caroline Pierce was 20, a
Caroline Pierce was 20, a manager at this popular
manager at this popular Tunbridge Wells restaurant, the
Tunbridge Wells restaurant, the centre of a close set of
centre of a close set of colleagues and friends. Young
colleagues and friends. Young people who worked and socialise
people who worked and socialise together. Until
people who worked and socialise together. Untilthe
people who worked and socialise together. Until the 2A
together. Until the 2A November, 1987, when Caroline’s
November, 1987, when Caroline’s neighbours heard
November, 1987, when Caroline’s neighbours heard screams from
neighbours heard screams from her ﬂat.
neighbours heard screams from herﬂat. She
neighbours heard screams from her flat. She was
neighbours heard screams from herﬂat. She was never seen
her ﬂat. She was never seen alive again. It
herﬂat. She was never seen alive again. It was originally
alive again. It was originally thought that maybe she had
thought that maybe she had disappeared, but as time went
disappeared, but as time went on, of course, it became
on, of course, it became apparent that she hadn’t just
apparent that she hadn’t just simply disappeared. You’ve got
simply disappeared. You’ve got the second murder, just five
the second murder, just five months later, of Caroline. It
months later, of Caroline. It was the talk of the pubs, it
was the talk of the pubs, it was the talk of people you
was the talk of peopla you bumped
was the talk of people you bumped into in the street. They
bumped into in the street. They wanted to know what was
wanted to know what was happening. I got no answers as
happening. I got no answers as to how the investigation was
to how the investigation was going, all you could try to do
going, all you could try to do was reassure them. Three weeks
was reassure them. Three weeks later, her body was found A0
later, her body was found 40 mils away
later, her body was found A0 miles away in the water—filled
milas away in the water-filled ditch
miles away in the water—filled ditch adjacent to the farmer’s
ditch adjacent to the farmer’s field. She was laying on her
field. She was laying on her side, submerged in the water
side, submerged in the water and the only clothing that she
and the only clothing that she had on was a pair of tights.
had on was a pair of tights. She had been found in a flat
She had been found in a ﬂat expanse of farms and wetlands.
expanse of farms and wetlands. There were lots of officers
There were lots of officers brought into help with the
brought into help with the fingertips search around the
fingertips search around the area. We were looking for items
area. We were looking for items of Caroline’s personal
of Caroline’s personal possessions to find any
possessions to find any evidence that might help us
evidence that might help us understand what had happened to
understand what had happened to Caroline. And who is
Caroline. And who is responsible. People were
responsible. People were thinking this is a serial
thinking this is a serial killer. Once you had had the
killer. Once you had had the second murder, people are
second murder, peopla are waiting for
second murder, people are waiting for the third murder.
waiting for the third murder. In 1987, the opportunities to
In 1987, the opportunities to gather evidence would have been
gather evidence would have been quite different to what we can
quite different to what we ran do
quite different to what we can do nowadays. There would have
do nowadays. There would have been quite a lot of Ephesus on
been quite a lot of Ephesus on what witnesses had seen, what
what witnesses had seen, what witnesses had heard. We had
witnesses had heard. We had uniform offices drafted income
uniform offices drafted income are doing inquiries, it was
are doing inquiries, it was huge. It was Wendy’s ﬂat which
huge. It was Wendy’s ﬂat which contains some critical clues.
contains some critical dues. Wendrs
contains some critical clues. Wendy’s white blouse that she
Wendrs white blouse that she had
Wendy’s white blouse that she had been wearing, last known to
had been wearing, last known to have been wearing, that was
have been wearing, that was bloodstained. On the sleeve
bloodstAined. On the sleeve cuffs
bloodstained. On the sleeve cuffs of that blouse, there was
cuffs of that blouse, there was a partial shipment in blood.
a partial shipment in blood. There was also other DNA found
There was also other DNA found on that bed sheet and the duvet
on that bed sheet and the duvet cover. For Caroline’s murder,
cover. For Carolina’s murder, there
cover. For Caroline’s murder, there were no forensic leads.
there were no forensic leads. Back in 1987, there was very
Back in 1987, there was very limited worker could be done
limited worker could be done around DNA, for example.
around DNA, for example. Caroline’s tights did have a
Carolina’s tights did have a choice
Caroline’s tights did have a choice from the killer. When
choice from the killer. when the
choice from the killer. When the DNA database was introduced
the DNA database was introduced in the 19905, detectives were
in the 19905, detectives were hopeful. It was compared to all
hopeful. It was compared to all of the people that had DNA held
of the peopla that had DNA held on
of the people that had DNA held on that national database, but
on that national database, but there was no match. The first
there was no match. The first of this month’s reconstructions
of this month’s reconstructions tells the story of a
tells the story of a 25—year—old woman who lived
25-year-old woman who lived alone in
25—year—old woman who lived alone in a bedsit at Tunbridge
alone in a bedsit at Tunbridge Wells in Kent. The team tried
Wells in Kent. The team tried asking for help on the BBC’s
asking for help on the BBC’s Crimewatch programme, which was
Crimewatch programme, which was to feature the Tunbridge Wells
to feature the Tunbridge Wells motors twice over the years. We
motors twice over the years. We had samples from the scene. We
had samples from the scene. We had the offender’s DNA from the
had the offender’s DNA from the scene. That had beens that had
scene. That had beens that had been kept. We recovered from
been kept. We recovered from the scene and they were always
the scene and they were always kept for new developments in
kept for new developments in forensic science. The months
forensic science. The months turned into years. A huge
turned into years. A huge murder investigation into a
murder investigation into a cold case and for Kent Police
cold case and for Kent Police it was clear that the lease had
it was clear that the lease had mn out.
it was clear that the lease had run out. We scale down the
mn out. We stale down the inquiry but
run out. We scale down the inquiry but one thing that we
inquiry but one thing that we have never done is close the
have never done is close the inquiry. --
have never done is close the inquiry. —— scaled down. The
inquiry. -- scaled down. The old Kent
inquiry. —— scaled down. The old Kent Police headquarters
old Kent Police headquarters would soon be earmarked for
would soon be earmarked for closure but in 2019 the
closure but in 2019 the Tunbridge Wells case came back
Tunbridge Wells use came back to life.
Tunbridge Wells case came back to life. We had a breakthrough.
to life. We had a breakthrough. We developed the tights that
We developed the tights that Caroline was wearing when she
Caroline was wearing when she was found in order to be able
was found in order to be able to get, for the first time
to get, for the first time ever, a DNA sample that we
ever, a DNA sample that we believed was from the suspect
believed was from the suspect to have killed Caroline in
to have killed Caroline in 1987. But back then there was
1987. But back then there was nothing to compare it with. The
nothing to compare it with. The police were not taking DNA from
police were not taking DNA from people because we didn’t have
people because we didn’t have the power, didn’t even though
the power, didn’t even though the technology was going to be
the technology was going to be there. DNA profiles are a bit
there. DNA profilas are a bit like rar
there. DNA profiles are a bit like car number plates. One
like rar number plates. One plate, one
like car number plates. One plate, one car. There has been
plate, one car. There has been a register of plates since
a register of plates since 1904. The
a register of plates since 190A. The database of police
1904. The database of police DNA
190A. The database of police DNA profiles only began in
DNA profilas only began in 1955,
DNA profiles only began in 1985, and Wendy’s killer wasn’t
1955, and Wendrs killar wasn’t on it.
1985, and Wendy’s killer wasn’t on it. But part of another
on it. But part of another plate ran
on it. But part of another plate can tell you where and
plate ran tell you where and when a
plate can tell you where and when a car was registered. And
when a far was registered. And now part of a
when a car was registered. And now part of a DNA profile can
now part of a DNA profila ran tell you the
now part of a DNA profile can tell you the family the sample
tell you the family the sampla likely
tell you the family the sample likely comes from. You can
likely comes from. You ran imagine over
likely comes from. You can imagine over 65 million people
imagine over 65 million peopla in the UK,
imagine over 65 million people in the UK, there around 6.5
in the UK, there around 6.5 million profiles in the DNA
million profiles in the DNA database. Through science,
database. Through science, through algorithms, through
through algorithms, through brilliant individuals, they
brilliant individuals, they will narrower that profile
will narrower that profile dental population of around 90
dental population of around 90 peopla. --
dental population of around 90 people. —— they will narrow
peopla. -- they will narrow that profile.
people. —— they will narrow that profile. 90 people in a
that profila. 90 peopla in a given the
that profile. 90 people in a given the police that DNA and
given the police that DNA and might be related to the
might be related to the Tunbridge Wells killer.
Tunbridge Wells killer. Detectives visited and
Detectives visited and questioned them about their
questioned them about their family members. And one family
family members. And one family member stood out. That person
member stood out. That person was David Fuller. We knocked on
was David Fuller. We knocked on the door. David Fuller answered
the door. David Fuller answered the door. Hello. Morning.
the door. Hello. Morning. David, it is the police. Would
David, it is the police. Would like to come to speak to you.
like to come to speak to you. He invited us in. The uniformed
He invited us in. The uniformed police officers explained to
police officers explained to him the reason we were
him the reason we were attending. And he was very
attending. And he was very calm. David, if you listen to
calm. David, if you listen to what I’m going to say... Yes.
what I’m going to say... Yes. We are investigating the
We are investigating the murders of Wendy Knell and
murders of Wendy Knell and Caroline Pierce in 1987. 0K? As
Caroline Pierce in 1987. 0K? As part of that investigation, you
part of that investigation, you have been picked as a suspect
have been picked as a suspect both geographically and
both geographically and forensically. Alright, David,
forensic-ally. Alright, David, you are
forensically. Alright, David, you are under arrest on
you are under arrest on suspicion of the murders of
suspicion of the murders of Wendy Knell and Caroline Pierce
Wendy Knell and Caroline Pierce in 1987. Do you understand? You
in 1987. Do you understand? You do not have to say anything
do not have to say anything that may harm your defence
that may harm your defence something which you later rely
something which you later rely on in your defence. I suspicion
on in your defence. I suspicion from the information was
from the information was available to me that he lived
available to me that he lived in the area at the time. I knew
in the area at the time. I knew some information around his
some information around his criminal history and the method
criminal history and the method of his crime back in the 19705,
of his crime back in the 19705, when
of his crime hack in the 19705, when he
of his crime back in the 19705, when he was a convicted
when he was a convicted burglar. Convicted but never
burglar. Convicted but never jailed. By 2020, he was an
jailed. By 2020, he was an electrician on his third
electrician on his third marriage, trying to give the
marriage, trying to give the impression he was Mr normal.
impression he was Mr normal. Did you know any of these
Did you know any of these women? No. He didn’t know their
women? No. He didn’t know their addresses, where they lived,
addresses, where they lived, there was no reason that his
there was no reason that his DNA would be at either of those
DNA would be at either of those scenes. David, did you murder
scenes. David, did you murder Wendy Knell? No. Did you murder
Wendy Knell? No. Did you murder Caroline Pierce? No. He would
Caroline Pierce? No. He would make almost a threat to see if
make almost a threat to see if you continue along this path I
you continue along this path I will stop answering your
will stop answering your questions. I guess that is
questions. I guess that is another element of control
another element of control where he thinks he can control
where he thinks he ran control the
where he thinks he can control the interview process. Can you
the interview process. (“an you describe
the interview process. Can you describe anything else about
describe anything else about Wendrs
describe anything else about Wendy’s ﬂat for? No. As he
Wendrs ﬂat for? No. As he faced
Wendy’s ﬂat for? No. As he faced questions, his small
faced questions, his small house in Heathfield East Sussex
house in Heathfield East Sussex was full of police officers.
was full of police officers. There were a lot of things in
There were a lot of things in the house. I described David
the house. I described David Fullar
the house. I described David Fuller as a hoarder. We found
Fullar as a hoarder. We found that he
Fuller as a hoarder. We found that he was a keen photographer
that he was a keen photographer and found thousands and in fact
and found thousands and in fact about 50,000 hardcopy
about 50,000 hardcopy photographs in his collection.
photographs in his collection. A member of staff and the
A member of staff and the photograph of David Fuller in
photograph of David Fullar in his garden
photograph of David Fuller in his garden in the sun. The way
his garden in the sun. The way he was lying allowed police to
he was lying allowed police to focus on the distinctive
focus on the distinctive pattern on the soles of his
pattern on the soles of his shoes. Remember
pattern on the soles of his shoes. Rememberthe
pattern on the soles of his shoes. Remember the white
shoes. Remember the white blouse that we found where
blouse that we found where Wendy had been killed? On the
Wendy had been killed? On the cuff of one of the sleeves of
cuff of one of the sleeves of the blouse was a shoe print in
the blouse was a shoe print in blood stop that trainer was the
blood stop that trainer was the same as left demark on Wendy’s
same as left demark on Wendrs in blood.
same as left demark on Wendy’s in blood. A golden nugget piece
in blood. A golden nugget piece of evidence. Then go. We found
of evidence. Then go. We found a note in the diary that he
a note in the diary that he visited Buster Browns, which is
visited Buster Browns, which is where Caroline Pierce was
where Caroline Pierce was manager. We also found items
manager. We also found items from the business where Wendy
from the business where Wendy worked. Was there to me that he
worked. Was there to me that he knew Wendy Knell or who she
knew Wendy Knell or who she was, he knew Caroline, and has
was, he knew Caroline, and has targeted them for death. By
targeted them for death. By having that really good current
having that really good current understanding of his life
understanding of his life history we were able to prove
history we were able to prove that he was lying. Take a seat.
that he was lying. Take a seat. We were able to get a DNA
We were able to get a DNA sample from him and that was an
sampla from him and that was an exact
sample from him and that was an exact match from the offender
exact match from the offender profile we have found that the
profile we have found that the scene of Wendy and a match to
scene of Wendy and a match to what we now knew from the
what we now knew from the forensic link to Caroline. At
forensic link to Caroline. At that point we thought, here,
that point we thought, here, we’ve done it. We now knew
we’ve done it. We now knew David Fuller was the offender.
David Fuller was the offender. But then we found something
But then we found something else. His identify the victims.
else. His identify the victims. In 1989, David Fuller secured a
In 1989, David Fullar secured a job at the
In 1989, David Fuller secured a job at the Kent and Sussex
job at the Kent and Sussex Hospital. That Friday evening
Hospital. That Friday evening we were taking everything up,
we were taking everything up, ready for go to go to court the
ready for go to go to court the following morning. He was an
following morning. He was an electrician by trade and he was
electrician by trade and he was a maintenance man. There are
a maintenance man. There are some
a maintenance men. There are some stuff stuck on the back of
some stuff stuck on the back of that as well. And then I got a
that as well. And then I got a all. They
that as well. And then I got a call. They had found some
all. They had found some pictures.
call. They had found some pictures. He looks like he’s
pictures. He looks like he’s got some hard drugs in there, I
got some hard drugs in there, I would say. He had access to all
would say. He had access to all areas of the hospital, carrying
areas of the hospital, carrying out essential maintenance work
out essential maintenance work that was needed. But we found
that was needed. But we found he had a particular interest in
he had a particular interest in the mortuary. Here is a SanDisk
the mortuary. Here is a SanDisk when I ran
the mortuary. Here is a SanDisk when I can read there. But is a
when I ran read there. But is a hard drive.
when I can read there. But is a hard drive. On opening the hard
hard drive. On opening the hard drives, I’m looking at a
drives, I’m looking at a mortuary and I’m looking at a
mortuary and I’m looking at a man sexually abusing what are
man sexually abusing what are dearty
man sexually abusing what are clearly dead people. And he had
dearty dead peopla. And he had filmed
clearly dead people. And he had filmed it. Photographed it.
filmed it. Photographed it. Every second. These are his
Every second. These are his pictures. A lot of the time he
pictures. A lot of the time he sets up the camera and you can
sets up the camera and you ran watch
sets up the camera and you can watch everything that he does.
watch everything that he does. There is a real similarity
There is a real similarity between what he was doing with
between what he was doing with the victims in the mortuary to
the victims in the mortuary to what we’ve seen from the
what we’ve seen from the evidence from the scenes of
evidence from the scenes of Caroline and also of Wendy.
MY
My role in this investigation
My rola in this investigation from
My role in this investigation from the outset is to be the
from the outset is to be the eyewitness to what is happening
eyewitness to what is happening to these women and children.
to these women and children. No-one
to these women and children. No—one else is going to speak
No-one else is going to speak for
No—one else is going to speak for what happened if no—one
for what happened if no-one else is
for what happened if no—one else is going to look at that
else is going to look at that material, and that had to be
material, and that had to be me. I have seen some horrible,
me. I have seen some horrible, horrible stuff in my career.
horrible stuff in my career. That people really shouldn’t
That peopla really shouldn’t have
That people really shouldn’t have to say. And then, looking
have to say. And then, looking at this, . . .
have to say. And then, looking at this,... Excuse me. David,
at this,... Excuse me. David, it is fine. We can stop if you
it is fine. We ran stop if you want. No,
it is fine. We can stop if you want. No, I’m fine. It’s
want. No, I’m fine. It’s just... It’s just
want. No, I’m fine. It’s just... It’sjust a reminder of
just... It’s just a reminder of just how
just... It’sjust a reminder of just how horrible the world can
just how horrible the world ran be out
just how horrible the world can be out there. And it’s utterly,
be out there. And it’s utherty, utherty,
be out there. And it’s utterly, utterly, utterly... I
be out there. And it’s utterly, utterly, utterly... Ifelt
utherty, utberty... I felt sadness,
utherty, utberty... Ifelt sadness, I
utterly, utterly... Ifelt sadness, Ifelt anger,
utterly, utterly... Ifelt sadness, Ifeltanger, I
utterly, utterly... Ifelt sadness, Ifeltanger, Ifelt
sadness, Ifelt anger, Ifelt so many
sadness, Ifeltanger, Ifelt so many different emotions.
so many different emotions. Fuller had killed two women and
Fuller had killed two women and he
Fullar had killed two women and he had
Fuller had killed two women and he had sexually abused the
he had sexually abused the bodies of 98 more. Including
bodies of 98 more. Including one 100 years old, and three
one 100 years old, and three children. Part of me is trying
children. Part of me is trying to understand what must be
to understand what must be going through his head. I can
going through his head. I ran only
going through his head. I can only conclude that he, that
only conclude that he, that there is an element of control
there is an element of control going on. That is all I can
going on. That is all I ran imagine.
going on. That is all I can imagine. Control over women in
imagine. Control over women in particular. Echoes of another
particular. Echoes of another notorious criminal, Harold
notorious criminal, Harold Shipman. Doctor Richard
Shipman. Doctor Richard Badcock, a forensic
Badcock, a forensic psychiatrist, advised police
psychiatrist, advised police about ship, but what is his
about ship, but what is his view of David Fuller? ——
view of David Fuller? -- Shipman.
view of David Fuller? —— Shipman. The psychopathology at
Shipman. The psychopathology at work here is very definitely of
work here is very definitely of sadomasochism. Which, in
sadomasochism. which, in essence,
sadomasochism. Which, in essence, is not being able to
essence, is not being able to deal with your own issues
deal with your own issues except by manipulating the
except by manipulating the behaviour of other people.
behaviour of other peopla. Although
behaviour of other people. Although you are doing extreme
Although you are doing extreme things, you don’t feel alive,
things, you don’t feel alive, most of the time. You might
most of the time. You might only feel alive in the moment
only feel alive in the moment of the offence. Necrophilia,
of the offence. Necrophilia, that’s it. There’s nowhere else
that’s it. There’s nowhere else to go after that. After he had
to go after that. After he had offended and he had recorded,
offended and he had recorded, he would take it home,
he would take it home, downloaded to his computers,
downloaded to his computers, and he had quite a
and he had quite a sophisticated system of files
sophisticated system of files and subfolders, whether
and subfolders, whether material would be placed. And
material would be placed. And he had a little black book
he had a little black book where he logged details of his
where he logged details of his mortuary victims. Date of
mortuary victims. Date of birth, date of death... It was
birth, date of death... It was like a library that he can look
like a library that he ran look back
like a library that he can look back over. It is perhaps the
back over. It is perhaps the ultimate of control. Because
ultimate of control. Because those poor people, who have got
those poor peopla, who have got absolutely
those poor people, who have got absolutely no say, there is no
absolutely no say, there is no resistance, in any way, shape
resistance, in any way, shape or form, to
resistance, in any way, shape orform, to what
resistance, in any way, shape or form, to what is going
resistance, in any way, shape orform, to what is going on.
or form, to what is going on. What
or form, to what is going on. what he
orform, to what is going on. What he was doing, and in such
what he was doing, and in such a volume,
What he was doing, and in such a volume, was completely
a volume, was completely unprecedented. We did research,
unprecedented. We did research, we spoke to many people in the
we spoke to many peopla in the country,
we spoke to many people in the country, even looked at what
country, even looked at what was happening internationally
was happening internationally to try to understand if there
to try to understand if there were any other investigations
were any other investigations that could assist us to see if
that could assist us to see if we could take advice and
we could take advice and guidance. We found nothing. He
guidance. We found nothing. He was a man with a trusted job in
was a man with a tmsted job in a modern,
was a man with a trusted job in a modern, secure hospital. How
a modern, secure hospital. How did he get away with it. His
did he get away with it. His job gave him the cover, didn’t
job gave him the cover, didn’t it, for going into the
it, for going into the mortuary. And I think
mortuary. And I think personally, perhaps is rather
personally, perhaps is rather unassuming nature enabled him
unassuming nature enabled him to get away with it. David
to get away with it. David Fullar
to get away with it. David Fuller had manipulated himself
Fullar had manipulated himself in a
Fuller had manipulated himself in a position where he was a
in a position where he was a maintenance supervisor. He had
maintenance supervisor. He had a swipe rard
maintenance supervisor. He had a swipe card that allowed him
a swipe card that allowed him to access anywhere in the
to access anywhere in the hospital. He changed his shifts
hospital. He changed his shifts to work a later shift rather
to work a later shift rather than a normal day shift. They
than a normal day shift. They set up at the mortuary ‘s into
set up at the mortuary ‘s into halves. Bodies that would be
halves. Bodies that would be brought into the mortuary would
brought into the mortuary would be put into fridges and
be put into fridges and freezers on one side of the
freezers on one side of the mortuary, or covered by CCTV.
mortuary, or covered by CCTV. The second part of the
The second part of the mortuary, which is not covered
mortuary, which is not covered by ccrv,
mortuary, which is not covered by CCTV, where David Fuller
by CCTV, where David Fullar went
by CCTV, where David Fuller went and was able to lock
went and was able to lock himself in that area, had no
himself in that area, had no rameras,
himself in that area, had no cameras, but from the other
cameras, but from the other side of those fridges, he could
side of those fridges, he could get access to the bodies
get access to the bodies undertake the fridges. There is
undertake the fridges. There is a moment during one of the
a moment during one of the videos where there is a noise
videos where there is a noise from outside the mortuary. I’m
from outside the mortuary. I’m not completely sure what it is,
not completely sure what it is, but his response is to just
but his response is to just turn the light off. And I
turn the light off. And I anticipated, while I am
anticipated, while I am listening, but he is putting
listening, but he is putting the body bark or doing
the body bark or doing something to hide, and then
something to hide, and then about five minutes later the
about five minutes later the light comes back on and still
light comes back on and still standing there. Just as he was
standing there. just as he was before.
standing there. Just as he was before. And he must have been
before. And he must have been praying that he would be caught
praying that he would be taught at that
praying that he would be caught at that stage? That would have
at that stage? That would have been so much better
at that stage? That would have been so much betterfor so many
been so much better for so many more people,
been so much betterfor so many more people, had he been caught
more people, had he been taught at any time.
more people, had he been caught at any time. But who had he
at any time. But who had he abused? Police had to find out.
abused? Police had to find out. They searched hospital records
They searched hospital records and they scrutinised David
and they scrutinised David Fuller’s horrific videos.
Fuller’s horrific videos. Looking for parts of the body,
Looking for parts of the body, whether it is tags or medical
whether it is tags or medical devices, anything that could be
devices, anything that could be used, facial imagery, age,
used, facial imagery, age, build, absolutely everything
build, absolutely everything that would be able to be passed
that would be able to be passed on to my colleagues so that
on to my colleagues so that when they are looking at a list
when they are looking at a list of peopla,
when they are looking at a list of people, they are able to
of peopla, they are able to say,
of people, they are able to say, well, it is not that
say, well, it is not that person because of this reason,
person because of this reason, it is not that person because
it is not that person because of this reason, and we narrow
of this reason, and we narrow it down to just one person.
it down to just one person. Once identified, liaison
Once identified, liaison officers were sent to visit the
officers were sent to visit the victims’ families. You know
victims’ families. You know that these families have been
that these families have been given a horrific message, and
given a horrific message, and you know that is nothing you
you know that is nothing you ran say or
you know that is nothing you can say or do that is going to
ran say or do that is going to make
can say or do that is going to make that any better or make it
make that any better or make it go away. So all you can do is
go away. So all you ran do is be there
go away. So all you can do is be there for them and try to
be there for them and try to help them in any way that you
help them in any way that you ran, which
help them in any way that you can, which is exactly what we
ran, which is exactly what we do is family
can, which is exactly what we do is family liaison officers.
do is family liaison officers. In 2014, the Ikande family came
In 2014, the Ikande family came to the UK from France for a
to the UK from France for a short break. After they left
short break. After they left the ferry, a lorry had a car on
the ferry, a lorry had a far on the motorway.
the ferry, a lorry had a car on the motorway. Mary Ikande, her
the motorway. Mary Ikande, her sister Helen and stepfather
sister Helen and stepfather were killed. And six years
were killed. And six years later, their
were killed. And six years later, theirfamily was
were killed. And six years later, their family was one of
later, their family was one of dozens visited by the police
dozens visited by the police investigating Fuller.
Marianne Helen, 16 and 22.
Marianne Helan, 16 and 22. Their
Marianne Helen, 16 and 22. Their bodies lying on the
Their bodies lying on the mortuary, had been among
mortuary, had been among Fuller’s many abuse victims.
Fuller’s many abuse victims. Among the 80 who police have
Among the 80 who police have identified.
Soon, 3 public enquiry will examine what more should be
examine what more should be done to make hospital
done to make hospital mortuaries secure places of
mortuaries secure places of rest. Good afternoon. I want to
rest. Good afternoon. I want to 55V
rest. Good afternoon. I want to say on behalf of the trust our
say on behalf of the trust our shocked and appalled by am by
shocked and appalled by am by the criminal activity by David
the criminal activity by David Fullar
the criminal activity by David Fuller in our hospital mortuary
Fullar in our hospital mortuary that has
Fuller in our hospital mortuary that has been revealed in court
that has been revealed in court this week. Most importantly, I
this week. Most importantly, I want to apologise to the
want to apologise to the families of the victims of
families of the victims of these terrible crimes. They
these terrible crimes. They were so many different
were so many different reactions to it. Some people
reactions to it. Some peopla wished
reactions to it. Some people wished that they’d never heard,
wished that therd never heard, they were
wished that they’d never heard, they were really angry by the
they were really angry by the news, they felt that they
news, they felt that they couldn’t fathom the thought
couldn’t fathom the thought that a human being could do
that a human being could do this, they thought of him as a
this, they thought of him as a monster. Some people feel that
monster. Some peopla feel that the
monster. Some people feel that the person that was affected by
the person that was affected by these offences was no longer of
these offences was no longer of our loved one, in that body.
our loved one, in that body. other
our loved one, in that body. Other people have kind of taken
other peopla have kind of taken venues
Other people have kind of taken venues and taken it into stride
venues and taken it into stride and just accepted it. But I
and just accepted it. But I think the main reaction has
think the main reaction has been, how can someone do this
been, how ran someone do this and get away
been, how can someone do this and get away with this for so
and get away with this for so long? It’s just unheard of.
and get away with this for so long? It’sjust unheard of. We
long? It’s just unheard of. We went to
long? It’sjust unheard of. We went to trial because David
went to trial because David Fuller was saying, in his
Fuller was saying, in his defence, that he had diminished
defence, that he had diminished responsibility. But he was not
responsibility. But he was not of sound mind when he killed
of sound mind when he killed Wendy and Caroline. On the
Wendy and Caroline. On the fourth day of the trial, he
fourth day of the trial, he changed his plea, and he
changed his plea, and he confessed to murdering Wendy
confessed to murdering Wendy and Caroline. That was a
and Caroline. That was a massive moment. After all these
massive moment. Afber all these 7955-
massive moment. After all these years, suddenly it’s happened.
years, suddenly it’s happened. Wendrs
years, suddenly it’s happened. Wendy’s mother told the court
Wendrs mother told the court to
Wendy’s mother told the court to murder had ruined her life.
to murder had mined her life. Fuller’s
to murder had ruined her life. Fuller’s crimes have caused
Fuller’s crimes have caused decades of hurt. I don’t think
decades of hurt. I don’t think about him as a person. The pain
about him as a person. The pain that he’s caused these
that he’s caused these families, the torment has
families, the torment has caused them, you know, the
caused them, you know, the despair for not only the
despair for not only the families but also the officers
families but also the officers who have had to see this
who have had to see this material and help these
material and help these families through such an awful
families through such an awful time, is horrendous. He has
time, is horrendous. He has completely shattered so many
completely shattered so many people’s lives because of it.
people’s lives because of it. He has betrayed the NHS, he has
He has betrayed the NHS, he has betrayed his colleagues, he has
betrayed his colleagues, he has betrayed his profession, but we
betrayed his profession, but we have all, every single one of
have all, every single one of us, has that same wish for
us, has that same wish for someone that we have lost. And
someone that we have lost. And that is that they rest in
that is that they rest in peace. And he has betrayed that
peace. And he has betrayed that wish, for all of us.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Now here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night
to many western parts of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
This is BBC World News, I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite in Russian
troops to quell violent unrest in which dozens
have been killed.
One lesson of recent history
is that once Russians are in your house, it’s
sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
Three white men who murdered Ahmaud Arbery in the US state
of Georgia are given life sentences.
The family say they never lost faith in justice.
India locks down the capital, Delhi, to try and halt a surge
of cases fueled by the Omicron variant.
And Sidney Poitier, the first Black man to win
the Academy Award for Best Actor, has died
at the age of 94.
We take a look back at his life’s work.
The President of Kazakhstan has ordered his security forces
to use lethal force on protesters after days
of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
Russian troops have arrived to support his government.
The US consulate in Almaty has auhtorised non—emergency
personnel to leave the country.
Our correspondent Abdujalil Abdurasulov is in Kazakhstan’s
largest city, Almaty, with the latest.
The army of Kazakhstan is standing guard here
on the streets of Almaty.
After days of violence and many protesters killed,
the state’s security forces seem to be back in control,
and when we came close to them, the warning not to approach
is very clear.
GUNSHOT
Today the President was clear too — any more unrest
will be met with lethal force.
TRANSLATION: Terrorists continue to damage state
and private property and use weapons against civilians.
I have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
President Tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists
who are sowing chaos.
They say that their movement is peaceful and blame
the authorities for provoking the violence.
the authorities for provoking the violence.
The unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices,
but this country’s corrupt authoritarian regime
is unpopular.
Some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former
presidential residence and the mayor’s office.
The buildings were burnt out, and you can see here all these
cars were also set on fire.
You can hear again the shots, but maybe it’s the military
and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not
to approach the square because they closed the square
in order to prevent people from gathering.
Many people fear that the violence will drag on.
Along with protests, many shops were looted.
This 22—year—old man says that, while he supports the demands
of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"It’s really scary, and we feel we have no protection,"
this woman says.
This is one of the electronics shops that was looted
in Almaty, and I think the looters tried to burn this
place as well, because it still smells of smoke.
This mass unrest is a huge blow for Almaty, which is
the financial capital of Kazakhstan.
It’s not clear yet if the violence is over or how
much damage has been done to the authority
of Kazakhstan’s hardline leader.
Abdujalil Abdurasulov, BBC News, Almaty.
US secretary of state Anthony Blinken has been
talking about the deployment of Russian troops to Kazakhstan
as part of the the post—Soviet Collective Security Treaty
Organization.
He had this warning for the Kazakh regime
over its reliance on Moscow.
There are very particular drivers of what’s happening
in Kazakhstan right now, as I said, that go to economic
and political matters, and what’s happening
in there is different from what’s happening
on Ukraine’s borders.
Having said that, I think one lesson of recent history
is that once Russians are in your house, it’s
sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
One place closely watching events in Kazakhstan is
Belarus.
Both countries are members of the Russian—led Collective
Security Treaty Organization, or CSTO, which has sent
peacekeeping forces to Kazakhstan.
Speaking on state TV, Belarusian President Alexander
Lukashenko said his forces were not there to kill.
TRANSLATION: We are not fighting for anyone.
There is only one company of our troops — peacekeepers.
We’ve informed the UN that we would like to help
Kazakhstan to restore peace.
We came to Kazakhstan not to kill or not to fight.
We are peaceful people.
Our servicemen are peaceful people.
We need to stop the fratricidal war, and we are doing exactly
that.
I’ve been speaking to Franak Viacorka, who is a senior
advisor to Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the exiled
Belarusian opposition leader.
I asked him what reaction there had been in Belarus
to CSTO troops being sent to Kazakhstan.
It’s shameful.
Belarusians should not fight abroad
and should not participate in such operations —
should not help other dictators to stay
in power by all means.
And what are your thoughts on the CSTO in general?
Because obviously this is the first time they’ve been
mobilised in its history.
What do you personally think of that?
CSTO is perceived as the artificial organisation
that was never used before.
It was created as an anti—Nate block,
and this is the very first time when it’s used by one
of its member states.
CSTO is used by Russia primarily in order to keep
post—Soviet countries under control, and Belarus’s
participation in CSTO, in my personal opinion,
must be stopped.
This situation with Kazakhstan shows that it’s not
in the interest of Belarus, and we will be working closely
with Belarusian civil society groups and we will be calling
Belarusian soldiers to not to participate in operations
under CSTO brand.
It’s a fairly serious situation in Kazakhstan,
though, isn’t it?
You don’t think this justifies mobilisation of allies to try
and calm the situation?
The situation in Kazakhstan is a deja vu for Belarusians
because we passed through this in 2020, when Belarusian people
uprised against dictatorships.
Same in Kazakhstan — people ask for freedom,
they ask for democracy and they were brutally cracked
down by dictatorships.
Foreign countries such as Russia and others should not
interfere and should not help Tokayev to stay in power.
We believe all that the crisis can be solved with dialogue,
with conversation, with negotiation between all
the parties in Kazakhstan, the regime and between
protesters, and we are calling for the peaceful resolution.
Same as in Belarus — we are continuing calling
for a peaceful resolution to the crisis, and we don’t
want Russian troops to come to Belarus to help us
in solving our own crisis.
And you obviously work very closely with Sviatlana,
the main Opposition Leader in Belarus.
What are her thoughts about all this?
We are very concerned it can be used towards Belarus,
and at one point, when Lukashenko will feel weak
and when a new wave of protests will start, he will put
in the same weight to help him, and Russian troops will appear,
so we are asking the international community
to prevent it, to now allow this to happen to Belarus.
We sincerely believe that Belarusians can
solve their own crisis by themselves,
without help of Russia or any other countries.
Three white men convicted of the murder of a Black man
in the US state of Georgia have been sentenced
to life in prison.
Ahmaud Arbery was outjogging in 2020 when the men chased him
in pickup trucks and shot him dead.
The three were only arrested and charged after video footage
of the murder went viral.
Our North America correspondent David Willis has this report.
Ahmaud Arbery’s death has been
Ahmaud Arberrs death has been erned
Ahmaud Arberrs death has been likened by
Ahmaud Arbery’s death has been likened by his family to a
likened by his family to a latter—day lynching. Three
lather-day lynching. Three white
latter—day lynching. Three white men hunted down the
white men hunted down the unarmed jogger and killed him
unarmed jogger and killed him in cold blood. Footage of the
in cold blood. Footage of the incident led to nationwide
incident led to nationwide protests after it emerged that,
protests after it emerged that, despite being interviewed at
despite being interviewed at the scene, none of the men
the scene, none of the men involved had been arrested
involved had been arrested after local officials accepted
after local officials accepted their plea of self—defence and
their plea of self—defence and deemed the killing justified.
Former police officer Gregory McMichael, his 33—year—old son,
"It-Michael, his 33-year-old son, Travis, and
McMichael, his 33—year—old son, Travis, and the man who filmed
Travis, and the man who filmed Ahmaud Arbery’s death, William
Ahmaud Arbery’s death, William ‘Roddie’ Bryan, were
Ahmaud Arbery’s death, William ‘Roddie’ Bryan, were eventually
‘Roddie’ Bryan, were eventually arrested and brought to trial,
arrested and brought to trial, and found guilty of murder,
and found guilty of murder, aggravated assault and false
aggravated assault and false imprisonment. They chose to
imprisonment. They chose to target my son because they
target my son because they didn’t want him in their
didn’t want him in their community. These men deserve
community. These men deserve the maximum sentence for their
the maximum sentence for their crimes. Ahmaud never said a
crimes. Ahmaud never said a word to them. He never
word to them. He never threatened them. He
word to them. He never threatened them. Hejust
word to them. He never threatened them. He just wanted
threatened them. He just wanted to be left alone. What I’m
to be left alone. what I’m going to do
to be left alone. What I’m going to do as I am going to
going to do as I am going to sit silanﬂy
going to do as I am going to sit silently for one minute. To
sit silanﬂy for one minute. To set in
sit silently for one minute. To set in context the terror that
set in context the terror that he said Ahmaud Arbery must have
he said Ahmaud Arbery must have suffered as he was chased
suffered as he was chased through a residential
through a residential neighbourhood for more than
neighbourhood for more than five minutes, the
neighbourhood for more than five minutes, thejudge ordered
five minutes, the judge ordered a
five minutes, thejudge ordered a moment’s silence. Before
a moment’s silence. Before sentencing all three men to
sentencing all three men to life in prison. Only William
life in prison. Only William ‘Roddie’ Bryan will be eligible
‘Roddie’ Bryan will be eligibla for parole,
‘Roddie’ Bryan will be eligible for parole, but not until he is
for parole, but not until he is 82 years of age. As we stand
82 years of age. As we stand here in Glen County, in front
here in Glen County, in front of this courthouse, think about
of this courthouse, think about all the black people who have
all the black people who have been lynched in the history of
been lynched in the history of America. In Georgia, who never,
America. In Georgia, who never, ever got their day in court.
ever got their day in court. Ahmaud Arbery’s death paved the
Ahmaud Arberrs death paved the “Y
Ahmaud Arberrs death paved the way to a
Ahmaud Arbery’s death paved the way to a period of national
way to a period of national reckoning over the state of
reckoning over the state of racial injustice in this
racial injustice in this country, one which culminated
country, one which culminated in nationwide protests over the
in nationwide protests over the death of George Floyd. Though
death of George Floyd. Though these men receive the maximum
these men receive the maximum sentence, civil rights
sentence, civil rights campaigners believe it will
campaigners believe it will take more than that to
take more than that to influence attitudes that in
inﬂuence attitudes that in many
influence attitudes that in many cases go back generations.
Yasmin Cader, director of the Trone Center forJustice
and Equality at the American Civil Liberties Union,
gave us her reaction to the trial.
My reaction is that this verdict is significant
for many reasons.
One of the first ones is that we have to remember
this conviction almost never happened, and so
it wasn’t until Mr Arbery’s family and his community
organised, mobilised and demanded a full
investigation that these individuals were even arrested.
So the significance of this verdict in my mind is very much
the fact that it almost never came to be.
I mean, you’ve got to be relieved, obviously,
at the verdict after all of that.
Because as you say, initial reluctance to arrest
and charge these men, of course,
until this footage emerged.
That’s right, but I think that when you say relief,
what that brings to mind to me is just how much more work
we have to do.
I mean, this verdict, these sentences — they don’t
fully reflect in any way what the type of systemic
change is that we need to make sure happens in this country.
Yeah, and do you think the sentence therefore
sends out a wider message that’s obviously needed
for a long time — is that maybe a couple of years ago
this sentence may not have come
about, this verdict may not have come about, and now
there is change, albeit too late and too slow,
but change is happening?
I think that the change that this community is seeking
is much broader than these sentences.
The change that this community is seeking is one
in which somebody like Mr Arbery would be alive today.
He never would have been seen as a threat simply byjogging
in this neighbourhood, where he lived ten minutes away.
He would be part of an integrated community,
even though we are 70 years past the Brown versus Board
of Education decision, which said that we shouldn’t be
segregated anymore in education or in other systems.
He would’ve been recognised in life, notjust in his death
through this really retributive mechanism.
I guess your hope, therefore, is that there is real fast
and significant change now, of course, alongside verdicts
in the George Floyd case and other cases of this nature.
Yes, and that that change is much broader than these
individual cases or these individual verdicts,
but instead, that that change is one
that’s systemic in nature, that really reimagines
all of these systems and really seeks
equity for all.
This is BBC News, a reminder of the headlines
this hour:
The US questions Kazakhstan’s decision to invite in Russian
troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult
to get them to leave.
A court in the US state of Georgia has given life
sentences to three white men who murdered the young black
man Ahmaud Arbery while he was outjogging.
As coronavirus cases continue to rise across India,
new movement restrictions have come into effect for people
in the capital, Delhi, over the weekend.
Restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed
until Monday morning.
Russell Trott reports.
Bharat’s shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
But with fewer customers and takings down, he has been
badly hit by the pandemic.
Yet, despite India’s capital Delhi locking down over
the weekend, he remains upbeat.
TRANSLATION: The way corona cases are on the rise this
lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
For the past two years, we have faced losses
and we will face the same in the future.
I will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there
is no lockdown.
As the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases,
partly fuelled by the fast—spreading Omicron variant,
most businesses here are still recovering from last
year’s outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals
and crematoriums.
But daily case numbers had, since then, stayed reasonably
low — until last week.
All residents besides essential workers will now be asked
to stay home from Friday night to Monday morning.
This is a big concern, big challenge.
We have seen that over the last eight days,
the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more
than one lakh, injust eight days.
So with this period, the number will be much higher
in the previous weeks.
More than 200,000 people died across India last spring,
after a wave of Delta variant infections that brought
the healthcare systems to its knees.
India’s A81,000 known Covid deaths is the world’s third
highest toll behind the US and Brazil, but under—reporting
is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll
could be up to ten times higher.
The Omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer
cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn
another lockdown and its economic impact is just
not worth it.
Russell Trott, BBC News.
The US Supreme Court has begun hearing arguments
about the legality of President Biden’s vaccinate—or—test
mandate for large businesses.
Opponents say he does not have the authority to impose
the rule without going through Congress.
Backers say it will save lives.
Judgement is not expected for several days.
US PresidentJoe Biden and First LadyJill Biden have
been visiting fire—damaged areas in Colorado.
They toured a residential neighbourhood in Lousiville
which had been largely destroyed by flames at the end
of last year.
The fire was driven by heavy winds on Thursday 30 December.
Nearly 1,000 homes were lost and thousands of acres
were scorched in a matter of hours.
Nearly 10,000 people were forced to leave their homes.
Mr Biden said it should serve as a warning.
The situation is a blinking code red for our nation.
Because the combination of extreme drought, the driest
period from June to December ever recorded —
ever recorded — unusually high winds, no snow on the ground
to start, created a tinderbox.
A literal tinderbox.
And even though it was not your backyard, you could feel
the ripple effects of what happened.
The former US President, Barack Obama, has led tributes
i[-1
16 people are now known to have
16 peopla are now known to have died
16 people are now known to have died after an explosion
died after an explosion destroyed a building in
destroyed a building in Chongqing in China’s south—west
Chongqing in China’s south-west on Friday.
Chongqing in China’s south—west on Friday. Chinese media system
on Friday. Chinese media system and other people were rescued,
and other people were rescued, some of whom are being treated
some of whom are being treated in hospital. One is reported to
in hospital. One is reported to be in critical condition. The
be in critical condition. The building, housed a canteen, was
building, housed a canteen, was reduced to rubble by the blast,
reduced to mhhle by the blast, thought to
reduced to rubble by the blast, thought to have been caused by
thought to have been caused by a gas leak.
The former US President, Barack Obama, has led tributes
to the actor Sir Sidney Poitier who’s died at the age of 94.
Mr Obama said the star had "opened doors for
a generation of actors".
Sidney Poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking
films which challenged racial stereotypes.
He was the first black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor,
and his success paved the way for generations
of other black artists.
Our correspondent, Lizo Mazimba looks back on the life,
of a Hollywood icon.
# In the heat of the night...
Sidney Poitier’s Virgil Tibbs, a man of authority...
I’m a police officer.
..intelligence and a steely determination never to back
down — the kind of qualities that defined Poitier
on screen and off.
He made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man
of status — something almost unheard of for
black performers then.
And with roles like an escaped convict in The Defiant Ones
and a struggling husband in A Raisin in the Sun,
he tackled prejudice head on.
Maybe I’ll get down on my black knees.
All right, Mr Charlie.
All right, Mr Great White Father.
You just give us that money!
And we won’t come out there and dirty up your
white folks’ neighbourhood.
The era, of course, meant he had a burden his white
counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight
of being a symbol.
But he bore it with dignity.
In Lilies of the Field, playing a travelling handyman,
helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
Sing it over.
The winner is Sidney Poitier.
He won the Academy Award — the first black performer ever
to receive the Oscar for a leading role.
In the years that followed, he became Hollywood’s biggest
star, redefining how audiences saw Black characters with films
like To Sir, with Love.
You will call me ‘Sir’ or ‘Mr Thackeray’.
The young ladies will be addressed as ‘Miss’,
the boys by their surnames.
Some of what I am was reflected in those movies.
It was, in a way, I was saying to an audience, "This
is who I am.
"Look at me."
More controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely
successful doctor engaged to a white woman in Guess Who’s
Coming To Dinner.
I love your daughter.
There is nothing I wouldn’t do to try to keep her as happy
as she was the day I met her.
Some criticised it, saying the impression it gave
was of an interracial relationship that was only
acceptable because his character was so perfect
and accomplished.
Hello!
He also directed ‘805 comedy Stir Crazy —
the first movie from an African—American film—maker
to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in
the United States.
What are you doing?
I’m getting bad!
In his later years, he was awarded the Presidential Medal
of Freedom by Barack Obama, who today said Sidney Poitier
epitomised dignity and grace.
Oprah Winfrey paid tribute, saying: .
While Denzel Washington said:
Those words two decades after he celebrated him
at the Academy Awards.
A0 years, I’ve been chasing Sidney.
They finally give it to me.
What do they do?
They give it to him the same night.
I’ll always be following in your footsteps.
There’s nothing I would rather do.
APPLAUSE.
That same night, Poitier also received an honorary Oscar.
Hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail
for so many...
They call me Mr Tibbs.
..and who entertained millions more.
Sidney Poitier — one of the greats.
Cheryl Boone Isaacs is the founding director
of The Sidney Poitier New American Film School
at Arizona State University and former president
of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences,
best known for organising the Oscars.
Here’s how she remembers him.
He was a major beacon of light that came on the scene
and on the screen many decades ago, and through his life’s
work, whether in front of the camera behind
the camera, he hasn’t had a major impact on the created
world.
And especially for the black community and black
storytellers.
It is such an honour for me to be able to be part
of his legacy that we are going to carry into the future.
He was a great man, great philosopher, a philanthropic
ideas and avenues, civil rights activist, and like I said,
a tremendous force in the creative world.
I know we have pictures of you with Sidney Poitier.
Give us some of your favourite memories of him?
Even physically, in person, he was so dynamic, you know,
the energyjust wafted off of him.
And when he would see me, certainly with others as well,
but when he would see me, he would cluster his hands
together and grinning from ear to ear.
It would always lift you, no matter how good you might be
feeling for the day.
Most people remember him as an actor but he was
an activist, a director, he had his own production company.
There was a much more to him thanjust acting.
Absolutely.
And it is with that legacy that we are going to move
forward and make sure that that legacy stays alive.
And that we impart all the greatness of Sidney Poitier
in future storytellers.
How do you think his legacy is left?
Obviously so many actors and actresses stand
on his shoulders now?
That is exactly right.
He paved the way for many, filmmakers, as well as people
like myself, this influence was massive, just massive.
And not least with Denzel Washington, who was a huge
actor now, but he obviously paid tribute to him all
those years ago?
Absolutely.
We always think of the two of them, the night of the Oscars,
when Denzel won his Oscar
for Best Actor, and Halle Berry won the Best Actress,
and Sidney Poitier received his historic honorary Oscar,
that was a major, major evening, and it filled my heart
and I cried my eyes out.
It was special.
A volcano perched on top of one of Ecuador’s famous
Galapagos Islands has erupted, producing a spectacular lava
flow.
The one mile high Wolf volcano is located on Isabela Island,
home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that
helped inspire Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution
following his visit in 1835.
Fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife
populations, or to humans.
And you can get details of all of these stories
and many more by visiting our website at BBC.com/news.
You can reach me on Twitter.
I’m @SiPusey.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching,
and the first half of Saturday at least will be very
wet and windy.
Now here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front, and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland, but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night
to many western parts of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday,
much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
The US have questioned Kazakhstan’s decision to seek
Russian military support to deal with a wave
of violent unrest.
Russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
Dozens of people have been killed during nationwide
protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
In the US, three white men who were convicted of chasing
and then murdering Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man,
in the state of Georgia have been sentenced
to life in prison.
The case became a focus of protests by the Black Lives
Matter movement.
One of the best known Black Hollywood actors
of the past century, Sidney Poitier, has died.
He was 94.
Mr Poitier was the first Black man to be awarded Best Actor
at the Academy Awards in 1964 and paved the way
for a new generation of stars.
Now, many of us remember the TV drama Grange Hill
for its gritty storylines and very catchy theme tune.
It first aired in 1978, running for 30 years,
and now it is going to be turned into film with some
of the original characters expected to return as
grandparents.
Jayne McCubbin has been chatting to some
of the original cast members.
GRANGE HILL THEME MUSIC PLAYS.
There was the theme tune.
Born bom bom born, ba—na ba—na nah nah, bam ba—na ba—na—na,
bow bow bow...
There was the gritty realism.
Move your arm, fat man.
It was just like a real British show, wasn’t it?
Showing, like, kids in their natural habitats,
so to speak.
Yeah, cheeky and naughty.
What’s he talking about?
It’s not true.
Controversial storylines.
Did you just say No in school?
Idid.
Good girl.
Just say no!
Now, like an unheard—of decent school dinner,
there is going to be a second helping.
My name is Neil Mattocks.
I am a higher level teaching assistant.
I run a podcast about Grange Hill called Sausage On A Fork.
The very first episode I remember watching,
I was about six years old and there was lads fighting
on the telly, and Ijust thought, "This is amazing.
"This is like nothing I’ve ever seen."
I’m Alison Valentine and I played Faye in
Grange Hill — Faye Lucas.
The biggest thing which caused the biggest stir was my thing —
I’m not sure what it was — with my teacher, Mr King.
My name is Lee MacDonald and I played Zammo in Grange
Hill.
So, the transformation from this happy—go—lucky Zammo
character to stealing off of Roland, licking the drugs
off the floor in one of the scenes at the end,
you know, was horrific.
Zammo!
Drown, you scum.
The BBC expelled Grange Hill after a 30—year run in 2008,
but open auditions for the next gen Grange Hill silver screen
stars start soon.
My name is Celynjones.
I’m the co—writer of Grange Hill The Movie
and in a previous life, I also played Mr Green
in Grange Hill — the English teacher.
Sir Phil Redmond suggested that it was time to bring back
Grange Hill.
I think bringing back Grange Hill was sort
of like the Bat Signal, and — that he couldn’t ignore
from Wayne Manor any longer!
By taking the best of the old and mixing with the new,
they hope it pulls in the parents for nostalgia
and their teens for a new edgy outing.
Jayne McCubbin, BBC News.
Now on BBC News it’s The Travel Show, with Lucy
Hedges.
This week on The Travel Show.
Now, if you spent any part of lockdown dancing alone
in the kitchen, this show is for you.
Now, for many of us, dancing offers a shortcut
to happiness and escape.
Over the years on The Travel Show, we’ve picked up some
pretty nifty dance moves all over the world —
and have failed miserably at others.
So here, for your entertainment and our eternal embarrassment,
are our attempts to remain co—ordinated under pressure
and in front of a camera.
Let’s kick off with my trip to South Africa back in 2018,
when I tried to keep up with a truly talented group
of performers who have made news all over the world thanks
to an energetic form of dancing known as pantsula.
They set the bar a little high for me, though.
FAST-PACED SINGING.
This is pa ntsula.
This style of dancing is absolutely incredible.
It’s fast paced, it’s energetic, and it’s technical.
But for young South Africans, it’s so much more than this.
It’s a movement that encapsulates storytelling,
fashion and social expression.
And just look at those dance moves.
My mind is just blown!
For Via Vyndal, everything in their act holds a special
significance — from their moves to their costumes.
And their clothes are the colours of the national flag.
Pantsula, it’s a local culture.
You would never get it anywhere in the suburbs.
Whatever we do, we’re telling our stories,
background stories, through dance.
From growing up in this poor neighbourhood, the group has
gone on to international acclaim.
In 2017, director Danny Boyle hand—picked them to perform
at one of New York’s most prestigious venues —
Carnegie Hall.
We really killed the stage.
It was a peak experience, especially because, to be
honest, it was our first time on the plane.
And being in New York, it was something different.
You could tell that we were far away from home.
The background of the dance is closely tied to the history
of the nation.
We’re on our way to the biggest township in South Africa —
Soweto.
Here, the pantsula has a deeply political message.
Soweto has a reputation for activism.
It was home to Nelson Mandela during apartheid in the years
prior to his arrest.
Pantsula has its roots in the same era.
It matched contemporary forms with traditional African dance
— an act of cultural defiance against the oppressive white
government.
Talk to me about the kind of social and political
messages that you express when you dance.
The first political message is to be seen as black people.
We are powerful, you know.
And the second is we’re trying to tell the world that we’re
still free, but we’re still bearing a lot of problems.
We still have to push ourselves.
And we have to push ourselves, like, 10 times harder
than any other individual.
And now, the moment of truth.
Do I have what it takes to become an honorary member
of the troupe?
0K, stand here.
0K.
It’s going to be, one, two, one, two.
One, two, one, two.
One, two, one, two.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
So it’s going to be, one, two, one, two.
One, two, one, one, two, one, one, two, one.
Easy!
0K.
Slow.
One, two, one, two.
One, two, one, one, two, one, one, two, one.
I’m not getting the last bit.
Come on, focus up here.
Focus on my feet.
I’m not quite there.
One, two, one, two, one, two, one, two, one.
Yes!
I’m not good enough tojoin the group.
But thank you for teaching me some moves.
It’s funny, but I get tired watching that again.
What amazing performers.
In the same year, half a world away in Norway,
Christa discovered a similar level of skill
and dedication when she went to learn about a traditional
form of dance that is still going strong.
Watch out for the high kicks in this one.
Dance company Frikar perform around Norway and beyond.
They are inspired by nature and traditional
Norwegian folk roots.
They have even agreed to show me traditional moves
in Norway’s Halling dance.
TRADITIONAL VIOLIN MUSIC.
The dance is mostly a show—off dance.
Many hundred years ago, women also did the dance,
but it’s mostly boys or men doing the dance,
because we want to impress the other men or other women.
Put the right foot in front of the left, sidewards.
Believe me, this is harder than it looks.
If you jump a bit on each step, one, two, yes, nice?
I think I’m getting the hang of it.
One, two.
Nice!
Back in the old days, they use the ceilings to kick
down a coin orjust kick their heels.
Kick the ceiling?
You know, they were smaller houses back in those days.
In the 18005, the military started with competitions,
kicking a hat from a stick, and it was about kicking
the highest.
And then it became incorporated in the Halling, the folk dance.
I think if I say Halling, people say kicking the hat.
It’s like the main goal in the Halling.
But it’s more like the dance is the main goal.
Kicking the hat is sort of topping it.
That was good kicking!
You’ve got to admit those high kicks were pretty
impressive.
Christa in Norway back in 2018.
Now, here is something else to not try at home,
especially if you value yourjoints.
Now, Peruvian scissor dancing dates back over 500 years,
and some people claim it is the inspiration
behind modern breakdancing.
Now, with a heritage like that, we just had to send Carmen
to investigate in 2017.
The origin of the Peruvian scissor dance is shrouded
in mystery, but many believe the tradition began
up in the highlands of the Andes as an act
of worship to the mountain gods.
In the 15005, the dance was performed to show
resistance to Spanish rule.
The movements displayed the performers’ dexterity.
And the scissors represented their resistance to pain.
But the conquistadors thought it was inspired by the devil
and it was banned.
Despite the ban, the tradition survived, and the twisting,
turning dance moves were passed down from generation
to generation.
Now, its importance in Peru’s history has been
recognised by UNESCO.
And its backbreaking moves would put many breakdancers to
shame.
Although the scissors are not sharpened, learning to control
them whila dancing and leaping
can take years.
Hola!
And I’m going to get a lesson to see how it’s done.
So the top ones stay still and the bottom one...
0h.
It’s all in the thumb, the thumb and the wrist.
SCISSORS CHIME.
First, I’ve got to get to grips with the scissors.
The aim is to hit the handles together in time to the music.
The blunt blades are not connected, so holding them
in position is really tricky.
There is no way I’m going to be able to do this
and coordinate my feet.
And it’s notjust mastering the scissors.
Argh!
This is the one that makes your knees bleed.
Does it hurt to do the jumps and land on your back?
Does it hurt your head, your knees?
Do you have injuries?
Is that blood on your trousers?
Wow, that’s dedication.
Oh, and I’m getting a hat.
Gosh — as if it’s not hard enough!
After a few minutes, I’m exhausted.
I can’t even imagine how hard it would be to do these moves
up in the Andes, where the thin air makes everything
so much harder.
These guys are true athletes.
Oh, that was hard work!
Some of those moves looked truly, truly backbreaking.
Just amazing —
Carmen and the scissor dancers of Peru back in 2017.
Well, we’ve got plenty more for you, so stay with us
because, coming up —
Henry learns it’s all in the eyes in India
and Christa leaves the folk music of Norway behind
to attend a grand ball in Vienna.
ﬂ
I only
I onlyjust
I only just learned to
I onlyjust learned to do this
I only just learned to do this today!
In the same way dance can lift your spirits it can also
tell a story and perhaps nowhere
as intricately as India,
which is where Henry headed to meet the Kathakali dancers
of Kerala, who not only use their bodies but their faces
to tell a story.
To learn more about Kathakali, I’ve come here to meet a man
whose family have been performing the dance
for the past hundred years here in Cochin.
Mr Devan!
How are you?
Good to see you!
Thank you very much.
This is your theatre!
Amazing.
Central to Kathakali is the complex ritual make—up,
which turns the performers into supernatural beings,
gods and demons.
The process of applying the make—up can take many hours
and here in Cochin, it’s applied
directly in front of the audience
and forms part of the performance.
There’s a singer who sings the stories...
The river flowing!
..And a drummer, who supports.
DRUMBEAT.
The dancer translates the songs through the movement
of eyebrows, eyes, eye muscles, lips,
fingers, footwork.
And all these stories come
from the Hindu books, religious books.
Originally developed as a way of teaching religious scripture
to rural audiences, Kathakali is now also a big draw
for tourists coming here to Kerala.
APPLAUSE.
I am very curious to know how do you tell a story
with your eyebrows, your cheeks, your lips
and yourfingers — can you teach me?
To start with there, are 2A alphabets in the language,
Katha kali language.
These alphabets are the position of the hand.
And so how — show me a little segment of how you would use
the alphabets to tell the story.
Please, come.
And so with the eye movements, what different types of eye
movements do you have?
Rolling the eyes is getting excited.
Ah.
Team those moves with some fancy footwork
and you have a performance — in theory, at least.
FAST DRUMBEAT.
LAUGHS.
That is very good.
Very impressive!
Traditionally, a classic Kathakali performance can go
on for many hours, sometimes a whole night.
But some modern audiences have shorter attention spans,
so the art form has had to adapt.
You lost me!
You know, the original one, it goes throughout a night.
You know, everything is in detail, everything
is intricate.
You know, and nowadays we are condensing it
for a 1.5, 2—hour program.
So in a way, we do lose our originality.
What is done for hours and throughout a night,
that is not being shown now.
It represents the fire god!
But whether the performance is a marathon length
all—nighter or something more contained, the highlight
of the show is always the appearance on stage
of Pacha, wearing his traditional green make—up
and using steps originally choreographed hundreds of years
ago to captivate audiences of today.
Well, we’re almost at the end of this week’s programme,
but we have just got time for one more dance—off.
So let’s take a trip all the way back to 2015,
long before social distancing had ever been heard of,
and when the bigger the party, the better it was.
Let’s hope we can all return to those times before too long.
In the meantime, here’s Christa trying to master a classic
waltz in the run—up to a spectacular ball in Vienna.
It’s just after dawn, but the town hall is already
buzzing.
Preparations are under way for a grand dance event —
part of the ball season that takes over Vienna each winter.
Every year, over A50 grand balls take place,
and thousands of people descend on the city to get all dressed
up and dance the night away.
These preparations are for the Blumenball,
or Flower Ball, an event for 3000 guests.
A team of 250 people have spent a week getting everything
ready and today, they are busy decorating the hall
with 80,000 flowers.
TRANSLATION: 200 years ago, common people were allowed
to dance for the first time.
Before that, it was a privilege of the nobility alone.
The Viennese people were enthralled, and that
popularity continues to this day.
Over 300,000 people attend the city’s balls each season
but no two events are the same.
They can be anything from grand affairs in the city’s
Imperial Palace with formal dress and classical music,
to modern dance parties where anything goes.
DANCE MUSIC PLAYS.
This season of events also represents big business
for the city, boosting the Viennese economy by around
200 million euros each year.
This is perhaps not surprising when the most sought—after
events can cost you up to 250 euros just to get the door.
—— just to get through the door.
Well, if you are going to attend one of these grand
balls, you can’tjust turn up injeans.
You have to look the part.
BLUE DANUBE WALTZ PLAYS.
Well, I’ve got a fancy frock and a lovely hairdo.
The only thing left is to polish up my dance skills
before the ball.
Matthias Urrisk is in charge of directing the formal opening
dance at the ball tonight,
which will include a grand waltz.
And for you, the first step is making a backward step.
0K.
The Viennese waltz is a very famous, popular dance.
You make two steps in place, two, three.
Two, three.
It is our traditional dance, even our
unofficial national song, the Blue Danube is a waltz,
so it’s — we are proud of it.
One, two, three...
Left, two, three...
LAUGHS.
BLUE DANUBE WALTZ PLAYS.
Outside, dusk is falling over the city, and soon after,
the guests of the Blumenball begin to arrive.
The ball opens with a formal performance, then suddenly,
the floor is crowded with dancing couples
old and young, who seem to seriously know their stuff.
It’s so nice!
It makes you want to take up dance lessons.
The other ball guests seem equally taken with the romance
of the event.
I love to go to balls.
I like to dress like a princess and to
dance like a princess.
It’s a journey into another world for me.
Eventually, it’s time to stop being a wallﬂower
and put my dance training into action.
My terrible dancing!
No, no!
I onlyjust learned how to do it today!
BLUE DANUBE WALTZ PLAYS.
Christa doing a pretty convincing waltz there,
it has to be said.
Now I do hope you have enjoyed this look back with me
and we have managed to give you some travel inspiration,
and maybe even a few moves for when we can all hit
the road again.
Let’s hope it’s not too long to wait until then.
In the meantime, make sure you catch us next week
if you can, when...
There is another chance to catch up with family from
catch up with family from America. They decided to go on
America. They decided to go on the road for the first time
the road for the first time with their two autistic little
with their two autistic little boys. They had a lot of fun at
boys. They had a lot offun at the
boys. They had a lot of fun at the theme parks and the theme
the theme parks and the theme parks were built for them. They
parks were built for them. They welcomed them with open arms
welcomed them with open arms and let them enjoy themselves.
and let them enjoy themselves. Until then, though, from me and
Until then, though, from me and everyone else here on the show,
everyone else here on the show, thanks for watching and
thanks for watching and goodbye.
Hello.
Well, earlier, the skies were clear
and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places
after the recent wintry weather.
But now, a weather front is approaching
and the first half of Saturday, at least, will be very
wet and windy.
Now, here’s the low pressure that’s sweeping into the UK,
here’s the weather front and this
is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’t reached
you already, it will do very soon.
Ahead of this weather front, there’s some temporary snow
falling across the Highlands of Scotland but for many
of us, it really is rain.
And the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery
weather by the end of the night
to many western parts of the UK.
And look at the temperatures — eight degrees in Belfast,
double figures in the south—west,
just around freezing or above across eastern
parts of the country.
So here’s that low pressure around early Saturday.
Within it, we’ve got milder air.
You can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
Behind the cold front, yes, there’s slightly colder
weather, but not as cold compared
to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
So, here’s that wet and windy weather for
the first half of Saturday.
Later, notice that the skies clear.
There will be frequent blustery showers —
some will again be
wintry, particularly across the Highlands,
but for many of us, it is rain.
It will feel chilly in the wind,
but notice that rain really dragging its heels around
East Anglia and the south—east.
It may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here,
it really will be an unpleasant day.
Come the evening, I think Saturday night into Sunday,
things will start to dry out.
Here’s the good news — Saturday night into Sunday,
the weather will calm down, which means that on Sunday,
it will be a much better day.
Better — there still will be some showers around,
particularly across northern areas,
and in fact, we are expecting later on Sunday some damp
weather to move into south—western parts
of England and maybe Wales.
But on the whole, it’s a much better day, much drier
and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around
the average for the time of the year.
So, here’s the weekend summary again.
You can see that wet weather earlier
in the day on Saturday,
much better by Sunday,
and thereafter, it is turning milder.
Bye— bye.
Good morning welcome to Breakfast with Nina Warhurst and Jon Kay.
Our headlines today:
Hundreds of thousands of flat owners will not have to pay to replace
unsafe cladding under new government plans.
A fourth Covid jab is not needed yet — UK experts say booster doses keep
giving high protection against severe illness
from the Omicron variant.
Three white men begin life sentences in the US for murdering
Ahmaud Arbery, a blackjogger who ran through their neighbourhood.
It’s looking like mission impossible for England in the fourth
Ashes test.
And once again in Sydney it’s Australia’s Usman Khawaja,
whose second century of this test is pushing the hosts
towards another win.
ii
It may be a wet and windy start to the weekend for many, but as we go
the weekend for many, but as we go into the afternoon across many
into the afternoon across many western areas we should see a bit
western areas we should see a bit more sunshine at times.
It’s Saturday, the 8th of January.
Our top story: Up to 500,000 flat owners across the UK will no longer
be liable for the cost of replacing dangerous cladding
on their properties, under new government proposals.
The plans, set to be announced by the Housing Secretary Michael Gove,
would instead see developers forced to pay up to an additional $4
billion to help resolve the crisis, which has left many unable
to sell their homes.
Our policy editor Lewis Goodall has more.
It’s estimated that more than half a
It’s estimated that more than half a million people are caught up in
million people are caught up in Britain’s fire safety crisis. And we
Britain’s fire safety crisis. And we ran
Britain’s fire safety crisis. And we can exclusively reveal the
can exclusively reveal the government’s latest plans to deal
government’s latest plans to deal with it.
UP
Up until now, the government’s approach breakdown as follows.
approach breakdown as follows. Dangerous cutting removal would be
Dangerous cutting removal would be paid for by the building safety
paid for by the building safety front only for buildings of 18.5
front only for buildings of 18.5 metres in height. Everything else
metres in height. Everything else would be covered either by
would be covered either by developers paying or by a loan
developers paying or by a loan scheme for leaseholders. But we
scheme for leaseholders. But we understand that Michael Gove, the
understand that Michael Gove, the levelling up secretary, will make a
levelling up secretary, will make a commitment on Monday that up to £4
commitment on Monday that up to £4 billion of extra funding will be
billion of extra funding will be available to remove dangerous
available to remove dangerous cladding and buildings between 11
cladding and buildings between 11 and 18 one half metres, and that
and 18 one half metres, and that leaseholders will not have to pay
leaseholders will not have to pay anything towards that cost, a
anything towards that cost, a significant shift. But Gove also
significant shift. But Gove also made clear that money will come from
made clear that money will come from developers, not from the taxpayer,
developers, not from the taxpayer, and if developers won’t pay
and if developers won’t pay voluntarily, he will threaten the
voluntarily, he will threaten the force of law to make sure that they
force of law to make sure that they comply. But this change will cover
comply. But this change will cover cladding only, not the host of other
cladding only, not the host of other building safety issues found in
building safety issues found in thousands of building since
thousands of building since Gran fell,. Well, they won’t choose to
fell,. Well, they won’t choose to NY-
fell,. Well, they won’t choose to pay. They will have to be dragged to
pay. They will have to be dragged to the table to offer something up. And
the table to offer something up. And I suspect it relies on showing,
I suspect it relies on showing, weather it is by sampling the
weather it is by sampling the buildings and showing that these
buildings and showing that these buildings were not built to spec,
buildings were not built to spec, because fire breaks and
because fire breaks and complementation have always been
complementation have always been required by regulations, if they are
required by regulations, if they are not there, but as a product of
not there, but as a product of conscious choice, or it is a product
conscious choice, or it is a product of negligence, for which the
of negligence, for which the developer is responsible. So
of negligence, for which the developer is responsible. 50 Michael
developer is responsible. So Michael Gove
developer is responsible. 50 Michael Gove needs a big stick to beat them
Gove needs a big stick to beat them with along those sorts of lines, but
with along those sorts of lines, but no, this is quite clearly evidence
no, this is quite dearty evidence that this
no, this is quite clearly evidence that this is your choice and your
that this is your choice and your responsibility to pay. And if the
responsibility to pay. And if the levelling up secretary is
levelling up secretary is unsuccessful, lease documents from
unsuccessful, lease documents from the Treasury seen by Newsnight show
the Treasury seen by Newsnight show that if the government cannot raise
that if the government cannot raise the
that if the government rannot raise the money
that if the government cannot raise the money from developers, it will
the money from developers, it will have to come from existing housing
have to come from existing housing budgets, hardly ideal at a time of a
budgets, hardly ideal at a time of a wider housing shortage.
That was Lewis Goodall reporting, and we’ll get more on that from him
just after 8:303m this morning.
The independent panel of experts that advises the Government
on vaccines says that a second Covid booster,
orfourth shot, is not needed for the time being.
New data from the UK Health Security Agency shows that
three months after a boosterjab, protection against severe illness
remains high in older adults.
SimonJones reports.
The booster campaign is delivering results. Do you have any allergies
results. Do you have any allergies to anything that you are aware of?
to anything that you are aware of? And who are fit and well today?
And who are fit and well today? That’s according to the joint
That’s according to the joint committee on vaccination and
committee on vaccination and immunisation, which says there is no
immunisation, which says there is no immediate need for a second booster
immediate need for a second booster dose for care home residents and the
dose for rare home residents and the over 18 ‘s.
dose for care home residents and the over 18 ‘s. The first dose is very
over 18 ‘s. The first dose is very important and give so much
important and give so much protection, but at this point in
protection, but at this point in time, so right now, at the start of
time, so right now, at the start of the new Year, we don’t need to rush
the new Year, we don’t need to rush into
the new Year, we don’t need to msh into giving
the new Year, we don’t need to rush into giving anybody a second booster
into giving anybody a second booster dose right now. We might need to do
dose right now. We might need to do so later on in

Citation: BBC News, 01:00 08/01/2022, BBC1 London, 300 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BEB25CA?bcast=135978891 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)