The very hottest parts of the country on
Monday may well push into the high thirties.
And with that in mind, well, we could at least say that the UK
temperature record is under threat,
with the current record standing at 38.7 degrees Celsius.
Of course, we’ll be monitoring computer-model outputs over
the next few days to see if there are any indications of just
how close we’re going to get to that figure.
BBC iPlayer - love what you find, WL R SRS
Binge-watch brilliant shows.
This IS @ massive.
2 [OA VTSI N T st Retlge d e R I o
Find your next big ebsession.
Nice to meet you. A pleasure.
Just press red...
This is nice, isn’t it?
..for the best way to watch TV, L ET
My place? It’s doing what | do best.
Beth Mead blows the roof off [ IGREE i
My place? It’s breaking new ground.
Northern Ireland have a goal in international competition football!
Welcome, welcome. Sir Mo Farah 3
Welcome, welcome. Sir Mo Farah is not the man
Welcome, welcome. Sir Mo Farah T R e e T T
Welcome, welcome. Sir Mo Farah is not the man millicns think
is not the man milliens think they know.
is not the man millions think they know. Talking about it,
they know. Talking about it, let
they know. Talking about it, I
they know. Talking about it, let alone coming out in public
let alone coming out in public to
let alone coming out in public Rl
let alone coming out in public to tell people... Talking to my
to tell people... Talking to my own family... | felt vulnerable
own family... | felt vulnerable 1
own family... | felt vulnerable R
own family... | felt vulnerable at times, lonely. How can |
at times, lonely. How can | iRl
at times, lonely. How can | share with
at times, lonely. How can | NI R G R
at times, lonely. How can | AR G RG]
at times, lonely. How can | share with the whole world? He
share with the whole world? He e
share with the whole world? He shot to
share with the whole world? He R
share with the whole world? He B e A = T2 s
shot to national and RIS E e
shot to national and RIS E i BT )
shot to national and international fame by winning
international fame by winning two
international fame by winning R0\ [l
international fame by winning two Olympic gold medals in
two Olympic gold medals in London 2012. He is one of
London 2012. He is one of Britain’s
London 2012. He is one of Y EI e
London 2012. He is one of A IR e s [ e Ts|
Britain’s most decorated Olympian is. He was knighted in
Olympian is. He was knighted in 2017
Olympian is. He was knighted in s VAT E
Olympian is. He was knighted in N VRT3
Olympian is. He was knighted in NN R T R e iR
Olympian is. He was knighted in 2017 for services to athletics
2017 for services to athletics and
2017 for services to athletics LR
2017 for services to athletics N R e 8]
2017 for services to athletics IR ]
2017 for services to athletics and has become a reqular on
2017 for services to athletics and has become a regular on TV
and has become a regular on TV ey
and has become a regular on TV et sl
and has become a regular on TV screens and newspaper
and has become a regular on TV N G E R e
screens and newspaper front pages. This is the reader to
pages. This is the reader to come
pages. This is the reader to ]
pages. This is the reader to RO
pages. This is the reader to come to the but
pages. This is the reader to RO RGN A
pages. This is the reader to come to the but in a
pages. This is the reader to RO NahERL
come to the but ina TV NI A
come to the but ina TV documentary, he reveals
documentary, he reveals his ¥l
documentary, he reveals his real name is Hussein
documentary, he reveals his IR TR T 1]
documentary, he reveals his real name is Hussein Abdi Kahin
real name is Hussein Abdi Kahin and
real name is Hussein Abdi Kahin Y
real name is Hussein Abdi Kahin LR E
real name is Hussein Abdi Kahin and he was illegally trafficked
and he was illegally trafficked to
and he was illegally trafficked R
and he was illegally trafficked RN
and he was illegally trafficked wRn &N
and he was illegally trafficked R L]
and he was illegally trafficked to the UK as a child
and he was illegally trafficked RO LR R e
and he was illegally trafficked RGN LR GRS
to the UK as a child for the g ]
to the UK as a child for the I LR
to the UK as a child for the purposes of domestic servitude.
purposes of domestic servitude. From day one,
purposes of domestic servitude. S AR
purposes of domestic servitude. S A RO EL ) A
purposes of domestic servitude. From day one, the lady, what
From day one, the lady, what i)
From day one, the lady, what )
From day one, the lady, what IR L
From day one, the lady, what AR e e
From day one, the lady, what she did was not right. | wasn’t
she did was not right. | wasn’t el
she did was not right. | wasn’t O
she did was not right. | wasn’t treated as part of
she did was not right. | wasn’t O R R )
she did was not right. | wasn’t treated as part of the family.
treated as part of the family. | was
treated as part of the family. [T I
treated as part of the family. | was always that kid who did
| was always that kid who did everything. |
| was always that kid who did ARG R
| was always that kid who did AE OGRS T
LGN PG T T B o G ]
LGN PG T T B o G iR ]
LGN PG T T B o G Someone who works for
IO TITAGTT B o G Someone who works for you, that
Someone who works for you, that your space, that’s our space,
your space, that’s our space, this
your space, that’s our space, G
your space, that’s our space, this is what you do. If |
this is what you do. If | e e sl
this is what you do. If | wanted food in my mouth, my job
wanted food in my mouth, my job Ty
wanted food in my mouth, my job was to look
wanted food in my mouth, my job LR R & ie-e
wanted food in my mouth, my job T R Rl i )
wanted food in my mouth, my job was to look after those kids,
was to look after those kids, to
was to look after those kids, e e
was to look after those kids, R SRR
was to look after those kids, R R G PR ] 4
was to look after those kids, to shower them, cook for them,
to shower them, cook for them, ANl
to shower them, cook for them, Al R g
to shower them, cook for them, clean for them. And
to shower them, cook for them, TN RO G
to shower them, cook for them, clean for them. And she said,
clean for them. And she said, T
clean for them. And she said, 1R
clean for them. And she said, RIS
clean for them. And she said, if you ever want
clean for them. And she said, IR SRR )
clean for them. And she said, if you ever want to see your
if you ever want to see your family again, don’t say
family again, don’t say anything.
family again, don’t say EI G
family again, don’t say EIN G T ARV
family again, don’t say anything. If you say anything,
anything. If you say anything, they will take it away. He
they will take it away. He SO (1Y
they will take it away. He eventually confided
they will take it away. He N OE (A G EG R
they will take it away. He SN OE (A EG RG]
eventually confided In a teacher
eventually confided In a Rl R ]
eventually confided In a teacher who helped
eventually confided in a teacher who helped him alert
teacher who helped him alert ekl
teacher who helped him alert ok B3 e (I
teacher who helped him alert social services, move to a new
social services, move to a new family and become a British
family and become a British Paidra s
family and become a British lalir B
family and become a British alire L. ]
family and become a British citizen as Mo Farah. It was
citizen as Mo Farah. It was then
citizen as Mo Farah. It was R
citizen as Mo Farah. It was WO e
citizen as Mo Farah. It was then that he discovered
then that he discovered LA
then that he discovered running. What was it like for
running. What was it Like for you
running. What was it Like for RO
running. What was it like for you living this double life and
you living this double life and (]
you living this double life and becoming globally famous? There
becoming globally famous? There s
becoming globally famous? There %)
becoming globally famous? There is alot
becoming globally famous? There T A dl
becoming globally famous? There is alot| could
becoming globally famous? There is a lot | could say. In my
s a lot | could say. In my mind,
s a lot | could say. In my NI R
s a lot | could say. In my NI R
s a lot | could say. In my mind, as a kid, often | tried
mind, as a kid, often [ tried to
mind, as a kid, often [ tried Rl e
mind, as a kid, often | tried Rt e oL
mind, as a kid, often | tried to think about that moment
to think about that moment where | made
to think about that moment YN NN s -]
to think about that moment where | made a decision for
where | made a decision for myself.
where | made a decision for A
where | made a decision for myself. | used
where | made a decision for (3 ETEG R
where | made a decision for myself. | used to lock myself
myself. | used to lock myself in
myself. | used to lock myself TR s 4
myself. | used to lock myself IR EI A Er g
myself. | used to lock myself in that bathroom, and
myself. | used to lock myself in that bathreom, and cry every
in that bathroom, and cry every day. Please, someocne,
in that bathroom, and cry every day. Please, someone, get me
day. Please, someone, get me e
day. Please, someone, get me T
day. Please, someone, get me NaN A
day. Please, someone, get me NE A e )
day. Please, someone, get me NE A e e
day. Please, someone, get me NE A e R oo
day. Please, someone, get me NE A e R N R
out of here. No one came to (/N
out of here. No one came to you, so
out of here. No one came to TR L]
out of here. No one came to you, so you learned to lock it
you, so you learned to lock it R
you, so you learned to lock it T
you, so you learned to lock it up. | told myself, I’m not
up. | told myself, I’m not L
up. | told myself, I’m not going to
up. | told myself, I’m not RO
up. | told myself, I’m not going to get emotional, I’m
going to get emotional, I’m L
going to get emotional, I’m going to lock
going to get emotional, I’m L RCR A
going to get emotional, I’m going to lock it inside and
going to lock it inside and just carry
going to lock it inside and IS AR
going to lock it inside and just carry on. It was hard for
Just carry on. It was hard for me
Just carry on. It was hard for iR
just carry on. It was hard for R alis
just carry on. It was hard for me to admit what has happened.
me to admit what has happened. e
me to admit what has happened. The BRC
me to admit what has happened. IR
me to admit what has happened. The BBC has spoken to the Home
The BBC has spoken to the Home 0ailey
The BBC has spoken to the Home Office today, and they said,
Office today, and they said, they
Office today, and they said, QSR
Office today, and they said, they told us, no action
they told us, no action whatsoever will
they told us, no action T e )
they told us, no action e e N R
whatsoever will be taken against Sir Mo and to suggest
against Sir Mo and to suggest e )
against Sir Mo and to suggest NG
against Sir Mo and to suggest NIRRT
against Sir Mo and to suggest otherwise is wrong. How does
otherwise is wrong. How does that make you feel? It makes me
that make you feel? It makes me ST LR
that make you feel? It makes me ISR LIE
that make you feel? It makes me TS LR L
that make you feel? It makes me relieved. This is my country.
To the golf, and Tiger Woods has criticised some of his
fellow professionals who’ve abandoned the PGA Tour
and joined the Saudi-backed WA N
Speaking ahead of this week’s Open Champienship at St Andrews
the 15-time Major winner made his opinion about
the event crystal clear.
| disagree with It.
| disagree with it. | think vty
| disagree with it. | think Y ET TSRS
| disagree with it. | think what they’ve done is they’ve
what they’ve done is they’ve gl
what they’ve done is they’ve G EGcd
what they’ve done is they’ve RGO e 4
what they’ve done is they’ve turned their back on what has
turned their back on what has allowed them to
turned their back on what has EIIY LRGN RO [
turned their back on what has allowed them to get to this
allowed them to get to this LN
allowed them to get to this (L I )
allowed them to get to this position. Some players will
position. Some players will g
position. Some players will SEE G
position. Some players will ISEE G
position. Some players will N R Ty [n )
position. Some players will never get a chance to play
position. Seme players will never get a chance to play a
never get a chance to play a LEIN
never get a chance to play a Major Championship, never get a
Major Championship, never get a o)
Major Championship, never get a chance to
Major Championship, never get a R R A )
Major Championship, never get a - R R A LU RS
Major Championship, never get a chance to experience this right
chance to experience this right here |
chance to experience this right here. | just don’t understand
here. | just don’t understand it, what these players are
it, what these players are WL
it, what these players are deing for
it, what these players are doing for quaranteed
it, what these players are doing for gquaranteed money...
doing for guaranteed money... ey
doing for guaranteed money... What is
doing for guaranteed money... wWhat is no
doing for guaranteed money... Y e e e ah L)
doing for guaranteed money... What is no incentive to
What is no incentive to practice?
What is no incentive to IEla Y
What is no incentive to T X[
What is no incentive to practice? To go out there and
practice? To go out there and earn
practice? To go out there and Y 1s N]
practice? To go out there and R )
practice? To go out there and earn in the dirt?
Some bad luck for kids in mainland China who love
spending all their time playing online video games.
Tech giant, Tencent, says it’s not relaxing strict
rules on the number of hours they’re allowed
to spend playing.
You have been watching Newsday.
Just time for a reminder of our top story: Sri Lanka’s
president has arrived in the Maldives after
fleeing the country following weeks of protests.
It in the Rajapaksa political dynasty that has ruled for
dynasty that has ruled for decades and who
dynasty that has ruled for (R e T a]
dynasty that has ruled for decades and who Sri Lankans
decades and who Sri Lankans S ET Y
decades and who Sri Lankans blame for mismanaging the
blame for mismanaging the e A
blame for mismanaging the economy, leaving millions
economy, leaving millions struggling to buy food, fuel
struggling to buy food, fuel and
struggling to buy food, fuel R el
struggling to buy food, fuel and medicine. That’s it
struggling to buy food, fuel R TR R i
struggling to buy food, fuel and medicine. That’s it for us,
and medicine. That’s it for us, thanks for joining us.
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, fresher air is moving down
from the north, following this band of cloud that’s
still bringing one R E R R
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slightly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, temperatures
typically into the mid-20s, but for many other parts
of England and into Wales, we are going to find some
extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
IR C News. We will
IR R R U RN
This is BBC News. We will have )
This is BBC News. We will have N I
This is BBC News. We will have the headlines and
This is BBC News. We will have M LI LR
This is BBC News. We will have UYL R G T
G RGN L T 1 L [T e
G RGN L T 1 L [T A R
G RGN L T 1 L [T stories for you
G RGN L T 1 L [T SRR VKL
G RGN L T 1 L [T stories for you at the
the headlines and all menu stories for you at the top of
stories for you at the top of )
stories for you at the top of N
stories for you at the top of Wi e s
stories for you at the top of Wi G
stories for you at the top of the hours after this programme.
This week, we’re at Wimbledon to find out if Al can
predict the winners, although Spencer’s
concentrating on the more important parts of the event.
Choose my blanket design.
Got to get the food sorted first.
Lara gets her trainers on to put some of the latest fitness
devices through their paces.
IS EE VRGBT like an elephant.
The question is, Is It true?
Probably!
It’s men versus machine YOI sl T B e 4
off against the robots.
And we check out the tools hoping to make
sports more accessible.
It’s one of the biggest events on the sporting calendar.
The players, powerful...
..light of foot...
..lightning-fast.
It requires physical endurance N e Nk
And that’s the reason that A IR U R R
That is Centre Court and it’s R R G T 3
for exactly 100 years.
A Centre Court centenary.
| know how much you love Wimbledon, but are you like my
aunt who shouts at the TV TR LR o
| absolutely love it, and | absolutely am like your aunt.
This is the most stressful two N R R O IR U
My heart rate goes through the roof and I’m just
watching the thing on TV.
Oh, you need one of my activity trackers.
I’ve got a few to spare R S ORI R L
Oh, yes.
How did you get on with those?
Well, I’ll tell you, and you, NG RN
NI ST CH
Yeah, Wimbledon has been CI R GRS A R EIT |
new tech, both on and off the court, and we’ve been lucky
IR G RR Tl ]l of it over the years.
So there is no better place to anchor our
sports tech-themed show.
And we’re going to start with something for the fans.
Tech giant IBM has partnered with Wimbledon for more than 30
years, and this year, it’s upgraded the
official Wimbledon app to tell the future.
So for each singles match here, Match Insight is going to try
and predict the outcome of that match, who’s
going to win, yeah?
IR OR
It’s using, of course, the players’ performance,
but it’s also looking at what the media buzz is.
VNG LI ER G EL R U IR W EL P
like the player tracking and ball tracking that Hawk-Eye
are doing, players’ form, momentum, performance
in the lead-up to and now during the championships.
The brains behind this app belong to Watson,
IBM’s artificial intelligence.
And after absorbing all the data and the chatter,
it’ll make a prediction that’s totally separate from
the official seedings.
These predictions are not going to just favour the person
who’s the highest ranked.
No, and that’s where It actually gets interesting
T TRV CN R T [1Ta) of the moment, it’s updated
daily, so it enables us to surface ones to watch.
Helpful if, like me, R A G AT I E
and your Raducanus.
But that’s not going to stop me from using the app to make my
own match prediction.
OK, here we go.
Burridge versus Tsurenko.
Oh, blimey, that’s UK versus Ukraine.
It’s Eurovision all over again.
The trusted media, the experts think that
Tsurenko Is going to win.
The fans predict that Burridge is going to win.
No surprise there.
I think Burridge has a better chance, slightly,
and Watson says that Tsurenko LR R e
| guess we’ll see.
Now, sports like lawn tennis can seem like they’re mainly
aimed at older spectators, which, of course, is nonsense.
Look at me, for example.
But Wimbledon has always tried to engage with younger
audiences, and this year, that means putting
This is the first time that W A R e ]
built for digital tennis on the platform, which means
its 54 million daily active users can knock up
on the world-famous grass.
Nearly half of Roblox users are under the age of 13,
so this could catch young il
N W R VA
Meanwhile, if you can’t get one of the prized courtside seats,
or even If you can’t be here in person, you can still
wander round Wimbledon’s famous I R R il R e iR
Choose my blanket design.
VS (I T Ny [l G R E TN challenges while they learn
I’m wandering around now.
Refreshing drinks are not included, sadly.
And | have to say that Wimbledon’s digital fans do
appear slightly odder than their real-life ones.
There’s someone there with an ice cream on their head.
Right, so, earlier, | used the app to make a match
prediction, and so did IBM’s Al Watson, and the results
are now in, and...
Well, | hope | didn’t jinx it, but Tsurenko just
beat Burridge 6-2, 6-3.
Which means that prediction | made earlier. ..
LI NI g T4 beating me one-love.
And throughout the fortnight, that Al should get even smarter
because it’s going to be reading all of the discussions
and the media coverage about injuries, players’ health
and their general performance, and that means we can do
something quite exciting.
Now, I’m filming this quite early in the Wimbledon
fortnight, but we’re putting the finishing touches to this
programme just before the singles semifinals,
and that means that we can put on screen for you who Watson
thinks is going to win those E e
I’ve got no idea what you’re looking at now, but by the time
you watch this, you will know how it did.
Now, some might find apps like this a bit gimmicky,
but if they can get fans of all ages engaging
with tennis, well, that can only be a good thing
TN Aol 8
But let’s change sport completely now, because Omar
Mehtab has been competing LR R
Number five, going for a kick at the goal,
but they lose full ball control, and the second
attempt...
OMAR: Every year, robot football teams from more
than 40 countries compete in ReboCup, with different
leagues for different types and sizes.
And tries to pass to...
Tries to pass to...
This is Tech United - home of MSL, the five-time
RoboeCup Champiens from QAL LN I 1
of Technology.
Now, everyone knows how much of a football fan 1 am,
so | can’t wait to see how these little guys fare and also
LAEIE TR T T U [ g VAT R
of the sport.
But first up, penalties.
MUSIC: Match Of The Day by Barry Stoller.
Oh, hey!
I’m not saving with the left hand any more.
Y 0olel
A mirror helps these robots to see the pitch in 360 degrees...
..with cameras for object and colour recognition.
So they see where U RGN
Right
And then relative to that, you can see, for example,
the yellow ball, you can see R e R R [Tl L)
where, absolutely on the field, their position.
Wheels spin to pull in and held the ball while a magnetised
lever can launch shots at ten N TR
We can move it up and down to give a lob shot or move it
all the way up to give a flat pass over the ground.
Is it the case that you preload a certain tactic based
upen your opponent, oris it that these bots just
completely make up whatever they want as soon as they get
We do prescribe them what we think are good
strategies, but at the time during a match, they determine
themselves what they should do.
But we’re also looking into using machine learning
to find faults in the play and before we actually go
At what point do you think that they probably would
be ready at some time to face humans competitively?
So, hopefully, we can MR N R e R ils
from the human world champion in football in 2050
Not too far away, then!
We’re going to give (N N G
So I’ve flown in a couple of people to help me out,
namely Paul Carter.
I’m here, man.
I’m here to save the day.
Nice to meet you.
Paul, nice to meet you.
How are you doing?
| think the odds AL R E
I think we’ll manage this as we have some good
G R TR ]l (o
The bots kick off with some swift striking.
Oh, my...!
That came out quick!
Oh, ho-ho-ho!
Only the goalie differs in form compared to
RGBT as it has extendable arms.
But it couldn’t stop sharpshooter Carter.
The robots communicate O R G RO R R S
a second, working together (T
questionable moves.
But between fresh hatteries and...bananas,
I learned this isn’t just about man versus machine.
RoboCup actually lays R TN LA R e I
a G 0 - N el d [l
Integration of robots and humans within the same team
remains Limited nowadays.
But if we look at the future, we will see more and more
collaboration between robots and humans at team level.
This type of set-up could allow us to develop techniques,
methods, algorithms to make interaction meaningful.
GO D
as tasks into other robots TR s s ey
Easier than you think!
Really?
Yeah, | have a robot that needs to recognise balls on a field,
and if | have a service robot, it needs to recognise faces
in a home environment.
They are both computer vision tasks and the methods that
you use to address this task e ARG )
The open source project has already helped inform this
home health assistant, modifying with a handy gripper.
Tech United branded cola.
And after some refuelling, | did eventually find
But given how fluid these robots are getting, it’s
good to know, in homes, work or play, we’ll
be on the same side together soon enough.
VL R Gl
Time for a look at this NSRS
The European Parliament has approved two bills,
designed to strengthen the rule book for tech giants
like Meta and Google.
It includes standards to tackle the spread
of illegal content online, with firms facing huge
Researchers in Finland say this battery could crack
the problem of how to store renewable energy long-term.
The special ingredient is sand.
It stores the cheap energy as heat, which can warm
people’s homes in winter.
If we have some stations that were just there for a few hours
and weeks in the wintertime, when it’s the coldest,
it will be extremely expensive.
If we have solutions providing flexibility
for the storage of heat, that would help a lot.
A Ukrainian tech start-up has launched its Metaverse
educational platform, despite having to staff
move out of the country SRR R ol
DAN.IT will use the platform as a virtual classroom,
offering training in tech 4R
Silicon Valley-based firm Mojo Vision says it has
completed the first successful RS R LU S ]
of a smart contact lens.
The prototype contains a micro LED display that the wearer
controls with eye movement but the biggest challenges
for designers is making sure the power and communication
work wirelessly when it O AL LS N
Several years back, | tested what were then four of
the leading activity trackers.
Even though I’m wearing them all, all the time,
they don’t have the same view of how many footsteps
So | decided it was time to put some of the latest
devices to the test to see how they fare.
I have the Apple Series 7 watch, the Fitbit Sense,
and the Oura third-generation Ring.
I’m going to focus on steps, sleep and calories.
But of course, devices can RN Ra e a )
measuring heart rate, temperature, taking ECGs
and judging how stressed or ready for the day
they think we are.
It’s day one.
Last night, I slept RG]
I thought the two smartwatches were going to feel a bit bulky
but actually, I slept really well - | didn’t even
It’s too early for me to think too much about the data
but already, throughout the day today, there has been quite
a difference in the number of steps that the Apple Watch
and Fitbit think I’ve done.
The Apple Watch thinks I’ve done fewer, and this does seem
to be a bit of a theme with people that | know
who wear both the devices.
So, let’s see how that plays GG & GRS
| knew that my husband’s Fitbit was counting too many steps!
| even swapped the Apple Watch to my dominant wrist and
changed the settings suitably.
It did slightly reduce the discrepancy, but the Fitbit
and the Oura were still a bit more generous on step count.
It’s day three now and I’d like to talk about sleep.
The Oura Ring seems to think that I’ve had a similar amount
of sleep to the Fitbit - just about a ten or
15-minute difference.
But the Apple Watch thinks I’ve had nearly an hour less,
so there is quite a substantial i e e R T R e
Similarly, the Oura Ring thinks that I’ve done the same amount
of activity as the Fitbit.
It’s the Apple Watch that thinks that I’ve
All three of the devices break down your sleep quality.
The Fitbit’s timing and scoring on deep and REM sleep,
as well as your level R G PR
really clearly presented.
But the Oura took this to another level, warning me
to pay attention and adding a sleep score.
Apple tracks all of this too, but digging out the data
retrospectively did T el
It’s day five now and | definitely feel like | need
to do more activity than usual because you’re watching!
But the results do seem a little bit more consistent
between devices than the last time | did this experiment
about seven years ago.
RNV - 1N A E L R RN I
so I’m really able to compare them, and the thing
which is particularly similar is the number
RS e o
Really, the differences between them on each device
R D1 6N even if sleep and steps do
vary a little bit more.
And one thing I’m rather enjoying is the readiness score
that the Oura Ring gives me.
It’s based on all of that data and effectively just tells
you how much energy you’re likely to have, but it
seems pretty realistic.
And by the end of the week, the data told the story that
sensors have improved over the years, as have
GG gl B
Seven years back, there was a difference of 3,000
calories between devices AU U AR e
Here, the difference was more NN RO R
rather than a whole packet o LT R T T T |
O R G ETEE something similar, that
that is pretty accurate.
Overall, the Fitbit counted around 4% more steps
than the Apple Watch.
And the Oura Ring, another 1-2% on top of that.
The sleep data had LR h e
Adding it all up over the course of a week,
there was a two hour, 17 minute discrepancy
between the Fitbit and the Oura, with Apple
somewhere in between.
The Fitbit Sense’s electrodermal sensor
is checking for even R S A X RS LS
palm to provide data that W R R EL A R
It correctly - yes, correctly!
- found me to be very calm.
Meanwhile, the Apple Watch is keen to tell me every time
that | need to breathe when | may knowingly feel
This time around, I’ve come away from the experiment
feeling a little bit different.
Instead of it being a question of are they accurate
or not, it’s more a matter R AR [ ln R 0]
you rather wear?
It’s definitely easy to track your sleep in a ring,
whereas If you want to see your data throughout the day, well,
| personally like to be able G IR
rather than my phone for it.
The Apple Watch, well, it’s a perfect player
in the prism that is the Apple ecosystem, so if you use
Apple, well, it fits very well with that.
But | can’t really knock A N R N die
But not all wearable trackers are where you think they’d be.
More later for those who want RN R G UL VA
on their steps and their step.
But for now, here’s Paul, R T WG IR )
tracking for everyone.
Beyond wristbands and wearables, artificial
intelligence is often now used to also help athletes
understand and improve their game.
And in Lendon, one start-up has G R E G
app to make this kind of training more inclusive.
Can you tell me a little bit about what TeamSportz
Is and what it Is that you do?
| grew up playing basketball in a very deprived envirenment,
so | built a technology for anywhere else in the world
where you might have very limited access to technology.
Training is for individuals and teams, using artificial
intelligence to detect disabled and non-disabled users.
Where are your arms, where are your legs,
and where s your torso?
And If you don’t have the arms or the legs or the movement
on those limbs or whatever it might be, the model will still
be able to render a human body.
Movements are then interpreted as activities
like squats or push-ups.
You don’t suffer from the same bias that Al often brings.
So | guess the big question s, do you reckon the system
I’m confident that it will.
It’s got me!
Helpfully, the app can link to a big screen.
So, those targets will appear randomly, so you can’t
guess where they are, so you actually have
R
God, | wish | could - TR s i dd
LR GO IR E T T ARG E R G R R
I don’t think it’s having R NG NiE RN Gl
I’m going not very fast RGN
Rep counts, speeds and A RN eI |
to gamify the experience, with new possibilities
for schools, too.
For the first time, they can give homework
Kids across this country are going to love you!
Wheelchair user Karina has been testing the app
In exercise sessions with Disability Sports UK.
L EldhFE
A music lover, Karina certainly has the moves,
though I’m not sure IR IR s LUl ]
Coach Emma’s classes combine all kinds of movement,
dance and ball activities with this new technology,
and settings can be adjusted to suit each person’s motor
or cognitive needs.
A lot of members, when they first come,
are quite in their shell and not very confident,
but using that technology, we could see even playing it
g BN LN [ a couple of times,
actually, how it improved.
And with hopes for this R RN R R - Nea e
and members at home, T ST &L L0
bringing physical games.
Honestly, different things like this that our members get
a chance to have a go at really makes a big difference
just to their overall outloock and their belief
In what they can achieve.
Everyone needs that human e iR R
You’ve got a mixture of both RGNS R
yeah, that’s the ideal.
Technologies like the ones seen today aren’t the answer
for everyone, but for disabled people who traditionally have
been excluded from access to sports and fitness,
the benefits are ocbviocus.
I Eh R R QLRI R it’s doing something right!
And the class does seem to think so, too.
We want more of this NN ARG
When you try hard, you can keep getting better, better, better.
Lovely to see everyone getting involved.
Now, I’m a keen runner but I’m not particularly good or fast -
although I have been running about 5k five or six times a
The issue is, though, if anybedy runs with me,
they do say that | run like an elephant.
LGRS R R R [
These NURVV running insoles aim RN AN LR I
performance by tracking how your feet touch down.
With 32 sensors, your power, step length, pronation -
that’s the way your foot rolls inwards - training load
and more are being measured.
Any runner knows the importance of wearing the right trainers,
so | always wear ones RS I O N R -
that’s what | was told | needed, and | thought that
they’d level things out.
But it seems that I’m still a bit wonky.
The app confirmed, if not overstated, how absolutely
awful my balance and foot-roll are, whereas it suggested my
cadence - the number of steps | take per minute -
The app also provides real-time data through your
phene or a smartwatch, BRI R s 4
LA NG TG RN SN I’m always in the challenging
or extreme zone, whereas I’m never close
So, | guess I’ve discovered that | need to work
| was more interested in the post-exercise data,
though, but can I really change the way | run?
Like other foot-worn running trackers out there,
the data Is useful, and these ones were surprisingly
W] {]a L] R (BT o and the results do come
with some tips for better running and fewer injuries.
But when it comes to improving style, even when making
a concerted effort, the moment | get even just a little
bit weary, the elephant is back in the room,
or on the running track, straight away.
Can | just say, doesn’t run like an elephant.
LG T - R YL E L LGRS
No, but it’s not about what it looks like,
Iit’s the risk of injury.
(IR TTR[ B (VI oI o LT gAY you’re going to hurt yourself.
| see, right.
Meanwhile, I avoid running injuries by not running.
Shall we leave it there?
Thanks for watching.
SRS
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at Saint Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, fresher air is moving down
from the north following this band of cloud that’s
still bringing one R E R R
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slightly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across my JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still enly around 19-20 Celsius through the central
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north it of England, temperatures
typically into the mid-20s, but for many other parts
of England and into Wales, we are going to find some
extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
Welcome to BBC News, R
Our top stories.
Sri Lanka’s president flees the country,
along with other R El A
he’s promised to resign today.
M VI TR T T him for the economic
AR g [eo1 LT the country, leaving it
desperately short of funds RN R R T .
L R Ty lia 1 investigating the storming
of the US Capitol lays out how L RN [ Rl )
extremists, in a last-ditch bid CRCCEIRE i Raiel
The race begins in earnest R e e
Prime Minister - eight candidates prepare for
the first round of veting.
AU R I IR T T the golfer who has won more
than 80 titles on the US PGA s R
professionals who’ve joined a Saudi-backed tour.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has left
the country amid mass protests R i (R g
Mr Rajapaksa left aboard a military jet, ending a family
dynasty that has ruled the country for decades.
He had been in hiding, after crowds stormed his
residence on Saturday.
Sources have told the BBC his brother, former Finance
Minister Basil Rajapaksa, has also left the country.
President Rajapaksa had promised to resign,
but by remaining in position, RGBT
from prosecution.
Many Sri Lankans blame him for the economic crisis which has
crippled their country, leaving it short of funds
to buy medicines NI Rl
Our correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan
was with protestors outside the presidential palace
in Colombo when the news of President Rajapaksa’'s
departure was made public.
There is a real party atmosphere here at Colombo
seafront, which has been a protest site for many
weeks, one of the main demands protesters had was
for Gotabaya Rajapaksa to go.
Their slogan, their chant was "Go home, Gota".
We now know that President Gotabaya Rajapaksa
has left the country.
He fled on a military jet with members of his family.
LG I in hiding for the last few
days, ever since his home, his official residence,
was overrun by protesters.
It wasn’t just his official residence, in fact over
there his presidential secretariat, his offices,
G ELRVE L RO 0y by protesters.
You can see the aftermath now.
Days on, the protesters here are sleeping on the grounds
and on the steps.
We also know that the president’s brother
the former finance minister Basil Rajapaksa has
also left the country.
He’s believed to be heading to America.
Now, where does this VAU G Gl
He still hasn’t as of now stepped down from his post.
He’s due to hand in his resignation, that being
expected on Wednesday.
If he does, then that (W R 18 2
for a president to run this country, and there will be
a process In parliament to decide who his replacement is.
All of this is part of a wider concern, we are still
in the middle of an economic AN R SR R E R e
people are struggling for food IR e LR
This queue, you can see it going all the way down here,
S TG TN T for free bread and curry
because they are struggling to get a hold of the basics.
But news of President Rajapaksa’s departure
from the country, that is still filtering in here.
| spoke to one person who said he was relieved and pleased.
But another woman said she felt MBI R N e sl e - sl
by the man she blamed for this crisis, who has gone
without offering a solution.
Ny RN TR Akhil Bery, director
T W E R T ELD at the Asia Society.
Thanks very much for jeining LR
Thanks very much for jeining asked. |
Thanks very much for joining asked. | wonder if it matters
asked. | wonder if it matters if
asked. | wonder if it matters Y
asked. | wonder if it matters if he says
asked. | wonder if it matters TR
asked. | wonder if it matters if he says he’s resigned
asked. | wonder If it matters if he says he’s resigned or
if he says he’s resigned or "
if he says he’s resigned or A
if he says he’s resigned or A
if he says he’s resigned or AR
if he says he’s resigned or not, if he has fled the
not, if he has fled the I ig’xd
not, if he has fled the T (g A
not, if he has fled the T (o XA R
not, if he has fled the country? Do you think this is
country? Do you think this is )
country? Do you think this is AR
country? Do you think this Is N EA
country? Do you think this Is I NERE A
country? Do you think this Is the last of Mr Rajapaksa? |
the last of Mr Rajapaksa? | think
the last of Mr Rajapaksa? | i ai A
the last of Mr Rajapaksa? | i SR
the last of Mr Rajapaksa? | i SRR
the last of Mr Rajapaksa? | SR G R G
IR G R E Y I [Na 14
think it is the last of President Rajapaksa and the
President Rajapaksa and the Rajapaksa dynasties in Sri
Rajapaksa dynasties in Sri Lanka.
Rajapaksa dynasties in Sri FEERE i s
Rajapaksa dynasties in Sri Lanka. Tremendous anger about
Lanka. Tremendous anger about )
Lanka. Tremendous anger about the mismanagement of the
the mismanagement of the g
the mismanagement of the e VN
the mismanagement of the e VU R
the mismanagement of the economy and to the family for
economy and to the family for taking advantage of ordinary
taking advantage of ordinary el
taking advantage of ordinary Sri Lankans. People are
Sri Lankans. People are frustrated with
Sri Lankans. People are G SR R
Sri Lankans. People are frustrated with the economic
frustrated with the economic e
frustrated with the economic i
frustrated with the economic TSR a1
frustrated with the economic crisis is not improving, and
crisis is not improving, and they sought
crisis is not improving, and QLA & )
crisis is not improving, and they sought to push him out of
they sought to push him out of power. We have heard time and
power. We have heard time and again from a variety of people
again from a variety of people EWLLR
again from a variety of people EVLLEGLSE
again from a variety of people saying, look, we just want a
saying, look, we just want a handful of honest
saying, look, we just want a handful of henest politicians
handful of honest politicians to
handful of honest politicians R
handful of honest politicians to take this on and
handful of honest politicians R RGN LRI e
to take this on and start making a difference. How
making a difference. How I3l
making a difference. How Y
making a difference. How realistic is that, even as an
realistic is that, even as an N
realistic is that, even as an idea, given the dynasty of the
idea, given the dynasty of the Rajapaksas, the nature of the
Rajapaksas, the nature of the political establishment in Sri
political establishment in Sri &
political establishment in Sri ENExa
political establishment in Sri Lanka? It’s going to be
Lanka? It’s going to be slailatlid
Lanka? It’s going to be difficult for anyone,
Lanka? It’s going to be difficult for anyene, any
difficult for anyene, any politician
difficult for anyene, any W GfaFT R
difficult for anyene, any politician to navigate Sri
politician to navigate Sri Lanka out
politician to navigate Sri FENER
politician to navigate Sri Lanka out of this economic
Lanka out of this ecenomic i
Lanka out of this economic crisis. Because
Lanka out of this economic I ]
Lanka out of this economic crisis. Because a lot
Lanka out of this economic I e R )
Lanka out of this economic I N R R
crisis. Because a lot need to 1y
crisis. Because a lot need to R[]
crisis. Because a lot need to be done in
crisis. Because a lot need to B R e Nd
crisis. Because a lot need to be done in order for
crisis. Because a lot need to NN IRE aayel
crisis. Because a lot need to NN R AR
be done in order for Sri Lanka to
be done in order for Sri Lanka R
be done in order for Sri Lanka el
be done in order for Sri Lanka to be on a
be done in order for Sri Lanka NN )
be done in order for Sri Lanka to be on a pathway to fiscal
to be on a pathway to fiscal A
to be on a pathway to fiscal VAT
to be on a pathway to fiscal solvency. So even if the person
solvency. So even if the person rumoured
solvency. So even if the person ST e TIe R )
solvency. So even if the person ST e R o)
solvency. So even if the person IR RN R
solvency. So even if the person IR R R e e
rumoured to be the next JCAL
rumoured to be the next president when Parliament
president when Parliament e
president when Parliament reconvenes to elect someone,
reconvenes to elect someone, 1R
reconvenes to elect someone, NI
reconvenes to elect someone, GRS TG
reconvenes to elect someone, RSO AL PIOER
reconvenes to elect someone, don’t forget, in 2019, that
don’t forget, in 2019, that person
don’t forget, in 2019, that NG
don’t forget, in 2019, that NG
don’t forget, in 2019, that person lost by 10%, so he’s not
person lost by 10%, so he’s not very
person lost by 10%, so he’s not AL EL
person lost by 10%, so he’s not very popular with the general
very popular with the general YT I
very popular with the general populace. It’s not going to be
populace. It’s not going to be easy for any politician to
easy for any politician to garner the support of the
garner the support of the people needed to implement the
people needed to implement the reforms
people needed to implement the SN 18
people needed to implement the reforms necessary to get Sri
reforms necessary to get 5ri Lanka
reforms necessary to get Sri Lanka back to fiscal solvency.
Lanka back to fiscal solvency. I
Lanka back to fiscal solvency. And presumably they will have
And presumably they will have to
And presumably they will have e s le)
And presumably they will have IR
And presumably they will have R RO ERIG LI
And presumably they will have to do the bidding of the IMF
And presumably they will have R RO LIRS R R T
to do the bidding of the IMF if they
to do the bidding of the IMF if AL
to do the bidding of the IMF if they want funding.
to do the bidding of the IMF if QAT S UG IR YCR G
to do the bidding of the IMF if QAT R O G IR CR G AL
they want funding. Are they the right people to do that? All
right people to do that? All politicians and political
politicians and political I
politicians and political IR
politicians and political I ICRL
politicians and political parties are in agreement that
parties are in agreement that )
parties are in agreement that a3
parties are in agreement that LIRS
parties are in agreement that the IMF is needed, and that
the IMF is needed, and that il
the IMF is needed, and that NI ¢
the IMF is needed, and that will unlock further
will unlock further multilateral
will unlock further BT BT R el T
will unlock further multilateral financing which
multilateral financing which 3
multilateral financing which Sri Lanka desperately needs.
Sri Lanka desperately needs. 3
Sri Lanka desperately needs. Sri Lanka its
Sri Lanka desperately needs. A R RG]
Sri Lanka desperately needs. A R R IR
Sri Lanka its estimated needs 153
Sri Lanka its estimated needs $6 billion
Sri Lanka its estimated needs S UL R
Sri Lanka its estimated needs SRR e e E1
$6 billion in additional il Ta o)
$6 billion in additional finance this
$6 billion in additional NHEL RO
$6 billion in additional finance this year to
$6 billien in additional finance this year to bridge the
finance this year to bridge the current account deficit, and
current account deficit, and that won’t come unless they
that won’t come unless they I
that won’t come unless they EL IR G
that won’t come unless they agree terms with
that won’t come unless they LR IR G R G
that won’t come unless they agree terms with the IMF. Does
agree terms with the IMF. Does el
agree terms with the IMF. Does Sri Lanka
agree terms with the IMF. Does NI R ey
agree terms with the IMF. Does Sri Lanka have the
agree terms with the IMF. Does AN R e R e
agree terms with the IMF. Does NN e R N e el d
Sri Lanka have the sort of st s
Sri Lanka have the sort of technocrats might be best
technocrats might be best placed to fill the role
technocrats might be best EICL R ORI (RGN G
placed to fill the role of complying with the likes of the
complying with the likes of the IMF?
complying with the likes of the 11 )
complying with the likes of the IMF? Do those people exist?
IMF? Do those people exist? Yes,
IMF? Do those people exist? Il
IMF? Do those people exist? Yes, Sri Lanka
IMF? Do those people exist? PR RN R
IMF? Do those people exist? N REN C R )
IMF? Do those people exist? SRR C R I R
IMF? Do those people exist? Yes, Sri Lanka has been in the
Yes, Sri Lanka has been in the IMF
Yes, Sri Lanka has been in the LT TGl
Yes, Sri Lanka has been in the IMF programme before. The
IMF programme before. The previous president, under him,
previous president, under him, they
previous president, under him, QAL
previous president, under him, they recognise they needed to
they recognise they needed to Tl Suth
they recognise they needed to S
they recognise they needed to implement the reforms
they recognise they needed to S S G R G R
they recognise they needed to implement the reforms to gain
implement the reforms to gain Pl T
implement the reforms to gain access to
implement the reforms to gain T R Nt e
implement the reforms to gain access to more foreign exchange
access to more foreign exchange to
access to more foreign exchange R
access to more foreign exchange R
access to more foreign exchange to be able to pay off their
to be able to pay off their debts,
to be able to pay off their [ LA
to be able to pay off their debts, and also
to be able to pay off their L R L 0]
T G = i G T debts, and also afford the
debts, and alse afford the import Sri
debts, and also afford the import Sri Lanka needs. One
import Sri Lanka needs. One e
import Sri Lanka needs. One other point,
import Sri Lanka needs. One Ol i)
import Sri Lanka needs. One other point, with regard to
other point, with regard to President Rajapaksa again, a
President Rajapaksa again, a e
President Rajapaksa again, a s
President Rajapaksa again, a R
President Rajapaksa again, a lot of people feel they
President Rajapaksa again, a R A O S AENG
lot of people feel they have Nl
lot of people feel they have s
lot of people feel they have heen let down
lot of people feel they have XN X R
lot of people feel they have N E SO A G
LR LR G government, and
LR (T RO TR 41 government, and they want some
government, and they want some justice. Can you see Rajapaksa
Justice. Can you see Rajapaksa L0
Justice. Can you see Rajapaksa being held
justice. Can you see Rajapaksa being held accountable for the
being held accountable for the LGV
being held accountable for the way he has run
being held accountable for the A C E N R )
being held accountable for the A C E N R QR UL A
way he has run the country, given that he is now in
way he has run the country, R G A R AR G )
given that he is now in the Maldives? |
given that he is now in the IR YAk
given that he is now in the Maldives? | don’t think
given that he is now in the R XA R R G ST
given that he is now in the Maldives? | don’t think so, and
Maldives? | don’t think se, and this
Maldives? | don’t think se, and G
Maldives? | don’t think so, and this is one of the reason
Maldives? | don’t think so, and IR N R R R )
QIR ER R RO LR R R G T I
this is one of the reason the protesters are
QIR ER R RO LR R R G T protesters are upset with
QIR ER R RO IR R G protesters are upset with the
protesters are upset with the current
I O TR A G R [ atiae e el
I O TR A G R [ aniae e e IR
current Prime Minister RN S
current Prime Minister Wickremesinghe. There is
current Prime Minister IR NI R R
Wickremesinghe. There Is a S AT
Wickremesinghe. There Is a S AT
Wickremesinghe. There Is a belief he has shielded
Wickremesinghe. There Is a S A R L G R )
belief he has shielded the Rajapaksas from prosecution.
Rajapaksas from prosecution. Yy
Rajapaksas from prosecution. TP T
Rajapaksas from prosecution. Py YNl T
Rajapaksas from prosecution. wWhen he was Prime
Rajapaksas from prosecution. When he was Prime Minister,
When he was Prime Minister, after
When he was Prime Minister, )
When he was Prime Minister, RGN e
When he was Prime Minister, after the former president lost
after the former president lost his re-election bid, there was
his re-election bid, there was Y
his re-election bid, there was Ry
his re-election bid, there was a time they could have
a time they could have TN ]
a time they could have prosecuted the Rajapaksas for
prosecuted the Rajapaksas for e
prosecuted the Rajapaksas for R el
prosecuted the Rajapaksas for R E e
prosecuted the Rajapaksas for QR IR IR LA
their war crimes especially, 4
their war crimes especially, Y
their war crimes especially, N RS |
their war crimes especially, N SR
their war crimes especially, but he refused to go ahead with
but he refused to go ahead with that. On
but he refused to go ahead with eI el
but he refused to go ahead with that. On social media, people
that. On social media, people referring
that. On social media, people SR )
that. On social media, people referring to him in
that. On social media, people referring to him ina
that. On social media, people referring to him in a generally
referring to him in a generally L1
referring to him in a generally angry way... They believe he
angry way... They believe he T
angry way... They believe he )
angry way... They believe he (EER G 1
angry way... They believe he has a propensity to shield the
has a propensity to shield the Rajapaksas from justice. It
Rajapaksas from justice. It remains a complicated and
remains a complicated and I
remains a complicated and desperate situation. Thank you
desperate situation. Thank you very much indeed.
Let’s take a look at some other stories
The UN Security Council has voted to allow cross border
aid deliveries to millions in rebel held Syria from Turkey
for six months after intense diplomatic wrangling.
The US, the UK and France ELR N SRR A
the aid for another year - a proposal which Russia vetoed.
Lendon’'s Heathrow Airport has told airlines to reduce
the number of tickets they sell for the remainder of the summer
months, in order to cope ORI A
The airport is limiting the number of daily passengers
who can depart toe 100,000 - 4,000 less than scheduled.
Several wildfires have swept across Portugal’'s central
region, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of people
as firefighters struggled R RO G
Some houses have burned down, and three main highways
The country is suffering a heatwave, with temperatures
of over 40 degrees in many parts.
In Washington, the committee investigating
the storming of the US Capitol has laid out how Donald Trump
incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle told how during a stormy
meeting, Mr Trump ignored N R O R -
and instead summoned a mob to Washington.
Jason Van Tatenhove, a former spokesman
for the Oath Keepers, described the group as violent,
dismissive of the rule of law, and capable of swaying people
through lies and deceit.
IO R G LR A CRVH-RU IS BN G N a3 a = ale e ]
for what the Oath Keepers are happened January 6th,
when we saw that stacked military formation going up
the stairs of our Capitol.
Our correspondent Nomia Igbal has been
following the hearing, and talked us through
what’s happened so far.
There were two parts to today’s hearing.
The first part revolved around something that was referred
to as an unhinged meeting which happened in mid-December,
in which Denald Trump’’s advisers were telling him
to concede the election, but he was listening to a group
of unofficial advisers LR R CT R
to continue with his baseless claims the election was stolen.
The next day, which is where R ARG R e b}
part, he put out a tweet in which he said to his
supporters to come and protest on January 6th -
R G PR LT IR TR = R g ]
And then the committee focused on people that did turn up.
One of them was a man R UGN
who has now pleaded guilty to obstruction charges that day.
He talked about how he deeply regretted
listening to Donald Trump.
We also heard from a former member of the Oath Keepers,
an extremist group which the committee says turned up
that day, along with another group called the Proud Boys,
who fomented the chaos that happened.
Donald Trump has ARG R 1 1T
he’s criticised the hearings, he described them as a witch
hunt and called the panel, which is made up of seven
Democrats and two Republicans, a bunch of thugs and hacks.
We can now speak to Allan Lichtman, who’s a US
presidential historian and distinguished professor
of history at American University in Washington.
Thanks very much indeed for LI
Thanks very much indeed for NGRS
Thanks very much indeed for joining us. |
Thanks very much indeed for RGO
Thanks very much indeed for joining us. | think the
Thanks very much indeed for OGRS G YR
joining us. | think the last I
joining us. | think the last IS
joining us. | think the last IR R
joining us. | think the last line of that report is
joining us. | think the last R GG AR )
joining us. | think the last line of that report is the most
line of that report is the most L=
line of that report is the most significant, that Donald Trump
significant, that Donald Trump T
significant, that Donald Trump has again described this as a
has again described this as a witchhunt. How is it perceived
witchhunt. How is it perceived further
witchhunt. How is it perceived ik
witchhunt. How is it perceived MG L
witchhunt. How is it perceived further afield? Point is,
further afield? Point is, whatever testimony before the
whatever testimony before the hearings, does
whatever testimony before the [ CET I I
whatever testimony before the hearings, does it stick? |
hearings, does it stick? | think
hearings, does it stick? | sl LRIy
hearings, does it stick? | el Rl R 4
hearings, does it stick? | think it does stick to some
think it does stick to some extent,
think it does stick to some A PR s
think it does stick to some extent, for the following
extent, for the following I
extent, for the following reasons. Number one, it is
extent, for the following reasons. Number one, itis a
reasons. Number one, it is a sl
reasons. Number one, it is a masterful production.
reasons. Number one, it is a masterful preduction. The
masterful production. The T ]
masterful production. The reason they didn’t
masterful production. The RO IR
masterful production. The reason they didn’t have certain
reason they didn’t have certain S KT
reason they didn’t have certain Republican members on the
Republican members on the )
Republican members on the e s
Republican members on the w ARG
Republican members on the committee is they would have
committee is they would have gl
committee Is they would have LR
committee Is they would have turned it into a circus,
turned it into a circus, instead of
turned it into a circus, R YLE A G
turned it inte a circus, instead of this carefully
instead of this carefully N EIC
instead of this carefully prepared presentation.
prepared presentation. TCOE A
prepared presentation. Eckersley, Donald Trump can say
Eckersley, Donald Trump can say e e g
Eckersley, Donald Trump can say whatever he
Eckersley, Donald Trump can say N N R E R
Eckersley, Donald Trump can say whatever he wants, he always
whatever he wants, he always B
whatever he wants, he always does, but the facts speak for
does, but the facts speak for NI
does, but the facts speak for N LS
does, but the facts speak for themselves. The telling thing
themselves. The telling thing T e
themselves. The telling thing (RN
themselves. The telling thing RS
themselves. The telling thing TR SR e
themselves. The telling thing here is, it’s not trump’s
here is, it’s not trump’s o gialo]
here is, it’s not trump’s AR I
here is, it’s not trump’s AR NN RO
critics representing these Ela e
critics representing these facts, it’s his loyalists,
facts, it’s his loyalists, including his own White House
including his own White House LN
including his own White House counsel, who
including his own White House I R L I
including his own White House I R R R G T
counsel, who said these e
counsel, who said these a0
counsel, who said these ]
counsel, who said these theories about a stolen
theories about a stolen election were
theories about a stolen N R R P T T
theories about a stolen election were nonsense, and
election were nonsense, and Crump should concede. Pat also
Crump should concede. Pat also TN
Crump should concede. Pat also T )
Crump should concede. Pat also said, so tellingly, that at any
said, so tellingly, that at any S i)
said, so tellingly, that at any X O]
said, so tellingly, that at any time during this bloody
time during this bloody insurrection, that Crump could
insurrection, that Crump could have
insurrection, that Crump could YR LN
insurrection, that Crump could have walked to the podium
insurrectien, that Crump could have walked to the podium and
have walked to the podium and G
have walked to the podium and | LT
have walked to the podium and LR G
have walked to the podium and called upon his followers to
called upon his followers to 0N
called upon his followers to Y N Y
called upon his followers to stop. Instead, he delayed more
stop. Instead, he delayed more than three hours. -- Trump
than three hours. -- Trump i
than three hours. -- Trump R
than three hours. -- Trump G R R
than three hours. -- Trump could have walked to the
could have walked to the IR
could have walked to the podium. This
could have walked to the LI MR LR
could have walked to the podium. This is something that
podium. This is something that ke
podium. This is something that hasn’t been
podium. This is something that IR T U]
podium. This is something that hasn’t been said March. The
hasn’t been said March. The tremendous damage Trump has
tremendous damage Trump has Al
tremendous damage Trump has ol e a1
tremendous damage Trump has el e et )
tremendous damage Trump has RO e
tremendous damage Trump has done not to advance a
done not to advance a principle, but to advance his
principle, but to advance his own
principle, but to advance his TR ]
principle, but to advance his own selfish will to stay in
own selfish will to stay in A
own selfish will to stay in T
own selfish will to stay in IR PR
own selfish will to stay in IR FH R Y
own selfish will to stay in power. -- hasn’t been said
power. -- hasn’t been said el
power. -- hasn’t been said IS TR 1
power. -- hasn’t been said IS TR Rl
power. -- hasn’t been said March. We talked about
power. -- hasn’t been said IS TR R e e
March. We talked about the damage done to police officers,
damage done to police officers, 140 injured, several dead. We
140 injured, several dead. We haven’t
140 injured, several dead. We T R
140 injured, several dead. We haven’t talked enough about the
haven’t talked enough about the damage done to his own
damage done to his own T e
damage done to his own T R
damage done to his own followers. That, to me, was the
followers. That, to me, was the telling
followers. That, to me, was the QLG A
followers. That, to me, was the LG T
followers. That, to me, was the telling point of Mr Ayres’
telling point of Mr Ayres’ testimony, this ordinary guy
testimony, this ordinary guy Ty
testimony, this ordinary guy R
testimony, this ordinary guy T TR e ]
testimony, this ordinary guy R R R
testimony, this ordinary guy who went to the Capitol and
testimony, this ordinary guy who went to the Capitel and has
who went to the Capitol and has P
who went to the Capitol and has e
who went to the Capitel and has YL IR G S
who went to the Capitel and has YL AL R
who went to the Capitel and has LR AR R R e )
who went to the Capitel and has had his Life ruined because he
had his life ruined because he Ty
had his life ruined because he M la sl
had his life ruined because he was indicted. Art apply that
was Indicted. Art apply that many
was indicted. Art apply that EIALL IS
was indicted. Art apply that many hundreds of times. That
many hundreds of times. That raises
many hundreds of times. That TR )
many hundreds of times. That raises the guestion
many hundreds of times. That CI RO EI U018
many hundreds of times. That raises the guestion about what
raises the question about what N
raises the question about what people, what Trump supporters
people, what Trump supporters )
people, what Trump supporters make of what they are hearing,
make of what they are hearing, Y
make of what they are hearing, TR 18
make of what they are hearing, TR g
make of what they are hearing, when their hero shows these
when their here shows these people are
when their hero shows these people are turncoats,
when their hero shows these people are turnceats, | stand
people are turncoats, | stand W
people are turncoats, | stand WG
people are turncoats, | stand WA SN
people are turncoats, | stand WL R T
people are turncoats, | stand by my position, the election
by my position, the election Ty
by my position, the election was stolen. ..
by my position, the election TR R 11
by my position, the election was stolen... What is
by my position, the election R R R SR
was stolen... What is the UG
was stolen... What is the general among his supporters,
general among his supporters, )
general among his supporters, QR0 1e8
general among his supporters, QRN E
general among his supporters, the support base, as to where
the support base, as to where Y13
the support base, as to where LT VT3]
the support base, as to where Mr Trump really stands? You
Mr Trump really stands? You QR
Mr Trump really stands? You G
Mr Trump really stands? You know, it’s remarkable. In seven
know, it’s remarkable. In seven EIEN
know, it’s remarkable. In seven VLT N0 oK
know, It’s remarkable. In seven years, Trump’s approval
know, It’s remarkable. In seven LR O T LN Y|
years, Trump’s approval rating hasn’t
years, Trump’s approval rating hasn’t moved an inch. For all
hasn’t moved an inch. For all respondents, it’s generally in
respondents, it’s generally in )
respondents, it’s generally in R ]
respondents, it’s generally in the low 40% range, as it was in
the low 40% range, as it was in Y
the low 40% range, as it was in R
the low 40% range, as it was in a poll today.
QLR TR OCR L DAL LR a poll today. Very high among
a poll today. Very high among Republicans. But we have seen
Republicans. But we have seen )
Republicans. But we have seen some erosion
Republicans. But we have seen NI A e R 2
Republicans. But we have seen some erosion of Republican
some erosion of Republican support
some erosion of Republican ] Ja R s
some erosion of Republican support for Donald
some erosion of Republican support for Denald Trump
support for Donald Trump LI
support for Donald Trump running again. A lot of
running again. A lot of Republicans are now getting
Republicans are now getting aI
Republicans are now getting AR
Republicans are now getting LA
Republicans are now getting tired of his act. They don’t
tired of his act. They don’t e
tired of his act. They don’t want to
tired of his act. They don’t T R Nei]
tired of his act. They don’t e et N sl
tired of his act. They don’t want to run in 2024 on
want to run in 2024 on grievances
want to run in 2024 on AN 0
want to run in 2024 on grievances about 2020. They
grievances about 2020. They e
grievances about 2020. They want to
grievances about 2020. They T R Nei]
grievances about 2020. They T R et ]
grievances about 2020. They N RN e )
grievances about 2020. They want to run on the economy and
want to run on the economy and Y
want to run on the economy and G R GG R
want to run on the economy and Biden’s leadership. We will see
Biden’s leadership. We will see i
Biden’s leadership. We will see TRy
Biden’s leadership. We will see TR s Tliks
Biden’s leadership. We will see if that built into enough of a
if that built into enough of a crescendo against the former
crescendo against the former president to make a difference.
president to make a difference. T4
president to make a difference. Thank you
president to make a difference. =S TR s
president to make a difference. Thank you very much. Thank you
Thank you very much. Thank you e
Thank you very much. Thank you for being with
Thank you very much. Thank you ARG
Stay with us on BBC News - still to come.
Tensions in the West Bank - Palestinian militant groups
are on the rise as Israel R G
After months of talks and missed deadlines,
a deal has been struck to keep Greece within the euro zone.
in the worst crisis to hit MR R Tl
The immediate prospect of Greece going bust
in the worst crisis to hit MR R Tl
Emergency services across central Europe are stepping
up their efforts to contain the worst floods the century.
Nearly 100 people TR LR R
Broadway is traditionally LR R R )
Way by Americans.
IR A W QA EECL T
It is a timely reminder to all Americans of the problems
the energy crisis have brought to them.
Leaders meet in Paris for a summit on pollution,
inflation, and third world debt.
This morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations
for a show of military might on the Champs-Elysees.
Wildlife officials in Australia have been coping
with a penguin problem.
Fairy penguins have been staggering ashore
and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals
shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
Some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
To the UK now, as eight contenders have
made it to the first round of the leadership
race to become Britain’s Tl e N IRR
Here’s more from our political editor, Chris Mason.
The early skirmishes RGN e s
like all the other candidates against Mr Sunak.
He pointedly repeated his critique today of what he sees
as their wild promises RN A
We need a return to traditional NI R e e Rz
And that means honesty and responsibility,
not fairy tales.
Once we’ve gripped inflation, | will get the tax burden down.
IR W[V d ] of when, not if.
So many of your colleagues have sought to demolish your
record as Chancellor.
Do you have the stomach TR IR e X4
I’m standing here today surrounded by friends
=N R [T
Chris, that’s what gives me the optimism,
the confidence, to do this.
Thank you all very much.
Here’s one of the reasons Mr Sunak sounds chipper -
tempting a fellow candidate to give up and back him instead.
While two senior ministers dashed out of the meeting
to here, to endorse Rishi Sunak, another
two Cabinet ministers i LR (I
and straight away endorsed Liz Truss.
I’ve sat with Liz in Cabinet for some long time.
Very aware that she’s probably a stronger
She’s consistently argued for low tax policies.
Liz was always opposed to Rishi’s higher taxes.
That again is proper e e
From barbs in Downing Street from backers of the Foreign
Secretary to cheers down BRI IR )
supporting the former minister Kemi Badenoch.
I tell the truth, 1 fight for change, | stand up
for people and | stand up for the causes and
the country | love.
Some might say this is no time for novices.
I think this is no time for steady as it goes
sinking inte decline.
It’s time for change.
Kemi is bright, brilliant and brave.
It’s only very rarely in politics you come
across talents like that.
Kemi is undoubtedly, | think, a phenemenon.
She’s got the right stuff.
To another lectern, more applause and another
LN AT T L this time for Tom Tugendhat.
IR A r
We’ve retreated into the pettiness of politics
that is more about personality than principle.
When our nation needed our party to function,
When the moment demanded service, we delivered scandal.
Also on the ballot paper tomorrow, the new
Chanceller, Nadhim Zahawi.
Suella Braverman, the Attorney General for England and Wales.
And former cabinet minister Penny Mordaunt,
whose launch event is in the morning.
Israel has been carrying out NE RIS
in the occupied West Bank this week - a near daily occurrence
since a wave of deadly attacks by Palestinians
against Israelis in the spring.
The focus has been on the city of Jenin where Palestinian
militant groups have been rearming, as our Middle
E ATy Tom Bateman reports.
A mother’s grief echoes around the grave of her daughter.
"He burned my heart”, she says.
"I didn’t believe you’d RN R S e
"I didn’t believe you’d NN R S e
Hanan was hit by a bullet as she headed home
from an English class.
One among dozens of Palestinians killed
In the West Bank this year.
TRANSLATION: When the taxi e A A
army deployed, he asked G R [T
The bullet hit her here. It left five holes in her body.
Her schoolwork full of promise for her family.
Now all they have left are the fragments of a life.
And few answers YN s Fi B
TRANSLATION: As long IR QR [ =L R
there are stories like Hanan’s and every day there is a story.
Hanan’s taxi was hit during an Israeli Army raid into Jenin.
There were gun fights Bl el
LR R ) examining the case.
It’s not clear how R LR LRt ¢
As the raids have stepped up, rights groups accuse Israel
of using excessive force.
The army says It doesn’t TG VA ETO
civilians and they respond RS G IR
It follows a series of deadly attacks by Palestinians.
IR EER LY AT a1l
A gunman opened fire at a packed bar,
killing three Israelis.
It was one in a string of attacks in which 18
people were killed.
Israelis were facing the worst spate of violence
on their streets in years.
Meanwhile, in Jenin refugee camp, there militants
have been rearming.
Shows of force on a scale not seen in two decades.
A huge amount of weapons, M-16s, automatic
People are letting loose.
It really feels like, and you can hear that,
things are ramping up T NN R AL s e
IR Nl
We were taken to the home of these so-called Jenin Brigade.
It’s part of the Palestinian armed groups - all listed
by Israel and the West as terrorist organisations.
But in the camp there (O IR (IR
But in the camp their (O IR (IR
TRANSLATION: We got out as armed resistance in the camp.
TRANSLATION: We go out as armed resistance in the camp.
When we find the soldiers, we shoot at them.
The West sees groups in the camp as terrorist
organisations so why are you doing this, why don’t
you leave it to the official Palestinian Authority?
TRANSLATION: The Palestinian Authority sold us out
from the beginning, we don’t ARG R e e
They allowed the Israelis ORI RL FL
they don’t protect us.
LS A Z T R RG]
During a raid in May, the veteran Palestinian
journalist Shireen Abu Akleh e (G
Evidence suggests she was hit by an Israeli bullet,
something the army dispute.
Her case has become a symbol for Palestinians.
These raids are happening R A AU A ey
of the time they are simply just not well documented.
So when a journalist R R AL
VS [ VAT R G LN & the dangers involved.
The same month, an Israeli officer was shot dead in Jenin.
There’s been no let-up RGO CRCI L R E I A IR
in the raids and many fear
a further descent into violence.
"Hanan, | can’t reach you", her mum cries.
Her daughter tried to get to a class and never came home.
Just having hope here meant paying with her life.
Tom Bateman, BBC News, Jenin.
Golf, and Tiger Woods has AR R R e
of his fellow professionals for switching their allegiance
to a new Saudi-backed golf tour called LIV Golf.
LR
RN R R
He is one of if not the biggest Tl
He is one of if not the biggest name in
He is one of if not the biggest IR
He is one of if not the biggest ARG (18
He is one of if not the biggest name in the history of
He is one of if not the biggest ARG S A
name in the history of his ol le
name in the history of his sport, so when Tiger Woods
sport, so when Tiger Woods L
sport, so when Tiger Woods speaks, goal listens. Here he
speaks, goal listens. Here he Ty
speaks, goal listens. Here he was practising ahead of the
was practising ahead of the Xolds]
was practising ahead of the 150th Open Champioenship
was practising ahead of the 150th Open Champienship at St
150th Open Champienship at St Andrews, but his focus
150th Open Championship at St Andrews, but his focus seemed
Andrews, but his focus seemed to
Andrews, but his focus seemed R
Andrews, but his focus seemed to be elsewhere, namely the
to be elsewhere, namely the e ae iR
to be elsewhere, namely the i ik nili
to be elsewhere, namely the controversial LIV golf tour and
controversial LIV golf tour and )
controversial LIV golf tour and the players who have left the
the players who have left the PGA
the players who have left the e WLl
the players who have left the PGA and European Tour behind.
| disagree with It.
RIS EI R G RTG is they’ve turned their back
on what has allowed them to get to this position.
[ CRLLel
The people behind it say that LIV golf
The people behind it say that [NV LT
The people behind it say that LIV golf is an exciting new
LIV golf is an exciting new T
LIV golf is an exciting new chapter in the history of the
chapter in the history of the ol le
chapter in the history of the sport, exciting, dynamic and
sport, exciting, dynamic and lucrative.
sport, exciting, dynamic and ECIO RV A
sport, exciting, dynamic and lucrative. Very, very
D MY T o R Tg lucrative. The Saudi
U (MY T s R Te Y lucrative. The Saudi government
lucrative. The Saudi government pumping
lucrative. The Saudi government TR TGRS
lucrative. The Saudi government IR GGG
lucrative. The Saudi government pumping hundreds of millions of
pumping hundreds of millions of RGeS
pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into
pumping hundreds of millions of IEIC R e R
pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into the game. But its
dollars into the game. But its o gialo]
dollars into the game. But its SG R\
dollars into the game. But its critics say it is
gl EF A NP
gl EF A I LA
gl EF A I AR
sportswashing, a controversial Chnly
sportswashing, a controversial regime trying to improve its
regime trying to improve its image on the back of golf, and
image on the back of golf, and Tiger Woods believes there is a
Tiger Woods believes there is a LY
Tiger Woods believes there Is a LRI G i
Tiger Woods believes there Is a huge problem if players can
huge problem if players can earn big
huge problem if players can ORI R AL
huge problem if players can earn big money not from
huge problem if players can ORI RN S A S TR
earn big money not frem winning but
earn big money not frem winning NI
earn big money not frem winning but just from
earn big money not from winning but just from turning up.
What is no incentive RV g n e X4
LGV G 1) and earn in the dirt?
You
N T e
You are getting paid a lot of NG
You are getting paid a lot of money but
You are getting paid a lot of LA A
You are getting paid a lot of LSRR
You are getting paid a lot of NS A RS
ORI Gl DR EIL R S A A R TR SR
You are getting paid a lot of money but if you events and 54
money but If you events and 54 holes_ It
money but if you events and 54 holes_ It is the idea
money but if you events and 54 I AR R R
money but if you events and 54 holes. It is the idea of Greg
holes. It is the idea of Greg iuEhLn
holes. It is the idea of Greg Norman, a two-time winner
holes. It is the idea of Greg VS iR L R
Norman, a two-time winner of )
Norman, a two-time winner of R N
Norman, a two-time winner of the open, who has
Norman, a two-time winner of R R R CRL
Norman, a two-time winner of the open, who has not been
the open, who has not been il
the open, who has not been invited to
the open, who has not been R RO &
invited to this week’s I )
invited to this week’s championship or
invited to this week’s I R E LS
championship or champions S )
champioenship or champions dinner, a decision Tiger Woods
dinner, a decision Tiger Woods 10
dinner, a decision Tiger Woods said was the right one.
Thanks for watching.
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, NN AR T3]
down from the north, following this band of cloud
QLIRS AR LR T or two spots of rain.
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, NGO R 2oL 0
into the mid-20s, but for many other parts of England
and into Wales, we are going to find some extremely high
temperatures developing over the weekend into the start
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
Sri Lanka’s president - Gotabaya Rajapaksa -
has fled the country with members of his family -
following months of protests R AN R ot lat 1
i
The BBC understands his military jet has
QNI R ITD] after protestors stormed his
residence on Saturday.
In Washington - the committee investigating the storming
of the US Capitol last year has laid out how Donald Trump
incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle told how during a stormy
meeting Mr Trump ignored e e R R e -]
In Britain - the race to replace Boris Johnson
as leader of the governing party and the country’s
Prime Minister has narrowed to eight fellow Conservative MPs.
The field will be narrowed down to two in a series of votes.
The part at large will then R Y hh
Now on BBC News, the Travel Show.
This week on The Travel Show: N R RGN T Y el
outdoors for a close encounter with some grizzly bears.
We’re heading to Australia to wish a very happy birthday
to one of the most iconic bridges in the world.
And In Mexico, we meet the people breathing life
into an ancient ballgame that predates football
by around 3,000 years.
Hello, and welcome to NI RN 51 e
This is one of the oldest national parks in the world.
11 its 150th this year.
Now, this is a vast and mesmerising place.
A little later on in the show | will be coming up close
to one of Yellowstone’s IS =
and fearsome residents, the grizzly bear.
But we’re starting this week somewhere
where you definitely won’t need bear spray to visit.
Now, the famous film director Baz Luhrmann once said
if Paris is the city GRS
then Sydney Is the city of fireworks.
That is certainly the case every New Year’s Eve
when the global party really gets started with pictures
like these beamed around the world
from Sydney Harbour Bridge.
But this year, it’s the bridge VRO E SR Y]
LRI =T N1 6T ]2
And we’ve been to wish it a very happy birthday.
The best place to appreciate the size of the Sydney Harbour
Bridge is to stand right underneath it.
I’m at Milsens Point on the north side of Sydney
The bridge stretches 503 metres across to Dawes Point
R GRS GEIG RN LRy an extraordinary 52,000 tons.
It was made 90 years ago, but it’s still one
RO bridges in the world,
it Is just extraordinary.
ARCHIVE: His Majesty’s message is as follows,
| have learned with great pleasure that the Sydney
Harbour Bridge has now been completed.
| cross the bridge twice a day LR CELL RG] R 1
ERGE RIS AN &
It doesn’t matter whether QN IR i
s banged up or not, because the slower the traffic
the more time you have to appreciate the bridge
as you go over It.
It is just a wonderful structure.
Here we are, we are going under RO A
and you just see the unfolding series of
girders, it is just beautiful.
There is track north DR R (R I
there are | think three, four...
eight lanes of traffic.
Two of those take up N AN RO R e
The Sydney Harbour Bridge gave Sydney, and actually Australia,
a very identifiable icon, N ARG i R e
NI R 1T TR
You could immediately recognise with one graphic image
that this was Sydney, Sydney Harbour, or Australia.
Whereas before it was just flocks of sheep that signified
ARCHIVE: Words are futile things with which to describe
the might and majesty of this wonderful structure,
even pictures can hardly do it justice.
The Sydney Harbour Bridge represents modern Australia,
and has done since it was built in 1932.
The first big celebration of White Australia if you like,
was in 1938, 150 years since Governor Phillip turned
up with the first Fleet.
The bridge was there in posters and souvenirs
Black Australia had been here for many thousands
of years, their world had R OGRS R Lt
It never gets old.
This I1s amazing.
I’m a tour guide at Sydney, at Bridge Climb.
| do all kinds of tours.
I’m not sure how fast R R 014
it’s blowing a gale.
You can see everything, that of the best part
about this bridge, you see a 360 view of Sydney,
my favourite viewing I LR T R
the Opera House sits.
I do a special tour called the Burrawa, which means
upwards above, | get to explore, take people up
on this iconic bridge and take them back 230 years ago,
pre-colonisation.
230 years ago the First Fleet arrived right here
230 years ago the First Fleet arrived right here
1788, we had 11 large ships, big white sails, captained
by Arthur Phillip bringing G IR W R NG
as Australia today.
Just an abundance of convicts.
When the First Fleet arrived, it did bring disease
and unfortunately they did wipe out more than 70%
of the Indigenous people here in
Unfortunately, when | was in N
and I’ve only been out of school for 11 years,
| was never taught any of the Indigenous history.
| feel like that was a lot throughout the older
generations as well.
Luckily, today we do have a coming into
our school curriculum which is perfect,
QLR we really want.
In 2000, the bridge became a symbol of something
quite different because thousands of people walked
across It in a walk IR S R
G R G RIgl o] symbolised the spanning
of the gulf between Black and white Australia,
troubled waters and all the rest of it.
It became a wonderful symbol of reconciliation,
whereas once it had symbolised something
that was quite exclusive.
This is the Aboriginal flag created by Harold Thomas
in July 1971.
The flag represents I S R
Aboriginal culture, the Black is for the people,
the Aboriginal people of this land.
The red is the earth, MR ot R ole]
that is used in ceremony.
And the yellow is the sun, GO RI AL S
The flag represents the sovereignty
of Aboriginal people on Aboriginal land.
| think over many years N R N e e
that the Sydney Harbour Bridge should fly
the flag 365 days of the year and not just one week
during reconciliation N Ea bR e
This land always was and always will be Aboriginal land.
| think importantly it will show that the history
of this country, the history of the
continent dates back to over 65,000 years and not just
the 253 years since QO R R E LR ]S
That report there from what truly has to be
one of my favourite B NRa R a sl
And if you are heading there, here are things we think
you should look out for.
Where better to host one of the world’s largest boat
shows that in a city known for its harbour?
Over the course of five days from 28 July to 1 August,
the Sydney International boat show will provide a line-up
of entertainment and events, with something for everyone
to enjoy.
With over 240 exhibitors, up to 900 boats and
probably thousands of pairs of deck shoes, expect to see
From super yachts to paddle boards.
If you want to stay RO E e
or cannot afford a million dollar boat, maybe the Sydney
Fringe Festival is one for you.
Throughout the whole of September, cultural creators
will come together to present 450 events, hosted by 70 unique
and emerging venues throughout the greater Sydney area.
Expect music, comedy, dance, and genre-defying performances
in one of Australia’s largest independent arts festivals.
LU R AU RN much, then the Blue Mountains
are only two hours’ drive from Sydney.
You’ll find ancient Aboriginal art
nestled within this craggy sandstone ridged wilderness
and an abundance of walking trails
will take you into the heart of the mountain range.
Or, if you are feeling less energetic you
can glide past the iconic rock formations on the 545 metre
Scenic cable way.
Still to come on The Travel Show - we head to Mexico
for a ballgame that was first played around 3000 years ago.
And | get some tips on how to deal with an encounter
LGN [gh 248X ] Y- R R I
Yellowstone Nati G R5l
One of this year’s big sporting events will undoubtedly be
One of this year’s big sporting events will undoubtedly be
the Fifa World Cup, that kicks off
in Qatar in November.
But over in Mexico, playing a much older
ball game that predates soccer by 3000 years and we’ve been
I T vl [ of the star players.
I’m in Montana, a huge state RGN S = R
G R LR G of the gateways to
QNI 1 g [ national park, Yellowstone.
The park attracts millions of visitors
each year and one of its main draws are potential bear
sightings.
Driving along, just saw loads of people parked up,
looking in a certain direction.
| asked them what they’ve seen and right over there
in the distance is a grizzly bear!
From what | understand, it’s quite rare to spot
a grizzly in the wild, SRR R82
special moment.
| mean, this is why you come to Yellowstone,
right?
The bear is Yellowstone’s T« ¥ 1
but it wasn’t too long ago that I R N 2 1 e i)
alike like took a very different approach to
these furry fellas.
FILE: By the late 1800s, bears had figured out that
where there were people, there was food.
For the next 80 years, G F I R s
Yellowstone visit was looking for bears begging along
the roadside R I RGBT
on food scraps at the hotel garbage dumps.
Thanks to research, we’ve come a long way
since then.
While close encounters are rare, with over
700 bears in an area that is becoming increasingly
populated, it’s important R R R
Randy!
Hi.
Good to meet you.
Randy runs courses in bear safety, but he does not work
E1G T
Yep.
Talk to me about how you use this to teach people
about their safety.
Well, if you’re not able Ve e 0la 0218
LG T LR T )Y is the most effective thing
you can use to change N el il e
If you get this hot pepper oll RIS R R e
into their face, they’re going to forget about you and forget
that you might be a threat to them and they’re going
to want to go somewhere else.
Most of the encounters we have with
grizzly bears around here, they’re defensive encounters,
so they’re going to growl, they’re going to drool,
they’ll huff
and make different noises, QIR TG R R R [
So, it’s good to have this strapped on
your belt at all times?
Yes, ‘cause things RN LR Y
The nice thing about this trading device is it goes
LN R LR a8
A real bear does about 35 miles an hour, which is quite fast.
Very fast!
So, this really gives people an idea about how
quick they have to be to get their bear spray out,
the safety off and deploy It.
IV G R Y AN R R L
Oh, yes!
Alright, we’ve assessed what the bear’s doing.
Looks like he’s gonna charge.
We’ve stood our ground.
We’ve got our
spray out.
Yes.
Time to take the safety DR N R Y
spray down in front of him.
Do a couple of seconds bursts until he changes his behaviour.
Alright, here he comes.
VI LB
Even though | know that’s RS E L -
It gets your bleod flowing.
One thing’s for sure TG ARG
my spray where I’m going next.
Down the road, a group of dedicated individuals
are working on methods eI e )
the amount of bear encounters R U R O )
of the bears themselves.
Keeping bears away HEIR LD FL W
helps keep the bears away from people, so when camping,
XX R g =l to stash your food
safely.
Now, here on the outskirts of Yellowstone, they’re
actually testing the sturdiness of food containers by putting
them up against actual bears.
And, uh, needless to say, these ones didn’t quite
pass the test.
We’ve put some dog biscuits in there so that it rattles
El sl
There’s peanut butter in there and there’s actually
It’s got to withstand 60 minutes of direct
But if it does, It can be certified as bear-resistant
by the Interagency Grizzly Bear Committee.
S0 you can see...
I IR - Re kL Al
..Obviously, it’s gotten some Rt R N
They’re pretty deep.
Yep.
So, tell me, where did these hears come from?
Grant is actually from NI R en Y Fn e R ET e
Coram is from Glacier National Park.
So, they were wild bears that got into trouble with people.
That doesn’t just happen out of the blue.
It really happens N T
food rewards, and his last act as a wild bear was to climb
[l (oo Y0 (Yo 1o To ) ARV Yo 1ol (30
Oh, my God.
R R e s
driveway in the middle of the day while they were trying
to unload their groceries.
Sadly, not all RN R
bears can be rehomed here and around 40 are put
down each year.
So, in the case of the eight grizzly bears that live
here at the Grizzly & Wolf Discovery Center,
we’ve provided an alternative but maybe, you know,
SRR gl we give visitors to the area
a chance to learn from their stories.
ARG R G TR R
UL DELICRG T e with people over food,
the population R e B R e 1
than it has been in the past and a lot of that is because of
what we’ve learned about how important it is in bear country
to be careful with our food RN I G
like bear-resistant I cR e
securing that food.
So, I’ve seen a live bear, I’ve seen a remote-controlled bear.
Believe it or not, next up, I’m
going to see a defrosting bear.
111918
This is the Draper Specimen Preparation
It is an extension of the Natural History Museum itself.
Today, we’re going to be working on a grizzly bear.
What are we doing here?
"The most fun part PRI R )
We are going to remove the organs.
I’ve done really well IR R I
but | think | might have to walk away in a moment.
As well as bears, RN R R
volunteers preserve birds, wildcats and thousands more
species.
An average specimen that comes into the museum,
we collect data with it.
So, we collect a GPS co-ordinate, and that gives us
It gives us things like habitat
information, things NS UML)
as things shift and change,
these become snapshots in time.
Yellowstone, the greater Yellowstone ecosystem,
has the complete complement of wildlife
that was here pre-European colonisation - and we can’t say
that about a lot of places in the world.
As the grizzly bear in particular begins to recover
into Its historic range, it’s going to come into conflict
and come into contact L R
Back outside, | catch up with Randy to get
IR
So, I’ve got a few days left here, so what are your top tips
to help me stay safe?
So, number one Is use aveidance technigues -
you know, make noise, travel in groups, carry bear
spray, just be really
Number two, if you do see a bear, you don’t ever
You stand your ground and maybe R TSR
DAL NIT-R
I’ll be ready.
And you’ve got to see O E G LN TR L LR Y (8
If the bear doesn’t see you, you can leave.
Don’t bring a bunch of attention to yourself,
just take off while the bear is not looking.
If the bear does see you, don’t start waving your hands -
"Hey, bear,” - don’t do any AU EIR e -4
could actually
perceive that as a threat.
So, try to see
what the bear is going to do.
If they get
defensive and make a lot of noise, like kind of how
with the charging trainer, QISR IR LU R IE)
(I IR el FTR
But just awareness is key.
Being armed with the knowledge A R R e
yourself if a potential encounter happens.
LGl
I’m ready.
Very good tips, Randy.
111918
You got It.
Next week, we’re in Senegal as the world’s biggest hospital
ship prepares to embark on its first-ever mission. ..
| feel like I’m in R R T
strange because when you’re walking on the floor,
of course, we’re not B s s )
you get the odd movement every so often.
..and Emmaline’s on board to meet the travelling
o
helping to make it happen.
We have, like, 20-40 nationalities
on the ship, so the ship MR
is a journey through I i e s et Lt
We’re always posting on Instagram and
Facebook, too, so make sure you check us out there.
All you’ve got to do TR e e IS i)
Until next time, I’m off to - very carefully - make friends
with some more grizzlies.
See you next time.
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at Saint Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, fresher air is moving down
from the north following this band of cloud that’s
still bringing one R E R R
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slightly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across my JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still enly around 19-20 Celsius through the central
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north it of England, temperatures
typically into the mid-20s, but for many other parts
of England and into Wales, we are going to find some
extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
Welcome to BBC News, R
Our top stories.
Sri Lanka’s president flees the country
along with other R El A
he’d promised to resign today.
DI L R Bl R g TR N et s e
that’s crippled the country, leaving it desperately
short of funds to buy e R a .
L R Ty lia 1 investigating the storming
of the US Capitol lays out how L RN [ Rl )
extremists, in a last-ditch bid CRCCEIRE i Raiel
And as Europe bakes in the sun, are we taking
the heatwave seriously?
An issue we’ll explore in our Climate Critical series.
Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has left
the country amid mass protests R i (R g
and he’s landed in the Maldives.
Mr Rajapaksa left aboard a military jet, ending a family
dynasty that has ruled the country for decades.
He had been in hiding, after crowds stormed his
residence on Saturday.
They are still there.
Sources have told the BBC his brother, former Finance
Minister Basil Rajapaksa, has also left the country.
L R A [ =) promised to resign,
but by remaining in position, RGBT
from prosecution.
Many Sri Lankans blame him for the economic crisis which has
crippled their country, leaving it short of funds
Our correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan
was with protestors outside the presidential palace
in Colombo when the news of President Rajapaksa’'s
departure was made public.
There is a real party atmosphere here at Colombo
seafront, which has been a protest site for many
weeks, one of the main demands protesters had was
for Gotabaya Rajapaksa to go.
Their slogan, their chant was "Go home, Gota".
We now know that President Gotabaya Rajapaksa
has left the country.
He fled on a military jet with members of his family.
LG I in hiding for the last few
days, ever since his home, his official residence,
was overrun by protesters.
It wasn’t just his official residence, in fact over
there his presidential secretariat, his offices,
G ELRVE L RO 0y by protesters.
You can see the aftermath now.
Days on, the protesters here are sleeping on the grounds
and on the steps.
We also know that the president’s brother
the former finance minister Basil Rajapaksa has
also left the country.
He’s believed to be heading to America.
Now, where does this VAU G Gl
He still hasn’t as of now stepped down from his post.
He’s due to hand in his resignation, that being
expected on Wednesday.
If he does, then that (W R 18 2
for a president to run this country, and there will be
a process In parliament to decide who his replacement is.
All of this is part of a wider concern, we are still
in the middle of an economic AN R SR R E R e
people are struggling for food IR e LR
This queue, you can see it going all the way down here,
S TG TN T for free bread and curry
because they are struggling to get a hold of the basics.
But news of President Rajapaksa’s departure
from the country, that is still filtering in here.
| spoke to one person who said he was relieved and pleased.
But another woman said she felt MBI R N e sl e - sl
by the man she blamed for this crisis, who has gone
without offering a solution.
Earlier, | spoke with Akhil Bery, Director
of South Asia Initiatives at the Asia Society.
| began by asking him how Sri Lankans have reacted
to Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s departure from the country.
Tremendous anger about the mismanagement of the economy
and to the family for taking VI DRI RG]
People are frustrated T RN o st et R a IR e ¢
improving, and they sought T R e
We have heard time and again NI A S
saying, look, we just want a handful of honest politicians
to take this on and start making a difference.
How realistic Is that, even as an idea, given
the dynasty of the Rajapaksas, the nature of the political
It’s going to be difficult for anyone, any politician
to navigate Sri Lanka out RO IER et et R s
Because a lot needs to be done RENG IR AR CR N )
on a pathway to fiscal solvency.
So even if the person rumoured to be the next president
when Parliament reconvenes to elect someone, don’t forget,
in 2019, that person lost by 10%, so he’s not very
popular with the general populace.
It’s not going to be easy for any politician to garner
the support of the people needed to implement the reforms
necessary to get Sri Lanka back to fiscal solvency.
And presumably they will have to do the bidding of the IMF
Iif they want funding.
Are they the right people to do that?
All politicians and political parties are in agreement
that the IMF is needed, and that will unlock further
multilateral financing which Sri Lanka desperately needs.
Sri Lanka it’s estimated needs SRR e e E1
finance this year to bridge the current account deficit,
CL R G IR eyl unless they agree terms
Does Sri Lanka have the sort of technocrats who might be best
placed to fill the role of complying with
the likes of the |IMF?
Do those people exist?
Yes, Sri Lanka has been in the IMF programme before.
The previous prime minister and president, under him,
they recognise they needed to implement the reforms
to gain access to more foreign exchange to be able to pay
off their debts,
and also afford the imports Sri Lanka needs.
In Washington, the committee investigating
the storming of the US Capitol last year has heard how
Donald Trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle explained how Mr Trump
ignored their advice to concede the election, and instead
summeoned a mob to Washington.
Our correspondent Nomia Igbal has been
following the hearing.
There were two parts to today’s hearing.
The first part revolved around something that was referred
to as an unhinged meeting which happened in mid-December,
in which Denald Trump’’s advisers were telling him
to concede the election, but he was listening to a group
of unofficial advisers LR R CT R
to continue with his baseless claims the election was stolen.
The next day, which is where R ARG R e b}
part, he put out a tweet in which he said to his
supporters to come and protest on January 6th -
R G PR LT IR TR = R g ]
And then the committee focused on people that did turn up.
One of them was a man R UGN
who has now pleaded guilty to obstruction charges that day.
He talked about how he deeply regretted
listening to Donald Trump.
We also heard from a former member of the Oath Keepers,
an extremist group which the committee says turned up
that day, along with another group called the Proud Boys,
who fomented the chaos that happened.
Donald Trump has ARG R 1 1T
he’s criticised the hearings, he described them as a witch
hunt and called the panel, which is made up of seven
Democrats and two Republicans, a bunch of thugs and hacks.
Well, earlier, | spoke to the US presidential
historian Allan Lichtman and asked him what the general
view was among Trump-supporting Republicans over where
the former president now stood.
You know, it’s remarkable.
In seven years, Trump’s approval rating
For all respondents, it’s generally in the low 40% range,
as It was in a poll today, and very high among
Republicans.
But we have seen some erosion of Republican support
for Donald Trump running again.
A lot of Republicans are now getting tired of his act.
They don’t want to run in 2024 AR T L R
They want to run on the economy and Biden’s leadership.
RIS L] @ (¢ I ez e
show host Jake Smith, who joins us from Delaware.
I LG (I 10 g
Thanks for your time. We will 4
Thanks for your time. We will get to
Thanks for your time. We will ARG
Thanks for your time. We will get to the validity of the
get to the validity of the XTI
get to the validity of the hearing in a
get to the validity of the hearing in @ moment,
get to the validity of the hearing in a moment, |
get to the validity of the hearing in @ moment, | just
hearing in @ moment, | just g
hearing in a moment, | just s L
hearing in a moment, | just wonder what you
hearing in a moment, | just LRI E R ORUE L
hearing in a moment, | just wonder what you made of
hearing in a moment, I just wonder what you made of the
wonder what you made of the testimony
wonder what you made of the AN A
wonder what you made of the RN A L
wonder what you made of the N A G R VA
wonder what you made of the testimony we heard today? Well,
testimony we heard today? Well, 3
testimony we heard today? Well, HRTE
testimony we heard today? Well, R LR Y
testimony we heard today? Well, R LR e N
testimony we heard today? Well, R LR A
testimony we heard today? Well, it was more of the same. Most
it was more of the same. Most of my listeners, myself
of my listeners, myself UGG R
of my listeners, myself included, Trump supporters,
included, Trump supporters, TG
included, Trump supporters, people who generally vote here
people who generally vote here in
people who generally vote here TRy
people who generally vote here in the US
people who generally vote here RO
people who generally vote here in the US as conservatives
people who generally vote here NEG NI R e L
in the US as conservatives see this entire charade as
this entire charade as I [Na 14
this entire charade as MG R ]
this entire charade as LRI
this entire charade as L R
this entire charade as President Trump says, as a
President Trump says, as a witchhunt. It has no validity
witchhunt. It has no validity 3
witchhunt. It has no validity inUS law. The
witchhunt. It has no validity in US law. The fact of the
in US law. The fact of the matter is, what Nancy Pelosi
matter is, what Nancy Pelosi Ty
matter is, what Nancy Pelosi who runs
matter is, what Nancy Pelosi Y e T R i)
matter is, what Nancy Pelosi who runs the ruling
matter is, what Nancy Pelosi LR GG R ]
matter is, what Nancy Pelosi LR GO G R T CR
who runs the ruling junta in Washington, what she has done
Washington, what she has done 3
Washington, what she has done 04
Washington, what she has done is put together a committee of
LN L LG LRy Ty TR TG
LN L LG LRy Ty TR people who
s put together a committee of people who tried to get
people who tried to get e
people who tried to get President Trump
people who tried to get N IOl R[]
people who tried to get President Trump twice through
President Trump twice through QIS
President Trump twice through phoney impeachment, and now
phoney impeachment, and now they
phoney impeachment, and now GG
pheney impeachment, and now they are trying
pheney impeachment, and now QIR LR G
pheney impeachment, and now they are trying the January the
they are trying the January the 6th
they are trying the January the AGREA A
they are trying the January the SOREA A
they are trying the January the ORI i E
they are trying the January the ORI E LR ]
they are trying the January the 6th fast. It has two purposes.
6th fast. It has two purposes. A3
6th fast. It has two purposes. First, Donald Trump’s
First, Donald Trump’s N O
First, Donald Trump’s endorsements, | saw the
endorsements, | saw the NI R
endorsements, | saw the Professor, and everything he
Professor, and everything he 10
Professor, and everything he IR )
Professor, and everything he FIR R
Professor, and everything he said to you was total rubbish.
said to you was total rubbish. *Y
said to you was total rubbish. He even
said to you was total rubbish. P N B 3]
said to you was total rubbish. N T NN AR R e 4
said to you was total rubbish. He even insisted that the
He even insisted that the TG
He even insisted that the people who went to the Capitol
people who went to the Capitol ]
people who went to the Capitol on January the 6th were
on January the 6th were responsible for several police
I CR (TR AT TR e ey
I CR (TR AT TR e IR |
I CR (TR AT TR e IR IR LR
I CR (TR AT TR e officers being killed. There
officers being killed. There ey
officers being killed. There were no police officers killed,
were no police officers killed, 4
were no police officers killed, A
were no police officers killed, but they killed a protester, an
but they killed a protester, an Air
but they killed a protester, an I T ey
but they killed a protester, an Air Force veteran who was
but they killed a protester, an N T R IR AR E a1
Air Force veteran who was shot 3
Air Force veteran who was shot inthe
Air Force veteran who was shot in the head.
Air Force veteran who was shot RO AR A
Air Force veteran who was shot in the head. Sorry, Jake, |
in the head. Sorry, Jake, | think
in the head. Sorry, Jake, | RS
in the head. Sorry, Jake, | i e
in the head. Sorry, Jake, | think there is a point
OIS GTEICHOR- Rl TN e
OIS GTEICHOR- Rl T S TR
think there is a point T SRR
think there is a point N S RO RGO R L
think there is a point nonetheless that there was a
nonetheless that there was a ]
nonetheless that there was a AR
nonetheless that there was a storming of the Capitol, and
storming of the Capitol, and )
storming of the Capitol, and I
storming of the Capitol, and NI R
storming of the Capitol, and there are those prepared to
there are those prepared to JIE1S
there are those prepared to L0
there are those prepared to speak up now to say Donald
speak up now to say Donald Trump incited that, and isn’t
Trump incited that, and isn’t that
Trump incited that, and isn’t R R
Trump incited that, and isn’t O E1 S G ER
Trump incited that, and isn’t that the gist of what they
Trump incited that, and isn’t that the gist of what they are
that the gist of what they are aYihl]
that the gist of what they are R
that the gist of what they are trying to get to? Well, yeah,
trying to get to? Well, yeah, T
trying to get to? Well, yeah, obviously that’s what Liz
obviously that’s what Liz G
obviously that’s what Liz Cheney, a phoney Republican, is
Cheney, a phoney Republican, Is aYihl]
Cheney, a phoney Republican, Is R
Cheney, a phoney Republican, Is trying to say.
Cheney, a phoney Republican, Is R CET VA
Cheney, a phoney Republican, is R R A RTET
Cheney, a phoney Republican, is R CET AR
trying to say. | was in Washington on January the sick,
Washington on January the sick, | was
Washington on January the sick, IR LR e
Washington on January the sick, | was there with
Washington on January the sick, BRI Ra e Y
Washington on January the sick, IR LR e R s R e i N
Washington on January the sick, IR LR R R R ]
| was there with close to a (a1
| was there with close to a million people they say, |
million people they say, | 1R
million people they say, | don’t know, |
million people they say, | SRR G PR UGk
million people they say, | don’t know, | couldn’t say, but
don’t know, | couldn’t say, but everyone there
don’t know, | couldn’t say, but S R R E
don’t know, | couldn’t say, but everyone there was peaceful.
everyone there was peaceful. {04
everyone there was peaceful. But not
everyone there was peaceful. T T AT R
everyone there was peaceful. But not everyone. Everyone
But not everyone. Everyone o
But not everyone. Everyone T Gl
But not everyone. Everyone would accept that a large
would accept that a large demonstration, even a million
demonstration, even a million ]
demonstration, even a million people, if carried out
people, if carried out peacefully,
people, if carried out LU AR 18
people, If carried out peacefully, that’s their
peacefully, that’s their protest, it’s a democracy, that
protest, it’s a democracy, that il
protest, it’s a democracy, that should be
protest, it’s a democracy, that GRS N
protest, it’s a democracy, that should be allowed, but there
should be allowed, but there ey
should be allowed, but there were hundreds
should be allowed, but there N s e R
should be allowed, but there were hundreds of people who
were hundreds of people who RIS R
were hundreds of people who stormed the Capitol building
stormed the Capitol building and
stormed the Capitol building LGN\
stormed the Capitol building and surely that is a
stormed the Capitol building GG AL A Rl
stormed the Capitol building GG VAU R s
and surely that is a moment or e
and surely that is a moment or shame for
and surely that is a moment or RN
and surely that is a moment or shame for any democracy? Well,
IR LA LIy e T LS here’s
shame for any democracy? Well, TR
shame for any democracy? Well, here’s the thing.
shame for any democracy? Well, here’s the thing. |
shame for any democracy? Well, here’s the thing. | heard
here’s the thing. | heard e
here’s the thing. | heard President Trump say, go to the
President Trump say, go to the Capitol peacefully. What they
Capitol peacefully. What they Py
Capitol peacefully. What they are trying to
Capitol peacefully. What they EICR R RN
Capitol peacefully. What they EICR IR R A
Capitol peacefully. What they EICR IR R VA A G
Capitol peacefully. What they are trying to say by this tweet
are trying to say by this tweet that
are trying to say by this tweet e e s [
are trying to say by this tweet that President Trump was
that President Trump was inciting violence, it wouldn’t
inciting violence, it wouldn’t Gl
inciting violence, it wouldn’t hold up
inciting violence, it wouldn’t N GET
inciting violence, it wouldn’t hold up in a
inciting violence, it wouldn’t held up in a court of
inciting violence, it wouldn’t hold up in a court of law
hold up in a court of law T )
hold up in a court of law because President
held up in a court of law because President Trump cannot
because President Trump cannot )
because President Trump cannot AN R )
because President Trump cannot TN
because President Trump cannot even have his own legal
even have his own legal representatives present to
representatives present to A S )
representatives present to R EIN N R
representatives present to R EINN I AL
representatives present to cross-examine any of these
cross-examine any of these witnesses_
cross-examine any of these L
cross-examine any of these I L R LG
cross-examine any of these TR LI R TR e
cross-examine any of these witnesses. That would not pass
witnesses. That would not pass e
witnesses. That would not pass muster in any US court, it
muster in any US court, it wouldn’t pass English courts,
wouldn’t pass English courts, English law, nor Scottish law.
English law, nor Scottish law. So
English law, nor Scottish law. RN
English law, nor Scottish law. So why is President Trump
So why is President Trump allowed
So why is President Trump TSR]
So why is President Trump I LR N
So why is President Trump allowed to be destroyed like
allowed to be destroyed like this when he has no legal
this when he has no legal (IR
this when he has no legal N R
this when he has no legal N TR
representation present to A S )
representation present to cross-examine witnesses who
representation present to A S e R TR e
cross-examine witnesses who are I
cross-examine witnesses who are claiming all types of things?
claiming all types of things? 3
claiming all types of things? o
claiming all types of things? XS4
claiming all types of things? SR
claiming all types of things? R S IR
claiming all types of things? Is it your view also that the
Is it your view also that the e IR
s it your view also that the election, still, was stolen?
election, still, was stolen? Because many electoral
Because many electoral ila ]
Because many electoral officials have
Because many electoral S ila R LR e e -]
Because many electoral officials have been pretty
officials have been pretty Y ET ke 4
officials have been pretty adamant that
officials have been pretty Y E il R E s
officials have been pretty adamant that that had simply
adamant that that had simply e
adamant that that had simply not been
adamant that that had simply R R
adamant that that had simply TR
adamant that that had simply AR R AR
adamant that that had simply not been the case. Er, |
not been the case. Er, | believe
not been the case. Er, | ARG
not been the case. Er, | believe the election
not been the case. Er, | A R i R L
believe the election was stolen, | would say 99% of my
stolen, | would say 99% of my listeners think
stolen, | would say 99% of my RN E GG
stolen, | would say 99% of my listeners think the election
listeners think the election Ty
listeners think the election R I Lo
listeners think the election was stolen. Many of them
was stolen. Many of them question
was stolen. Many of them ISR
was stolen. Many of them question the election
question the election w1
question the election a A T}
question the election credibility going into our
credibility going into our mid-term elections on November
mid-term elections on November )
mid-term elections on November RGN
mid-term elections on November the 8th. And
mid-term elections on November R I R
mid-term elections on November the 8th. And that’s not a good
the 8th. And that’s not a good thing
the 8th. And that’s not a good iR
the 8th. And that’s not a good thing for a
the 8th. And that’s not a good thing for a democracy, to have
thing for a democracy, to have PN
thing for a democracy, to have an election system that is
an election system that is suspect, and
an election system that is I A R 1)
an election system that is suspect, and the people who had
suspect, and the people who had to
suspect, and the people who had [
suspect, and the people who had to go and vote, from the
to go and vote, from the electorate. It remains deeply
electorate. It remains deeply I Y
electorate. It remains deeply I 1
electorate. It remains deeply ]
electorate. It remains deeply L LN AR
electorate. It remains deeply S LN LA L e
electorate. It remains deeply divisive as an issue. Thank you
divisive as an issue. Thank you e
divisive as an issue. Thank you ISLTT
divisive as an issue. Thank you LIRS
divisive as an issue. Thank you for joining us. Have a good
for joining us. Have a good morning.
Let’s take a look at some other stories
Two people have died E N R )
The victims are believed to be a seven-year-old boy
and a woman in her fifties.
Around a dozen people N N R s R e ]
near Manhattan, a number of them are being
treated in hospital.
President Biden has boarded T R R e
of his first tour of the middle I TR e A
He travels to Israel and the occupied West Bank
before heading to Saudi Arabia on Friday.
While previous presidential R eI SR R
Israel-Palestinian conflict, this one is likely to draw
attention to a recent shift in regional alliances.
Twitter’s filed a lawsuit against billionaire Elon Musk
to try and force him to go ahead with a deal to buy
the social media platform.
The documents filed to a court RGOS T E N Y
the billionaire’s exit strategy "a model of hypocrisy" and has
asked for a four-day hearing in September.
Mr Musk pulled out of the deal citing concerns
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come.
As Europe bakes in the sun, CICR R EL R 1
heatwave seriously?
An issue we’ll explore in our Climate Critical series.
After months of talks and missed deadlines,
a deal has been struck to keep Greece within the euro zone.
The immediate prospect of Greece going bust
in the worst crisis to hit MR R Tl
Emergency services across central Europe are stepping
up their efforts to contain the worst floods the century.
Nearly 100 people TR LR R
Broadway is traditionally LR R R )
Way by Americans.
IR A W QA EECL T
It is a timely reminder to all Americans of the problems
the energy crisis have brought to them.
Leaders meet in Paris for a summit on pollution,
inflation, and third world debt.
This morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations
for a show of military might on the Champs-Elysees.
Wildlife officials in Australia have been coping
with a penguin problem.
Fairy penguins have been staggering ashore
and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge
shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
Some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
This is BBC News, AR R
Sri Lanka’s president has N LRGN BB RT
after fleeing the country following weeks of protests.
L R Ty lia 1 investigating the storming
of the US Capitol lays out how L RN [ Rl )
extremists, in a last-ditch N R R U ET LK S
Every week at this time, R LRSI {Ya i)
the state of our planet, and in Climate Critical this
week, you may have noticed that Europe is in the middle
of an extended heatwave, R ORI R R L)
40 degrees Celsius even Y ARG GG
ol AR e R X
It used to be that sunny AR G R
for celebration, and people made the most of it,
cooling off in the sea, or in fountains, or relaxing
with ice creams.
These images still appear in the media, but now
there are warnings that extreme heat comes with great costs.
Not only are there potentially N e G R
the heat brings with it the danger of wildfires -
the combination of dry vegetation, strong sunshine
The number of severe wildfires R R R
by a third within the next two decades, with human-caused
climate change triggering other At N RO
like droughts and floods.
Max Boykoff is Professor A ailge e a i e ST
at the University of Colorado.
He’s been looking into how media images of warming
global temperatures influence people’s attitudes.
That influence people’s attitudes. is perhaps one of the
That influence people’s attitudes. is perhaps one of the
questions
That is perhaps one of the key IR
That is perhaps one of the key ISR R
That is perhaps one of the key IR R R
That is perhaps one of the key ISR R R T )
That is perhaps one of the key questions of our time, are we
questions of our time, are we to
questions of our time, are we R
questions of our time, are we iR
questions of our time, are we e R N )
questions of our time, are we to endure the climate change
to endure the climate change Rty
to endure the climate change moments or enjoy them? People
moments or enjoy them? People Tl
moments or enjoy them? People YR
moments or enjoy them? People seem to find
moments or enjoy them? People A R Rl R
moments or enjoy them? People seem to find that a very
ST RO TR G E LR it dla oL
ST RO TR G E LR difficult conundrum to
seem to find that a very i dTa Sl e a T Ia sl R e T o
difficult conundrum to resolve. ‘(XN
difficult conundrum to resolve. Yeah, thank
difficult conundrum to resolve. LR LS
difficult conundrum to resolve. LRGSR
difficult conundrum to resolve. Yeah, thank you se much for
Yeah, thank you so much for having me, David. There are
having me, David. There are those who continue to
having me, David. There are R iR s TR Rias
having me, David. There are those who continue to frolic in
those who continue to frolic in )
those who continue to frolic in the sun,
those who continue to frolic in QR
those who continue to frolic in QEEITR )
those who continue to frolic in GRS R R
those who continue to frolic in QR A R CR RN
those who continue to frolic in the sun, go to the sea, find a
the sun, go to the sea, find a Tl =11
the sun, go to the sea, find a T e e R
the sun, go to the sea, find a fountain to cool off, but when
fountain to cool off, but when we focus on those media images
we focus on those media images solely through mainstream
solely through mainstream media, television and newspaper
media, television and newspaper photographs, we actually
photographs, we actually a1 e
photographs, we actually I T
photographs, we actually overlook some of
photographs, we actually T G R
photographs, we actually overlook some of the very
overlook some of the very damaging and dangerous features
damaging and dangerous features of
damaging and dangerous features S
damaging and dangerous features SRR
damaging and dangerous features AR R L ]
damaging and dangerous features I R L I LR )
damaging and dangerous features of heat waves. Such as the high
of heat waves. Such as the high aihiae ity
of heat waves. Such as the high night-time temperatures, and
night-time temperatures, and those that
night-time temperatures, and RG]
night-time temperatures, and those that are vulnerable, the
those that are vulnerable, the elderly and children, in
those that are vulnerable, the G L L R G [ R I
elderly and children, in homes that
elderly and children, in homes L s R
elderly and children, in homes G s R e el
elderly and children, in homes that don’t cool down at
elderly and children, in homes that don’t cool down at night.
that don’t cool down at night. Yy
that don’t cool down at night. When we
that don’t cool down at night. wWhen we also
that don’t cool down at night. When we also look at those
When we also look at those hikinis and children
When we also look at those bikinis and children having
bikinis and children having TR )
bikinis and children having fun, we are not taking a look
fun, we are not taking a look e
fun, we are not taking a look P Ry
fun, we are not taking a look R4
fun, we are not taking a look R R RS
fun, we are not taking a look S R R R e
at those at the forefront of i)
at those at the forefront of climate impact, those suffering
climate impact, those suffering in
climate impact, those suffering MR )
climate impact, those suffering in these conditions. There is
climate impact, those suffering NG R e R
in these conditions. There is a N
in these conditions. There is a sense, |
in these conditions. There Is a sense, | mean we are getting
in these conditions. There is a sense, | mean we are getting it
sense, | mean we are getting it this week in the UK, but if you
this week in the UK, but if you Y
this week in the UK, but if you V&
this week in the UK, but if you I AIEh
this week in the UK, but if you look at France, where
this week in the UK, but if you A RGO
look at France, where they R
look at France, where they I T )
look at France, where they IR e R
look at France, where they almost have like a psychosis
almost have like a psychosis FYe L
almost have like a psychosis a4
almost have like a psychosis L N A R EN R
almost have like a psychosis about heat waves, given what
about heat waves, given what they
about heat waves, given what QAN
about heat waves, given what they have experienced in the
they have experienced in the 90s in particular... A lot of
90s In particular... A lot of people
90s in particular... A lot of WA CEGLTR
90s in particular... A lot of people dying. There is
people dying. There Is G G|
people dying. There Is something changing,
people dying. There is something changing, there is a
something changing, there is a 301s%
something changing, there is a S ‘Y
something changing, there is a SOl
something changing, there is a SR L R G
something changing, there is a SO L R QIR
story now about, this is extreme,
story now about, this is - IR G
story now about, this is extreme, this is dangerous...
extreme, this is dangerous... il
extreme, this is dangerous... You would welcome back? Yes,
You would welcome back? Yes, absolutely, 2003 was traumatic
absolutely, 2003 was traumatic 3
absolutely, 2003 was traumatic e aialarTa o0
absolutely, 2003 was traumatic R
absolutely, 2003 was traumatic I E 0 ]
absolutely, 2003 was traumatic I O R LR G
in continental Europe. In the i
in continental Europe. In the last handful of years, through
last handful of years, through research
last handful of years, through T e D]
last handful of years, through Y e B Ry
last handful of years, through research | have done more
research | have done more broadly,
research | have done more TG RTINS
research | have done more JOEL VAR U]
research | have done more OEL VAR T oM V]
research | have done more broadly, Sasser and O’Neill at
broadly, Sasser and O’Neill at Exeter University in the UK, a
Exeter University in the UK, a e
Exeter University in the UK, a s
Exeter University in the UK, a IR =l
Exeter University in the UK, a R R T e[ R 1L
Exeter University in the UK, a IR R ]
ORI blda LTI gy G
ORI blda LTI gy climate imagery, there
lot of important work on climate imagery, there has been
climate imagery, there has been Y
climate imagery, there has been PR
climate imagery, there has been V5N
climate imagery, there has been a shift away from the solely
a shift away from the solely positive imagery associated
positive imagery associated with
positive imagery associated T R E
positive imagery associated with heatwaves and extreme
with heatwaves and extreme A oH
with heatwaves and extreme events. In that sense, how much
events. In that sense, how much s
events. In that sense, how much is that tilting the general
s that tilting the general public
LR GEIRUUL R G LR ] public perception that
s that tilting the general public perception that climate
public perception that climate change is real? This is another
change is real? This is another conundrum, isn’t it? We have
conundrum, isn’t it? We have i)
conundrum, isn’t it? We have U
conundrum, isn’t it? We have extreme heat, temperatures,
extreme heat, temperatures, N
extreme heat, temperatures, Y G I o)
extreme heat, temperatures, N G R =1
extreme heat, temperatures, weather, and that link directly
weather, and that link directly to
weather, and that link directly RGeSy
weather, and that link directly to climate change is always one
to climate change is always one Y
to climate change is always one 10
to climate change is always one IR
to climate change is always one we are very sensitive to. Yeah,
we are very sensitive to. Yeah, R )
we are very sensitive to. Yeah, climate change is real, it’s
climate change is real, it’s R
climate change is real, it’s Y
climate change is real, it’s IR T
climate change is real, it’s here, it’s serious. What a lot
here, it’s serious. What a lot of work is
here, it’s serious. What a lot R SN
here, it’s serious. What a lot R SRR GEG T
here, it’s serious. What a lot of work is being done to
of work is being done to X
of work is being done to IR R )
of work is being done to alleviate those dangerous
alleviate those dangerous s h
alleviate those dangerous conditions. And
alleviate those dangerous e A - s B s
alleviate those dangerous conditions. And when you point
conditions. And when you point to those conditions, there is
to those conditions, there is N0
to those conditions, there Is A CE I EETE )
to those conditions, there Is A CE R R |
to those conditions, there is increasing research being done
increasing research being done in attribution
increasing research being done Rl R e
increasing research being done Rt AR e TR Y
increasing research being done in attribution science. We can
in attribution science. We can e e i)
in attribution science. We can AR e eV
in attribution science. We can detect a heatwave, we
in attribution science. We can AR e E N T R U
in attribution science. We can detect a heatwave, we know it’s
detect a heatwave, we know it’s L
detect a heatwave, we know it’s LN
detect a heatwave, we know it’s LR
detect a heatwave, we know it’s RO AR R 1]
detect a heatwave, we know it’s going down, we can feel it. But
going down, we can feel it. But to
going down, we can feel it. But ni e
going down, we can feel it. But nli &
LGN RN LR T a1 to link it to human
to link it to human contributions to
to link it to human e s 88 loITtal e R e e
to link it to human contributions to climate change
contributions to climate change T
contributions to climate change IR O]
contributions to climate change has improved considerably in
has improved considerably in )
has improved considerably in the last
has improved considerably in N E 1018
has improved considerably in N EL st 1 B
has improved considerably in the last handful of years, that
the last handful of years, that I
the last handful of years, that T I
the last handful of years, that allows us to
the last handful of years, that I RN R R B )
the last handful of years, that allows us to make the
allows us to make the connection between these
connection between these extreme events and
connection between these At NI RS N R
extreme events and the probabilities of it being
probabilities of it being LYo 0t sl
probabilities of it being Y gl N e
probabilities of it being Y aaglo N R s latkla]
probabilities of it being P g N R E R Ta e
attributed to human activities. Can
attributed to human activities. &1
attributed to human activities. BRI
attributed to human activities. IR ]
attributed to human activities. Can | throw one thing back, not
Can | throw one thing back, not particularly at you, Max, but
particularly at you, Max, but )
particularly at you, Max, but Rl e ah il
particularly at you, Max, but GRS R T [T 18
particularly at you, Max, but the scientific community and
QRSN [T DRI R:L T )
QRSN [T DRI R:L T R 8
the scientific community and QR LA )
the scientific community and the ability to communicate some
the ability to communicate some N
the ability to communicate some R
the ability to communicate some of these messages? There is a
of these messages? There Is a nEIg
of these messages? There Is a major gap
of these messages? There is a major gap between what the
major gap between what the public can understand and what
public can understand and what scientists
public can understand and what X a AR
public can understand and what scientists Llike to
public can understand and what scientists like to explain.
scientists Like to explain. Absolutely. One of the
LRI CR CRYIE T Absolutely. One of the arenas
Absolutely. One of the arenas where | do
Absolutely. One of the arenas N1
Absolutely. One of the arenas where | do my research and
where | do my research and where |
where | do my research and TS R a4
where | do my research and where | work is to open up
where | work is to open up our registers of knowing and
registers of knowing and understanding and learning
understanding and learning Y0
understanding and learning Y]
understanding and learning about the changing climate
about the changing climate around us. It’s not merely a
around us. It’s not merely a el Nad1iTs
around us. It’s not merely a N O RSN
around us. It’s not merely a scientific issue, about reading
scientific issue, about reading )
scientific issue, about reading R
scientific issue, about reading e e
scientific issue, about reading the most recent peer-reviewed
the most recent peer-reviewed literature,
the most recent peer-reviewed Y TR 1 )
the most recent peer-reviewed HEL NI G R
the most recent peer-reviewed HEINCR G R o
the most recent peer-reviewed literature, the UN IPCC report,
literature, the UN IPCC report, it’s about experiencing these
RIS el R 2] IR
RIS el R 2] I
it’s about experiencing these things. It can be visceral
it’s about experiencing these QI S R T )
things. It can be visceral and emotional, our hopes and
emotional, our hopes and I
emotional, our hopes and dreams, our fears and concerns.
dreams, our fears and concerns. s
dreams, our fears and concerns. It can
dreams, our fears and concerns. Rl
dreams, our fears and concerns. It can be through
dreams, our fears and concerns. (N R G RS
dreams, our fears and concerns. It can be through the aesthetic
It can be through the aesthetic and
It can be through the aesthetic R )
It can be through the aesthetic and the arts, understanding the
and the arts, understanding the R )
and the arts, understanding the e
and the arts, understanding the climate is changing around us.
climate is changing around us. Y
climate is changing around us. One need
climate is changing around us. IR
climate is changing around us. LR
climate is changing around us. One need not be a card-carrying
CLLINMELL I RN LG R Ll PhD
One need not be a card-carrying VRl e el
One need not be a card-carrying PhD scientist to
One need not be a card-carrying VR R )
One need not be a card-carrying PhD scientist to have something
PhD scientist to have something to say
PhD scientist to have something LN
PhD scientist to have something to say and understand what’s
to say and understand what’s going
to say and understand what’s LR
to say and understand what’s LRI AT
to say and understand what’s going on around us. | think
to say and understand what’s going on around us. | think I’m
going on around us. | think I’m right
going on around us. | think I’m lndh
going on around us. | think I’m Ol LTI
going on around us. | think I’m right in saying you were an
right in saying you were an adviser
right in saying you were an I R e
right in saying you were an adviser for Don’t
right in saying you were an I R e kAo e] 4
right in saying you were an adviser for Don’t look up, the
adviser for Don’t look up, the ¥ i1k
adviser for Don’t look up, the satirical movie effectively
satirical movie effectively Y0
satirical movie effectively Y e i)
satirical movie effectively about climate change. What is
about climate change. What is )
about climate change. What is ey
about climate change. What is e N
about climate change. What is R N Rl
about climate change. What is R N R R3]
about climate change. What is RN RO R
about climate change. What is the role of that side of mass
the role of that side of mass media, perhaps even of comedy,
media, perhaps even of comedy, in waking people up? Yes, |
in waking people up? Yes, | el
in waking people up? Yes, | worked more
in waking people up? Yes, | e Bt e s
in waking people up? Yes, | LRI )
in waking people up? Yes, | worked more on the platform
worked more on the platform that followed up on the field,
that followed up on the field, Y
that followed up on the field, A
that followed up on the field, A
that followed up on the field, R SRSV
that followed up on the field, R RV IR RT ]
a lot of ways in which individuals and collectives can
individuals and collectives can el
individuals and collectives can find quidance, important
find gquidance, important sl sy
find gquidance, important Y asle s e
find gquidance, important actions that can
find gquidance, important s R R e
find guidance, important actions that can be taken, and
actions that can be taken, and ways to engage. But absolutely,
ways to engage. But absolutely, again, in those spaces of
again, in those spaces of i)
again, in those spaces of Al e e o]
again, in those spaces of climate science and policy, the
climate science and policy, the IS
climate science and policy, the bridge to everyday is not
bridge to everyday is not I
bridge to everyday is not QI Y
bridge to everyday is not through peer reviewed
through peer reviewed R ey
through peer reviewed literature and
through peer reviewed B O LR e
through peer reviewed literature and reports, the
literature and reports, the IS
literature and reports, the I EEH
literature and reports, the bridge is through media
bridge is through media representation through
bridge Is through media N RO R 1
representation through the news,
representation through the L)
representation through the news, and through entertainment
news, and through entertainment media_
news, and through entertainment media. Films like Don’t look
news, and through entertainment media. Films like Don’t lock up
media. Films like Don’t look up have
media. Films like Don’t look up YU N L)
media. Films like Don’t look up have made an impact reshaping
have made an impact reshaping ey
have made an impact reshaping these considerations, putting
these considerations, putting 3
these considerations, putting it on
these considerations, putting TR
these considerations, putting T GEaRle -]
these considerations, putting it on the table. In the US,
it on the table. In the US, unfortunately, just 35% of US
unfortunately, just 35% of US American adults talk
unfortunately, just 35% of US I SR TR e & s 0L
American adults talk about i)
American adults talk about climate change occasionally to
climate change occasionally to e
climate change occasionally to their family and friends. So
their family and friends. So ey
their family and friends. So these conversation pieces that
these conversation pieces that e
these conversation pieces that prompt considerations
these conversation pieces that I R S L]
prompt considerations and orompt
prompt considerations and prompt discussions
prompt considerations and eI I N 1
prompt considerations and prompt discussions are ways in
prompt discussions are ways in el
prompt discussions are ways in R )
prompt discussions are ways in which we can open a pathway...
which we can open a pathway... L4374
which we can open a pathway... LT
which we can open a pathway... Z59% s not
which we can open a pathway... Z5% is not a
which we can open a pathway... 35% is not a lot, a long way to
35% Is not a lot, a long way to go. Thank you
55% is not a lot, a long way to go. Thank you very much. Thank
go. Thank you very much. Thank (/N
go. Thank you very much. Thank you, have a good morning over
you, have a good morning over HcE
If you’re a regular watcher of Newsday -
you might remember we told you about the James
Webb Space Telescope, IRBE N A R
achievements on Tuesday.
Well, here are some of the first images
released by Nasa, European and Canadian Space Agencies
from the world’s most advanced telescope which was launched
Into space last year.
Extraordinary images - R I M e L G
view of the Universe we’ve ever seen.
our science editor Rebecca Morelle reports.
The beauty of our universe D LU E G
captured by the James Webb Space Telescope.
These are the cosmic cliffs of the Carina Nebula.
Amidst the dust, stars are being born.
This is a new view of Stephan’s Quintet,
500 million light years away, where vast galaxies are caught
And the deepest ever view of space.
It’s teeming with galaxies.
Some from just a few hundred million years
IR E RN R G LN -
To have worked on a mission for this long,
to be able to finally see it come to fruition,
to do what it’s supposed to do, is just absolutely incredible.
The images are amazing, themselves, just as images,
but the hint of the detailed YA IR N R DR GR R
to do, and what we can learn from these images,
R GG IR IR R Ao P
The telescope blasted off last year on Christmas Day,
and over the last six months, it’s been getting
ready for its mission.
The James Webb Space Telescope is an engineering marvel.
At its core is a 6.5-metre wide mirror made up
of 18 hexagonal segments, each perfectly aligned to act
as a single surface.
It also has a sun shield MR R R IR T las
to protect it from the heat and light of the sun.
The telescope will look back AR R
before, showing us the light from the very first
We’ll also be able to see how they came together to form
the earliest galaxies.
And it will study other planetary systems, revealing
OO RN R G R beyond our world.
11N 13 like a time machine.
ACTNEAGT STl kT4 into the far distant past
and so we can begin to answer QR IER N 018
how did the first galaxies and stars form.
The hope with this telescope RGO R R
in real time, as it were, a history of the
TV EW L RN &
LR G C T R captured this.
2,000 light years away, it’s a star going
through its death throes.
In some strange way it is a pretty view of something
decaying and dying but we’re able again to look at
the material as it flows away from the star and understand
something about the evolution of the star, so going from star
birth in the star-forming regions, all the way
through to star death.
But this Is just the start for the telescope.
Over the coming days and months, more and more
images will be captured.
Our knowledge of the universe and our place in it
1S about to be transformed.
Rebecca Morelle, BBC News.
Sri Lanka’s president has N LRGN BB RT
after fleeing the country following months of mass
protests over the island’s economic crisis.
His departure ends the Rajapaksa political dynasty
which has ruled the island for decades_
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, NN AR T3]
down from the north, following this band of cloud
QLIRS AR LR T or two spots of rain.
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, NGO R 2oL 0
into the mid-20s, but for many other parts of England
and into Wales, we are going to find some extremely high
temperatures developing over the weekend into the start
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
Sri Lanka’s president - Gotabaya Rajapaksa -
has fled the country with members of his family,
following months of protests R AN R ot lat 1
i
The BBC understands his military jet has
QNI R ITD] after protestors stormed his
residence on Saturday.
In Washington, the committee investigating the storming
of the US Capitol last year has laid out how Donald Trump
incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle told how, during a heated
meeting, Mr Trump ignored e e R R e -]
In Britain, the race to replace Boris Johnson as leader
of the governing party and the country’s Prime
Minister has narrowed to eight fellow Conservative MPs_
The field will be narrowed down to two in a series of votes.
The party at large will then R Y hh
An independent inquiry has found that more
than a thousand children were sexually exploited over
at least 30 years in the Shropshire town
VRO AR [ failings by the police
and the local authority.
The report found that unnecessary suffering, and even
deaths of children might VR NN I A L
West Mercia Police "done its most basic job".
It says that child sexual exploitation went unchecked
because of failures to investigate offenders,
amid fears that investigations R Gl s
tensions”.
Al Wi Tl
Mackie reports.
RO R -l
A town where more than 1000 children
A town where more than 1000 il R )
A town where more than 1000 children have been
A town where more than 1000 Gl R RS 8
children have been sexually I |
children have been sexually I I LR
children have been sexually exploited since the late 1970s.
exploited since the late 1970s. Young
exploited since the late 1970s. LR
exploited since the late 1970s. VLG ERT
exploited since the late 1970s. Young girls were groomed often
Young girls were groomed often WELL
Young girls were groomed often by gangs and subjected to some
by gangs and subjected to some of
by gangs and subjected to some SRy
by gangs and subjected to some SR
by gangs and subjected to some of the most appalling abuse.
of the most appalling abuse. IS g
of the most appalling abuse. RS
of the most appalling abuse. RO R
of the most appalling abuse. After three years the findings
After three years the findings N
After three years the findings NFL]
After three years the findings of an independent inquiry are
of an independent inquiry are damning. Countless children
damning. Countless children ey
damning. Countless children were sexually assaulted and
were sexually assaulted and raped.
were sexually assaulted and Y
were sexually assaulted and N R L A
were sexually assaulted and raped. They were deliberately
raped. They were deliberately humiliated, degraded. They were
humiliated, degraded. They were i El R
humiliated, degraded. They were shared, trafficked, they were
shared, trafficked, they were [
shared, trafficked, they were subjected to violence and their
subjected to violence and their families
subjected to violence and their E TR )
subjected to violence and their families were threatened. They
families were threatened. They lived
families were threatened. They WG ENG]
families were threatened. They lived in fear.
families were threatened. They KT GERR IR
families were threatened. They KRR IR LA T
families were threatened. They TR IRl TR )
lived in fear. Their lives were e
lived in fear. Their lives were forever changed. They have
forever changed. They have !
forever changed. They have I LR e
forever changed. They have LR )
forever changed. They have asked over the years,
forever changed. They have EH O RN CR U e
forever changed. They have asked over the years, how was
asked over the years, how was this allowed to happen? The
this allowed to happen? The A
this allowed to happen? The N )
this allowed to happen? The N P R
this allowed to happen? The answer, he believes, is that
answer, he believes, Is that )
answer, he believes, Is that e ey
answer, he believes, Is that the authorities had ignored
the authorities had ignored Vi I
the authorities had ignored NGRS
the authorities had ignored obvious signs of child
obvious signs of child exploitation and blamed the
exploitation and blamed the children is
exploitation and blamed the e B
exploitation and blamed the I R e
children is not the IG5
children is not the I IR R
children is not the S R AR
children is not the S L PR R EL)
perpetrators and, in many T
perpetrators and, in many IR L)
perpetrators and, in many IR L e 4
perpetrators and, in many cases, would not investigate
cases, would not investigate T Y
cases, would not investigate I N A
cases, would not investigate because of nervousness ahout
because of nervousness about race.
because of nervousness about e T
because of nervousness about race. The problems came to
race. The problems came to I
race. The problems came to IO
race. The problems came to light during operation Challis
light during operation Challis Y
light during operation Challis when seven
light during operation Challis YRS - el e
light during operation Challis when seven men of
light during operation Challis TN R e e 0ida]
light during operation Challis when seven men of South Asian
when seven men of South Asian e a4
when seven men of South Asian e R )
when seven men of South Asian e R e e s iwe sl
when seven men of South Asian e R N i s R
descent were convicted of e
descent were convicted of offences against teenage girls
offences against teenage girls but
offences against teenage girls Ry
offences against teenage girls but the inquiry has spoken to
but the inquiry has spoken to victims of exploitation from
ladl ERGE T LT R i many
victims of exploitation from many more communities. This
many more communities. This afternoon
many more communities. This il
many more communities. This SN R G
many more communities. This afternoon | spoke to one who
afternoon | spoke to one who Ty
afternoon | spoke to one who TR ]
afternoon | spoke to one who N L]
afternoon | spoke to one who was raped and trafficked.
was raped and trafficked. Instead
was raped and trafficked. IRRCELE
was raped and trafficked. Instead of help, she got a
Instead of help, she got a ol
Instead of help, she got a gl IR et el
Instead of help, she got a criminal record. Her
Instead of help, she got a gl B e R L
Instead of help, she got a criminal record. Her words have
criminal record. Her words have Nl
criminal record. Her words have IR
criminal record. Her words have heen revised to
criminal record. Her words have been revised to protect her
been revised to protect her identity. Victims were being
identity. Victims were being identified
identity. Victims were being GBI i I
identity. Victims were being Bl i LR e 0]
identified as child OGN
identified as child prostitutes. Once you have been
prostitutes. Once you have been el
prostitutes. Once you have been i R
prostitutes. Once you have been it SRR d R
prostitutes. Once you have been convicted that label never
convicted that label never T
convicted that label never VAR
convicted that label never leaves you. Prosecutions are
leaves you. Prosecutions are damaging to your life. Some
damaging to your life. Some children went to prison for not
children went to prison for not paying fines. Convictions
paying fines. Convictions should be completely expunged.
TR LR P VRS L DL )
should be completely expunged. There are 47 recommendations
There are 47 recommendations el
There are 47 recommendations Y e 10
There are 47 recommendations e 10N )
There are 47 recommendations which are made in
There are 47 recommendations N IR
There are 47 recommendations which are made in the report,
which are made in the report, including that the borough
including that the borough council
including that the borough o 01s o0 Tals|
including that the borough council and police should set
council and police should set up
council and police should set K
council and police should set up a joint tax force which
up a joint tax force which il
up a joint tax force which T Yo 1o e
up a joint tax force which should report back annually,
should report back annually, that
should report back annually, G E R T
should report back annually, that counselling should be
that counselling should be D]
that counselling should be provided for victims and that
provided for victims and that uhE
provided for victims and that money for specialist teams
money for specialist teams should be ring fenced. | do
YNGR LR T R (0T
YNGR LR T R (LY RIS
YNGR LR T R LRIl
should be ring fenced. | do LY R A N Ie Ty Vo]
should be ring fenced. | do hope it will bring closure for
hope it will bring closure for Y
hope it will bring closure for A
hope it will bring closure for A
hope it will bring closure for R R
hope it will bring closure for a lot of people but |
hope it will bring closure for R RN Y T A
a lot of people but I also %1\
a lot of people but | also really hope it will open a
a lot of people but | alse really hope it will open a lot
really hope it will open a lot of
really hope it will open a lot S Es e
really hope it will open a lot IR e
really hope it will open a lot of doors for other people.
of doors for other people. s e
of doors for other people. NG s
of doors for other people. Another survivor, known
of doors for other people. NG SN L I G U
Another survivor, known as Holly
Another surviver, known as Holly Archer, has set up
Another survivor, known as Holly Archer, has set up the
Holly Archer, has set up the (17
Holly Archer, has set up the holly project in Telford to
holly project in Telford to =0
holly project in Telford to RS GE
holly project in Telford to help other victims of child
help other victims of child XSG
help other victims of child sexual exploitation stocking
sexual exploitation stocking )
sexual exploitation stocking A
sexual exploitation stocking the likes of
sexual exploitation stocking O R L
sexual exploitation stocking O L R G
the likes of myself and other a0
the likes of myself and other et e R i)
the likes of myself and other survivers who have sort of
the likes of myself and other survivors who have sort of gone
survivers who have sort of gone I
survivers who have sort of gone quite far on
survivors who have sort of gone quite far on their journey now,
quite far on their journey now, e
quite far on their journey now, T
quite far on their journey now, TR
quite far on their journey now, for us that it
quite far on their journey now, TR A
quite far on their journey now, for us that it is a form
quite far on their journey now, TR R AR
for us that it is a form of ey
for us that it is a form of Pa e 3 01e - 0L
for us that it is a form of closure but also a form of
closure but alse a form of fight
closure but alse a form of LIS
closure but also a form of G S TTEFY
closure but also a form of [ SR EY R RN N
closure but alse a form of fight for what happens next.
fight for what happens next. LT
UC LS TR EIET T IL N [ 4 Tonight West Murcia police
U LS TR EI T LL N 48 Tonight West Murcia police and
Tonight West Murcia police and Telford and Wrekin borough
Telford and Wrekin borough e il
Telford and Wrekin borough council apologised to all
Telford and Wrekin borough T T[T C L XL R GR
council apologised to all of )
council apologised to all of the victims. Phil Mackie, BBC
the victims. Phil Mackie, BBC [V
the victims. Phil Mackie, BBC News, Telford.
Now on BBC News, Talking Movies:
Godfather Anniversary Special.
A warning this programme e e AR e 4
50 years ago, a Roberta Flack song topped the record
# Ever | saw your face...
We are today seeing the progress of modern China.
..President Nixon made a historic visit to China
and in Britain, there was a 47-day miners strike.
And in the cinema ORI ALY
momentous event.
What many claim is the greatest movie
ever made was launched - a portrait of an Italian-American
crime family in New York MR R LR
It was, for a time, the highest-grossing film
ever made, a blockbuster MBI IR e e
QT (g d
I’m going to make him an offer he can’t
-]
Hello from New York, R R VR e el
to our Talking Movies Godfather NI R e
Half a century on, e s |
reassess the landmark classic, directed by Francis Ford
Coppola, starring movie greats Marlon Brando,
Al Pacino, Robert Duvall, James Caan and
For justice, we must go to Don Corleone.
The opening scene in the Godfather takes place
in the office of crime hoss Don Vito Corleone,
played by Marlon Brando,
on the wedding day of his daughter.
They beat her like an animal.
An undertaker, Bonasera, is pleading with Corleone
to use extralegal means to punish men who attacked
and disfigured his daughter.
They’re going to suffer, then, as she suffers.
It is a scene that signals what is to
come - what this iconic film is really all about.
Some day - and that S LR
I’ll call upon you to do R e R de
The opening scene R T ] I
Until that day...
..It’s also very deliberate.
..accept this justice as a gift on my daughter’s wedding day.
But also, that scene is really important.
| mean, what’s the - what are the first words
B -G Y se ]
| mean, the whole movie’s about the American dream. ..
America has made my fortune.
..and about the corruption RGN Y NN
Now, she will never be beautiful again.
So, right there, that opening e RN RUEI A el
encapsulates everything e
Who should | give this job to?
This grand three-hour opus was the product
of many different talents.
Robert Duvall appeared R LR R e
family lawyer and advisor Tom Hagen.
| have a special practice.
| handle el
Today, at the age of 91, he firmly believes the epic
bears the handiwork and stamp of one individual
in particular.
W JoJsHER
Francis Ford Coppola.
He’s the - he’s the beginning AU LR AN
Although in the beginning, they were trying to fire him
SV RGBT TN MR A E
And | was aware, and R G
and I’d gained a lot of respect for him.
It was his vision from A to Z and they tried
to have a standby director, to fire him, in case
they fired him, then this guy would take over.
LI LR e R R vision and his film-making
and his casting that made it all work, | mean,
for me - for everybody.
The inspiration for The Godfather came partly
from the bestseller of the same name by American author Mario
Puzo, published three years S R RN R
In an interview decades ago, Coppola, who ultimately worked
with Puzo on The Godfather screenplay, revealed
he didn’t have much initial enthusiasm for the project.
Anyone who remembers the original Godfather book,
it had a lot of sleazy aspects ORI R UE PR R I
were cut out for the movie and | didn’t like it very much
for those reasons and | was very frightened of getting once
again co-opted into another project, like, low budget -
it was a very inexpensive film and in those days,
they wanted young directors e TR U A I R R ]
and | did turn it down, actually, once or twice.
Much of the action in The Godfather takes place at
this house on Longfellow Avenue in Staten Island in New York.
It served as the home to the Don Corleone family.
The narrative that unfolds from this house provides
audiences with a portrait of an Italian-American crime
family in the 1940s and ‘50s.
It tells a story of one family member’s transformation -
that of Michael, who R R
Don’t ever take sides with anyone against
the family again.
Obviously, it’s about family, obviously, it’s about power
but | think it’s also, in many ways, a film
about the loss of one’s AN N LR R
of one’s identity because, you know, if you look
at the character of Michael Corleone, you know, he starts
off the film as the one person in the family who’s self-aware,
who’s really aware of what the family does.
That’s my family, Kay.
And over the course of the film, he loses
Don’t tell me you’re innocent.
TN IS my intelligence.
It makes me very angry.
He no longer has the sense that what the family
s deing Is wrong.
| thought you weren’t going to become a man like your father.
That’s what you told me.
My father’s no different than any other powerful man.
Any man who’s responsible for other people.
Well, I’ve always felt that The Godfather was really
less about gangsters than about power and powerful
families and the succession of power and the Machiavellian
way that real power works in the world and, you know,
obviously, | was more A GO R RO R G
but those themes could apply to a Shakespeare play or to any
piece that deals, you know - Greek drama, even, really, -
with those bigger themes, R R e
| had my intention.
The Godfather is made RO R d R R LYo
It’s a very dark period for America and | think that
darkness is reflected in the film.
What do you think this is, the army, where you
shoot ‘em a mile away?
This is the era of Viethnam.
This is the era of U T L E
You know how naive you sound?
Why?
SN EN RN LR 6 R R G
Who’s being naive, Kay?
The country’s coming out of the ‘60s and a lot of people
are wondering if the American project can really continue.
Mr Corleone is @ man who insists on hearing
bad news immediately.
The film really reflects R TN R R R
and the country and their family - which, in many ways,
s @ microcosm of the country - is heading towards a very dark
place.
Look how they massacred my boy.
Marlon Brando was cast in the pivotal role of Don Corleone.
He had a reputation for being difficult and the studio didn’t
want him, but Coppola prevailed and his performance ended
up defining the film.
| have a sentimental weakness RO G I LR Al
them, as you can see.
SR CILR L T R 1Y should listen.
He was 47 years old when shooting began,
at a low point of his career.
He did a screen test RO o
He put paper handkerchiefs NI NG R Rt )
RN E G E
What is the interest for my family?
During filming, he wore this dental plumper,
now an exhibit at the Museum of the Moving Image, to make
him sound and lock different.
How did things ever get so far?
| mean, Coppola said he wanted - he’d get for -
either for the part either TR R I
Olivier wouldn’t have been good for that part.
But Brando, he took certain chances with a certain
mouthpiece and so forth, but it worked because he could
bring an inner sense of intensity and truth
from within himself, you know?
Within quotation marks for the part, you know?
Although he read his lines!
He put up billboards, he put lines here, he’d
read ‘em, you know?
So, he had his own way of working.
When you say he read his lines, he relied on cue cards?
LY TR
Not all the time but, like, the scene with, | quess,
Pacino in the gardens...
..In my lifetime not R R
He’d lean back and look up...
Women and children can be N
He had his lines written in a tree.
Or down here, you know?
So, he claimed it he made It, you know, spontaneous
but | don’t think he needed to do with that way
Il
But he worked that way and that’s fine, you know?
Brando was Brando, you know?
This is my father.
The other crucial role to be R LR U R R =
Don Corleone’s youngest son.
Luca Brasi held a revolver against Halley’s head.
Coppola went for Al Pacine - R A I Gl A R el
The studio wasn’t impressed WAl d S {TE3
It was described as "anaemic”.
Why are all these people bothering your father
on a day like this?
Oh, that’s because they know.
That no Sicilian can refuse any request...
But ultimately, Pacino’s performance was mesmerising
and ignited his career.
I’m with you now.
I’m with you.
Pacino was amazed (R RGN N
| thought, "There’s no way I’m going to get the part!
“You can’t” - you know what | mean?
They’re all these big movie stars out there and | thought
"What do they want?
"How am | ever going to get e ARG R YA
I’m doing all right.
LIAN NN @
| mean, simple.
| play the piano sometimes, | go do theatre, | read,
| have - you know, I’m in New York.
New York, you get everything.
New York feeds you, you know?
You don’t need anything else.
From sequences shot RO RSl
Island and elsewhere in New York, and in fact as far
CLE R LTS the Godfather comes
together extremely smoothly Y B LA et B i
But behind-the-scenes it was anything but smooth.
There was a lot of friction between the director,
Francis Ford Coppola, BRI E S b
on a number of matters.
There were fights over budget, location, setting.
At one point there was even an insurrection about
among Coppola’s own crew, that they wanted him replaced
as director.
So it was just a fight EICI GRS TR
ST SR R G R G T L won’t sit still for all-out
war!
Then they hand me Sollozzo!
LR ETGTTR T G R R R G
this is business not personal.
But Robert Duvall remembers WEEREG IR
the mayhem, Coppola managed to remain a steady hand,
working well with the actors.
The thing that was good about Coppola, he didn’t say
you had to do it, like certain MG s o
He wanted to see what you brought to the table.
And what you brought to the table, he would watch
He would go with it if he thought it was valid.
So, you know, he had e R (-l e
without, you know, being totally arbitrary.
LS A TR A DR G causeway, he’s dead.
When | had to reveal OGS IR NN LG
that’s a thing | do remember.
Coppola said, "Do you want to do another take?™
| said yeah, and then [ think he got what he wanted.
He’s not one of the directors that does 25 takes.
You know, if he gets it in the beginning,
that’s it with Coppola.
He’s not one to beat a dying horse, you know.
But it was a wonderful SN
One issue facing Nt TR A
Godfather came frem the Italian-American community
which subsequently embraced Rl T LT AEL Y
would display them all as a bunch of mafia hoodlums.
At first the Italian-American Civil Rights league,
led by Joe Colombo, who was reputedly also the head
of one of the five families of New York,
they were trying to stamp out what
was perceived as stereotyping of Italian Americans in popular
culture, and the Godfather, R - TR
QLRI of that campaign.
The league wanted it to be stopped.
But Al Ruddy, the producer, met with the league and Joe Colombo
and it turned out G E RO (1T
to Ruddy, only wanted one thing and that was no mention
It had enly been mentioned at one point in the screenplay.
And so Al Ruddy agreed that that would be taken out.
And for that one simple deletion, a world of
cooperation opened.
And some reputedly connected individuals were allegedly cast
The Godfather is memorable for its violence,
some of it highly choreographed.
What about the violence RGBT s s e
RG] about that?
Well, | think it’s well choreographed.
Some of the stuff today, some
of the violence IR ALGIGELE
But there was a reason for it in the Godfather.
Coppola knew how I RO a T C e
In fact, the studio reportedly N R Rl iRl Rt
violent to make the picture more sellable at the box
office rather than just have an artistic sensibility
which they feared Coppola might deliver.
The Godfather is in many ways a classic New York movie,
and Francis Ford Coppola made ample use of locations
around the city, capturing QLR L
Much of the shooting was done down here in lower Manhattan
in different areas of Little ltaly.
| think it’s a really important New York film because in some
ways it traces the important spots for, certainly
in terms of organised crime, N R Y
in New York, where you’ve got Little Italy that
features prominently there, and you’ve got Staten Island
where the opening wedding sequence was shot.
I’m from Staten Island E AR R I 1
up with references to the Godfather having
Staten Island is alse a preminent location in terms
of the history of organised crime and the sort of,
the passage of Italian-American A R
They don’t say If he’s LR
New York’s landmark Radio City Music Hall
Michael and Kay, played respectively by Al Pacino
and Diane Keaton, are seen leaving the music hall
and learning of the news that Don Corleone has been shot
in Little Italy.
Is he all right?
We don’t know yet.
In fact, Diane Keaton is one of very few women
in any significant role in The Godfather, it’s a very
male story, an incredibly patriarchal crime family.
In fact, the movie has been accused of being misogynistic,
even holding back the progress of women in the film industry.
Emma Jones has been investigating.
Daughters, lovers, wives, mothers.
| can’t hear you.
Some go without a first name, like Mama Corlecne.
In the ultra masculine ORI AL E G
what place do its women have?
You just told me to make you dinner.
Apart from in the kitchen RGN elge sl
Watching it as a woman there is always the sense of,
what are th e female characters?
There are some, but who are they, and are they really
as fleshed out as the male characters in the film?
IR AR
Don’t ask me about my business.
V[
Enough!
Diane Keaton played Kay, the American graduate
who marries Michael Corleone.
It was Keaton’s breakthrough acting role.
Kay, for all her faults in the film, as a character
R RGN IR RS T I
What was that?
LGS e[ but nobody was hurt.
She does challenge MR RO
And | think it’s interesting because you see the mafia
and the world through her eyes.
AR GLR LGN RV QRN NI R GRS
we are the outsider curious R GIR GIEER =
A A
My father helped him O IR
That is one of the strong points of the film but it’s
unfortunate, they could have IR e )
How long have you been back?
| think she is often presented as this sort of lovesick,
weeping, distressed women who is just in love
What do you want with me, R IR AT 1R iida s 0L
QUL R R IR ]
IR G Q = S R to be a main character in this
film, if you are going to reboot The Godfather
that is what you should do, that is what should happen.
In the world outside The Godfather in 1972,
there were waves of feminist protests seeking equality.
A year later, Roe v Wade granted abortion rights
Times have changed.
In The Godfather, set in 1945, it is a rigidly
patriarchal system.
| hate you!
John Corleone’s daughter Connie, played by Talia Shire,
s fleshed out as a character by the horrific depiction
of domestic abuse she suffers.
Michael Corleone’s Sicilian first wife Apollonia is filmed
topless on her wedding night.
The actress, Simonetta Stefanelli,
was a teenager at the time.
She is topless, you know, he is not.
There is no male nudity at all.
And, you know, it’s like, previously in the film
you have seen her basically being bartered over.
She has very few lines, very little opportunity to give
any kind of character.
| think the actress herself described her role as,
"I met him, | married him, | died.”
Connie is the daughter N IR L UGN
she has some power.
And yet, would have experienced G LR R
and yet is quite helpless.
It was my fault!
She’s another character that is squandered in my view.
The film was hugely successful so a lot of studio execs
would have looked at that film and thought, "Fantastic,
let’s replicate that.”
And | think the 1970s was the age of the male anti-hero.
VAL BT I EL R EE AT R G B2
(VNI g[To BT (YN that you’re not a happy person.
That was a period where you have Robert De Niro
in Taxi Driver, there were a lot of misogynistic men
whose characters were explored.
LI S R R G T | don’t think the Godfather
should exist at all, I think it is a great film,
| just want other films, IR R NI R Rl T
felt completely destroyed by the cinema, the popular
Perhaps Coppola’s lens on Italian and American women
living in 1940s New York, Rl AR e R )
they existed to please, may have been fairly accurate.
But the 1940s was also an era RGN R ]
and fleshing these women out into fully dimensional
e [a RV LR ) an opportunity missed.
This New York crime family epic YRR R A Rl i)
because of its strong story, A NI
and cinematography.
There wasn’t enough R e
There just wasn’t enough time.
We’ll get there, Pop.
We’ll get there.
50 years after its launch, it’s clear that in many ways
The Godfather has very much i EIC Ll
culture, particularly with the way in which mobsters
are portrayed.
A man who doesn’t spend time with his family can
never be a real man.
Whether it be in the popular el Real sl L’
series the Sopranos.
Someday soon you’re gonna have family of your own.
And If you’re lucky, you’ll T R R e e et e
..or in director Martin Scorsese’s celebrated New York
gangster film, Goodfellas.
| do think The Godfather change the way the mafia
LRI T g =V ORI AL S
After The Godfather, gangsters were seen as almost noble.
They were seen as quiet, calculating, certainly intense,
but not the kind of cartoonish SR LR EIR IR %
you would have seen before.
So that brings this special Godfather anniversary edition
of Talking Movies to a close.
We hope you’ve enjoyed the show.
Please remember you can always reach us online
at bbc.com/talkingmovies.
And you can find us on Twitter.
From me, Tom Brook, and the rest of the Talking Movies
team here in New York, it’s goodbye as we leave
you with a clip from what is U N RO
movies ever made.
# This heart | bring you.
# | have but one heart RN IR U B LR
# | have but one dream, that | can cling to.
# You are the one dream | pray comes true. #
Hello, there.
Wednesday could be a little bit cooler still, but there’s
going to be more sunshine on the way.
Westerly breeze in Scotland and Northern Ireland will bring
sunny spells and perhaps one or two light showers.
For England and Wales, generally dry.
Cloudy start in the far southern parts of England -
one or two spots of rain to move through -
otherwise, lots of sunshine.
Those temperatures continuing to drop away a little bit.
It’s cooler and fresher NEG el
It’s another hot day in East Anglia in the southeast -
could make 30 degrees again in London.
Heading into Thursday, and the west-to-northwesterly
breeze brings more cloud and more showers to Scotland,
Northern Ireland, perhaps into northern England.
But, again, it’s dry through Wales, the Midlands
and Southern England.
Again, it’s very warm - temperatures heading
into the mid 20s, just dropping E ARG G
and around 18 or 19 for much of Scotland and Northern
It really is going to warm up, though, this weekend -
Sunday into the beginning of next week.
We’ve got this extreme heat warning from the Met Office
for much of England and most of Wales.
ILIEREN ) e [ R
Our top stories.
Sri Lanka’s president flees the country -
along with other members of his family - he’d
promised to resign today.
Demonstraters blame him for the economic crisis that’s
agfo]o ]I R G TNyl dg leaving it desperately
short of funds to buy e R a .
L R Ty lia 1 investigating the storming
of the US Capitol lays out how L RN [ Rl )
extremists, in a last-ditch bid CRCCEIRE i Raiel
The race begins R e N N e
next Prime Minister - eight candidates prepare
for the first round of voting.
And the first extraordinary images
from NASA’s new telescope - distant galaxies and light from
13 billion years ago.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has left
the country amid mass protests R i (R g
and he’s landed in the Maldives.
Mr Rajapaksa left aboard a military jet, ending a family
dynasty that has ruled the country for decades.
He had been in hiding, after crowds stormed his
residence on Saturday.
Sources have told the BBC his brother, former Finance
Minister Basil Rajapaksa, has also left the country.
L R A [ =) promised to resign,
but by remaining in position, RGBT
from prosecution.
| want
| want to show you some pictures
| want to show you some ORI RG]
| want to show you some pictures from the presidential
pictures from the presidential Siiley
pictures from the presidential aile e
pictures from the presidential il e WAk
pictures from the presidential office itself in Colombo.
office itself in Colombe. I
office itself in Colombo. People expect a
office itself in Colombeo. People expect a resignation
office itself in Colombo. People expect a resignation to
People expect a resignation to )
People expect a resignation to LN e h
People expect a resignation to NN IR Y
People expect a resignation to TN IR )
People expect a resignation to NN R R N o]
be announced. We have heard that
be announced. We have heard R R
be announced. We have heard that the speaker of parliament
that the speaker of parliament saying nothing
that the speaker of parliament VLGOI S
that the speaker of parliament saying nothing yet, but there
saying nothing yet, but there should be something official by
should be something official by this
should be something official by GIATL LRI ]
should be something official by this evening Colombo time.
this evening Colombo time. Quite
this evening Colombo time. TR
QIR IR RG]y 3 Quite a few hours still to
this evening Colombo time. Quite a few hours still to wait
Quite a few hours still to wait T
Quite a few hours still to wait if that
Quite a few hours still to wait TR R
Quite a few hours still to wait RO AR R
Quite a few hours still to wait if that is the case, but crowds
If that is the case, but crowds FPIIa 11
If that is the case, but crowds el A
If that is the case, but crowds expectant in anticipation of
expectant in anticipation of )
expectant in anticipation of QRIS
expectant in anticipation of the president’s resignation.
the president’s resignation. 57
QRGN R R R LGS
QRGN R R R G2l ]
QRGN R R R G2 E IR s
QRGN R R R They blame him for the
QLRGSR LR They blame him for the econemic
They blame him for the economic e
They blame him for the econemic crisis which
They blame him for the econemic R e B E 1Y
They blame him for the econemic crisis which has crippled the
crisis which has crippled the country, and it has
crisis which has crippled the i AL R G
crisis which has crippled the country, and it has left it
country, and it has left it i led
country, and it has left it i el d
country, and it has left it R AT
country, and it has left it iR R TR Ge
country, and it has left it short of funds for critical
short of funds for critical X
short of funds for critical EIJVI I}
short of funds for critical issues, buying medicine, fuel
issues, buying medicine, fuel and food.
There is a real party atmosphere here at Colombo
seafront, which has been a protest site for many
weeks, one of the main demands protesters had was
for Gotabaya Rajapaksa to go. demands protesters had was
Their slogan, their chant was "Go home, Gota".
We now know that President Gotabaya Rajapaksa
has left the country.
He fled on a military jet with members of his family.
LR RIS T for the last few days,
ever since his home, his official residence,
was overrun by protesters.
It wasn’t just his official residence, in fact over
there his presidential secretariat, his offices,
G ELRVE L RO 0y by protesters.
You can see the aftermath now.
Days on, the protesters here are sleeping in the grounds
and on the steps.
We also know that the president’s brother
the former finance minister Basil Rajapaksa has
also left the country.
He’s believed to be heading to America.
Now, where does this VAU G Gl
He still hasn’t as of now stepped down from his post.
He’s due to hand in his resignation, that being
expected on Wednesday.
If he does, then that (W R 18 2
for a president to run this country, and there will be
a process In parliament to decide who his replacement is.
All of this is part of a wider concern, we are still
in the middle of an economic AN R SR R E R e
people are struggling for food IR e LR
This queue, you can see it going all the way down here,
S TG TN T for free bread and curry
because they are struggling to get a hold of the basics.
But news of President Rajapaksa’s departure
from the country, that is still filtering in here.
| spoke to one person who said he was relieved and pleased.
But another woman said she felt MBI R N e sl e - sl
by the man she blamed for this crisis, who has gone
without offering a solution.
Earlier, | spoke with Akhil Bery, Director
of South Asia Initiatives at the Asia Society.
| began by asking him how Sri Lankans have reacted
to Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s departure from the country.
Immense anger towards him about the mismanagement
RO ERTT [0 and to the family for taking
advantage of ordinary Sri Lankans.
People are frustrated T RN o st et R a IR e ¢
improving, and they sought T R e
We have heard time and again NI A S
saying, look, we just want a handful of honest politicians
to take this on and start making a difference.
How realistic Is that, even as an idea, given
the dynasty of the Rajapaksas, the nature of the political
It’s going to be difficult for anyone, any politician
to navigate Sri Lanka out RO IER et et R s
Because a lot needs to be done RENG IR AR CR N )
on a pathway to fiscal solvency.
So even if the person rumoured to be the next president
when Parliament reconvenes to elect someone, don’t forget,
in 2019, that person lost by 10%, so he’s not very
popular with the general populace.
It’s not going to be easy for any politician to garner
the support of the people needed to implement the reforms
necessary to get Sri Lanka back to fiscal solvency.
And presumably they will have to do the bidding of the IMF
Iif they want funding.
Are they the right people to do that?
All politicians and political parties are in agreement
that the IMF is needed, and that will unlock further
multilateral financing which Sri Lanka desperately needs.
Sri Lanka it’s estimated needs SRR e e E1
finance this year to bridge the current account deficit,
CL R G IR eyl unless they agree terms
Does Sri Lanka have the sort of technocrats who might be best
placed to fill the role of complying with
the likes of the |IMF?
Do those people exist?
Yes, Sri Lanka has been in the IMF programme before.
The previous prime minister and president,
Sri Lanka was in an IMF programme because they
recognised they needed R RO ERES S
to gain access to more foreign exchange to be able to pay
off their debts, and also afford the imports
Sri Lanka needs.
One other point, with regard to President Rajapaksa again,
a lot of people feel they have been let down by this
PTG TN L R G [ want some justice.
Can you see Rajapaksa being held accountable
for the way he has run NI AL R G L LR
| don’t think se, and this is one of the reasons
the protesters are upset AR e tlae e ety
Minister Wickremesinghe.
There is a belief he has shielded the Rajapaksas
from prosecution.
When he was Prime Minister, after the former president
Mahindra Rajapaksa lost his re-election bid,
there was a time they could have prosecuted the Rajapaksas
for their war crimes especially, but he refused
to go ahead with that.
N BT Tu 1 T [ 1o (2 referring to him in
a generally angry way...
They believe he has a propensity to shield
the Rajapaksas from justice.
In Washington, the committee investigating
the storming of the US Capitol last year has heard how
Donald Trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle explained how Mr Trump
ignored their advice to concede the election, and instead
summeoned a mob to Washington.
Well, earlier | spoke to the US presidential historian
Allan Lichtman and asked him if any new information
or accusations levelled at Trump by the congressional
committee will actually stick.
| think it does stick to some extent.
| think it does stick to some A R e s
| think it does stick to some extent. Certain Republican on
extent. Certain Republican on )
extent. Certain Republican on e Nec e tatian )
extent. Certain Republican on e e la e R e sl
extent. Certain Republican on the committee would have
extent. Certain Republican on e At R IR e Rl
the committee would have turned 3
the committee would have turned it into
the committee would have turned itinto a
the committee would have turned it into a circus rather
the committee would have turned R R leo IR TR aa s
it into a circus rather than this
IR TN TR G D ORI (Y
IR TN TR G D R T (A ELC
LRI VTR EYo T T G
presentation. Secondly, e
presentation. Secondly, President Trump
presentation. Secondly, AN IO Rl
presentation. Secondly, President Trump can say what he
President Trump can say what he wants,
President Trump can say what he N T
President Trump can say what he wants, he always does, but the
wants, he always does, but the ey
wants, he always does, but the facts speak
wants, he always does, but the Eln R LA
wants, he always does, but the facts speak for themselves. And
facts speak for themselves. And the telling
facts speak for themselves. And R G TLEGTD]
facts speak for themselves. And RSN GT LGS
facts speak for themselves. And the telling thing here, it’s
the telling thing here, it’s e
the telling thing here, it’s not his critics
the telling thing here, it’s T A A TR N )
not his critics presenting )
not his critics presenting R o e
not his critics presenting R w4
not his critics presenting these facts, it is trompe
these facts, it is trompe l’oeil
these facts, it is trompe N NSO
these facts, it is trompe WY NS PR e TG
these facts, it is trompe NS SR LI EL
these facts, it is trompe U’oeil lists, including his own
l’oeil Lists, including his own Ny
l’oeil lists, including his own White House counsel, who said
White House counsel, who said ey
White House counsel, who said R e
White House counsel, who said R a0
White House counsel, who said R o e L ]
White House counsel, who said these theories about a stolen
these theories about a stolen election. ..
these theories about a stolen A e
these theories about a stolen election... —-- trump
these theories about a stolen election... -- trump loyalists.
election... -- trump loyalists. At
election... -- trump loyalists. A1)
election... -- trump loyalists. AR
election... -- trump loyalists. At any time during this bloody
At any time during this bloody insurrection, Trump could have
insurrection, Trump could have |
insurrection, Trump could have walked to the podium and
insurrection, Trump could have walked to the poedium and called
walked to the podium and called )
walked to the podium and called T
walked to the podium and called R ST
walked to the podium and called IR ST R O
walked to the podium and called upen his followers to stop.
upon his followers to stop. Instead he delayed more than
Instead he delayed more than )
Instead he delayed more than e e
Instead he delayed more than three hours. This is something
three hours. This is something that hasn’t been
three hours. This is something B R O )
three hours. This is something that hasn’t been said very
that hasn’t been said very much.
that hasn’t been said very much. The tremendous human
much. The tremendous human damage Trump has done, not to
damage Trump has done, not to e e o]
damage Trump has done, not to o ]
damage Trump has done, not to advance a principle, but to
advance a principle, but to T )
advance a principle, but to L Z e 3
advance a principle, but to advance his own selfish will
advance his own selfish will to stay in power. We’ve
advance his own selfish will to VAT R R R LG
stay in power. We’ve talked a e
stay in power. We’ve talked a P s 0L
stay in power. We’ve talked a P R
stay in power. We’ve talked a lot about the damage done to
lot about the damage done to T ()
lot about the damage done to IR
lot about the damage done to police officers, 140 injured,
police officers, 140 injured, e
police officers, 140 injured, several deaths resulting. We
several deaths resulting. We LFT iR
several deaths resulting. We T R
several deaths resulting. We haven’t talked enough about the
haven’t talked enough about the damage done to his own
damage done to his own T e
damage done to his own T R
damage done to his own followers. That, to me, was the
followers. That, to me, was the telling
followers. That, to me, was the QLG A
followers. That, to me, was the LG T
followers. That, to me, was the telling point of Mr Ayres’
telling point of Mr Ayres’ testimony, an ordinary guy who
testimony, an ordinary guy who went to
testimony, an ordinary guy who S R e R
testimony, an ordinary guy who R RO RS L)
testimony, an ordinary guy who went to the Capitol and had his
went to the Capitol and had his B
went to the Capitol and had his RN sl
went to the Capitol and had his life ruined because he was
life ruined because he was NG R
life ruined because he was indicted. Multiply that many
indicted. Multiply that many i
indicted. Multiply that many MR
indicted. Multiply that many hundreds of times.
indicted. Multiply that many MG R
indicted. Multiply that many hundreds of times. That raises
hundreds of times. That raises )
hundreds of times. That raises the question about what Trump
the question about what Trump supporters
the question about what Trump UL
the question about what Trump supporters make of what they
supporters make of what they Py
supporters make of what they are hearing, when their hero
are hearing, when their hero FIR
are hearing, when their hero says, these people are
says, these people are Gl ch
says, these people are turncoats. | stand by my
turncoats. | stand by my LN
turncoats. | stand by my L R
turncoats. | stand by my position, the election was
position, the election was Ro L
position, the election was stolen... What is the general
stolen... What is the general view
stolen... What is the general SR
stolen... What is the general view now among his supporters,
view now among his supporters, that
view now among his supporters, G E AT o0 0e8
view now among his supporters, that support base, as to where
that support base, as to where Y13
that support base, as to where LT VT3]
that support base, as to where Mr Trump really stands?
You know, it’s remarkable.
In seven years, Trump’s approval rating
For all respondents, it’s generally in the low 40% range,
as it was in a poll today, very high among Republicans.
But we have seen some erosion of Republican support
for Donald Trump running again.
A lot of Republicans are now getting tired of his act.
They don’t want to run in 2024 AR T L R
They want to run on the economy and Biden’s leadership.
Tensions in the West Bank - Palestinian militant groups
are on the rise as Israel R G
After months of talks and missed deadlines,
a deal has been struck to keep Greece within the euro zone.
The immediate prospect of Greece going bust
in the worst crisis to hit MR R Tl
Emergency services across central Europe are stepping
up their efforts to contain QR R L RGOl A
Nearly 100 people TR LR R
Broadway is traditionally LR R R )
Way by Americans.
IR A W QA EECL T
It is a timely reminder to all Americans of the problems
QRN ) g3 has brought to them.
Leaders meet in Paris for a summit on pollution,
inflation, and third world debt.
This morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations
for a show of military might on the Champs-Elysees.
Wildlife officials in Australia have been coping
with a penguin problem.
Fairy penguins have been staggering ashore
and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge
shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
Some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
This is BBC World News, ARG LR
Sri Lanka’s president has N LRGN BB RT
after fleeing the country following weeks of protests
L R Ty lia 1 investigating the storming
of the US Capitol lays out how L RN [ Rl )
extremists - in a last-ditch N R R U ET LK S
Israel has been carrying out NE RIS
in the occupied West Bank this week - a near daily occurrence
since a wave of deadly attacks by Palestinians
against Israelis in the spring.
The focus has been RO R RS Ea]
where Palestinian militant groups have been rearming, as
our Middle East correspondent Tom Bateman reports.
A mother’s grief echoes around the grave of her daughter.
"You burned my heart”, RN
"I didn’t believe you’d NN R S e
Hanan was hit by a bullet as she headed home
from an English class.
One among dozens of Palestinians killed
In the West Bank this year.
TRANSLATION: When the taxi e A A
army deployed, he asked G R [T
The bullet hit her here. It left five holes in her body.
Her schoolwork full of promise for her family.
Now all they have left are the fragments of a life.
And few answers YN s Fi B
TRANSLATION: As long IR QR [ =L R
there are stories like Hanan’s and every day there is a story.
Hanan’s taxi was hit during an Israeli Army raid into Jenin.
There were gun fights Bl el
LR R ) examining the case.
It’s not clear how R LR LRt ¢
As the raids have stepped up, rights groups accuse Israel
of using excessive force.
The army says It doesn’t TG VA ETO
civilians and they respond RS G IR
It follows a series of deadly attacks by Palestinians.
IR EER LY AT a1l
A gunman opened fire at a packed bar,
killing three Israelis.
It was one in a string of attacks in which 18
people were killed.
Israelis were facing the worst spate of violence
on their street in years.
Meanwhile in Jenin refugee camp, there militants
have been rearming.
Shows of force on a scale not seen in two decades.
A huge amount of weapons, M-16s, automatic
People are letting loose.
It really feels like, and you can hear that,
things are ramping up T NN R AL s e
IR Nl
We were taken to the home of these so-called Jenin Brigade.
It’s part of the Palestinian armed groups - all listed
by Israel and the West as terrorist organisations.
But in the camp their (O IR (IR
TRANSLATION: We got out as armed resistance in the camp.
When we find the soldiers, we shoot at them.
The West sees groups in the camp as terrorist
organisations so why are you doing this, why don’t
you leave it to the official Palestinian Authority?
TRANSLATION: The Palestinian Authority sold us out
from the beginning.
They allowed the Israelis ORI RL FL
they don’t protect us.
LS A Z T R RG]
During a raid in May, the veteran Palestinian
journalist Shireen Abu Akleh e (G
Evidence suggests she was hit by an Israeli bullet,
something the army dispute.
Her case has become a symbol for Palestinians.
These raids are happening R A AU A ey
of the time they are simply just not well documented.
So when a journalist R R AL
VS [ VAT R G LN & the dangers involved.
The same month, an Israeli officer was shot dead in Jenin.
There’s been no let-up RGO CRCI L R E I A IR
in the raids and many fear
a further descent into violence.
"Hanan, | cannot reach you", her mum cries.
Her daughter tried to get to a class and never came home.
Just having hope here meant paying with her life.
Tom Bateman, BBC News, Jenin.
LR G AV AL 1 contenders have made it
to the first round of the leadership race to become
The first round vote happens on Wednesday.
Candidates with fewer than 30 R R NI h
Here’s more from our political editor, Chris Mason.
The early skirmishes RGN e s
like all the other candidates against Mr Sunak.
He pointedly repeated his critique today of what he sees
as their wild promises RN A
We need a return to traditional NI R e e Rz
And that means honesty and responsibility,
not fairy tales.
Once we’ve gripped inflation, | will get the tax burden down.
It is a question of when, not if.
So many of your colleagues have sought to demolish your
record as Chancellor.
Do you have the stomach TR IR e X4
I’m standing here today surrounded by friends
=N R [T
Chris, that’s what gives me the optimism,
the confidence, to do this.
Thank you all very much.
Here’s one of the reasons Mr Sunak sounds chipper -
tempting a fellow candidate to give up and back him instead.
While two senior ministers dashed out of the meeting
to here, to endorse Rishi Sunak, another
two Cabinet ministers i LR (I
and straight away endorsed Liz Truss.
I’ve sat with Liz in Cabinet for some long time.
Very aware that she’s probably a stronger
She’s consistently argued for low tax policies.
Liz was always opposed to Rishi’s higher taxes.
That again is proper e e
From barbs in Downing Street from backers of the Foreign
Secretary to cheers down BRI IR )
supporting the former minister Kemi Badenoch.
I tell the truth, 1 fight for change, | stand up
for people and | stand up for the causes and
the country | love.
Some might say this is no time for novices.
I think this is no time for steady as it goes
sinking inte decline.
It’s time for change.
Kemi is bright, brilliant and brave.
It’s only very rarely in politics you come
across talents like that.
Kemi is undoubtedly, | think, a phenemenon.
She’s got the right stuff.
To another lectern, more applause and another
LN AT T L this time for Tom Tugendhat.
IR A r
We’ve retreated into the pettiness of politics
that is more about personality than principle.
When our nation needed our party to function,
When the moment demanded service, we delivered scandal.
Also on the ballot paper tomorrow, the new
Chanceller, Nadhim Zahawi.
Suella Braverman, the Attorney General for England and Wales.
CHOR T TR ®:LIL minister Penny Mordaunt,
whose launch event is in the morning.
And If you’d like to find AN R
candidates, then do head over to the BBC News website,
as you can see there’s plenty of coverage and analysis there.
That’s also where you’ll find the results of those ballots
when they take place - Ll T s T
and the BBC News app.
You might remember we told you about the James
Webb Space Telescope, IRBE N A R
achievements on Tuesday.
We now have the second batch of L0
We now have the second batch of photos released.
Extraordinary images - R I M e L G
view of the Universe we’ve ever seen.
our science editor Rebecca Morelle reports.
The beauty of our universe D LU E G
These are the cosmic cliffs of the Carina Nebula.
Amidst the dust, stars are being born.
This is a new view of Stephan’s Quintet,
500 million light years away, where vast galaxies are caught
And the deepest ever view of space.
It’s teeming with galaxies.
Some from just a few hundred million years
IR E RN R G LN -
To have worked on a mission for this long,
to be able to finally see it come to fruition,
to do what it’s supposed to do, is just absolutely incredible.
The images are amazing, themselves, just as images,
but the hint of the detailed YA IR N R DR GR R
to do, and what we can learn from these images,
R GG IR IR R Ao P
The telescope blasted off last year on Christmas Day,
and over the last six months, it’s been getting
ready for its mission.
The James Webb Space Telescope is an engineering marvel.
YL R R WY R [ mirror made up
of 18 hexagonal segments, each perfectly aligned to act
as a single surface.
It also has a sun shield MR R R IR T las
to protect it from the heat and light of the sun.
The telescope will look back AR R
before, showing us the light from the very first
We’ll also be able to see how they came together to form
the earliest galaxies.
And it will study other planetary systems, revealing
OO RN R G R beyond our world.
11N 13 like a time machine.
ACTNEAGT STl kT4 into the far distant past
and so we can begin to answer QR IER N 018
how did the first galaxies and stars form.
The hope with this telescope RGO R R
in real time, as it were, a history of the
TV EW L RN &
LR G C T R captured this.
2,000 light years away, it’s a star going
through its death throes.
In some strange way it is a pretty view of something
decaying and dying but we’re able again to look at
the material as it flows away from the star and understand
something about the evolution of the star, so going from star
birth in the star-forming regions, all the way
through to star death.
But this Is just the start for the telescope.
Over the coming days and months, more and more
images will be captured.
Our knowledge of the universe and our place in it
1S about to be transformed.
Rebecca Morelle, BBC News.
Some bad luck for kids in mainland China who love
spending all their time playing online video games.
Tech giant Tencent says it won’t relax its restrictions
on the hours children in China can play games -
even during their summer break.
At the moment, they’re only allowed to play
for an hour a day between Friday and Sunday.
Just time for a reminder of our top story.
Sri Lanka’s president has N LRGN BB RT
after fleeing the country following months of mass
protests over the island’s economic crisis.
His departures ends the Rajapaksa political dynasty
which has ruled the island for decades, and who Sri Lankans
blame for mismanaging the economy, leaving millions
struggling to buy food, fuel and medicine.
We have heard from the speaker N
We have heard from the speaker of parliament saying he expects
of parliament saying he expects to get
of parliament saying he expects RO
of parliament saying he expects to get that resignation letter
(LR GEIR LI R Tee I8t
to get that resignation letter TR
to get that resignation letter HEI R G R A L
to get that resignation letter from the president by the
U GRS R G LGN
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
cooler day - we had much NI 1e s P
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, NN AR T3]
down from the north, following this band of cloud
QLIRS AR LR T or two spots of rain.
So, for much of the country, a more comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of a more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, NGO R 2oL 0
into the mid-20s, but for many other parts of England
and into Wales, we are going to find some extremely high
temperatures developing over the weekend into the start
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
ILIEREN ) e [ W LI
Sri Lanka’s president - Gotabaya Rajapaksa -
has fled the country with members of his family -
following months of protests R AN R ot lat 1
i
The BBC understands his military jet has
QNI R ITD] after protestors stormed his
residence on Saturday.
In Washington, the committee investigating the storming
of the US Capitol last year has laid out how Donald Trump
incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle told how during a heated
meeting Mr Trump ignored e e R R e -]
In Britain, the race to replace Boris Johnson as leader
of the governing party and the country’s Prime
Minister has narrowed to eight fellow Conservative MPs_
The field will be narrowed down to two in a series of votes.
The part at large will then R Y hh
Now on BBC News, HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
25 years ago, almost 1.5 million Christians
NEHRGRIEDE
Now there are around a quarter of a million.
And after years of war and sectarian violence,
many of them have been displaced from their
ancestral homes.
Can anything be done to reverse this trend toward extinction?
Well, my guest is Archbishop Bashar Warda of Erbil,
home to the largest remaining Christian community
LRI 1 g A N D RUL T Christianity has deep roots.
Archbishop Bashar Warda, welcome to HARDtalk.
111918
Welcome, thank you.
It’s a pleasure to have you here, but | have
to ask you, Archbishop, how demoralising is it for
you as the Chaldean Archbishop R RN L G S (N
community getting smaller and smaller year after year?
Yeah, | would say it’s dangerously low in number.
Challenging, because I’ll S A R TN
there is no one reason for our family to stay.
I cannot convince them unless we do something for them.
Yes, we live in a safe environment in Kurdistan,
in Erbil and Duhok, but still, challenges, it’s everywhere
and especially when it comes to the whole region
as Middle East, Christians Y A gs i
It’s not just about Iraq.
Speaking about Syria, Lebanon and the number
of the Christians declining.
So everyone is thinking how to get out safely,
while as church leaders, we are trying our best, really,
to hold to everyone, S E (VA G A
the qualified, because over G ER WA (14
years also of trafficking and all of these kinds
of atrocities alse happened.
LRI U R U EEI D A SIS challenging, frightening,
to be honest, that we wake up one day and to be called
to serve in another country where my community is there
being uprooted from that history.
Let’s talk about security.
The so-called Islamic State were vanguished in 2017.
By then, they had done terrible things to Christian communities
across the north of Iraq.
The Nineveh Plains, communities destroyed,
people forced to flee IR A A U3
enough to survive.
That’s over now.
But isn’t the truth that Christians in Iraq still
feel deeply insecure?
Yes, the culture, the culture have not really raised
to a level of what we call, we say, yeah, they speak
about tolerance, which | hate.
| mean, | haven’t done anything wrong.
When you say they speak of tolerance, you mean
one, the authorities, GG
The people, the people, O R
And the Muslim community?
Yeah, they speak about tolerance, tolerance.
And | keep telling them, please do not use this word.
Speak about co-existence, speak about respect, which,
luckily, some people in the government is picking up
on this and they try really to say, OK, co-existence.
As | said, lack of trust.
Eight months, nine months after the election,
there is no government.
This is sending VAL
messages 1(] everyone.
And, | mean, there is no government in Baghdad.
And this also has its impact on the old people when it comes
to poverty, unemployment, security.
The difficulties between Baghdad and Erbil, you could
tell, you could tell.
It Is a country in chaos.
It’s alsoe a country where it seems Christians who even dream
of recovering their homes, because tens of thousands
were forced to flee and were displaced from their ancestral
homes, if they attempt to go back, for many
of them, it is impossible to reclaim their properties.
It’s already been sold I N R NN R
So with whom you are going to deal?
And there are lots of mediators, corruption.
And so, yeah, it’s, we’ve lost over 10,000 properties and some
people would say more of this.
You said in 2019, Christians in lraq are, your quote,
Is that a trajectory which is now inevitable, extinction?
If we do not do something as a government and people,
civil societies, NGOs, it could be, it could be.
As | said, there is no one reason that | could speak
to a family to tell them, please stay.
Yes, it’s a historical land.
It’s the land of cur ancestors.
Blood was shed because our faith, you could tell,
but they would say, "OK, Bishop, "how am | going
to feed my family?
"Who Is going to secure my T R Rt
A G
So what is it then that NSO A GGl
extraordinary work in and arocund Erbil?
Because you, unlike many very senior church people,
you’ve got your hands dirty, not just with matters of faith
and theology and the church, you’ve been involved
in founding and operating a university, a hospital,
shops, commercial ventures.
You seem to have a finger in all sorts of pies.
Why are you doing that?
Well, I’m doing that for the whole country.
In the ‘40s and ‘50s N I TR R R
the Jewish community.
[T G TR [Tl e NS have asked themselves
N[ dalf[o
They think it’s something older.
| mean, they have a land they should go.
But we lost qualified people.
We lost musicians.
Until today, the most popular music is being conducted
S R Ty fe T from the ‘30s
We lost the culture and imagine GNP R T R
not their Medina, not their Yazidis,
definitely Christians.
So what I’m doing is not just doing it for my people,
which | love them, and | do e e
LR N a0
Creating jobs, creating qualified centres, yes.
But I’m doing it for the whole country because the diversity
of that part of the country Rl
Otherwise you could imagine other scenarios.
(IR e LB R R R R R I
oI TP T R [ R R G R U R L
in your Christian community, but other communities too.
| mean, | believe your university has, what, roughly
800 places for students, your hospital has...
LR T o kT4 TR R e e
We are 280 and next year we are expecting...
So you’re hoping to expand?
Definitely.
And then your hospital has beds, what, for 100 people?
Well, I’m exaggerating then.
| mean, let us be honest.
It is very small scale RGBTl aa i I
And again, I’m just wondering whether it is only faith
that keeps you going, TR -1 L
seems like you are up against a challenge almost
beyond any possible UEENIRIRCETGIL R
Yeah, but that’s what makes life meaningful.
A hope that it’s there and we, all with the people
who are helping me are part of people who are building
and strengthening that hope.
It’s not a hope that comes like a dream.
No, we have to work hard, knock doors.
Not everyone is listening, but those who are listening
are really making it much, much easier on me.
The ventures | mentioned are in a specific neighbourhood,
a quarter of a wider RGN -G &~
And I’m just interested, and this applies not
just to your region, NIRRT R E )
of all Christians e R NG R
Is it wise to, In a sense, encourage Christians to gather
in concentrated communities in one particular place?
One could argue and fear that those places might become
ghettos and might become easy targets for those extremists
who want to continue T R a1 s
violence and persecution.
No, that’s not my plan.
That’s not my wish.
In fact, I’ve always said A O
because socially speaking, whenever there is a Christian
community, Yazidi community, people tend to gather
RN QT T Wi g
This is a social fact.
What I’m saying, OK, Ankawa is one city of
three, four big spots.
Let’s work on strengthening all of this together.
Not really, | mean, the danger is there,
but what | am doing always in my work and when | go out,
I’m not talking just about Ankawa, I’m encouraging
everyone, please, there are certain areas which needs help.
Please go there.
And that’s why | work R R G
and priests always working DS GER RSN G LR
MO
But just to be specific, is Ankawa, as you envisage it,
a fully and completely Christian community,
or do you want Muslims, Yazidis, others to be
integrated in that community?
We do have, we do have Christian community
We have also Muslim communities living peacefully
with our Yazidi community.
LRV YL AT R also is open to all,
schools, open to all.
See, the reason I’m asking this is because you’ve reflected
over years on the nature R R I S )
And at times, as I’ve N L R R CELIL T
about things you’ve said, you’ve appeared to reflect
QIO EICREES TN G T about Islam which inevitably
leads Christians to feel like, even if they are accepted,
even if they’re peaceably living side by side
with Muslims, they have a form NEI R E IR I
Is that what you believe?
I always being honest with my brothers, Muslims
and imams and telling them R s T e )
When it’s based the Constitution on Islamic Sharia,
QLR [RIe ELG TR R R RG]
This Is just the fact.
If you based the whole Constitution on any Sharia
or any religion, those who are not of the same
religion will be...
So, my question is, how can Christians, in your view,
ever feel fully equal and free, in predeminantly
Muslim society. ..
ILE AU
They will never?
No.
This is just a fact R (TN
Muslims think this way.
UGG R gAY the Sharia, to your religion.
The natural, the logic will be those who are not Muslims
would not be considered as first citizens.
See, I’m just looking at the words of another
interesting and influential voice in the Middle East
Christian community, Harry Hagopian.
He’s an international lawyer.
He was executive secretary R R 0 lee s R a st AT
in Jerusalem, assistant general secretary of the Middle East
Council of Churches, based in Beirut, in Lebanon.
Harry Hagopian says we shouldn’t, as Christians,
be in any way exclusivist R I
the work we do.
He says, quote, "today, perhaps more than at any other time,
"Christians and Muslims are condemned to solidarity.
"It is only in solidarity ORI OGN
hope to vanquish tyranny, barbarity and fanaticism.”
Do you agree?
There was never in the history that Christians have been
sectarian when it comes to their schools, hospitals,
anything like that.
| mean, you could go to, | mean, I’m sure you travelled
to Lebanon and you’ve seen what the Christians
O A E R D to the whole country.
Yes, we have to unify all the efforts in fighting extremism.
But do you work with Muslims or do you regard your work
as entirely in the Christian Il lis&d
Every day.
Every day, whenever | see any, | meet any imams, I’m
addressing these issues friendly and without, really,
I mean, attacking just to tell them this is the truth and this
s the result of 1,400 years.
We have to learn RO (g2
Do you think then, do you agree with Mr Hagopian,
who worries that sometimes the international Christian
supporters of Christians in Iraq and in the wider
Middle East, they fail R OE] VA Lo [T
the Muslim community.
They see things, according to Mr Hagopian,
in an exclusively Christian prism, focusing on Christian
persecution, when the fact is, of course, that many other
groups, Muslims, Yazidis, many others, are also
facing persecution across the Middle East region.
He says, "Let’s remember that.”
Do you remember that?
Well, speaking of my experience, the people
that I’ve dealt with, like, people like AC
and bishop conferences, Knights of Columbus,
all the people who have helped me, they never said
and encouraged me to only Y & & - W
Whoever comes to the door, looking for help, we
are offering that help.
Of course, of course, there are some donors,
for example, who would be interested, but this
And that’s why we made good friendships during a time
of crisis and ISIS with se many people who are in need
from all the communities.
Because I’ve said it many times, yes.
If 1SIS was behind displacement of 125,000 Christians,
WA RIRE IRV IN displacement of three
millien Sunnis from Mosul and Anbar and Salahuddin.
I’ve said that ISIS have done damage to Islam and to Muslims
in these governorates more than, but of course,
I am a bishop, so | have to speak for my people.
And as a bishop, | want O S I LR
very sensitive subject, and that is conversion.
Some Muslims, particularly Islamists and more extreme
Muslims, accuse Christians of actively seeking out
converts, undermining the Muslim community.
U - R TV on conversion?
Do you encourage, welcome, 10 o R et e
Iragi Muslims converting to Christianity?
Well, | lived with, | mean, my community lived with Islam
for more than 1,400 years.
And according to Islamic SRR VNG s
the Islamic rulers, you have R R G IR
There is no conversion, no evangelisation.
Once you start this activity, you are waging a war
against Islam and jihad would be justified.
So we respect this, | mean, all the way.
However, however, if anyone would come to my door, Muslim,
asking about Christ, Christianity to tell,
| will tell him who we are.
See, that’s very diplomatically put.
Your boss, | guess, that is the Chaldean patriarch,
Louis Rafael Sako, he said, T T E
RN R3]
We must love them.
If Christians want to convert to Islam, that is fine.
And if Muslims want to convert to Christianity,
that is also OK, | guess..."
But it’s not OK with the constitution
He will be killed INLER N
That’s what I’m getting to, | suppose.
Is it responsible to say to the world, if Muslims want
to convert to Christianity, WEALEI N &
| understand why he said it.
But the truth in Irag, and you know it much better
than me, is that any Muslims who do convert, they face...
And | will be endangering my community.
| mean, that’s the fact.
| mean, we have to say as it is, we are not blaming anyone.
Get rid of, | mean, at least g AR R GR G R GTESGL]
change it, then we could speak with Muslims.
Listen, there is nothing NR R a3 aiatial e R s
prevents us from this.
But once it’s there, | have to respect, otherwise...
Yeah, I’m just wondering about the reality on the ground.
| mean, there you sit in Erbil.
| don’t know if you’re aware N R R R
but there have been cases, Christianity Today reported
just last month converts RO EL T AN Y
being reported as ousted by their families, removed
from their homes, threatened, "to the point of death
where fleeing Is their RN oL T
That’s a fact. That’s a fact.
Why we are surprised with this?
This is the Islamic Sharia, which says, as long as you live
under the Islamic authority, respecting the principle
of Sharia, you live in the land of Islam and land of peace.
01T R TIR dg A (el Vg 8 to evangelise, you are raging
a war against Islam and jihad would be justified against you.
I’m not, I’m not making up.
This is the fact which our ancestors have respected
in a certain period of history.
They were paying jizya.
Thank God there was nothing of that.
It was a condition for ISIS, but that’s what, where we are.
So here you are in London YR e Al e e e el
in defence of religious freedoms around the world,
but in particular, in countries where religious freedom
You, in the past, have seemed quite disappeinted by some
of the lack of support and assistance you’ve received
from Western churches and Western governments,
and you appear to ascribe that R ARG R e
of upsetting Islamic governments and Islamic
communities, a sort of fear of Islam, being accused of
Islamophobia.
Do you still think that is present?
Yeah, still some governments feel it would be showing
favouritism if they would help.
You don’t get the help you feel you need?
From the government?
VP [ B
The governments in Europe will not deal
directly, except Hungary.
Hungary made an example.
They said, OK, those are persecuted people.
Christians and Yazidis, we’ll go and help them there,
where they are, but others have, are reluctant.
And | hope and I’ve said (R R A
that the government here will follow also the example
probably of Hungary.
| mean, they’ve started dealing G REN G E s R L O A
with churches, condition that they are qualified
to receive the help YN RN el
bureaucratic issues.
LR LER That’s fine.
If we are ready to receive help and be within the mandates. ..
This is difficult, isn’t it?
| mean, the West has a complex recent relationship with Iraq,
and we all know what happened with Western
IS ERUGH R R GIE
So I’m not sure that many in your own country necessarily
want to see reliance AN DR
from the United States, the United Kingdom and other
Western countries, do they?
But if you check the date, | mean, the numbers
of the help, the amount of help G E R IEL RN ]
from international countries I I IR R
it still is there, and still Iraq is seeking
loans and grants.
That’s much more about N M= G T Vgl
interests and geopolitics than it is about a desire
(L Tl T g1 8 communities like yours.
Being there and maintaining these cultures, these
Il gL I TN =1 of the security, part
of the building of security of the whole country.
It’s a large picture that should be, it’s a holistic
approach that the government should take into consideration.
LU LRIV TN ] showing favourites.
And If you help a Christian school, which has 90%
of its students, Muslims, R O
And the same thing when it comes to hospital,
clinic, you could tell.
Interesting, you talk about that helistic approach.
And | just wonder, as we close this interview, why do you feel
it matters so much that a Christian community,
a Christian presence is maintained in a country
like Iraq, where, of course, it has a long, long history,
but it may not have a future.
Yes, because first, | do believe in the words that
people, Muslim people will tell me, we like you, we
love you, we want you to stay.
OK, I’ll take it.
They say it, OK, I’ll take it.
Then | come back, OK, IR G R
And | like it when they start IS LR G RGN L I
R [EL RGN qualified doctors, nursing,
teachers, professors.
| like it and I like it more because the future
of the country depends on the diversity.
It’s wonderful, wonderful.
Everyone have contributed in making Iraq
what we know as Iraqg.
The mosaic must be maintained.
It should be and we are responsible for it.
Archbishop Bashar Warda, | thank you very much indeed
for being on HARDtalk, W EL SN
111918
Hello, there.
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, NN AR T3]
down from the north, following this band of cloud
QLIRS AR LR T or two spots of rain.
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, NGO R 2oL 0
into the mid-20s, but for many other parts of England
and into Wales, we are going to find some extremely high
temperatures developing over the weekend into the start
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
IR T o T I’m Sally Bundock
with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
After months of mass protests against his rule,
the president of Sri Lanka RO R T A
The first round of voting takes place later in the race to be
More details emerge about last year’s storming
of the US Capitol, and how Donald Trump tried
to cling on to power.
LU G ENE Ty D] ET O RIS UE LT
C1 RGN {7 Running Of The Bulls
festival in Pamplona.
Sri Lanka’s president, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, has fled
the country with members of his family, following months
of mass protests over AR e s st 1R a eI
His formal resignation s expected to be announced
at some point today.
The BBC understands the President’s military
jet has landed in Male, the capital of the Maldives.
He had been in hiding after protestors stormed his
residence on Saturday.
Our south Asia correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan sent this
report from Colombo.
Many Sri Lankans feel that leaving is their only
O ML R defined by endless waits.
Hundreds queue for passports.
A chance to leave their MR EN R R e
of something better.
Many trying to make it to the Middle East,
like Vasana, whose hoping AN R & LR - 1s
to support her six-year-old.
How do you feel about wanting to leave Sri Lanka?
She says she’s going because she’s struggling
to even get food and that’s one of the reasons why she’s trying
Me, I’m planning to go to UK. We don’t see any future.
So that’s basically we want to move on this
country for our kids, not for us.
There’s been a lot of pressure for President
Rajapaksa to step down.
Did you vote for him?
And we never expected this.
e (TR R G T | YN Vin
And it’s not just these crowds who are trying
to leave the country.
The very people who are blamed for creating
this economic crisis, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa
and his family members, are also trying to flee the island.
This video is believed to have been recorded at the airport
as former finance minister Basil Rajapaksa was
stopped at immigration.
He finally left, said to be heading to America.
His brother, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, has now also fled.
A ruthless politician accused of brutality and corruption,
part of a family dynasty which has ruled Sri Lanka
for decades - once popular, now parodied.
Gotabaya Rajapaksa is blamed for the country’s
nela R
He’s brought this country to its knees.
We have no food to eat. We have no food.
The basic, the basic human I I TN R
And that’s thanks to these people and this one family,
which has been basically draining all the sources
AR IR EIR - NV -]
Lining up for a peek inside the presidential palace
days after Gotabaya Rajapaksa fled his home, he’s
now left the country.
ST | S-S IR
We will be live in Colombo in half
We will be live in Colombo in EI )
We will be live in Colombo in Y F N s
We will be live in Colombo in F RN ]
We will be live in Colombo in E RN
We will be live in Colombo in F iR IR )
half an hour to assess the political crisis and the
[l W Ty o g Yo lat a1l
political crisis and the economic consequences.
Conservative MPs will today N R R R E e
to vote for which of the eight candidates they want
IGECDIETR T ER L ) as the party’s leader,
and British Prime Minister, as balloting begins
to find his successor.
After nominations for the contest closed on Tuesday
evening, the eight leadership hopefuls took part in a
hustings event to try to secure S R (T R A LEL IR
And If you’d like to find AN R
candidates and the contest, NI R e
to the BBC News website, as you can see there’s plenty
of coverage and analysis there.
That’s also where you’ll find the results of those ballots
when they take place - Ll T s T
and the BBC News app.
In Washington, the committee investigating
the storming of the US Capitol last year has heard how
Donald Trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid
tec remain in office.
Members of his inner circle explained how Mr Trump
ignored their advice to concede the election, and instead
summeoned a mob to Washington.
Here’s our North America T N Nl L
Piecing together the events that led up
to the riot at the US Capitol.
This latest hearing focused on the role Donald Trump played
in the days and weeks ARG Vi
election to Joe Biden, including claims the former
president encouraged far right NIRRT
chaos on Capitol Hill.
Donald Trump, his legal team RGN eI 1]
to have clashed over the former AL NSRS U
Hours later, Mr Trump urged his supporters in a tweet
to descend on Washington on January 6th
for what he promised would be a wild rally.
That, according to one committee member, was a call
to arms for some of Mr Trump’s supporters.
At 1:42am on December 19th, 2020, shortly after the last
participants left the unhinged meeting, Trump sent
out the tweet with his explosive invitation.
The panel then heard from this man, a ene-time supporter
of Mr Trump, who face criminal charges over his actions
on January 6th.
He said he went to Washington and illegally entered
the Capitol building because he thought
the result of the election G E e ai g
For me, personally, | was pretty hardcore into the social
media - Facebook, Twitter, Instagram.
| followed President Trump, all of the websites, you know.
He basically put out, come to Stop The Steal rally, you know?
And | felt like | needed I e
Another former ally of the president told
the committee he was worried about what could happen
at the next US election.
As tragic as it is what we saw on January 6th,
the potential was so much more.
Again, all we have to look at is the iconic images of that
day, with the gallows set up for Mike Pence, for the vice
president of the United States.
Donald Trump has repeatedly R R el ne et AT
a political witch hunt.
This latest hearing ended with a statement by one
of its leading members, the Republican Liz
Cheney, who said Mr Trump had EI I A )
to contact a witness whose name has not been made public.
She said the committee would take any effort
to influence witness testimony very seriously, but only
the Department of Justice has the power to prosecute any
individuals suspected of breaking the law.
] 11T BBC News.
Well, we can speak to the US political analyst Max Kutner.
R
Max, welcome to the programme. YiTae]
Max, welcome to the programme. TGRS
Max, welcome to the programme. GRS L
Max, welcome to the programme. With every day goes by, there
With every day goes by, there Py
With every day goes by, there YR
With every day goes by, there are more revelations, more
are more revelations, more A
are more revelations, more testimony. Talk us through
testimony. Talk us through this B
testimony. Talk us through this latest testimony that we’ve
latest testimony that we’ve Nl
latest testimony that we’ve VLN CERLTN
latest testimony that we’ve been hearing, and what impact
been hearing, and what impact e
been hearing, and what impact it has_
been hearing, and what impact it has. | think the big
it has. | think the big takeaway today was regarding
takeaway today was regarding I [Na 14
takeaway today was regarding MG R ]
takeaway today was regarding LR T
takeaway today was regarding LRI Rh R
takeaway today was regarding President Trump in that these
President Trump in that these allegations of witness
allegations of witness tampering, if we can call it
tampering, if we can call it that. Apparently
tampering, if we can call it O E I R G AT s
that. Apparently former I [Na 14
that. Apparently former MG R ]
that. Apparently former LRI N =Dl
that. Apparently former L R T [ R LR s G
President Trump had attempted to
President Trump had attempted Rl EL Y
President Trump had attempted to intimidate a
President Trump had attempted eIl R TL e )
President Trump had attempted eI R LTI The
to intimidate a future witness e
to intimidate a future witness N
to intimidate a future witness out of testifying.
to intimidate a future witness N RGOV RGN
LG R T DI G Trump has
out of testifying. President Trump has denied this, or
N RO L1 Trump has denied this, or his
Trump has denied this, or his spokesperson has denied it, but
spokesperson has denied it, but |
spokesperson has denied it, but K14
spokesperson has denied it, but | think this
spokesperson has denied it, but IR & IR
spokesperson has denied it, but RO IR EILS
spokesperson has denied it, but I think this is major for two
| think this is major for two I
| think this is major for two reasons. First, this brings the
reasons. First, this brings the T
reasons. First, this brings the issues that the committee is
issues that the committee is EIU]
issues that the committee is talking about to the present
talking about to the present e
talking about to the present date. The
talking about to the present R IR R i)
talking about to the present date. The committee had
talking about to the present IR R st e N e e il
date. The committee had come sl d
date. The committee had come T 1]
date. The committee had come TR R gid a8 113
date. The committee had come under some criticisms by Trump
under some criticisms by Trump supporters,
under some criticisms by Trump I IR
under some criticisms by Trump supporters, the Republicans,
supporters, the Republicans, saying that,
supporters, the Republicans, FWI TRy RS
supporters, the Republicans, VIR E RN T )
supporters, the Republicans, saying that, we are talking
saying that, we are talking FYe L
saying that, we are talking YR
saying that, we are talking IR R g et
saying that, we are talking about events from a
saying that, we are talking E NS R LS
saying that, we are talking E[ N RS RN D I L
saying that, we are talking E NS RN R R K
about events from a year and a half ago, we should move on
half age, we should move on and e
half ago, we should move on and I 0
half ago, we should move on and I R e
half ago, we should move on and N IR e T
half ago, we should move on and talk about more relevant things
talk about more relevant things like the economy.
talk about more relevant things RO I 1) A 101
talk about more relevant things like the economy. But like |
like the economy. But like | TN
like the economy. But like | PR 1
like the economy. But like | said, this brings these issues
said, this brings these issues Ty
said, this brings these issues RO RG0S
said, this brings these issues RO R A
said, this brings these issues into the present day, talking
into the present day, talking FYe L
into the present day, talking about something President Trump
about something President Trump apparently did
about something President Trump O R A
about something President Trump apparently did very, very
apparently did very, very recently.
C T (G T R T g R T " recently. The
C T (G T R T g R T " (AR RO
apparently did very, very (AR RO SR
apparently did very, very (AR RO CE U R
recently. The other reason why this
recently. The other reason why Rl e
recently. The other reason why this matters, Sally, is because
this matters, Sally, is because )
this matters, Sally, is because sl
this matters, Sally, is because N -]
this matters, Sally, is because there had been a
this matters, Sally, is because MR W s
this matters, Sally, is because there had been a lot of debate
there had been a lot of debate over
there had been a lot of debate N R e R
there had been a lot of debate over what the point of this
WAL IR ORI ARG ]E et
WAL IR ORI ARG ]E e L
over what the point of this committee. .. The committee was
committee... The committee was reportedly split on what it
reportedly split on what it should be doing, whether it
should be doing, whether it il
should be doing, whether it A B
should be doing, whether it G RN - Redl e
should be doing, whether it G RN N edln RS e
should issue criminal referrals N
should issue criminal referrals I
should issue criminal referrals or just acting
should issue criminal referrals NP TR
should issue criminal referrals NP ETa LRI
or just acting for a legislative
or just acting for a LIS EVAER (L T-)
or just acting for a legislative purpose. Which is
legislative purpose. Which is )
legislative purpose. Which is R i)
legislative purpose. Which is the written reason
legislative purpose. Which is R UG UG
legislative purpose. Which is R IR R AU G
the written reason why these et a i
the written reason why these committees exists, to come up
committees exists, to come up with legislative
with legislative recommendations. But apparently
recommendations. But apparently )
recommendations. But apparently e Nec e tatian )
recommendations. But apparently e e e el
the committee referred I [Na 14
the committee referred MG R ]
the committee referred President Trump to
the committee referred LRI R R
President Trump to the Department of Justice for
Department of Justice for potential prosecution, and a
potential prosecution, and a ol
potential prosecution, and a UG RS
potential prosecution, and a criminal referral, over this
criminal referral, over this LG
criminal referral, over this EIEL LRV G T
criminal referral, over this alleged witness tampering. This
alleged witness tampering. This %1\
alleged witness tampering. This (CEIE/ S
alleged witness tampering. This really shows this committee
alleged witness tampering. This CE R R G i R
really shows this committee is s
really shows this committee is A4
really shows this committee is not just about legislative
not just about legislative action,
not just about legislative Eln [ -1 o)
not just about legislative action, and it really does have
action, and it really does have SR
action, and it really does have teeth. In terms of
action, and it really does have UM NE R A
action, and it really does have teeth. In terms of how people
teeth. In terms of how people Py
teeth. In terms of how people EIC LS
teeth. In terms of how people are digesting this in the
are digesting this in the IR
are digesting this in the United States, is split,
United States, is split, polarised? Do you have those
polarised? Do you have those Ty
polarised? Do you have those 10
polarised? Do you have those who are anti-Trump who think
who are anti-Trump who think this
who are anti-Trump who think IR et
who are anti-Trump who think IR e i
who are anti-Trump who think this committee and the daily
this committee and the daily NI
this committee and the daily NI
this committee and the daily coverage is critical and very
coverage Is critical and very Tl
coverage is critical and very important, and then do you have
important, and then do you have )
important, and then do you have the Trump
important, and then do you have QRO RS
important, and then do you have the Trump followers who just
the Trump followers who just e
the Trump followers who just want to
the Trump followers who just T R ]
the Trump followers who just want toc move on?
the Trump followers who just N RO N YA Y
the Trump followers who just T RO YA )
the Trump followers who just want to move on? We are seeing
want to move on? We are seeing GG
want to move on? We are seeing I E GRS
want to move on? We are seeing something interesting after
NG T ELLCEE G DN this
UG ERCIE Gl this hearing in particular.
UG ERCICR Gl this hearing in particular. The
this hearing in particular. The e
this hearing in particular. The first hearing was in prime time
first hearing was in prime time a
first hearing was in prime time R )
first hearing was in prime time a couple of weeks ago, a lot of
a couple of weeks ago, a lot of Trump
a couple of weeks ago, a lot of O LTS
CR I R R D[RR oL 10
CR I R R D[RR Trump allies came out of the
Trump allies came out of the sk 084
Trump allies came out of the T s 0 o]
Trump allies came out of the woodwork to defend the
woodwork to defend the president and say it was old
president and say it was old News.
president and say it was old (RN
president and say it was old news. Today | noticed it was
news. Today | noticed it was )
news. Today | noticed it was radio silence, it seems the
radio silence, It seems the Trump
radio silence, it seems the Trump allies
radio silence, it seems the O LTI
radio silence, it seems the Trump allies are taking
radio silence, it seems the TSR LR G
Trump allies are taking the position
Trump allies are taking the LR
Trump allies are taking the position of just ignoring
position of just ignoring what’s happening in
position of just ignoring O E R EL I DR R L
what’s happening in these hearings. |
what’s happening in these R E RYEL
what’s happening in these hearings. | was recalling...
hearings. | was recalling... 57
hearings. | was recalling... They might be taking a page out
They might be taking a page out N
They might be taking a page out R
They might be taking a page out of the Trump playbook. |
of the Trump playbook. I recall XN
of the Trump playbook. I recall seeing that
of the Trump playbook. | recall seeing that he would only say,
seeing that he would only say, you
seeing that he would only say, G
seeing that he would only say, VI RYE T
seeing that he would only say, you never want to comment on
you never want to comment on TG GILGA
you never want to comment on something, because that makes
something, because that makes 3
something, because that makes ita
something, because that makes R ]
something, because that makes it a two day story,
something, because that makes (RGN R A1 G
something, because that makes it a two day story, let it
it a two day story, let it TN
it a two day story, let it pass. It seems
it a two day story, let it I R G R
it a two day story, let it pass. It seems that’s what
pass. It seems that’s what Republicans are doing after the
Republicans are doing after the hearing in recent hours.
hearing in recent hours. LRI
hearing in recent hours. R R (LS
hearing in recent hours. Anti-Trump folks have been
Anti-Trump folks have been Y]
Anti-Trump folks have been treating this news as major
treating this news as major news,
treating this news as major ST
treating this news as major news, as earth-shattering,
news, as earth-shattering, el
news, as earth-shattering, world stopping news. That the
world stopping news. That the tactic
world stopping news. That the a1
world stopping news. That the & a1 AN
world stopping news. That the tactic they have taken
tactic they have taken QIS
tactic they have taken throughout these hearings,
throughout these hearings, QIS
throughout these hearings, throughout the Russia
throughout the Russia investigation, the impeachment
investigation, the impeachment SeE1n
investigation, the impeachment o TR N e
investigation, the impeachment E RGN e ]
trial. These Democrats and anti-Trump
trial. These Democrats and IO R (LS
trial. These Democrats and anti-Trump folks think everyone
anti-Trump folks think everyone il
anti-Trump folks think everyone should pay attention to what’s
should pay attention to what’s happening at these hearings.
happening at these hearings. e
happening at these hearings. SN E R
happening at these hearings. IV TN T AT
happening at these hearings. But ultimately, as you
happening at these hearings. AT L AR TR TR YT
happening at these hearings. But ultimately, as you say, the
But ultimately, as you say, the )
But ultimately, as you say, the st et
But ultimately, as you say, the committee itself has been
committee itself has been L]
committee itself has been LRI
committee itself has been looking into its purpose and
L1 RGO T N e
IR CR R T fO]h aims, what
IR CR R T fO]h X PR L Rl
IR CR R T fO]h X R 1 L A (BT
IR CR R T fO]h aims, what will be the end
aims, what will be the end L
aims, what will be the end (EI3T L1 4
aims, what will be the end result, but will the end result
result, but will the end result )
result, but will the end result RO
result, but will the end result be that former President Trump
be that former President Trump a0 8
be that former President Trump 11lal e is)
be that former President Trump cannot run in
be that former President Trump SRR
be that former President Trump B AR s
cannot run in the next election? Is
cannot run in the next A i YA R
cannot run in the next A e YA R R
cannot run in the next A e d YR R Rt
election? Is that the ultimate [ r1
election? Is that the ultimate goal? That could be a pie in
goal? That could be a pie in )
goal? That could be a pie in the sky
goal? That could be a pie in QAR I
goal? That could be a pie in QAR R
goal? That could be a pie in the sky dream of some people in
the sky dream of some people in )
the sky dream of some people in the hearings,
the sky dream of some people in QT DT
the sky dream of some people in the hearings, but | don’t think
the hearings, but | don’t think that
the hearings, but | don’t think G A
the hearings, but | don’t think that is the goal of this
that is the goal of this ey
that is the goal of this e R )
that is the goal of this et TR e et i
committee. These committees come
committee. These committees SR
committee. These committees come up with
committee. These committees SR R AU U EH S
come up with recommendations FYe L
come up with recommendations Y 1a ]
come up with recommendations N R
come up with recommendations NI
come up with recommendations about an issue that happened,
about an issue that happened, investigate the issue
about an issue that happened, NS E R G R ]
investigate the issue and il
investigate the issue and figure how the US Congress
figure how the US Congress i 00
figure how the US Congress should deal with this
figure how the US Congress A HIGE IR I G R GICRA
should deal with this issue. e
should deal with this issue. IR ]
should deal with this issue. That’s a very different goal
That’s a very different goal than people who might say this
than people who might say this il
than people who might say this should stop President
than people who might say this should step President Trump
should stop President Trump Tee I8t
should stop President Trump HOINOLLTGR
should stop President Trump OO ¥
should stop President Trump from running. It’s important to
from running. It’s important to
HCROLLTL TR LRl g R R
from running. It’s important to AR A 4
from running. It’s important to note that President Trump still
note that President Trump still has
note that President Trump still Y]
note that President Trump still has a lot
note that President Trump still YR
note that President Trump still R Rl o1 o
note that President Trump still has a lot of support in the US,
has a lot of support in the US, maybe not all Republicans but
maybe not all Republicans but uEl’a
maybe not all Republicans but many. So
maybe not all Republicans but many. Se | don’t think
maybe not all Republicans but many. So | den’t think that’s
many. So | don’t think that’s )
many. So | don’t think that’s the goal of
many. So | don’t think that’s the goal of this, but the
many. So | don’t think that’s the goal of this, but the news
the goal of this, but the news today of the alleged witness
today of the alleged witness tampering, that is certainly
tampering, that is certainly NG
tampering, that is certainly interesting and goes beyond the
interesting and goes beyond the legislative function. We shall
legislative function. We shall )
legislative function. We shall 'GJE
legislative function. We shall keep a close eye
legislative function. We shall R TS LR
legislative function. We shall keep a close eye at the BBC,
keep a close eye at the BBC, thank you for your time.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come.
As the Open Championship nears, we’ll hear from one
of the legends of the game, ULERTLL N
After months of talks and missed deadlines,
a deal has been struck to keep Greece within the euro zone.
The immediate prospect of Greece going bust
in the worst crisis to hit MR R Tl
Emergency services across central Europe are stepping
up their efforts to contain QR R L RGOl A
Nearly 100 people TR LR R
Broadway is traditionally LR R R )
Way by Americans.
IR A W QA EECL T
It is a timely reminder to all Americans of the problems
QRN ) g3 has brought to them.
Leaders meet in Paris for a summit on pollution,
inflation, and third world debt.
This morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations
for a show of military might on the Champs-Elysees.
Wildlife officials in Australia have been coping
with a penguin problem.
Fairy penguins have been staggering ashore
and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge
shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
Some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
This is BBC News, AR R
After months of mass protests against his rule,
the president of Sri Lanka RO R T A
The first round of voting takes place later in the race to be
Hundreds of protesters gathered in Pamplona
following multiple complaints of sexual assault, as well as
one rape, during the city’s bull-running festival.
Local police have said they are investigating and that
no arrests have yet been made.
These latest allegations are reminiscent of the notorious
wolfpack case, when a woman was gang-raped
at the same festival in 2016.
The BBC’s Azadeh Moshiri has this report.
Hundreds of whistles sounding the crowd’s anger as,
yet again, Pamplona’s famous bull running festival
Is marked by sexual assault.
TRANSLATION: We’re here because a hig aggression has
been committed, a rape, IR R N - T ale el
And we’re here to tell this woman that we weren’t
able to stop It.
But we are here. N R g e o P
And she will have all RN RN
Spanish authorities confirmed that a woman said she was raped
during the event and that several other women
also reported they’d SR VG
Spain has been here before, and these latest attacks have
brought back a case that sparked outrage
across the country.
The so-called Wolfpack case.
Six years ago, five men gang-raped an 18-year-old
But a Spanish court ruled they were only guilty of sexual
abuse, and sentenced them IR R BT
The court ruled neither violence nor intimidation had
been used - key conditions LA L Rl
to the case was the fact the defendant hadn’'t said "no”
in the video her assailants filmed while they raped her.
Though the Supreme Court eventually convicted the men
of rape, it was only a few months ago that, after years
of public pressure, a draft bill was approved
Victims would only have to prove that they never said
yes”, and therefore never consented.
TRANSALATION: We owed It to each of the victims.
We owed it to curselves.
And most likely it would be one of the most important
rights that we can leave to our daughters for
the present and future.
Only yes is yes, and long live the women’s fight.
Prime Minister Pedro ot A IR i
rights a central issue for his government.
But these latest attacks are a reminder that that work
Is not over, and this crowd will be watching how
Azadeh Moshiri, BBC News.
The US President Joe Biden is starting his first
trip to the Middle East since taking office.
As our Middle East Correspondent, Yolande Knell,
reports, his visit looks set RN A
between the two sides A LR R E IR L R
el
For Joe
TR ] R
For Joe Biden’s first visit to )
For Joe Biden’s first visit to the holy
For Joe Biden’s first visit to G VAELT!
For Joe Biden’s first visit to the holy land as president,
For Joe Biden’s first visit to the holy land as president, the
the holy land as president, the T
the holy land as president, the red carpet is being rolled out.
red carpet is being rolled out. He
red carpet is being rolled out. R L
red carpet is being rolled out. IR LR
red carpet is being rolled out. He wants to straighten out
ORGSR T He wants to straighten out US
He wants to straighten out US relations in
He wants to straighten out US AR R R
He wants to straighten out US relations in the region. He has
relations in the region. He has T
relations in the region. He has ORIl
relations in the region. He has been coming here for five
been coming here for five [l
been coming here for five [ e[ 0
been coming here for five decades. But a lot has changed.
decades. But a lot has changed. i
decades. But a lot has changed. e
decades. But a lot has changed. In Israel, the US backed
In Israel, the US backed formula for making peace with
formula for making peace with the
formula for making peace with N L e
formula for making peace with N L I e
formula for making peace with the Palestinians now gets
the Palestinians now gets Ry
the Palestinians now gets little attention. When
the Palestinians now gets R A IR A R )
the Palestinians now gets R R N ]
little attention. When we hear )
little attention. When we hear N et el la]
little attention. When we hear the American administration
G L[ Rl TR I (e Ty including
the American administration including the president saying
including the president saying Y
including the president saying a two state solution, everyone
a two state solution, everyone R
a two state solution, everyone makes a
a two state solution, everyone IR A ]
a two state solution, everyone IR il
a two state solution, everyone ML GER AR RN
a two state solution, everyone ML GNP B IR 1 1
makes a kind of smile, what solution?
makes a kind of smile, what N Ea s
makes a kind of smile, what T YA A
makes a kind of smile, what solution? It is completely off
solution? It is completely off )
solution? It is completely off R )
solution? It is completely off R )
solution? It is completely off the table here in
solution? It is completely off R IR
solution? It is completely off the table here in Israel. But
the table here in Israel. But i e e
the table here in Israel. But I
the table here in Israel. But different peace deals could
QTR LR AL R T 1T different peace deals could be
ST LR IG R ER GTVG R ] ]
ST LR IG R ER GTVG R ] ]
different peace deals could be MR R
different peace deals could be on the table. In a big regional
on the table. In a big regional shift, Israel has
on the table. In a big regional i ARG
on the table. In a big regional shift, Israel has made new
shift, Israel has made new alliances with Arab states who
alliances with Arab states who iRl
alliances with Arab states who TNt s o a0
alliances with Arab states who RN o e e
alliances with Arab states who share concerns over Iran.
share concerns over lran. 01 d ey
share concerns over Iran. ORI
N EICRGIG PRI IE L Others may soon
N EICRGIG PRI IE L ORI AL R (A
share concerns over Iran. G EV AL IR TR
Others may soon follow. With G
Others may soon follow. With Saudi Arabia | think
Others may soon follow. With Saudi Arabia I think something
Saudi Arabia | think semething il
Saudi Arabia | think something will happen, regardless to
will happen, regardless to L
will happen, regardless to IR
will happen, regardless to Biden. A lot
will happen, regardless to A R e
will happen, regardless to Biden. A lot of peace
Biden. A lot of peace agreements recently,
Biden. A lot of peace L NN R DAL
Biden. A lot of peace agreements recently, and the
agreements recently, and the e
agreements recently, and the RO
GO R (AL R G [ RGN
GO R (AL R G [ more, the merrier. While
more, the merrier. While e
more, the merrier. While President Trump
more, the merrier. While S LN O B Gl
more, the merrier. While President Trump sealed those
President Trump sealed those agreements, Palestinian saw his
agreements, Palestinian saw his A s
agreements, Palestinian saw his AL
agreements, Palestinian saw his vision is for peace
agreements, Palestinian saw his TGRSR R
agreements, Palestinian saw his vision is for peace as biased
vision is for peace as biased against
vision Is for peace as biased against them. The Biden
against them. The Biden administration
against them. The Biden e e R il
against them. The Biden administration will try to
administration will try to G|
administration will try to rebuild ties when the president
rebuild ties when the president gets to Bethlehem.
rebuild ties when the president R CR S GIC Y |
rebuild ties when the president gets to Bethlehem. | hope Biden
gets to Bethlehem. | hope Biden il
gets to Bethlehem. | hope Biden IREE Y
gets to Bethlehem. | hope Biden will take serious and
will take serious and courageous steps towards
courageous steps towards T
courageous steps towards improving this relation, and
IO RGN A T WS e ]
IO RGN A T WS ISR D]
IO RGN A T considering United States
IO R QTN AL T considering United States is
considering United States is )
IRV LR LR N
IRV LR LR R
IRV LR LR N RGN
IRV LR LR one of the most important
RO R GRSl U]
NG R GER L Rl &l sponsors of
NG R GER L Rl &l TR RG]
NG R GER L Rl &l T R R R L
one of the most important sponsors of the peace process.
sponsors of the peace process. I
sponsors of the peace process. YL
o IR R G I E R T T I And | think this is the last
And | think this is the last e TR
And | think this is the last iE e TR N ]
And | think this is the last i I R R
And | think this is the last chance. Close to the Nativity
chance. Close to the Nativity o R
chance. Close to the Nativity Church, the
chance. Close to the Nativity I IR R L EL
chance. Close to the Nativity IR GGG A
chance. Close to the Nativity Church, the president is sure
Church, the president is sure to
Church, the president is sure R}
Church, the president is sure ORI
Church, the president is sure to see why Palestinians say
to see why Palestinians say S i)
to see why Palestinians say e
to see why Palestinians say W RN LITG)
to see why Palestinians say W RO R
to see why Palestinians say RO LILET E
to see why Palestinians say time is running out to have a
time is running out to have a I
time is running out to have a e
time is running out to have a state of their
time is running out to have a e ARG R
time is running out to have a R ARG T
time is running out to have a A RO I et e
time is running out to have a A ARG I R e )
state of their own. So much of )
state of their own. So much of the land lay claimed for it has
the land lay claimed for it has ]
the land lay claimed for it has been taken up by Israeli
been taken up by Israeli e
been taken up by Israeli settlements. And
been taken up by Israeli AN A BRI
been taken up by Israeli settlements. And this is
been taken up by Israeli AN T MR R
settlements. And this is how that
settlements. And this is how e TG
settlements. And this is how that hillside used
settlements. And this is how R G R )
settlements. And this is how that hillside used to be. The
that hillside used to be. The ENLEE
that hillside used to be. The landscape has changed
landscape has changed dramatically
landscape has changed S EII (VESES
landscape has changed dramatically over the years Joe
dramatically over the years Joe ]
dramatically over the years Joe I R e
dramatically over the years Joe Biden has been coming here. But
Biden has been coming here. But )
Biden has been coming here. But the US isn’t pressing for a new
the US isn’t pressing for a new (e
the US isn’t pressing for a new e LA
the US isn’t pressing for a new [l RN
the US isn’t pressing for a new I E LA N ]
peace initiative. I’m not expecting anything from him.
expecting anything from him. Because
expecting anything from him. Y N
expecting anything from him. Because he’s just going to come
Because he’s just going to come and
Because he’s just going to come IR
Because he’s just going to come R R e
Because he’s just going to come and visit the church
Because he’s just going to come R R N Slge s = 1a s ]
Because he’s just going to come R B N Tlee s e B a1 d
and visit the church and other places, and
and visit the church and other [ ETCI T s L R
and visit the church and other places, and he’s going to
places, and he’s going to leave. Palestinians
places, and he’s going to TN I G R
leave. Palestinians feel LN
leave. Palestinians feel excluded, but Washington argues
excluded, but Washington argues that eventually all could
that eventually all could T iie
that eventually all could benefit as
that eventually all could T S Ca
that eventually all could benefit as it pushes the new
benefit as it pushes the new steps towards a wider piece in
steps towards a wider piece in )
steps towards a wider piece in s )
steps towards a wider piece in U NLILL
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The Ukrainian authorities say they’re increasing the export
of grain through formerly disused ports and canals
on the Danube River delta between Ukraine and Romania.
Ukraine’s recapture from Russia of Snake Island,
in the Black Sea, means it’s now safe for ships to pick up
grain from the delta ports LR R R U C R FIL G S
Several wildfires have swept across Portugal’'s central
region, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of people
as firefighters struggled R RO G
Some houses have burned down, and three main highways
The country is suffering a heatwave, with temperatures
of over 40 degrees in many parts.
Two people have died E N R )
The victims are believed to be a seven-year-old boy
and a woman in her 50s.
Around a dozen people N N R s R e ]
near Manhattan, a number of them are being
treated in hospital.
Let’s get all the latest sports news.
Helle, I’m Mimi Fawaz, and this is the latest sports news.
It was a winning start for Erik ten Hag as Manchester United
boss as his side thrashed L R (T V)]
a pre-season friendly in Bangkok, Thailand.
Jadon Sanche was first R IR G R )
were further goals from Fred, G ALl E L)
Mo Salah came close as he hit the post for Liverpool.
So a great result for their new manager.
You see, Liverpool is a brilliant team,
and when you make mistakes in defending, you get beaten.
We had some situations, B el -
and immediately they have s6 many speed they play
through, and so we conceded R R R T i)
really good chances against.
So we have a lot of work to do.
Former Manchester United and England forward Wayne Rooney
has been appointed head coeach of MLS side DC United.
The 36-year-old, who played for the club from 2018 to 2019,
stepped down as manager of Derby County last month.
DC United are second from bottom in the Eastern
Conference, with 17 points from as many games.
And Germany are through to the quarterfinals
of the Women’s Euros after beating Spain 2-0,
while Denmark remain in third after a 1-0 win over Finland.
Late on Wednesday, the Netherlands will play
Portugal, and they’ll be without all-time record
goalscorer Vivianne Miedema, who has tested positive
for Covid and will be in isolation for
the next few days.
Their head coach admits she’ll be missed.
Unfortunately this L E UG
Viv is OK, but of R R AL
We just care about her now in isolation, taking care
of herself like Jackie is.
And for the rest of us, (NI G
We look ahead to the challenge tomorrow against a very
organised Portugal team.
India’s cricketers have the advantage
after winning their first One Day International
against England by ten e e R IR
Jasprit Bumrah was the star ARG R RGN
with figures of 6-19, as England were bowled
out for just 110.
Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan knocking off the runs
in just 19 overs.
India, who won the recent T20 series, take a 1-0 lead
with two matches to play.
And you can get all the latest sports news at our website -
that’s bbc.com/sport - R i BB
and the rest of the sport team, goodbye.
Staying with sport, and in golf Tiger Woods has
delivered a rebuke for some of his fellow professionals
for switching their allegiance to a new Saudi-backed golf
g CHRE) VAT
Speaking ahead of this week’s Open Championship
at St Andrews - he said the players had "turned
The BBC’s Tim Allman (TR GG A
He is one of if not the biggest ARG S A
sport, so when Tiger Woods speaks, golf listens.
Here he was practising ahead of the 150th Open Champioenship
at St Andrews, but his focus seemed to be elsewhere,
namely the controversial LIV Golf Tour and the players
who’ve left the PGA and Eurepean Tour behind.
| disagree with It.
RIS EI R G RTG is they’ve turned their back
on what has allowed them to get to this position.
The people behind it say that LIV Golf is an exciting
new chapter in the history of the sport - exciting,
dynamic and lucrative... very, very lucrative.
The Saudi government is pumping hundreds of millions
of dollars into the game.
But its critics say it’s I AR
regime trying to improve its image on the back of golf,
and Tiger Woods believes there is a huge problem
if players can earn big money not from winning
but just from turning up.
What is their incentive RV g n e X4
LGV G 1) and earn in the dirt?
You are getting paid a lot of money for a few
LIV is the idea of Greg Norman, a two-time winner of the Open,
who has not been invited to this week’s championship
or champions dinner, S R IR TG
was the right one.
A lot more to come, we will be Ry
A lot more to come, we will be live in Jerusalem shortly to
live in Jerusalem shortly to e
live in Jerusalem shortly to IR
live in Jerusalem shortly to talk more about
live in Jerusalem shortly to CHEI LAl
live in Jerusalem shortly to talk more about US President
talk more about US President IR R
talk more about US President Biden’s trip to the Middle
Biden’s trip to the Middle FIna
Biden’s trip to the Middle Fast. And one of the idea is
Biden’s trip to the Middle East. And one of the idea is to
AN NG R GERGER R )
T MR R R [ R (¢ e
T MR R R [ R (¢ IR LR
T MR R R [ R (¢ be discussed is a
T MR R R [ R (¢ I LR
F- MR R i R RER () be discussed is a new economic
be discussed is a new economic YR
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, NN AR T3]
down from the north, following this band of cloud
QLIRS AR LR T or two spots of rain.
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, NGO R 2oL 0
into the mid-20s, but for many other parts of England
and into Wales, we are going to find some extremely high
temperatures developing over the weekend into the start
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
This is BBC News with the latest business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
A new era of economic cooperation in the Middle East?
That’s the promise as President Biden arrives in Israel
later as part of his tour of the region.
We are live to Jerusalem.
The only way is up at the moment for prices in the US -
the latest inflation numbers are out today and will signal
An end to a family dynasty - Sri Lanka’s president flees
the country following mass protests over
R ettt
We’re Live in Colombo T OEGCRE
And the gap that just won’t close - the World Economic
Forum has released its latest data on the pay divide
hetween men and women.
I’ll talk to the managing director of
WEF in this programme.
So let’'s get down to business.
And we begin with President Biden’s trip
When he arrives in Israel today TR RNl
US president to visit the Middle East since 9/11
without American troops engaged R e e AR e
The White House has said the visit’s aims include
"expanding regional economic and security cooperation”.
Israel’s Finance Minister says its hoped the visit
will lead to a common LI B Rl R ]
includes Saudi Arabia.
With businesses on all sides poised to make the most
of the opportunities.
Well, let’s go live to Jerusalem and discuss
this with Jon Medved - Chief Executive and Founder
of Our Crowd - a global equity funding platform for investors.
Or
Orwarm
IR E IR e i
IR Z IR e iR
Or warm welcome to the programme. What are
R EN R T R R G programme. What are your hopes
programme. What are your hopes e
programme. What are your hopes I
programme. What are your hopes for this visit? | think it is
for this visit? | think it Is incredible
for this visit? | think it Is Ml R R )
for this visit? | think it is incredible that the president
incredible that the president of
incredible that the president SRy
incredible that the president of the United States has
incredible that the president R RIS R E e 1
of the United States has come to
of the United States has come Ry
of the United States has come to the region and is focusing
to the region and is focusing ]
to the region and is focusing now on
to the region and is focusing T Rl ]
to the region and is focusing T R R A
to the region and is focusing T R R RN
to the region and is focusing now on how to build a better
now on how to build a better Yo lat a1l
now on how to build a better economic future. In the past
now on how to build a better N RO R G E
economic future. In the past it T
economic future. In the past it IS
economic future. In the past it has always been conflict and
has always been conflict and war and
has always been conflict and YN LA G|
has always been conflict and YN LE GG
has always been conflict and TN LA TG R T
has always been conflict and TN LR CI A L R R
war and looking at the Middle ¥
war and looking at the Middle | F A1
war and looking at the Middle East as a source
war and looking at the Middle PR LR e N
war and looking at the Middle East as a source of trouble,
East as a source of trouble, e
East as a source of trouble, N Ry
East as a source of trouble, N R N sl Y
East as a source of trouble, N R NG Y
East as a source of trouble, ARG NG Y A
but now the Middle East is actually fulfilling its destiny
actually fulfilling its destiny as
actually fulfilling its destiny )
actually fulfilling its destiny YW R e i
actually fulfilling its destiny as a source of blessing, and
as a source of blessing, and Y
as a source of blessing, and R
as a source of blessing, and when you look at what is going
when you look at what is going to happen, what is already
to happen, what is already happening, as a result of the
happening, as a result of the A % a1
happening, as a result of the NI el R s o
happening, as a result of the Abraham courts, where Israel
Abraham courts, where Israel and already
Abraham courts, where Israel LGV
Abraham courts, where Israel and already at four Arab
and already at four Arab nations are trading, investing,
nations are trading, investing, growing
nations are trading, investing, IRy il
nations are trading, investing, growing economic ties
growing economic ties remarkably, as we
O[N]y R a1 remarkably, as we begin to open
remarkably, as we begin to open )
remarkably, as we begin to open i Nelga )
remarkably, as we begin to open the circle including incredibly
the circle including incredibly Tyl achis
the circle including incredibly important part like Saudi
important part like Saudi Arabia in this effort, | think
Arabia in this effort, | think this
Arabia in this effort, | think QI
Arabia in this effort, | think QIR
Arabia in this effort, | think QI YRR T
Arabia in this effort, | think this quy is the limit. Let’s
this guy is the limit. Let’s e
this guy is the limit. Let’s I 0
this guy is the limit. Let’s I )
this guy is the limit. Let’s talk about the Abraham a
talk about the Abraham a ey
talk about the Abraham a course. It was seen as
course. It was seen as ground-breaking to
oDV LR 1 ground-breaking to normalise
ground-breaking to normalise AE
ground-breaking to normalise AL S T ]
ground-breaking to normalise AR i ae
ground-breaking to normalise AN WA L
relations between Israel and )
relations between Israel and the UAE among a few other
the UAE among a few other e e ey
the UAE among a few other countries in
the UAE among a few other T R R
the UAE among a few other countries in the Middle
the UAE among a few other T ARG NGRS
countries in the Middle East. ey
countries in the Middle East. YR T o E e
countries in the Middle East. What impact has that had for
What impact has that had for )
What impact has that had for e
What impact has that had for the economies such as yours?
the economies such as yours? Extraordinary.
the economies such as yours? | SREIGIET
the economies such as yours? Extraordinary. Not only has
Extraordinary. Not only has )
Extraordinary. Not only has N R
Extraordinary. Not only has NN TR e
Extraordinary. Not only has N N d E )
Extraordinary. Not only has there been over half a million
there been over half a million Israeli tourists flocking to
Israeli tourists flocking to )
Israeli tourists flocking to N e
Israeli tourists flocking to the beaches and
Israeli tourists flocking to N LRI G
Israeli tourists flocking to the beaches and malls of
Israeli tourists flocking to N R EH GRS AT Y
the beaches and malls of Dubai during the
the beaches and malls of Dubal during the pandemic
the beaches and malls of Dubai during the pandemic when
the beaches and malls of Dubal during the pandemic when they
during the pandemic when they needed
during the pandemic when they LR
during the pandemic when they needed it, but
during the pandemic when they DR R =)
during the pandemic when they R R G
needed It, but there are IR
needed It, but there are TR 2
needed It, but there are IR s e ETe
needed It, but there are JIIERER A TR
needed It, but there are billions of dollars of deals
billions of dollars of deals being transacted. Right after
being transacted. Right after )
being transacted. Right after e s
being transacted. Right after - lane |
being transacted. Right after the accords | predicted $10
the accords | predicted $10 HIHGYE]
the accords | predicted $10 IR 2
the accords | predicted $10 billion of activity
the accords | predicted $10 IR Rl R )
the accords | predicted $10 IR Rl S R N L
billion of activity and people QI
billion of activity and people Qe d|
billion of activity and people thought | was nuts. My team in
thought | was nuts. My team in )
thought | was nuts. My team in Rt
thought | was nuts. My team in the Gulf said | was too
the Gulf said | was too e LAY
the Gulf said | was too LA ]
the Gulf said | was too e e SR
O CRCTT VI I RV LR (1 e R s 01 s
O CRCTT VI I RV LR (1 e e MR R T G
conservative and that should be 100
conservative and that should be (NI
conservative and that should be 100 billion over the next
100 billion over the next decade
100 billion over the next I sl
100 billion over the next decade and is
100 billion over the next LR
100 billion over the next N o R
100 billion over the next LR R N TR e
decade and is now the Minister of economy
decade and is now the Minister R LA
decade and is now the Minister R A RO
decade and is now the Minister R A AU RIS
decade and is now the Minister of economy of the UAE has
of economy of the UAE has S
of economy of the UAE has talked about $1 trillion. When
talked about $1 trillion. When ol
talked about $1 trillion. When you bring the Saudi flu doings
you bring the Saudi flu doings R Tes et )
you bring the Saudi flu doings income in our
you bring the Saudi flu doings T et R R ey 1ol
you bring the Saudi flu doings income in our crowd we invest
income in our crowd we invest in technology
income In our crowd we invest in technology company,
income in our crowd we invest in technology company, hundreds
in technology company, hundreds of
in technology company, hundreds SR ]
in technology company, hundreds of them and they range from
of them and they range from Ll
of them and they range from food, the clouds, cyber
food, the clouds, cyber security, transportation, these
security, transportation, these Py
security, transportation, these Ik
security, transportation, these e |- 1
security, transportation, these W T R )
security, transportation, these are all areas the Saudis and
CICR TR G RE T RN T )
are all areas the Saudis and e
are all areas the Saudis and e
are all areas the Saudis and R R N
are all areas the Saudis and GRS A RO
are all areas the Saudis and the rest of the golf partners
the rest of the golf partners Py
the rest of the golf partners R4
the rest of the golf partners are crazy interested in because
are crazy interested in because if
are crazy interested in because LA
are crazy interested in because if you look at
are crazy interested in because IR T R FL
are crazy interested in because if you look at what the Saudis
if you look at what the Saudis Py
if you look at what the Saudis are building, that incredible
are building, that incredible ey
are building, that incredible (R4
are building, that incredible (LR A
are building, that incredible new city on the red Sea coast.
new city on the red Sea coast. Yy
new city on the red Sea coast. LR
new city on the red Sea coast. When you look at
new city on the red Sea coast. L R TR G T [
new city on the red Sea coast. When you look at how quickly
When you look at how quickly they
When you look at how quickly GG
When you look at how quickly they are putting into
they are putting into technology, when you look at
technology, when you look at )
technology, when you look at GRS LG
technology, when you look at GRS L N
technology, when you look at QRSO I A
technology, when you look at the strengths of Israel as a
the strengths of Israel as a start it
the strengths of Israel as a eI |
the strengths of Israel as a e R R Ll 4
the strengths of Israel as a R Ia IR R 1 ]
QLRI [ G LN LR start it does | want to briefly
start it does | want to briefly Tagt]d
start it does | want to briefly interrupt you because we
start it does | want to briefly IO R R e VR GG
interrupt you because we are tight
interrupt you because we are (R
interrupt you because we are W SR T XN
interrupt you because we are WG SRR L
interrupt you because we are tight for time and | want to
tight for time and | want to e
tight for time and | want to ask you this.
tight for time and | want to EH SR G L]
tight for time and | want to EH SR QIR
ask you this. You are explaining all the potential,
explaining all the potential, of which
explaining all the potential, SR R e N
explaining all the potential, of which there is huge
of which there is huge e
of which there is huge potential, and you are talking
potential, and you are talking FYe L
potential, and you are talking YT ]
potential, and you are talking about Saudi Arabia coming in. |
about Saudi Arabia coming in. | e
about Saudi Arabia coming in. | want your take on how quickly
want your take on how quickly this
want your take on how quickly IR Yo st a1l
want your take on how quickly this economic cooperation could
this economic cooperation could )
this economic cooperation could e e
this economic cooperation could IR R
this economic cooperation could come into being stop President
come into being stop President ]
come into being stop President LR
come into being stop President Biden is going to Saudi Arabia
Biden is going to Saudi Arabia ]
Biden is going to Saudi Arabia on Friday. What about
Biden is going to Saudi Arabia AT AL a1
on Friday. What about the e Gl
on Friday. What about the political challenges? The
political challenges? The ol
political challenges? The I Y Y
political challenges? The political divide and
political challenges? The U G EE L LR G
political divide and the G
political divide and the religious challenges. |
political divide and the religious challenges. I think
religious challenges. I think )
religious challenges. I think the political challenges are
the political challenges are b
the political challenges are UL
the political challenges are getting better, much better,
getting better, much better, Y
getting better, much better, R
getting better, much better, when you see the fact that not
when you see the fact that not i\
when you see the fact that not A
when you see the fact that not only is their free
when you see the fact that not N AR G IR R )
when you see the fact that not only is their free trade but
only is their free trade but cooperation on common threats,
cooperation on common threats, and |
cooperation on common threats, IR e
cooperation on common threats, and | think that’s the
and | think that’s the politics, the
and | think that’s the politics, the religious
politics, the religious challenges, you noticed who the
challenges, you noticed who the Saudis
challenges, you noticed who the IR )
challenges, you noticed who the Saudis chose this
challenges, you noticed who the G R IR 1S
challenges, you noticed who the Saudis chose this year to
Saudis chose this year to IR
Saudis chose this year to R
Saudis chose this year to AR R R
Saudis chose this year to deliver the most important
deliver the most important sl
deliver the most important iR L)
deliver the most important L)
deliver the most important sermon. There are lots
deliver the most important IR LRI A e
deliver the most important sermon. There are lots of very
sermon. There are lots of very positive
sermon. There are lots of very ORI
sermon. There are lots of very SRR G LS
sermon. There are lots of very positive signs that are going
positive signs that are going ]
positive signs that are going on and
positive signs that are going MWL h|
positive signs that are going on and | think that we are
on and | think that we are Y
on and | think that we are really at the brink of a new
really at the brink of a new era. It
really at the brink of a new TR 1k
really at the brink of a new era. It won’t happen
era. It won’t happen immediately, don’t expect a
immediately, don’t expect a great big
immediately, don’t expect a great big headlines in the
immediately, don’t expect a great big headlines in the next
great big headlines in the next w11 )
great big headlines in the next couple of days but there is a
couple of days but there is a e
couple of days but there is a IR 1
couple of days but there is a IR R
couple of days but there is a process under way which | think
process under way which | think s
process under way which | think AR LI
process under way which | think is inexorable. The curtain is
ERLIEL IR L R e R coming
ERLIEL IR L R e R LG
AR CRR L R e B coming down and
AR CRR L R e B GGG IEL G
AR CRR L R e B coming down and | think
ARG L R 1 R coming down and | think the
coming down and | think the people’s
coming down and | think the people’'s of
coming down and | think the YRR R
coming down and | think the people’s of the Middle East
people’s of the Middle East il
people’s of the Middle East T
people’s of the Middle East will be working together in
people’s of the Middle East MRV LRGH G EIERE
will be working together in much
will be working together in a el n e Ng
will be working together in a much better way. Jon Medved,
much better way. Jon Medved, really good
much better way. Jon Medved, L VAT R
much better way. Jon Medved, really good to talk to you, and
really good to talk to you, and Y
really good to talk to you, and RS
really good to talk to you, and TR RT YT
really good to talk to you, and we were very much keep a close
we were very much keep a close Y3
we were very much keep a close Sl
we were very much keep a close eye on President Biden’s
we were very much keep a close eye on President Biden’s visit,
eye on President Biden’s visit, R
eye on President Biden’s visit, BB E
eye on President Biden’s visit, that’s for sure. Thank you.
that’s for sure. Thank you. T4
that’s for sure. Thank you. IEL SN
Whilst Biden is in the Middle East news at home will dominate
today as the latest inflation R R I |
In May, inflation hit 8.6% - the highest in 40 years.
Economists are expecting O LN ORI R T
driven in large part by higher OV RS LRI DI}
supply chain disruptions N R Nl d e la R e et e
s paying the price as Samira Hussain reports from New York.
Outdoor markets have long been a way for New York City’s urban
to connect with upstate EIg e
Regardless of whether you are RN R R
inflation is hitting the finances of every American.
Everything has gone sky high.
IR to the green markets.
| will not stop going, R TGN
gone through the roof.
This man is a fourth-generation farmer.
Even though he has had to raise SR R A G
going to make more money.
It’s going to be a hard year.
Profits are going to be down.
What have you had to pay more for?
Everything - | mean, from our containers to our
inputs, the fertiliser, plants, | think, gas -
we’re a three-hour drive just R R R
everything we have I LEERE AT
all of our products are up.
The price increases are hitting the pocketbooks
AT e
Everything has RS
| have two girls.
They’re home now.
They eat like crazy.
So, | mean, everything is like...
And the bad thing about it is that the salary is the same
pay you’re getting., s0 you just have to
really cut corners.
So if prices are going up for everyone, but no-one
is making any more profit - well, that spells danger
for the economy as a whole.
Little wonder, perhaps, that even as they fret
about higher inflation, many in the US are starting
to worry that a potential (I R G Y 8
arcund the corner.
Samira Hussain, BBC News, New York.
Lets talk this through OIS
Chief Economist US and Asia at Berenberg Capital Markets.
Welcome to the programme. | G
Welcome to the programme. | QA
Welcome to the programme. | know you and others watching
know you and others watching )
know you and others watching T
know you and others watching QAR
know you and others watching the Fed very closely indeed.
the Fed very closely indeed. o ile
the Fed very closely indeed. Your thoughts on the inflation
Your thoughts on the inflation ey
Your thoughts on the inflation numbers today, what they will
numbers today, what they will Al
numbers today, what they will tell us
numbers today, what they will IR |
numbers today, what they will BT sl 2
numbers today, what they will BT s R R )
numbers today, what they will BT R N sl
numbers today, what they will BT R A N LRl
tell us and how the Fed will (I LK
tell us and how the Fed will (KT
tell us and how the Fed will respond? The inflation numbers
respond? The inflation numbers il
respond? The inflation numbers IR
respond? The inflation numbers will be high and one of the
will be high and one of the things
will be high and one of the L
will be high and one of the things | would emphasise here
things | would emphasise here 3
things | would emphasise here o
things | would emphasise here TR a1
things | would emphasise here is it is not just energy prices
is it Is not just energy prices and
is it Is not just energy prices YR e sl
is it Is not just energy prices and food prices, it is very
and food prices, it is very evasive.
and food prices, it Is very X1
and food prices, it Is very NI RV
and food prices, it Is very evasive. If you look at
and food prices, it is very evasive. If you look at over
evasive. If you look at over 200 components of the consumer
200 components of the consumer e[y
200 components of the consumer price index, about two thirds
price index, about two thirds of components
price index, about two thirds R R
price index, about two thirds of components are experiencing
of components are experiencing inflation
of components are experiencing T iE A R e
of components are experiencing inflation over 5%. This is the
inflation over 5%. This is the highest since the late 1970s,
highest since the late 1970s, and so it is pervasive and you
CL RS RV N BT can’t
CL RS RV N BT NI
and so it is pervasive and you can’t just blame it on the
can’t just blame it on the I3E ]
can’t just blame it on the AR Z e s
can’t just blame it on the Russian invasion of Ukraine or
Russian invasion of Ukraine or e\
Russian invasion of Ukraine or supply chain problems.
Russian invasion of Ukraine or supply chain preblems. You
Russian invasion of Ukraine or supply chain problems. You have
supply chain problems. You have to
supply chain problems. You have e ENi )
supply chain problems. You have el E
supply chain problems. You have to blame it on demand driven by
to blame it on demand driven by e )
to blame it on demand driven by IR I ]
to blame it on demand driven by excessive monitoring fiscal
excessive monitoring fiscal Xl TS
excessive monitoring fiscal stimulus in
excessive monitoring fiscal SRR I
excessive monitoring fiscal ST AL R R
excessive monitoring fiscal stimulus in response to the
stimulus in response to the pandemic.
stimulus in response to the [ERLE (]
stimulus in response to the pandemic. If that is
stimulus in response to the ERD L [ R G AR G
stimulus in response to the pandemic. If that is the case
pandemic. If that is the case then
pandemic. If that is the case NE e
pandemic. If that is the case I NE R )
pandemic. If that is the case then what the Fed
pandemic. If that is the case WM E W RO T R
pandemic. If that is the case QR E R G LR T
then what the Fed is doing, raising
then what the Fed Is doing, EIIRLRLEEN
then what the Fed Is doing, EIRLE I AN
then what the Fed Is doing, IR I A I )Y
raising interest rates, by significant amount each month,
significant amount each month, that
significant amount each month, LI 01l
significant amount each month, R GE a s
significant amount each month, that should sort that out,
that should sort that out, AR e
that should sort that out, shouldn’t it?
that should sort that out, AL a e
that should sort that out, GRSl L U
that should sort that out, shouldn’t it? It depends what
shouldn’t it? It depends what you
shouldn’t it? It depends what R
shouldn’t it? It depends what you mean by should sort it out.
you mean by should sort it out. |
you mean by should sort it out. ]
you mean by should sort it out. N0 1s]
you mean by should sort it out. IR R e i
you mean by should sort it out. | mean in terms of. .. You
you mean by should sort it out. | mean in terms of... You say
| mean in terms of... You say e
| mean in terms of... You say T
| mean in terms of... You say it is about consumer demand is
it is about consumer demand is )
it is about consumer demand is the demand
it is about consumer demand is M MR
it is about consumer demand is MR G e
it is about consumer demand is M NIEH R e
it is about consumer demand is M MR G e LR el
the demand is there. That will )
the demand is there. That will be under pressure or it reduces
be under pressure or it reduces )
be under pressure or it reduces N
be under pressure or it reduces e )
be under pressure or it reduces the cost of horrowing
be under pressure or it reduces the cost of borrowing goes
be under pressure or it reduces the cost of horrowing goes up
the cost of borrowing goes up e
the cost of borrowing goes up sl
the cost of borrowing goes up e el e Y4
the cost of borrowing goes up more and more? That’s right but
more and more? That’s right but i
more and more? That’s right but BrLin!
more and more? That’s right but R G
more and more? That’s right but | would emphasise even though
| would emphasise even though )
I would emphasise even though T
I would emphasise even though NN
I would emphasise even though QR GI RG]
I would emphasise even though GG EER LT R
I would emphasise even though the Fed has begun to move
QR I R D (TR GRS aggressively, the inflation
aggressively, the inflation adjusted federal fund raise
GOV CLR L LIEIR L LREIE still
adjusted federal fund raise still negative and so it has a
still negative and so it has a e
still negative and so it has a significant amount too high. |
significant amount too high. | emphasise
significant amount too high. | SRR R
significant amount too high. | emphasise to sort it out. The
emphasise to sort it out. The T
emphasise to sort it out. The Fed faces this extraordinarily
Fed faces this extraordinarily slailatlid
Fed faces this extraordinarily A iTa IR A SR Te e ]
Fed faces this extraordinarily A Ta TR A AR e e
Fed faces this extraordinarily A ila T A TE A e R e e N e
difficult situation where it T
difficult situation where it has to
difficult situation where it TR ORI
difficult situation where it RO B
difficult situation where it has to raise rates enough to
has to raise rates enough to slow down the
has to raise rates enough to N R G R LA
has to raise rates enough to slow down the economy, to
slow down the economy, to dampen inflation, but without
dampen inflation, but without S0
dampen inflation, but without NGORG]
dampen inflation, but without hiking rates too
dampen inflation, but without GLREI SRR TN
dampen inflation, but without hiking rates too much. That
hiking rates too much. That il
hiking rates too much. That IR
hiking rates too much. That R4
hiking rates too much. That O (R SV [y T
hiking rates too much. That will be very difficult task.
will be very difficult task. YYD
will be very difficult task. Where do
will be very difficult task. YR
will be very difficult task. Where do you see the cost of
Where do you see the cost of el
Where do you see the cost of borrowing by
Where do you see the cost of ISR AT
Where do you see the cost of LR ARG
Where do you see the cost of ISR ARG L LR
Where do you see the cost of IR RGN LR R G
borrowing by the end of this =1
borrowing by the end of this year, do
W RGAG LRI LR R G I R
W RGAG LRI LR R G year, do you think? | think
borrowing by the end of this year, do you think? | think the
year, do you think? | think the federal funds
year, do you think? | think the TG BT LR )
year, do you think? | think the TG BRI
year, do you think? | think the T R R - E R ]
year, do you think? | think the federal funds rate has to go
federal funds rate has to go L E]
federal funds rate has to go probably to the underlying rate
probably to the underlying rate of inflation
probably to the underlying rate A E I s
probably to the underlying rate of inflation and the markets
of inflation and the markets Py
of inflation and the markets are expecting
of inflation and the markets EICE I a iR
of inflation and the markets are expecting the Fed
of inflation and the markets EI R A R R LR
are expecting the Fed to e e 418 )
are expecting the Fed to continue to
are expecting the Fed to e iR
are expecting the Fed to continue to hide. |
are expecting the Fed to e AR I a4
are expecting the Fed to e R I TR R
continue to hide. | think the funds
continue to hide. I think the IRy
continue to hide. | think the LR R O 8
continue to hide. | think the funds rate eventually has to go
funds rate eventually has to go |l
funds rate eventually has to go well above
funds rate eventually has to go RV
funds rate eventually has to go well above 4%, which is not yet
well above 4%, which is not yet TS
well above 4%, which is not yet built in to markets. That is,
built in to markets. That is, )
built in to markets. That is, AT
built in to markets. That is, NN
built in to markets. That is, AT R )
built in to markets. That is, N R N 1aala 0l
built in to markets. That is, DT R o Ne 18 a a0
the Fed has to continue to Y
the Fed has to continue to R )
the Fed has to continue to R T R Y
the Fed has to continue to U I IR G AT LY
raise rates here the underlying ir)
raise rates here the underlying N
raise rates here the underlying rate of inflation and a Little
LR R ENCT R R i
LR R ENCT R R R
rate of inflation and a little iR !
rate of inflation and a little T R e o)
rate of inflation and a little bit more, and once again, that
bit more, and once again, that monetary policy
bit more, and once again, that UIE A LU AL
bit more, and once again, that UG EI A s R LR ]
bit more, and once again, that monetary policy works with a
monetary policy works with a lag,
monetary policy works with a FL AT
monetary policy works with a ELPEL R LS
monetary policy works with a LR R F1 a0
monetary policy works with a lag, so what you have been
lag, so what you have been XN
lag, so what you have been seeing so far is the higher
seeing so far is the higher inflation which is reducing
inflation which is reducing real purchasing power, real
real purchasing power, real ST
real purchasing power, real disposable incomes, it’s just
disposable incomes, it’s just VLG
disposable incomes, it’s just beginning to bite into consumer
beginning to bite into consumer spending patterns, and so add
spending patterns, and so add to
spending patterns, and so add Rk
spending patterns, and so add R R
spending patterns, and so add to that the higher cost of
to that the higher cost of YT
to that the higher cost of [T AR
to that the higher cost of borrowing, to buy an
borrowing, to buy an IR
borrowing, to buy an automobile, home mortgages and
automobile, home mortgages and )
automobile, home mortgages and e
automobile, home mortgages and the like, that will start
the like, that will start biting in with
the like, that will start O LRLRYI K]
the like, that will start biting in with a like so the
biting in with a like so the ir)
biting in with a like so the N
biting in with a like so the TR R e s et
biting in with a like so the rate of economic growth will
rate of economic growth will definitely slow. We shall see,
definitely slow. We shall see, 4
definitely slow. We shall see, NS
definitely slow. We shall see, Mickey D Levy, thank you very
Mickey D Levy, thank you very much.
More now on the political BRI Eh
as you’ve been hearing President Gotabaya Rajapaksa
has fled the country and is now in the Maldives.
His departure early on Wednesday morning comes just
ahead of an expected resignation following
Archana Shukla joins us live O R G R N G R
Dramatic developments in the i
Dramatic developments in the FRe
Dramatic developments in the last few hours. Where does this
last few hours. Where does this leave
last few hours. Where does this R
last few hours. Where does this leave the political and
leave the political and Yo lat a1l
leave the political and economic situation?
leave the political and Yot a8t eI R - 12
leave the political and economic situation? Cecilie big
economic situation? Cecilie big e Gl
economic situation? Cecilie big political developments
political developments overnight
political developments WG RN
political developments overnight and since
political developments WG ER G E N - R {1
political developments overnight and since the small
overnight and since the small Tl
overnight and since the small R )
overnight and since the small hours the crowds
overnight and since the small IR Nt L)
overnight and since the small hours the crowds have gathered
hours the crowds have gathered N
hours the crowds have gathered LG
hours the crowds have gathered T LI
hours the crowds have gathered T LIRS
hours the crowds have gathered here. This is the president
here. This is the president e =ler1 4
here. This is the president Secretariat behind me, and
Secretariat behind me, and I3 :3EY
Secretariat behind me, and protesters and citizens have
protesters and citizens have T
protesters and citizens have been lining
protesters and citizens have XN
protesters and citizens have IR LR LT
protesters and citizens have XN ET R ]
protesters and citizens have been lining up here with flags
been lining up here with flags and slogans which roughly
and slogans which roughly N R
and slogans which roughly N AEI R
and slogans which roughly translate to "Victory to our
translate to "Victory to our struggle”. This is something
struggle™. This is something I
struggle™. This is something protesters have
struggle™. This is something (A N R R
struggle”. This is something protesters have been demanding
protesters have been demanding e
protesters have been demanding for a long
protesters have been demanding R G TR i TS
protesters have been demanding for a long time and as Gotabaya
for a long time and as Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his brother have
Rajapaksa and his brother have TS|
Rajapaksa and his brother have R T
Rajapaksa and his brother have LR R )
Rajapaksa and his brother have moved out of the country, it
LV G LRV g La
moved out of the country, it leads now
moved out of the country, it LR )
moved out of the country, it LR AR 4
leads now to the next G
leads now to the next development which will be
leads now to the next LR L R R G
development which will be the el E
development which will be the formal resignation of President
formal resignation of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, that will
Gotabaya Rajapaksa, that will 14
Gotabaya Rajapaksa, that will IR
Gotabaya Rajapaksa, that will A G R is]
Gotabaya Rajapaksa, that will put the country understand to
put the country understand to look
put the country understand to Ve e
put the country understand to VR
put the country understand to VeI
put the country understand to S IR A e L]
put the country understand to LS I A 1 el R
look for a new political era and
look for a new political era IR ]
look for a new political era LA L L]
look for a new political era A el M Nl
look for a new political era and new political movement in
and new political movement in )
and new political movement in QR
and new political movement in the country, but in the interim
the country, but in the interim Y
the country, but in the interim &
the country, but in the interim look for a political vacuum
look for a political vacuum T Y
look for a political vacuum -
look for a political vacuum N RO
look for a political vacuum because at this point in
look for a political vacuum because at this peint in time
because at this point in time e
because at this point in time T
because at this point in time it is not
because at this point in time TR ae - ]e
because at this point in time it is not clear who takes up
it is not clear who takes up )
it is not clear who takes up a4
it is not clear who takes up W iR
it is not clear who takes up the next roll. According to the
the next roll. According to the (W Y8 haOhaTe]s]
the next roll. According to the W LTt R
the next roll. According to the W bt RN tlge - e
Constitution the current serving
O R G R XL el
Constitution the current serving Prime Minister becomes
serving Prime Minister becomes )
serving Prime Minister becomes GERICA
serving Prime Minister becomes the president when the post is
the president when the post is 1018
the president when the post Is vacant but
the president when the post Is T 1 R )
the president when the post Is A R )
the president when the post Is vacant but there are also
vacant but there are also IO
vacant but there are also process against the
Gl N G LTCRE TR process against the Prime
process against the Prime IR
process against the Prime Minister for him
process against the Prime TR SR R Y
process against the Prime Minister for him to leave his
Minister for him to leave his seat, so
Minister for him to leave his Il
Minister for him to leave his seat, so if that happens there
seat, so if that happens there 3
seat, so if that happens there )
seat, so if that happens there YL Gl
seat, so if that happens there W Gl K= L0}
seat, so if that happens there is a political vacuum in the
is a political vacuum in the Cis’A
is a political vacuum in the country. Opposition parties are
country. Opposition parties are huddling
country. Opposition parties are G LR G G
country. Opposition parties are huddling together to form a
huddling together to form a majority which would be proven
majority which would be proven in
majority which would be proven TRy
majority which would be proven NEG s
majority which would be proven NEGIS R
majority which would be proven in the next few days and that
in the next few days and that leaves
in the next few days and that Ry
in the next few days and that leaves the country
in the next few days and that RO R
in the next few days and that leaves the country and its
X VIR RIS Yo lat a1l
X VIR RIS Yot s st B s
X VIR RIS N R B E]
leaves the country and its economic revival plan also
economic revival plan also RREU |
economic revival plan also NREEG
economic revival plan also installed as of now
economic revival plan alse RREU LR R A e
installed as of now because until there
installed as of now because TG N
installed as of now because until there is political
until there is political ] 1sY
until there is political stability in the
V14| YRR N {1 stability in the country the
stability in the country the economic
stability in the country the e e ez
stability in the country the economic revival programmes and
economic revival pregrammes and )
economic revival programmes and the conversations with
economic revival programmes and e e R i R )
the conversations with the RIS E e
the conversations with the international lending agencies
international lending agencies likely
international lending agencies LGVaL
international lending agencies LG AL
international lending agencies AL S EL LR
international lending agencies AL L LD 10
likely IMF not go ahead. But I
likely IMF not go ahead. But GRS
likely IMF not go ahead. But despite all the major political
despite all the major political developments,
despite all the major political G PR
despite all the major political developments, the current
developments, the current situation on
developments, the current R R
developments, the current situation on the ground as far
situation on the ground as far as lack of essentials
situation on the ground as far YA € R WU E R
as lack of essentials Is Wm0 P
as lack of essentials Is concerned, it will continue for
concerned, it will continue for Y
concerned, it will continue for R T )
concerned, it will continue for a couple more weeks.
concerned, it will continue for R R R L E S
concerned, it will continue for a couple more weeks. Thank you
a couple more weeks. Thank you e
a couple more weeks. Thank you for keeping us up-to-date.
for keeping us up-to-date. Archana
for keeping us up-to-date. F XS E a0 4]
for keeping us up-to-date. Archana Shukla there in a
Archana Shukla there in a Colombo
Archana Shukla there in a W e 1o e R ld
Archana Shukla there in a W e I
Let’s now bring you up to date on the saga over Elon Musk’s
decision to pull out GRL R
Twitter is not taking QI WRG G
and is suing Mr Musk.
The social media giant has I ORI L e N 0la
to order him to honour the terms of the agreement.
Last week, the world’s richest man announced he was backing
out of the $44 billien deal L i FL R
to provide him with enough data on spam accounts.
ISR
There i1s s much
There i1s s¢ much more
There 1s s¢ much more detail on
There is so much more detail on that
There is so much more detail on G E 18
There is so much more detail on GV A]
There is so much more detail on that story on our website that
that story on our website that 3
that story on our website that stay with us
that story on our website that VA G NI ]
that story on our website that stay with us on BBC News
stay with us on BBC News T )
stay with us on BBC News T N4
stay with us on BBC News TN
stay with us on BBC News because it still to
stay with us on BBC News YN N A B
stay with us on BBC News
And the gap that just won’t close - the World Economic
Forum has released its latest data on the pay divide
hetween men and women.
I’ll talk to the Managing Director of
WEF in this programme.
After months of talks and missed deadlines,
a deal has been struck to keep Greece within the euro zone.
The immediate prospect of Greece going bust
in the worst crisis to hit MR R Tl
Emergency services across central Europe are stepping
up their efforts to contain QR R L RGOl A
Nearly 100 people TR LR R
Broadway is traditionally LR R R )
Way by Americans.
IR A W QA EECL T
It is a timely reminder to all Americans of the problems
the energy crisis has brought to them.
Leaders meet in Paris for a summit on pollution,
inflation, and third world o
This morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations
for a show of military might on the Champs-Elysees.
Wildlife officials in Australia have been coping
with a penguin problem.
Fairy penguins have been staggering ashore
and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals
of their favourite food - pilchards.
Some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
This is BBC News - the latest headlines. ..
After months of mass protests against his rule,
the president of Sri Lanka RO R T A
The first round of voting takes place later in the race to be
Later today we’ll find out how the UK economy fared in May.
You may remember in April it unexpectedly shrunk by 0.3%,
adding to concerns of an economic slowdown.
Though disappointing, that fall was driven
by a reduction in the Covid TN e R = wa s ae]s
programmes - without that impact the economy would have
expanded by 0.1%, according to the Office
National Statistics.
Janet Mui is Investment Director at Brewin Dolphin.
Good morning. We are talking FYe L
Good morning. We are talking )
Good morning. We are talking RO/
Good morning. We are talking about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took us
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took RO
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took RGN
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took MR N e
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took MRGI N e
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took RGN SR Y
about a 0.1%, 0.2% there. Took RGN SR -]
us three or outlet for the UK e A
us three or outlet for the UK economy. What will
us three or outlet for the UK N AR E R R
us three or outlet for the UK economy. What will the GDP
economy. What will the GDP a1l 10
economy. What will the GDP et el o)
economy. What will the GDP numbers be like today? Good
numbers be like today? Good morning.
numbers be like today? Good UG AR T
numbers be like today? Good morning. Thank you for having
morning. Thank you for having e
morning. Thank you for having me. Today’s GDP data is
me. Today’s GDP data is expected to be very dull. It’s
expected to be very dull. It’s el
expected to be very dull. It’s s a R
expected to be very dull. It’s contracted in April. It’s
contracted in April. It’s el
contracted in April. It’s s a R
contracted in April. It’s contracted in March, as well,
contracted in March, as well, and today it is likely to have
and today it is likely to have Y
and today it is likely to have PN e 3
and today it is likely to have RIS
and today it is likely to have AR YT
and today it is likely to have a bit of growth but generally
a bit of growth but generally if
a bit of growth but generally LA
a bit of growth but generally if you talk about the trend it
If you talk about the trend it can
if you talk about the trend it LG (Y
if you talk about the trend it can actually fall into negative
can actually fall into negative ooyl
can actually fall into negative growth territory. We expect UK
growth territory. We expect UK e
growth territory. We expect UK DI R
growth territory. We expect UK GDP growth to slow going
GDP growth to slow going I EIOR
GDP growth to slow going forward, you
GDP growth to slow going L E O PR VR 1]
GDP growth to slow going I E O PR R LR
GDP growth to slow going L E O PR RS IR )
forward, you can see the weakening from a number of
weakening from a number of RS
weakening from a number of SR
weakening from a number of surveys that we are tracking.
surveys that we are tracking. Manufacturing and services
Manufacturing and services sector
Manufacturing and services X e 1 T
Manufacturing and services e A AN IR G
Manufacturing and services sector business surveys have
sector business surveys have ]
sector business surveys have XN RSNG|
sector business surveys have been slowing down and also the
been slowing down and also the B
been slowing down and also the Braaca
been slowing down and also the R c BT
been slowing down and also the latest retail sales are also
ELC S CHEE IR R LI
ELC S CHEE IR R weakening year
ELC S CHEE IR R WXL ORI
latest retail sales are also weakening year on year
E1CD S T R [CR E weakening year on year so there
weakening year on year so there 3
weakening year on year so there R 142
weakening year on year so there is plenty of evidence
is plenty of evidence suggesting
is plenty of evidence LSS
is plenty of evidence suggesting it is weakening and
suggesting it is weakening and el EIe
suggesting it is weakening and primarily that is because of a
primarily that is because of a DY)
primarily that is because of a squeeze in
primarily that is because of a AR
primarily that is because of a T AR UG
primarily that is because of a squeeze in the real income of
squeeze in the real income of NG
squeeze in the real income of TR )
squeeze in the real income of RN
squeeze in the real income of consumers. We are seeing rises
consumers. We are seeing rises in food and energy prices and
in food and energy prices and )
in food and energy prices and R )
in food and energy prices and R )
in food and energy prices and also we are going to see
also we are going to see negative impact of the rise in
negative impact of the rise in National Insurance rate. The
National Insurance rate. The s
National Insurance rate. The impact will
National Insurance rate. The Ty leEla | (W
National Insurance rate. The impact will be felt more from
impact will be felt more from May onwards so we will see a
May onwards so we will see a .
May onwards so we will see a pretty weak economic picture.
pretty weak economic picture. il
pretty weak economic picture. You say
pretty weak econoemic picture. TR A G
pretty weak econoemic picture. TR L 1
pretty weak econoemic picture. TR A L il
pretty weak econoemic picture. TR A L ] (R
pretty weak econoemic picture. TR A L (RN
You say week but will we see )
You say week but will we see i
You say week but will we see QRN NG|
You say week but will we see QR RLRGT
You say week but will we see QR R GRS R
the UK going into recession, el
the UK going into recession, which is a
the UK going into recession, Y BB ]
the UK going into recession, which is a two quarters of
which is a two quarters of negative growth? Yes, | think
negative growth? Yes, | think )
negative growth? Yes, | think Rl
negative growth? Yes, | think R ]
negative growth? Yes, | think so far the expectation is that
so far the expectation is that Y
so far the expectation is that 10
so far the expectation is that we are not going to see that.
we are not going to see that. As you
we are not going to see that. YRV I
we are not going to see that. As you already mentioned this
As you already mentioned this T a1ds]
As you already mentioned this i
As you already mentioned this LGEERTGCG
As you already mentioned this IR TR |
As you already mentioned this NGRS LR
As you already mentioned this month is likely going to be
month is likely going to be flat, potentially, and you need
flat, potentially, and you need 0]
flat, potentially, and you need )
flat, potentially, and you need RN )
flat, potentially, and you need R R R L St e )
flat, potentially, and you need to see two consecutive quarters
to see two consecutive quarters N
to see two consecutive quarters of GDP
to see two consecutive quarters RGN ]
to see two consecutive quarters of GDP growth so | think right
of GDP growth so | think right Tl
of GDP growth so | think right R e
of GDP growth so | think right TR )
of GDP growth so | think right now there is more support
now there is more support coming
now there is more support I LEIGI
now there is more support coming from the government, for
coming from the government, for A& o]
coming from the government, for instance 15 billion
coming from the government, for R RN I sl e 10 la e s
instance 15 billien announced -
instance 15 billien announced by the
instance 15 billion announced by the government
instance 15 billion announced VRGN &)
instance 15 billion announced by the government to support
by the government to support TG
by the government to support Y CR
by the government to support people in terms of their energy
people in terms of their energy (N
people in terms of their energy 1YY
people in terms of their energy IR FL
people in terms of their energy hills, so that could be
people in terms of their energy bills, so that could be quite
bills, so that could be quite e
bills, so that could be quite helpful incrementally. |
bills, so that could be quite TR L AR TS
helpful incrementally. I think )
helpful incrementally. | think ORI e e
helpful incrementally. | think GRS e
helpful incrementally. | think the expectation is that
helpful incrementally. I think the expectation is that growth
the expectation is that growth il
the expectation is that growth T
the expectation is that growth will be around busy
the expectation is that growth W EEGTL LR TS
the expectation is that growth will be around busy rail line,
will be around busy rail line, T
will be around busy rail line, iE A
will be around busy rail line, flat line, but likely going to
flat line, but likely going to [y
flat line, but likely going to be some marginal growth that
be some marginal growth that (0
be some marginal growth that N
be some marginal growth that helps avert that recession. But
helps avert that recession. But )
helps avert that recession. But e
helps avert that recession. But N
helps avert that recession. But W el
helps avert that recession. But G A I 08
helps avert that recession. But the risk is still pretty much
the risk is still pretty much to
the risk is still pretty much Ry
the risk is still pretty much R
the risk is still pretty much to the downside and we may
to the downside and we may AL
to the downside and we may G
to the downside and we may potentially see a
to the downside and we may G R R e
to the downside and we may potentially see a recession but
potentially see a recession but i
potentially see a recession but ELhTe
potentially see a recession but | think it is
potentially see a recession but BG4
potentially see a recession but BEG T A
potentially see a recession but | think it is not still the
| think it is not still the I
| think it is not still the FALE
| think it is not still the TR
| think it is not still the PR R 1
| think it is not still the PR R T I Fi s [
| think it is not still the basis of case. What do you
basis of case. What do you think about
basis of case. What do you el 1oL Tl e
basis of case. What do you s o e Tl R aa N atlae-Ta1d
think about the current leadership
think about the current RS
think about the current R RS- 1
think about the current R EE R RS
leadership race that is ongoing,
leadership race that is LA G
leadership race that is ongoing, the eight candidates
ongoing, the eight candidates Ty
ongoing, the eight candidates who would Llike
ongoing, the eight candidates who would Like to
ongoing, the eight candidates R AR o)
ongoing, the eight candidates R A RN R )
ongoing, the eight candidates R G RN R e
who would like to be the next [PTTe Ty
who would like to be the next Prime Minister, leader of the
Prime Minister, leader of the Tory party? Many
Prime Minister, leader of the IS Al AR L A
Prime Minister, leader of the G A E L AR L I A R G ]
Prime Minister, leader of the Tory party? Many of them are
Tory party? Many of them are saying we will cut taxes. Liz
saying we will cut taxes. Liz I
saying we will cut taxes. Liz VRN
saying we will cut taxes. Liz IRV
saying we will cut taxes. Liz Truss says on day one | will
Truss says on day one | will i
Truss says on day one | will WA E
Truss says on day one | will cut taxes. Your thoughts on who
cut taxes. Your thoughts on who it
cut taxes. Your thoughts on who L
cut taxes. Your thoughts on who b &Gk
cut taxes. Your thoughts on who might get that job and what
might get that job and what that
might get that job and what GE NIl
might get that job and what that might mean going forward
that might mean going forward e
that might mean going forward TR
that might mean going forward for the UK economy. | don’t
for the UK economy. | don’t 14
for the UK economy. | don’t A al
for the UK economy. | don’t think | can
for the UK economy. | don’t ISR Ree st Te 4
for the UK economy. | don’t think | can comment on
for the UK economy. | don’t ISR R Rl
for the UK economy. | don’t ISR Rt R R E o ks
think I can comment on that. It 3
think I can comment on that. It is going
think I can comment on that. It LR
think I can comment on that. It is going to be a
think | can comment on that. It is going to be a very tough
s going to be a very tough race.
s going to be a very tough e TR )
s going to be a very tough e L
s going to be a very tough e L]
s going to be a very tough e T R
s going to be a very tough e T AR
race. There is a lot of a1l
race. There is a lot of ey AL
race. There is a lot of Ny R U
race. There is a lot of Ny R UG
uncertainty at the moment. )
uncertainty at the moment. There are
uncertainty at the moment. T e i
uncertainty at the moment. There are still eight
There are still eight IR
There are still eight candidates going so | don’t
candidates going so | don’t think | can
candidates going so | don’t sl AR e me et il e
candidates going so | don’t think | can comment on
candidates going so | don’t AT O R amee et el e e a1
candidates going so | don’t think | can comment on that but
think I can comment on that but )
think I can comment on that but e
think I can comment on that but ]
think I can comment on that but there is a very
think | can comment on that but there is a very clear
think I can comment on that but there is a very clear chance
there is a very clear chance that
there is a very clear chance R R
there is a very clear chance G E RG]
there is a very clear chance G E RO R e
that the upcoming Prime YR
that the upcoming Prime Minister would propose for more
Minister would propose for more tax
Minister would propose for more =y aeiiey
Minister would propose for more tax cuts going forward that
tax cuts going forward that would appeal to the population
would appeal to the population and
would appeal to the population AR
would appeal to the population IR R L
would appeal to the population and that was certainly helped
and that was certainly helped with
and that was certainly helped R )
and that was certainly helped T R o e a1l
and that was certainly helped T A Rl o e atIIol e alae et Nas
with the economic environment 4
with the economic environment R Y
with the economic envireonment R )
with the economic envireonment R )
with the economic envireonment R e RN - g
with the economic envireonment R e RN ]
with the economic envireonment R e RN Rl
but we have to bear in mind that
but we have to bear in mind R R
but we have to bear in mind UEIRO R i)
but we have to bear in mind LRGNl d
but we have to bear in mind that the Office for Budget
that the Office for Budget S 1 Kis
that the Office for Budget GRS
that the Office for Budget G R
Responsibility have been IO
Responsibility have been warning that, actually, a tax
warning that, actually, a tax i
warning that, actually, a tax A
warning that, actually, a tax a4
warning that, actually, a tax W TR ]
warning that, actually, a tax cut is not going to help with
cut is not going to help with )
cut is not going to help with the situation
cut is not going to help with A I s s
cut is not going to help with the situation and it is going
the situation and it is going to
the situation and it is going R R e (1
the situation and it is going to be fiscally unsustainable. |
to be fiscally unsustainable. | %1\
to be fiscally unsustainable. | really don’t
to be fiscally unsustainable. | really don’t know
to be fiscally unsustainable. | really don’t know how much roem
really don’t know how much room )
really don’t know how much room e
really don’t know how much room QR L
really don’t know how much room there is going to be for the
there is going to be for the ey
there is going to be for the TSR R )
there is going to be for the new Prime Minister. He or she
new Prime Minister. He or she can
new Prime Minister. He or she NI
new Prime Minister. He or she can promise a
new Prime Minister. He or she IR G
new Prime Minister. He or she UL S
new Prime Minister. He or she IOl S AU
can promise a lot before they Py
can promise a lot before they R |
can promise a lot before they are elected but I’m really not
are elected but I’m really not )
are elected but I’m really not sure how much room there
sure how much room there actually
sure how much room there Fla 0% (VA1
sure how much room there actually is for tax cuts.
actually is for tax cuts. Absolutely. wWe
actually is for tax cuts. Absolutely. We are very
Absolutely. We are very EniHIETd
Absolutely. We are very familiar with the premises and
familiar with the premises and the reality,
familiar with the premises and QRGO
familiar with the premises and RGNy ARG L
familiar with the premises and R U AR G LR L]
the reality, they are often very different. Thank you very
very different. Thank you very much
very different. Thank you very MBI R
very different. Thank you very much indeed, Janet. Thank you.
The global gender pay gap has been closed
by 68% so far this year -
that sounds pretty good, doesn’t it?
But at the current rate of progress, it will take
132 years for that gap to be closed altogether.
And the Global Gender Pay gap report from the World Econoemic
IO I TR ORI are still disproportionally
impacted by conflict, climate change, the rising cost
of living and accessibility to care and education.
T
We are on the back
We are on th e back foot.
To talk us through the issues we’re joined
by the Managing Director SRR e R e sl e
Forum, Saadia Zahidi.
Good morning, good to see you. WEF produce
Good morning, good to see you. L R 1
Good morning, good to see you. WEF produce this report
WEF produce this report reqularly and
WEF produce this report regularly and | have
WEF produce this report reqularly and | have to
WEF produce this report regularly and | have to say, in
regularly and | have to say, In 1)
regularly and | have to say, In R
reqularly and | have to say, In my entire career, | have
my entire career, | have !
my entire career, | have RO
my entire career, | have covered this story and the
W R G TR R R [ progress
COTCITo R G (g Ry [ progress is so slow and
WOl To R QIR ([ Ry [ progress is so slow and the
progress is so slow and the pandemic
QG REEL R Rg [ pandemic has
QG REEL R Rg [ N A E R D
QG REEL R Rg [ NN R EL R
progress is so slow and the pandemic has made it worse,
pandemic has made it worse, ke
pandemic has made it worse, hasn’t it?
pandemic has made it worse, FF YA IR
pandemic has made it worse, hasn’t it? Yeah, that’s exactly
hasn’t it? Yeah, that’s exactly it Over
hasn’t it? Yeah, that’s exactly it. Over the last couple of
it. Over the last couple of years
it. Over the last couple of IR
it. Over the last couple of years the fairly meagre process
years the fairly meagre process that was taking place just
that was taking place just became
that was taking place just e e
that was taking place just became slower. It has not yet
became slower. It has not yet reversed. It has not yet
reversed. It has not yet R &S
reversed. It has not yet NIRRT
reversed. It has not yet MR LR R ey
reversed. It has not yet MR EGE R e
reversed. It has not yet MR LR N R - NN 10le
installed but there is much A
installed but there is much slower progress
installed but there is much A G R B
installed but there is much slower progress than planned
slower progress than planned and
slower progress than planned N Eaas s ]
slower progress than planned and than originally envisaged
and than originally envisaged and
and than originally envisaged L
and than originally envisaged LS
and than originally envisaged LRI RCRI e Y
and it is understandable T )
and it is understandable TR e
and it is understandable TN R
and it is understandable R RGN
and it is understandable because over the last couple of
because over the last couple of years
because over the last couple of CEI R )
because over the last couple of R NG
because over the last couple of years we have seen
because over the last couple of IR N R L
because over the last couple of years we have seen that the
years we have seen that the industries that tended
years we have seen that the TSI R R R R
years we have seen that the IR TR E R R
industries that tended to be )
industries that tended to be QA ETG3
industries that tended to be the largest employers of women
the largest employers of women have been disrupted. The care
have been disrupted. The care RT3 aa T netle)
have been disrupted. The care NI a i ni e N1
have been disrupted. The care NIt R E R E
have been disrupted. The care infrastructure that was already
infrastructure that was already s
infrastructure that was already RN
infrastructure that was already not merely adequate for most
not merely adequate for most families became worse when |
families became worse when | TS
families became worse when | LR et e
families became worse when | was further disrupted. In some
was further disrupted. In some e e ey
was further disrupted. In some T Tl
was further disrupted. In some T e T LR )
was further disrupted. In some e Tl el
was further disrupted. In some countries rules have still not
countries rules have still not come
countries rules have still not i ekl e
countries rules have still not i e G
countries rules have still not come back to normal. Caregiving
come back to normal. Caregiving responsibilities tend to fall
responsibilities tend to fall ]
responsibilities tend to fall on women
responsibilities tend to fall MR ]
responsibilities tend to fall MR R )
responsibilities tend to fall on women and the high-growth
on women and the high-growth A ur e
on women and the high-growth A e e R
on women and the high-growth e R E 1)
on women and the high-growth A e R Rl
sectors that are still I 0|
sectors that are still IR RV
sectors that are still continuing to have growth tend
continuing to have growth tend el
continuing to have growth tend AT e
continuing to have growth tend not to be
continuing to have growth tend RN R
continuing to have growth tend not to be the largest employers
not to be the largest employers of
not to be the largest employers SR hihE
not to be the largest employers SRR LG A
not to be the largest employers SR NI A
not to be the largest employers SR NI TR AR A )
not to be the largest employers R NI TR AR A
of women. That is how we have sl
of women. That is how we have IR
of women. That is how we have ended up in this
of women. That is how we have QR RO RGO R
ended up In this situation. Iceland once again shows to be
Iceland once again shows to be Y
Iceland once again shows to be LG
Iceland once again shows to be a shining light
Iceland once again shows to be EELIRG LR L
Iceland once again shows to be a shining light on this
Iceland once again shows to be EE G LR R G
a shining light on this issue, 3
a shining light on this issue, e
a shining light on this issue, it has reached
a shining light on this issue, T LR e R
a shining light on this issue, it has reached the highest
it has reached the highest T
it has reached the highest level of gender pay equality,
level of gender pay equality, )
level of gender pay equality, R L
level of gender pay equality, R e A
level of gender pay equality, so what is Iceland getting
so what is Iceland getting right? In
so what is Iceland getting L SR
so what is Iceland getting right? In terms of health gaps
right? In terms of health gaps and education gaps they are
and education gaps they are doing
and education gaps they are LGRS S
and education gaps they are doing extremely well, just like
doing extremely well, just Like e
doing extremely well, just like other Nordic countries but the
other Nordic countries but the reason
other Nordic countries but the T IR
other Nordic countries but the reason this country
other Nordic countries but the MR A
other Nordic countries but the MR I R F R U L
reason this country has tended to
reason this country has tended RN VAT
reason this country has tended to essentially beat its
reason this country has tended RN VA R RO ]
to essentially beat its own )
to essentially beat its own score every single year and
score every single year and e e 418 )
score every single year and continue to stay at the
score every single year and TR R VR R R )
continue to stay at the top having close 90% of its gender
having close 90% of its gender gap is because of the changes
gap is because of the changes they
gap is because of the changes QAN
gap is because of the changes they have made in the workforce
they have made in the workforce and
they have made in the workforce N Rdar]
they have made in the workforce R
they have made in the workforce and that is why when it comes
and that is why when it comes to
and that is why when it comes Ry
and that is why when it comes to the pay gap, labour force
to the pay gap, labour force participation, participation in
participation, participation in senior roles and weight comes
senior roles and weight comes to participation in
senior roles and weight comes R E L E R R el 1
to participation in technical roles, that
to participation in technical (IR F e Tde
to participation in technical roles, that country overall
roles, that country overall Y
roles, that country overall VIR0
roles, that country overall does very well and
roles, that country overall A A L B FI,
does very well and similarly Y
does very well and similarly when it
does very well and similarly Y Tl e 1
does very well and similarly when it comes to politics at
when it comes to politics at parliamentary level at
parliamentary level at IBReE
parliamentary level at ministerial level
parliamentary level at R G R s )
parliamentary level at NI R R sl
parliamentary level at NI ML R R e e
ministerial level and of course -
ministerial level and of course WA
ministerial level and of course by having female heads of state
by having female heads of state along the way. It is critical,
along the way. It is critical, isn’t
along the way. It is critical, N
along the way. It is critical, I A MR F] e
along the way. It is critical, I R R R
along the way. It is critical, IR ARG R G-
Isn’t it, that there Is collaboration
Isn’t it, that there Iis collaboration between all
collaboration between all ELolYa iy
collaboration between all ]
collaboration between all A R R e
collaboration between all aspects of society, between
aspects of society, between SNl e
aspects of society, between government, business, other
government, business, other ELolYa iy
government, business, other aspects of
government, business, other A R R e
government, business, other aspects of society, for this to
aspects of society, for this to %1\
aspects of society, for this to really change going forward. It
really change going forward. It s not
really change going forward. It X A0
really change going forward. It is not up to
really change going forward. It A R
really change going forward. It is not up to one bit
really change going forward. It A RN
really change going forward. It AT RN R L]
VRV N R T ) country or
Is not up to one bit of a country or another, is it? No,
country or another, is it? No, and |
country or another, is it? No, IR a4
country or another, Is it? No, and | think first
country or another, Is it? No, R E G R il s ]
country or another, Is it? No, and | think first and foremost
and | think first and foremost 3
and | think first and foremost TRy
and | think first and foremost RGN0
and | think first and foremost is the care infrastructure,
is the care infrastructure, that
is the care infrastructure, G A
Is the care Infrastructure, that is what fundamentally has
that is what fundamentally has to change
that is what fundamentally has R RN R A3
that is what fundamentally has to change across most
to change across most e
to change across most countries. Even
to change across most T A e e
to change across most countries. Even before the
countries. Even before the pandemic in 2019, out of the
pandemic in 2019, out of the e
pandemic in 2019, out of the Il d
pandemic in 2019, out of the e ATl le )
pandemic in 2019, out of the total number of hours
pandemic in 2019, out of the G R A e Y
pandemic in 2019, out of the total number of hours are spent
total number of hours are spent on
total number of hours are spent SRTLLeEI]
total number of hours are spent on unpaid work, ferment that
on unpaid work, ferment that Ty
on unpaid work, ferment that was about 20% of their
on unpaid work, ferment that L N RS R
was about 20% of their time. For women
was about 20% of their time. YR e e lid
was about 20% of their time. TR N R L
was about 20% of their time. TR iR Lo [e 014
was about 20% of their time. For women it was about 55% --
For women it was about 55% -- e
For women it was about 55% -- ]
IR AT E LR L T Y e for men that
IR AT E LR L T Y e TR T ET
IR AT E LR L T Y e for men that was 20%
IR AT E LR L T Y e TSR EI R LW A
IR AT E LR L T Y e TR GRS R e
for men that was 20% of their time.
for men that was 20% of their g
for men that was 20% of their time. For care
time. For care (G
time. For care responsibilities, because they
responsibilities, because they Py
responsibilities, because they are not shifting
responsibilities, because they EIC S R
responsibilities, because they are not shifting in home there
are not shifting in home there VY
are not shifting in home there needs to
are not shifting in home there TR e o)
are not shifting in home there needs to be much
are not shifting in home there T R e N -t oMt e]
are not shifting in home there T R e N Rt e Bt o)
needs to be much more care RT3 aa T netle)
needs to be much more care infrastructure provided and
infrastructure provided and government
infrastructure provided and RN
infrastructure provided and government needs to see it
infrastructure provided and G R R LR
government needs to see it as PN
government needs to see it as LRI S
government needs to see it as an investment, the same way
an investment, the same way they
an investment, the same way SR
an investment, the same way QAR A
they see physical R I aa Tl e
they see physical R i I aa w1
they see physical R T aa et e - L1
infrastructure as an R
infrastructure as an investment. OK. That
infrastructure as an R e R A
infrastructure as an investment. OK. That is working
investment. OK. That is working R
investment. OK. That is working LI R )
investment. OK. That is working LI R Rt N s [T e el
towards the future industries that
towards the future industries R
towards the future industries that are going
towards the future industries GE IR IR
towards the future industries that are going to be the
that are going to be the largest... We are out of time
largest... We are out of time but
largest... We are out of time L
largest... We are out of time A
largest... We are out of time N RERE
largest... We are out of time I R VT
largest... We are out of time R VR R
largest... We are out of time but it is really good to talk
but it is really good to talk to
but it is really good to talk R
but it is really good to talk to you again. Thank you for
to you again. Thank you for (N
to you again. Thank you for being on
to you again. Thank you for LR G Y
to you again. Thank you for ENGE R GRS
to you again. Thank you for being on the programme. Saadia
being on the programme. Saadia Zahidi, the managing director
Zahidi, the managing director N
Zahidi, the managing director R R el
Zahidi, the managing director B R el T s et
Zahidi, the managing director R R el e s et el e et D
Zahidi, the managing director RO ER Ll e s st el T et
of the World Economic Ferum. | il
of the World Economic Ferum. | T
of the World Economic Ferum. | LR
of the World Economic Forum. | N (EX R ORI R
Hello, there.
I A R R T (g Tuesday was a slightly
ool I E)TE
We had much more cloud around.
It was thick enough even to give a bit of
But despite the cloud, here in London, it was hot.
Temperatures over 30 Celsius again.
Much further north, preparing for the Open
at St Andrews, it’s cooler.
Temperatures were in the low 20s despite the sunshine.
That cooler, cleaner, NN AR T3]
down from the north, following this band of cloud
QLIRS AR LR T or two spots of rain.
So, for much of the country, TR R ]
comfortable night.
These are the temperatures WAGER G TIGTTTE
Still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the
southeast of England.
And across southern parts of England, could start quite
cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots
of rain left over.
That’s slowly moving away.
We will see one or two showers TV R Ela )
and mainly in Scotland, AT RGN
Much more sunshine, though, arriving across England and
Wales than we had on Tuesday.
Those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly,
but still another hot day in the Southeast and East
Anglia, and in London 30 degrees not out
of the question.
Heading into Thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly
breeze bringing more cloud R R
Northern Ireland, Scotland, perhaps a few inte northern
England, but further NGl IR A EL L
into Wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
But those temperatures continuing to just
drop away a little.
Highs of the more manageable 27 Celsius
In the southeast of England.
This area of high pressure ERCHLIL RG]
in across the UK, where we’ve got this weak weather front
arriving from the Atlantic, RO R N R L]
for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for Northern Ireland
pushing across Scotland, perhaps northern England,
that should move away, skies will brighten.
Once again across more JNGEOTE I RO L
it is going to be fine and dry with light winds.
Still pretty warm out OOV R G OGS
typically into the mid-20s.
Still only around 19-20 through the central belt of Scotland.
It’s into the weekend that really things start to warm up,
not so much for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and the far north of England, NGO R 2oL 0
into the mid-20s, but for many other parts of England
and into Wales, we are going to find some extremely high
temperatures developing over the weekend into the start
We’ve got that extreme heat warning from the Met Office.
So in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will
really be shooting up.
Temperatures could even get higher than that.
Ambulance emergency - is the patient breathing?
TEARFULLY: He’s dead. I’ve killed him.
Do | know you?
Who was it, Gabriel? No idea.
Don’t you remember?
Well, she knows you.
What’s going on? No!
Where were you for that first stolen kiss?
IlLicit, illegal.
| haven’t got a demon.
Electric skin to skin.
You love this young woman. Yes! YRRV
Change the world this time, ST
When they first stood up to shout.
If you haven’t had enough, | have!
Have courage.
Don’t come back unless you bring an army! Have pride.
We’re going to seize the power.
Where were you when you saw your story for the very first time?
There’s less danger of us
corrupting your world than of you (LRI
Your journey in your own words.
Only do what you love.
And where were we when jaws dropped to all these firsts?
We’re here, right where we’ve always been.
The original home of British drama.
And we’'re just getting started.
Game-changing dramas for every LG
Britain’s greatest athletics Olympian, Mo Farah.
There’s something about me you don’t know.
It’s a secret that I’ve been hiding since | was a child.
There was lots of missing pieces to his story.
Where had this boy come from?
Behind the smile, there was something there.
Most people know me as Mo Farah, LA S AR
it’s not the reality.
Let’s see what’s on the menu today. Great food... Ooh, I love it!
..great tips... This is incredible, TS QIR ARG
..great company... Give me mandem energy. ..great laughs...
Woo! What’s wrong with me?!
I’ve got a proper little shimmy! Kick-start your weekend...
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Nina Warhust and Sally Nugent.
Our headlines today...
And then there were eight - the remaining candidates
for Conservative leadership prepare to face their first round of voting.
I
TR
FIuRhE
| am in a vegan food factory, seeing how
| am in a vegan food factory, seeing A RN T
| am in a vegan food factory, seeing A AN )
| am in a vegan food factory, seeing how businesses are bearing. New
how businesses are bearing. New figures
how businesses are bearing. New ALl
how businesses are bearing. New figures on the economy later on.
Trading standards says it’s worried the market is being flooded
with illicit vaping products, and the ease with which
children can access them.
S L VI RN D an "inspiration” after revealing
he was trafficked into the UK YW Rl s R ge:-Tsl
toc work as a servant.
| used to lock myself RE N da et N
And you cry every day.
You cry every day and you tell them, "Please, someone,
SRR i I
No-one comes to you.
With just 24 hours to go until the start of one of golf’s
biggest events, how Tiger Woods is taking aim at more
than Scotland’s historic NN Ry
It may look more like an
It may look more Like an ol
It may look more like an oil rig and PN
It may look more like an oil rig and R
It may look more like an oil rig and an oil painting but this former
an oil painting but this former North
an oil painting but this former YY)
an oil painting but this former North Sea platform standing more
North Sea platform standing more than 100 feet high is being brought
than 100 feet high is being brought Ty
than 100 feet high is being brought into Weston-super-Mare to become a
into Weston-super-Mare to become a yFIkig
into Weston-super-Mare to become a major art installation. A pleasantly
major art installation. A pleasantly warm
major art installation. A pleasantly I
major art installation. A pleasantly warm day for many, feeling a good
warm day for many, feeling a good R
warm day for many, feeling a good IRt e e st e la 1o 1)
warm day for many, feeling a good deal more comfortable than of late.
deal more comfortable than of late. s
deal more comfortable than of late. It continues in
deal more comfortable than of late. (e s R R
deal more comfortable than of late. e s A Ia T B R T 0k ds]
deal more comfortable than of late. [ AN L N R XL
deal more comfortable than of late. e RN R NG F I
It continues in the South East of England. The full forecast coming up
England. The full forecast coming up T
England. The full forecast coming up here on
England. The full forecast coming up NN Y
It’s Wednesday, the 13th of July.
Our main story.
Conservative MPs will cast their first vote today
for who they want to replace Boris Johnson as party leader.
Eight candidates are left in the race to become
the next Prime Minister - they have to secure 30 votes
in the first round to stay in the race, as our political
correspondent, lone Wells, reports.
| can report that we have eight candidates, duly nominated.
And then there were eight.
One of these candidates will be the next Prime Minister,
having secured the backing of at least 20 Tory MPs.
The former Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, the Attorney General, Suella
Braverman, the Foreign Secretary, Liz Truss, the Chancellor, Nadhim
Zahawi, minister Penny Mordaunt and MPs Kemi Badenoch, Jeremy Hunt
and Tom Tugendhat.
Things heated up last night quite literally, as they crowded
inte a hot, sticky room in parliament one by one to encourage
colleagues to back them today.
The former Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has the most Tory MPs
backing him so far, securing e R it R R et s
ministers, Dominic Raab and Grant Shapps, among others.
Mr Shapps earlier on had previously N R I EIOR
Actually, | was delighted with the support that | got, but I also
recognise that what we need more than anything else is somebody
who can step straight into the role B NN AR e R
There will be a lot of eyes R N R IBE
lay their support if and when they are eliminated.
ST T FAT
Neither the former Health Secretary, Sajid Javid, who withdrew
R R IR QL R %18 7
Priti Patel, who decided R ORI NI
who they will support instead.
Penny Mordaunt has the second-highest number of Tory MPs
publicly backing her.
She’s kept a lower profile so far, but launches
her campaign this morning.
But today, support for all candidates will be
put to its first test.
Tory MPs will vote this afternoon, and anyone with fewer than 30 votes
Successive rounds continue, T R R R G R R N
votes will be knocked out, until only two remain.
Those two will go to a vote among Conservative Party members.
The winner will be announced RGO RGN E e
This bit is key, as whoever wants to be the party leader
UL R G T R T )] to their Tory MP colleagues but also
N ETg sl LTy TS up and down the UK.
A pitch the final two will be making TR RO
lone Wells, BBC News.
We’re joined now by our political correspondent, Ben Wright.
Ben, voting begins today.
NG CIOE)
Yesterday was a bit like declaration E
Yesterday was a bit like declaration day with MP saying who they are
day with MP saying who they are I gl
day with MP saying who they are supporting. How is it looking so
supporting. How is it looking so Tl
supporting. How is it looking so far? Cantankerous, hot and crowded
far? Cantankerous, hot and crowded e
far? Cantankerous, hot and crowded in Westminster. It would be
far? Cantankerous, hot and crowded R I R R L GE ]
in Westminster. It would be a Sl 1l
in Westminster. It would be a dramatic day. Eight candidates are
dramatic day. Eight candidates are running, they got the
dramatic day. Eight candidates are UL AR G R G R LD
running, they got the required nominations to
running, they got the required I R R ol
running, they got the required I A R R s N Te
running, they got the required P I A R R T AT e
nominations to stand. After the e

Citation: BBC News, 01:20 13/07/2022, BBC1 London, 280 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BF90B6B?bcast=137082411 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)