Nobody wants your pregnant, tragic ass here.
Well, I’m not going anywhere.
A Is testing us. He’s watching us!
Whatever happens, we’re all in this together.
At last, Strictly’s back in the home of ballroom.
Hello, Blackpool!
Get ready for a dazzling night on the dance floor.
What more do you want?
Strictly Come Dancing, live from Blackpool:
Two days to go.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
We begin in the United States, where President Biden has
congratulated the Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy
for securing a majority in the House of Representatives.
It marks a return to divided government in America,
with Democrats still retaining a slim majority in the Senate.
The White House says the president is ready to work
with House Republicans IR R
for working families.
Let’s speak to our North America correspondent,
What does this mean for the T4
What does this mean for the next two
What does this mean for the (YR R4
What does this mean for the next two years in Washington
next two years in Washington i iile¥s
next two years in Washington XL
next two years in Washington politics? This is, as you say,
politics? This is, as you say, it e
politics? This Is, as you say, divided government returning to
divided government returning to Washington. Not an entirely
Washington. Not an entirely unusual situation, histerically
unusual situation, historically e
unusual situation, historically it has
unusual situation, historically I U
unusual situation, historically it has happened many times
it has happened many times S E
it has happened many times ST
it has happened many times SN i
it has happened many times e N Fa
it has happened many times e R i E T
't has happened many times SN L E R A
before. But what it means is with
before. But what it means is R )
before. But what it means is with the Republicans
before. But what it means is O R GGG LN
before. But what it means is with the Republicans in charge
with the Republicans in charge 3
with the Republicans in charge inthe
with the Republicans in charge in the House of Representatives
in the House of Representatives e
in the House of Representatives it will certainly stymie Joe
it will certainly stymie Joe Biden’s intentions, his
Biden’s intentions, his political agenda over the next
political agenda over the next w11 )
political agenda over the next couple of years with the
couple of years with the Republicans in a position to
Republicans in a position to e
Republicans in a position to block any legislative moves he
block any legislative moves he R
block any legislative moves he makes. The Republicans will be
makes. The Republicans will be in
makes. The Republicans will be s
makes. The Republicans will be SR
makes. The Republicans will be in charge of the crucial
in charge of the crucial st
in charge of the crucial committees in
in charge of the crucial i R R
in charge of the crucial I R NE
in charge of the crucial committees in the House of
committees in the House of NN R L
committees in the House of NGNS R LS A1
committees in the House of Representatives. They can bring
Representatives. They can bring T e 1o
Representatives. They can bring T LR s
Representatives. They can bring T LR T ]
Representatives. They can bring forward their own legislation
forward their own legislation and possibly any inquiries.
and possibly any inquiries. Y
and possibly any inquiries. Possibly inquiries
and possibly any inquiries. Possibly inguiries against Joe
Possibly inquiries against Joe ]
Possibly inquiries against Joe Biden they
Possibly inquiries against Joe RS A R )
Possibly inquiries against Joe NG A R R L
Possibly inquiries against Joe Biden they choose to pursue. It
Biden they choose to pursue. It il
Biden they choose to pursue. It IR
Biden they choose to pursue. It will be a difficult
Biden they choose to pursue. It (W13 i a Sl R la i)
Biden they choose to pursue. It will be a difficult time in
will be a difficult time in Washington. We don’t expect a
Washington. We don’t expect a LY
Washington. We don’t expect a LT LI
Washington. We don’t expect a huge amount to get through to
VG ERET T R (G [ R LT R EIe
VG ERET T R (G [ R LT R EI IR
huge amount to get through to happen in terms of new
happen in terms of new legislation, but it is
legislation, but it is interesting Joe Biden is
interesting Joe Biden is reaching out. This is typical
reaching out. This Is typical of Mr
reaching out. This is typical S BE R
reaching out. This is typical of Mr Biden’s style, he is
of Mr Biden’s style, he is reaching out to the Republicans
reaching out to the Republicans saying
reaching out to the Republicans WL
reaching out to the Republicans VLI RG]
reaching out to the Republicans saying he would try to continue
saying he would try to continue to
saying he would try to continue nhnee
saying he would try to continue R S DG
saying he would try to continue to work together. We are
to work together. We are EIU]
to work together. We are talking about divided politics
talking about divided politics here, but
talking about divided politics [T N R e
talking about divided politics NG
talking about divided politics here, but there has, in
talking about divided politics T R G TR RO
here, but there has, in the i
here, but there has, in the last few
TN R G R R g [ last few hours, show of
here, but there has, in the last few hours, show of unity
last few hours, show of unity Y
last few hours, show of unity when it
last few hours, show of unity Y Tl e 1
last few hours, show of unity when it comes to the respect
when it comes to the respect marriage bill? Yes, this is a
marriage bill? Yes, this is a T
marriage bill? Yes, this is a K
marriage bill? Yes, this Is a bill that has been given the
bill that has been given the ]
bill that has been given the green light
bill that has been given the SO
bill that has been given the green light in the
bill that has been given the DAL R GRS
bill that has been given the NN AL R G R EL L
green light in the Senate, at e
green light in the Senate, at least to
green light in the Senate, at IR R )
green light in the Senate, at least to move to
green light in the Senate, at R E R R R
green light in the Senate, at least to move to the next stage
least to move to the next stage Y
least to move to the next stage when it will
least to move to the next stage TGRS
least to move to the next stage TR R e e |
least to move to the next stage when it will be considered and
CLEN RIS R G T T then
when it will be considered and B
when it will be considered and QRN G
when it will be considered and then move perhaps to the House
then move perhaps to the House N
then move perhaps to the House TN ELT
then move perhaps to the House of Representatives, ultimately
of Representatives, ultimately to Joe Biden.
of Representatives, ultimately GRS
of Representatives, ultimately to Joe Biden. This is
to Joe Biden. This is essentially a bill that would
essentially a bill that would R
essentially a bill that would make same-sex marriage legal
make same-sex marriage legal P g ]
make same-sex marriage legal across the United
make same-sex marriage legal e R I RS e
make same-sex marriage legal across the United States. It is
across the United States. It is 3
across the United States. It is R I
across the United States. It is in response to concerns
across the United States. It is T R R S R O LS
in response to concerns that )
in response to concerns that R e Ay
in response to concerns that the Conservative leaning
the Conservative leaning ST R T
the Conservative leaning ST R g FA
the Conservative leaning Supreme Court may, at some
Supreme Court may, at some point, step into essentially go
point, step into essentially go back on its
point, step into essentially go FN R R R el 1a]
point, step into essentially go back on its decision from
point, step into essentially go NN R T
back on its decision from seven years ago that gives same-sex
years ago that gives same-sex couples the
years ago that gives same-sex T IR o1
years ago that gives same-sex couples the right to get
couples the right to get married in
couples the right to get IR R
couples the right to get married in this country. Those
married in this country. Those e g
married in this country. Those e
married in this country. Those R N
married in this country. Those N R N NI
married in this country. Those N IR N Y IR O
concerns were raised after the abortion decision
concerns were raised after the Y s e
concerns were raised after the abortion decision earlier this
abortion decision earlier this =1
abortion decision earlier this year, removing
abortion decision earlier this IR UL DR GT
year, removing the constitutional rights
year, removing the NS GO D
year, removing the constitutional rights of women
constitutional rights of women in the United States to have an
in the United States to have an P e g ale ]
in the United States to have an abortion and
in the United States to have an Y e R )
in the United States to have an N R e
in the United States to have an N R AR
abortion and there is real concern
abortion and there is real e g R4
abortion and there is real e R e
abortion and there is real e R A R
abortion and there is real e e R A R 1
concern that at least some of )
concern that at least some of QT (0
concern that at least some of G RV (LRI ]
concern that at least some of the justices would like to
the justices would like to sl
the justices would like to AR
the justices would like to extend that limitation
the justices would like to AR A st Tt s el s
the justices would like to UG A R
extend that limitation on the i
extend that limitation on the SR
extend that limitation on the O LT
extend that limitation on the rights of Americans. OK, teeter
rights of Americans. OK, teeter in
rights of Americans. OK, teeter Y
rights of Americans. OK, teeter RV YRGS
rights of Americans. OK, teeter in LA, thank you very much.
There’s continued AR R e I
of a missile attack which led R RO R R N
on Polish territory.
President Zelensky insists Russia was behind the strike,
but NATO, Poland and the US R B R G S A A LS G
the incident was most likely caused by a Ukrainian
N e a3y
Katya Adler reports.
These have been nail-biting moments for Poland and its
allies, gathering evidence and intelligence about last
night’s missile strike close to Poland’'s border with Ukraine.
Yerevan lives nearby.
His family heard the explosion, he said,
and were really scared.
Nato was also nervous.
You’ll notice almost more emphasis today on who likely
wasn’t behind the strike than who probably was.
We have no indication that this was the result
of a deliberate attack, and we have no indication that
Russia is preparing offensive military actions against Nato.
To Western leaders, RN A
Poland’s president says it seems the explosion
was caused by Ukrainian air defence systems.
An unfortunate error, he said.
Moscow did pound Ukraine with missiles yesterday.
If it had struck or targeted neighbouring Nato member
Poland, as first suggested in Polish media, the whole
alliance could have been called on, meaning confrontation
with nuclear power Russia.
Nato really wants to avoid that, while still supporting
Ukraine’s military.
Nato leaders’ carefully crafted, measured response
today shows how much they fear Europe is on a knife edge.
They’ve had a sharp shock reminder of the ever-present
potential of Russia’s war to escalate and spread
beyond Ukraine’s borders.
Kyiv sometimes accuses allies of getting too used
to all those missiles raining i R R Rt
If that ever was the case, last night was a huge wake-up call.
But it’s also caused a rift with Kyiv, determined Russia
was behind the strike in Poland.
TRANSLATION: | have no doubt that this is not our
missile, not our strike.
| believe this is a Russian IR SR s R 0ld
military reports.
That’s a very rare public break T G IR G e
At a meeting of world leaders today, the Prime Minister
assured Ukraine support against Russia was unwavering,
and there were strong words from his Foreign Secretary.
The House should be in no doubt that the only reason
why missiles are flying through European skies
and exploding in European villages is because of Russia’s
barbaric invasicn of Ukraine.
As the investigation continues on the ground in Poland,
Nato says it’s boosting air defences across eastern
Europe as well as Ukraine, just in case.
Katya Adler, BBC News, Nato.
RS EL S (T Bowman, Senior Director
of the Center on Military IR Rl Ny e
at the Foundation for ST R AN e e
What do you make of the Nato response to what
What do you make of the Nato (YR RS
What do you make of the Nato (R R AT
response to what has happened in Poland? In
response to what has happened RN LA LR
response to what has happened in Poland? In the initial
response to what has happened RN R EA R G - e T 1
in Poland? In the initial hours )
in Poland? In the initial hours R A
in Poland? In the initial hours R L]
in Poland? In the initial hours R LR e
in Poland? In the initial hours there was a lot of heated
there was a lot of heated rhetoric and suggestions of how
rhetoric and suggestions of how Washington and our allies in
Washington and our allies in (0[]
Washington and our allies in Europe should respond. | think
Europe should respond. | think )
Europe should respond. | think QCR i
Europe should respond. | think Rl 0
Europe should respond. | think the right move was to take a
the right move was to take a deep
the right move was to take a T ICELOR
the right move was to take a LSRG EL G
the right move was to take a deep breath, gather the facts
deep breath, gather the facts and
deep breath, gather the facts N e 30108
deep breath, gather the facts and consult with
deep breath, gather the facts LR TR O R L
and consult with allies. That 3
and consult with allies. That is exactly what the Biden
is exactly what the Biden administration
is exactly what the Biden st A A I Ta s
is exactly what the Biden administration and its Nato
administration and its Nato NI
IR D DR E L allies did.
IR D DR E L I
IR D DR E L NI s
IR D DR E L NG ]
IR D DR E L allies did. It is a good
E IR R EL allies did. It is a good thing
allies did. It is a good thing Y
allies did. It is a good thing il
allies did. It is a good thing we did because as is often the
we did because as is often the Iy
we did because as is often the N
we did because as is often the AR E
we did because as Is often the case in war, the first reports
case in war, the first reports Py
case in war, the first reports are not accurate.
case in war, the first reports N lastle -
case in war, the first reports YN et e I AT )
case in war, the first reports e et e I A e
are not accurate. If we had (N
are not accurate. If we had [ E
are not accurate. If we had (A I R
are not accurate. If we had responded based on initial
responded based on initial W [a IR
responded based on initial conjecture, we could have made
conjecture, we could have made Y
conjecture, we could have made a hig mistake
conjecture, we could have made a big mistake with far-reaching
a big mistake with far-reaching N IR
a big mistake with far-reaching N o g
a big mistake with far-reaching N A A1)
a big mistake with far-reaching consequences. For my part |
consequences. For my part | o
consequences. For my part | would applaud the Biden
would applaud the Biden administration
would applaud the Biden st A A I Ta s
would applaud the Biden administration and Nato. This
administration and Nato. This i
EL I =Tl LR T GRS
EL I =Tl LR T G EE a]
EL I =Tl LR T could have been a
EL I =Tl LR T G N TR L a
could have been a dramatic expansion in the
could have been a dramatic SN R ELS
could have been a dramatic expansion in the war and
expansion in the war and T Y
expansion in the war and because cool
expansion in the war and hecause cool heads
expansion in the war and because cool heads prevailed,
because cool heads prevailed, )
because cool heads prevailed, eI
because cool heads prevailed, the crisis has been
because cool heads prevailed, N R R TN e )
because cool heads prevailed, NN R L N e B e e
the crisis has been averted for A
the crisis has been averted for ST
the crisis has been averted for T AR LR A
the crisis has been averted for now. This was a tragic
now. This was a tragic el e
now. This was a tragic incident, two innocent people
incident, two innocent people killed
incident, two innocent people IR
incident, two innocent people killed but arguably when you
killed but arguably when you Py
killed but arguably when you are so
killed but arguably when you R N )
killed but arguably when you I R R R )
killed but arguably when you are so close to an
killed but arguably when you I R R R T )
are so close to an active conflict zone,
are so close to an active i &SI IR GG
are so close to an active conflict zone, things like
conflict zone, things like this, runs the
conflict zone, things like RO R R4
conflict zone, things like this, runs the risk of
this, runs the risk of happening, do you think we will
happening, do you think we will T
happening, do you think we will XN
happening, do you think we will AN N
happening, do you think we will AR R
happening, do you think we will AR A T
happening, do you think we will AR ARG R
see more of the same as this war
see more of the same as this e a8 a0
see more of the same as this war continues? | hope not, but
war continues? | hope not, but |
war continues? | hope not, but 0
war continues? | hope not, but | do worry that might be the
| do worry that might be the e
| do worry that might be the case. Any course
| do worry that might be the LT VAR
| do worry that might be the -0 A VR R 1]
case. Any course of action L
case. Any course of action (YL RV ¥
case. Any course of action following Putin’s unprovoked
following Putin’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine has some
invasion of Ukraine has some risk
invasion of Ukraine has some T E LN aE s R
invasion of Ukraine has some risk associated. The strategy
risk associated. The strategy )
risk associated. The strateqy the US and our European
risk associated. The strategy the US and our European allies
the US and our European allies have
the US and our European allies [ EN NI
the US and our European allies have pursued since February the
have pursued since February the 24th
have pursued since February the It N
have pursued since February the I L BRG]
have pursued since February the 24th is to arm
have pursued since February the NGR4T
have pursued since February the 24th is to arm Ukraine, help
24th is to arm Ukraine, help them defend themselves against
them defend themselves against this
them defend themselves against IR CL)
them defend themselves against this unprovoked invasion,
this unprovoked invasion, beating
this unprovoked invasion, RV LRI
this unprovoked invasion, beating up a military posture
beating up a military posture ]
beating up a military posture ]
beating up a military posture MR )]
beating up a military posture on the eastern flank of
beating up a military posture MR Ri RS R
RO E ORI ELF R alliance and try to hold
on the eastern flank of the alliance and try to hold the
alliance and try to hold the alliance together as best we
alliance together as best we LR
alliance together as best we Ll
alliance together as best we - R4
alliance together as best we IR €14
alliance together as best we can. | think that has been
alliance together as best we N EGI R R R
can. | think that has been the right
IR G R R [ O
IR G R R [ right approach. We
can. | think that has been the right approach. We want to do
right approach. We want to do Al
right approach. We want to do SO
right approach. We want to do everything we can
right approach. We want to do SO R )
right approach. We want to do ORI R
everything we can to help &I
everything we can to help IR
everything we can to help Ukraine while avoiding direct
Ukraine while avoiding direct a1l
Ukraine while avoiding direct R R )
Ukraine while avoiding direct combat between Russia and Nato.
combat between Russia and Nato. TG
combat between Russia and Nato. Something we
combat between Russia and Nato. SN GIRTERE
combat between Russia and Nato. SIS GI R RG]
combat between Russia and Nato. SISO RTERA G R
combat between Russia and Nato. NS GTRTERI R R GG
Something we were able to do during
Something we were able to do RO
Something we were able to do during the whole length of the
during the whole length of the G
during the whole length of the Cold War. This was
during the whole length of the GIGR EIaRLIR AL
during the whole length of the Cold War. This was a moment of
Cold War. This was a moment of tension but |
Cold War. This was a moment of NN AR 4
Cold War. This was a moment of AR AR ais
Cold War. This was a moment of AR ARG iR e
Cold War. This was a moment of tension but | think it was well
tension but | think it was well handled. Continue to arm
handled. Continue to arm IE
handled. Continue to arm Ukraine will incur socme
handled. Continue to arm Ukraine will incur some risks,
Ukraine will incur some risks, e
Ukraine will incur some risks, R
Ukraine will incur some risks, NG R
Ukraine will incur some risks, RN R
Ukraine will incur some risks, R R R A
Ukraine will incur some risks, but the cost of not doing so
but the cost of not doing so il
but the cost of not doing so IR
but the cost of not doing so will be greater. Nato
but the cost of not doing so (NN - I EY Y)Y
will be greater. Nato says T E]
will be greater. Nato says Russia still bears the
Russia still bears the L1 Kis
Russia still bears the N A Y I
Russia still bears the responsibility because Ukraine
responsibility because Ukraine wouldn’t
responsibility because Ukraine R )
responsibility because Ukraine wouldn’t be using its
responsibility because Ukraine OGLE & YT LR
wouldn’t be using its air S e
wouldn’t be using its air ST e o
wouldn’t be using its air SR Al
wouldn’t be using its air ST R A R
wouldn’t be using its air SR T AR
wouldn’t be using its air SR R R R ]
defences If it didn’t need to, s
defences If it didn’t need to, is that a fair
defences If it didn’t need to, RO R AT I
defences If it didn’t need to, is that a fair response from
s that a fair response from Poland? | think it is more than
Poland? I think it is more than N
Poland? I think it is more than fair. We are looking
Poland? I think it is more than RN G
Poland? | think it is more than fair. We are looking at the
fair. We are looking at the largest invasion in Europe
largest invasion in Europe o)
largest invasion in Europe TR e e ]
largest invasion in Europe A e R e R Els
largest invasion in Europe since World War ll,
largest invasion in Europe since World War I, and
since World War Il, and provoked
since World War I, and provoked by Putin, an
since World War Il, and provoked by Putin, an illicit
provoked by Putin, an illicit "
provoked by Putin, an illicit war. Russia
provoked by Putin, an illicit AR Y1
provoked by Putin, an illicit war. Russia bears culpability
war. Russia bears culpability e
war. Russia bears culpability I
war. Russia bears culpability for this war, the initiation
war. Russia bears culpability IR GTR EI PR ORI R
for this war, the initiation of e
for this war, the initiation of war and the
for this war, the initiation of TN R R0
for this war, the initiation of TN R G R VA 1YY
for this war, the initiation of war and the way they have
war and the way they have conducted
war and the way they have s Tne s lmid
war and the way they have e ine B
war and the way they have T B LR )
war and the way they have conducted it as the G7 put out
conducted it as the G7 put out in
conducted it as the G7 put out T}
conducted it as the G7 put out in a statement
conducted it as the G7 put out R U R EA
conducted it as the G7 put out R U R E A =
conducted it as the G7 put out IR LU S L E A E
in a statement today, has been Elas T a8
in a statement today, has been barbaric. | don’t think it
in a statement today, has been I R a G A
in a statement today, has been barbaric. | don’t think it is a
barbaric. | don’t think it is a DY )
barbaric. | don’t think it is a hyperbole to say that. It
barbaric. 1 don’t think it is a hyperbole to say that. It was
hyperbole to say that. It was ]
hyperbole to say that. It was on Tuesday when roughly 90
on Tuesday when roughly 90 A
on Tuesday when roughly 90 missiles were raining down on
missiles were raining down on I[SEHR
QISR CRE TN D G Ry Ukraine, including the capital
Ukraine, including the capital Y
Ukraine, including the capital Kyiv and
Ukraine, including the capital LR
Ukraine, including the capital Kyiv and Lviv which is close to
Kyiv and Lviv which is close to )
Kyiv and Lviv which Is close to N G
Kyiv and Lviv which Is close to the Polish border. You can sit
the Polish border. You can sit and criticise, but when you
and criticise, but when you have
and criticise, but when you VTR 0]
and criticise, but when you have 90 missiles raining down
have 90 missiles raining down ]
have 90 missiles raining down on you, mistakes can
have 90 missiles raining down BTN LR U
on you, mistakes can happen. T4
on you, mistakes can happen. Thank you
on you, mistakes can happen. =S TR s
on you, mistakes can happen. Thank you very much for your
Thank you very much for your iy
China’s President, Xi Jinping, and Canada’s Prime Minister,
Justin Trudeau, exchanged tense LR R AL
of the G20 Summit in Bali on Wednesday.
President Xi had been meeting several world leaders,
for the first time in person N GO E Ll
But a short follow-up e L N L R
and Mr Xi was picked up RGN TR L W A
wasn’t entirely friendly.
Let’s go te Iran now, where the judiciary has handed
down four more death sentences RGN RO R
of being involved in anti-government protests.
Authorities in Iran are trying RN IR L R L L T &
sparked by the death of a young woman, Mahsa Amini,
while In custody of Iran’s morality policy.
So far, nearly 16,000 protesters have been arrested,
and more than 300 F TN LR Al LR
Our news reporter Azaday Moshiri joins us to discuss.
What more do we need to know? We
What more do we need to know? T
What more do we need to know? We know five people so far have
We know five people so far have ]
We know five people so far have TR e el
We know five people so far have been sentenced to death,
I B[ R GG LR LG ] accused
I B[ R GG LR LG ] sl
I B[ R GG LR LG ] accused of waging a war
been sentenced to death, accused of waging a war against
accused of waging a war against sl
accused of waging a war against TR T
accused of waging a war against CT oM I R B
accused of waging a war against God. The charge courts
God. The charge courts typically use when they want a
typically use when they want a charge that could lead to a
charge that could lead to a death
charge that could lead to a CEIOE e
charge that could lead to a R ET R e
charge that could lead to a RO e T LN e
charge that could lead to a death sentence. The court say
death sentence. The court say e
death sentence. The court say it is for things like one of
it is for things like one of )
it is for things like one of RG]
it is for things like one of the protesters hitting and
the protesters hitting and U]
the protesters hitting and killing a police officer with
killing a police officer with )
killing a police officer with e
killing a police officer with the car. Another
killing a police officer with N O e e )
killing a police officer with the car. Another one was
the car. Another one was supposedly in possession with
supposedly in possession with T
supposedly in possession with weapons. Another
supposedly in possession with [ - N R
supposedly in possession with weapons. Another one waged
weapons. Another one waged ege g
weapons. Another one waged terror on
weapons. Another one waged e R e
weapons. Another one waged terror on the streets. But
weapons. Another one waged e R e N R A e
terror on the streets. But what e
terror on the streets. But what e
terror on the streets. But what TR I )
terror on the streets. But what TR E IR - |
terror on the streets. But what TR L IR e NI R ]
their families have said two RGN y
their families have said two R ]
their families have said two R e s e Ta el )
their families have said two statements and comments to
their families have said two AN R R el
statements and comments to BBC P YEI A
statements and comments to BBC R G R
statements and comments to BBC Persian, these were essentially
Persian, these were essentially iElai]
Persian, these were essentially sham trials,
Persian, these were essentially R F R G
Persian, these were essentially sham trials, these protesters
sham trials, these protesters AR
sham trials, these protesters IR R
sham trials, these protesters didn’'t have access
sham trials, these protesters didn’t have access to
sham trials, these protesters R ERI R e T R R e
didn’t have access to their lawyers
didn’'t have access to their lawyers and were
didn’t have access to their lawyers and were not
didn’t have access to their F O L R I
didn’t have access to their lawyers and were not able to
lawyers and were not able to A1lei00a1e
lawyers and were not able to mount a credible
lawyers and were not able to TRt S he
lawyers and were not able to mount a credible defence. Their
mount a credible defence. Their )
mount a credible defence. Their R
mount a credible defence. Their fate was essentially sealed the
fate was essentially sealed the il anl-ta1s
fate was essentially sealed the moment they
fate was essentially sealed the NG S A
fate was essentially sealed the MO E A SR
fate was essentially sealed the moment they were indicted. That
moment they were indicted. That s not new
moment they were indicted. That is not new from
moment they were indicted. That TR A Rt R
s not new from the revolutionary courts, it is
revolutionary courts, it is typically something that
typically something that happens
typically something that ER R
typically something that happens to political prisoners.
happens to political prisoners. We
happens to political prisoners. Ty Y]
happens to political prisoners. Ty T e )
happens to political prisoners. We know more than 1000
We know more than 1000 indictments
We know more than 1000 s T e R )
We know more than 1000 indictments have been issued so
indictments have been issued so i
indictments have been issued so far. Some
indictments have been issued so EIE N
indictments have been issued so far. Some of those, dozens of
far. Some of those, dozens of el
far. Some of those, dozens of them can
far. Some of those, dozens of IR
far. Some of those, dozens of them can lead to death
them can lead to death e
them can lead to death e
them can lead to death AN e
them can lead to death sentences. It is important to
sentences. It is important to stress
sentences. It is important to RO R
sentences. It is important to stress this is just the
R G RN T A 4] LRGN
R G RN T A 4] beginning of one of
R IR T beginning of one of the most
beginning of one of the most et
beginning of one of the most NI
beginning of one of the most brutal and violent
beginning of one of the most brutal and vioclent phases of
brutal and violent phases of )
brutal and viclent phases of the Islamic republic’s
the Islamic republic’s crackdown on protesters, that
crackdown on protesters, that T
crackdown on protesters, that more death
crackdown on protesters, that R R e
crackdown on protesters, that I R G R e )
crackdown on protesters, that IR ORI e T N )
more death sentences are to come.
R TR L (I (R i L
R TR L (I (R R LA
R TR L (I (R TR L AR e )
R TR L (I (R TR AR I R )
come. That is because the momentum
come. That is because the eIt e el e} d
come. That is because the IR R
come. That is because the N ORI R U SR I G
come. That is because the momentum of these protests is
momentum of these protests is s
momentum of these protests is not waning, people are still
not waning, people are still o]
not waning, people are still putting their lives on the line
putting their Llives on the line in
putting their Llives on the line TR e
putting their lives on the line in order to challenge the
in order to challenge the N
in order to challenge the system. Meanwhile, news out of
system. Meanwhile, news out of )
system. Meanwhile, news out of i
system. Meanwhile, news out of R 0
system. Meanwhile, news out of the UK about Iran’s influence
the UK about Iran’s influence on
the UK about Iran’s influence Al aials]
the UK about Iran’s influence on British security? Yes, there
on British security? Yes, there Ty
on British security? Yes, there ]
on British security? Yes, there was a warning by
on British security? Yes, there LRI A (1S
on British security? Yes, there was a warning by the head of
was a warning by the head of TR
was a warning by the head of [ T
was a warning by the head of MIS, the British
was a warning by the head of MI5, the British intelligence
MI5, the British intelligence L
MI5, the British intelligence service, that
MI5, the British intelligence -G e
MI5, the British intelligence IR LR
service, that Iran is I 0|
service, that Iran is IR
service, that Iran is continuing to silence its
continuing to silence its gl a0t 4
continuing to silence its gl R 1
continuing to silence its critics. But that isn’t just
critics. But that isn’t just happening within Iran
critics. But that isn’t just happening within Iran but it is
happening within Iran but it is w30
happening within Iran but it is WO R e
happening within Iran but it is (ST G [
happening within Iran but it is (IR G LY
happening within Iran but it is ARG
crossing its borders. It is worth listening to what
I RN I R ) worth listening to what he had
worth listening to what he had to say
worth listening to what he had LN
worth listening to what he had to say and this was
worth listening to what he had VN RGIERTZ I ]
worth listening to what he had VRN RGERTZING T I BG I
to say and this was during his annual address about the
annual address about the current
annual address about the o tlge s a1 ]
annual address about the current and most
annual address about the NN RS SN
current and most pressing security threats that are
security threats that are facing
security threats that are ETa R 1)
security threats that are Al R G ERITLTE]
security threats that are facing the United Kingdom right
facing the United Kingdom right e
facing the United Kingdom right A A1)
facing the United Kingdom right now. Iran projects threat to
now. Iran projects threat to )
now. Iran projects threat to i
now. Iran projects threat to GRG0\
now. Iran projects threat to the UK directly through its
the UK directly through its L N
the UK directly through its aggressive intelligence
GO VARG (e e
GO VARG (e e
GO VARG (e e
GO ICIIVRL U (e services. At its sharpest this
services. At its sharpest this includes ambitions to
services. At its sharpest this O R R R E]S
services. At its sharpest this includes ambitions to kidnap or
includes ambitions to kidnap or )
includes ambitions to kidnap or R4l
includes ambitions to kidnap or Nl 4N Y]
includes ambitions to kidnap or N )
includes ambitions to kidnap or LR T i ¢
includes ambitions to kidnap or even kill British are UK based
even Kill British are UK based individual is perceived
QTR TG TR =T individual is perceived as
individual Is perceived as N
individual Is perceived as NN
individual Is perceived as NSRS R)
individual Is perceived as enemies of the regime.
individual Is perceived as R GERC EARYLE
individual Is perceived as enemies of the regime. We have
enemies of the regime. We have L
enemies of the regime. We have AL
enemies of the regime. We have seen at least ten such
seen at least ten such e
seen at least ten such potential threats
seen at least ten such RO ICRN]
seen at least ten such potential threats in January
potential threats in January AGCE
potential threats in January L
potential threats in January alone. The Foreign Secretary
alone. The Foreign Secretary RiET Y
alone. The Foreign Secretary made it clear to the Iranian
made it clear to the Iranian regime last
made it clear to the Iranian O P AT
made it clear to the Iranian regime last week, that the UK
regime last week, that the UK il
regime last week, that the UK [
regime last week, that the UK I R )
regime last week, that the UK will not tolerate intimidation
will not tolerate intimidation N
will not tolerate intimidation RO R El
will not tolerate intimidation or threats towards journalists
or threats towards journalists or
or threats towards journalists L
or threats towards journalists or any individual living in the
or any individual living in the UK. What he’s
or any individual living in the UK. What he’s talking
or any individual living in the UK. What he’s talking about
UK. What he’s talking about )
UK. What he’s talking about there is
UK. What he’s talking about )
UK. What he’s talking about QIR RETT]
UK. What he’s talking about there is a raining intelligence
there is a raining intelligence a3
there is a raining intelligence e TR
there is a raining intelligence XU N R GO !
there is a raining intelligence XS N R GO Gl R gy
services have targeted British o iar e
services have targeted British citizens as as people in
(P LR LR T L) A ¥ei & s ]
(P LR LR T L) Britain through murder
citizens as as people in Britain through murder plots or
Britain through murder plots or E ]l
Britain through murder plots or attempted kidnap. They
Britain through murder plots or SR R LS A
attempted kidnap. They have M5!
attempted kidnap. They have used spies
attempted kidnap. They have TG B
attempted kidnap. They have used spies and sometimes
used spies and sometimes o as 011
used spies and sometimes conduits and
used spies and sometimes WL RGN
used spies and sometimes TN RO AN
used spies and sometimes conduits and they have tried to
conduits and they have tried to lure
conduits and they have tried to MR
conduits and they have tried to lure people to run to then
lure people to run to then 104
lure people to run to then target them there. And the
target them there. And the T
target them there. And the issue is, this isn’t just
Issue is, this isn’t just happening in the
Issue is, this isn’t just I MGG RLRG R
Issue Is, this isn’t just happening in the UK, the head
happening in the UK, the head of
happening in the UK, the head S a1k
happening in the UK, the head AL IREI)
happening in the UK, the head AL TR
happening in the UK, the head SEL LRI
happening in the UK, the head RO EEE IR R T
of MI5 said it is happening P et ]
of MI5 said it is happening across Europe and has been
across Europe and has been happening for many years. It
happening for many years. It has
happening for many years. It IR &I
happening for many years. It has taken heightened importance
has taken heightened importance to
has taken heightened importance Ry
has taken heightened importance to the Islamic
has taken heightened importance GRS G O]
has taken heightened importance to the Islamic Republic because
to the Islamic Republic because they
to the Islamic Republic because GG
to the Islamic Republic because they are trying to neutralise a
they are trying to neutralise a threat
they are trying to neutralise a IR EOd
they are trying to neutralise a threat to their system that so
threat to their system that so 1
threat to their system that so IR
threat to their system that so EIR G AN GRS
threat to their system that so far they haven’t been able to
far they haven’t been able to =1l
far they haven’t been able to e cIhmmLIE
far they haven’t been able to contain. This also comes
far they haven’t been able to IR LI e R
contain. This also comes off )
contain. This also comes off Nkl d
contain. This also comes off N L&
contain. This also comes off MR LGSR
contain. This also comes off the back of the fact
contain. This also comes off N LG R R a 14
contain. This also comes off the back of the fact that UK
the back of the fact that UK police
the back of the fact that UK TR ]
the back of the fact that UK police told UK-based Iranian
police told UK-based Iranian LGS
police told UK-based Iranian journalist, especially ones who
journalist, especially ones who are broadcasting
journalist, especially ones who EICR LIRS
journalist, especially ones who are broadcasting like BBC
are broadcasting like BBC Persian
are broadcasting like BBC I R 1 4
are broadcasting like BBC Y EL R E AU
are broadcasting like BBC Persian that they have
Persian that they have potential threats to their
potential threats to their e
potential threats to their lives. OK,
potential threats to their R R %Ti 4
potential threats to their lives. OK, thank you.
Stay with us on BBC News, still R 1o
A rousing reception as Brazil’s President-elect
tells the UN climate summit there can be no climate
STl 1s A G T a protected Amazon.
Benazir Bhutto has claimed victory in Pakistan’s general
election and she’s asked S S I
tc name her as Prime Minister.
Jacksen’s been released on balil of $3 million after turning
himself in to police in Santa Barbara.
It was the biggest NI R R ls
of the first growing European antinuclear movement.
The South African government has announced that it’s opening
QLRI R T T whites-only beaches
to people of all races.
This will lead to a black majority government in this
country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
Part of the centuries-old Windsor Castle, one
of the Queen’s residences, has been censumed by
fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has
caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines. ..
Presdient Biden has congratulated the Republicans
after they regained control RGN Y
of Representatives.
It could limit the President’s ability to get his legaslative
programme through.
Let’s stay with that story now and turn to US
political analyst, Max Kutner.
TR
Was this expected, where did it )
Was this expected, where did it come from?
Was this expected, where did it e Rt AL
Was this expected, where did it iRt AR
Was this expected, where did it come from? It was expected,
Was this expected, where did it IR K R LR A e IR 12
come from? It was expected, the -
come from? It was expected, the party opposite always gains
party opposite always gains el
party opposite always gains o aage e
party opposite always gains control of the
party opposite always gains e B RN )
party opposite always gains control of the house and
party opposite always gains U R RN R Ne
control of the house and often )
control of the house and often the whole Congress in the
the whole Congress in the mid-term elections. This
QR R R R mid-term elections. This was
mid-term elections. This was expected, President Biden and
expected, President Biden and his administration had plenty
his administration had plenty of
his administration had plenty SRy
his administration had plenty R R R G
his administration had plenty of time to prepare for
his administration had plenty R RS IR R O
of time to prepare for this. Joe Biden went through
of time to prepare for this. LR EN R & GGG
Joe Biden went through a similar thing when he was vice
similar thing when he was vice president under Obama
similar thing when he was vice MCAL AN R E I FEL]
similar thing when he was vice president under Obama and the
president under Obama and the Republicans gain control of
Republicans gain control of Congress then. This was
Congress then. This was expected.
Congress then. This was I MR ETS
Congress then. This was expected. What wasn’t
NG G BRI ERTEH expected. What wasn’t expected
expected. What wasn’t expected Ty
expected. What wasn’t expected LR
expected. What wasn’t expected IR Y
expected. What wasn’t expected was just how slim this
was Just how slim this Republican majority would be.
Republican majority would be. Right
Republican majority would be. A
Republican majority would be. O AGEY
Republican majority would be. O RGN
Republican majority would be. Right now they only have one
Right now they only have one seat and
Right now they only have one A LR )
Right now they only have one A LR Rl
Right now they only have one seat and we will see in
Right now they only have one AN R R R R
seat and we will see in the coming days as the final
LENE NIRRT R R [ coming days as the final races
coming days as the final races of
coming days as the final races S0l
coming days as the final races of cold weather
coming days as the final races A R ]
coming days as the final races of cold weather the Republican
of cold weather the Republican majority expands. | think I’m
majority expands. | think I’m il
majority expands. | think I’m right in saying it was a
majority expands. | think I’m LRV R R I RS
right in saying it was a six seat gain for the Republicans,
seat gain for the Republicans, where
seat gain for the Republicans, Y- N l|
seat gain for the Republicans, IR G
seat gain for the Republicans, where did they win those? It
where did they win those? It Ty
where did they win those? It was mainly
where did they win those? It RN EIL VAT
where did they win those? It N EILVAL RO
where did they win those? It was mainly in the West. In
was mainly in the West. In a4
was mainly in the West. In recent days
was mainly in the West. In (Y R R )
was mainly in the West. In recent days we have been
recent days we have been L]
recent days we have been looking at
recent days we have been R TGN
recent days we have been looking at California. One
looking at California. One R
looking at California. One perhaps thinks of California as
perhaps thinks of California as Y
perhaps thinks of California as Ty
perhaps thinks of California as a blue state, a lot of
a blue state, a lot of el s e [
a blue state, a lot of e o Ao a1
a blue state, a lot of Tt o Ao 1a T e TLs
a blue state, a lot of e o Ao 1e - e ks
a blue state, a lot of democratic areas but it really
democratic areas but it really ]
Sy o TR LR T A R came down to a lot of
Sy o TR LR T A R SR R R R
democratic areas but it really came down to a lot of seats in
came down to a lot of seats in California. That said, this
California. That said, this Republican majority is not
Republican majority is not L]
Republican majority is not LG
Republican majority is not looking like it’s going to be
locking like it’s going to be as big as
looking like it’s going to be as big as the Republicans had
as big as the Republicans had (LY
as big as the Republicans had hoped and this was
as big as the Republicans had LR R G )
as big as the Republicans had hoped and this was a bit
hoped and this was a bit unexpected.
hoped and this was a bit A e
hoped and this was a bit unexpected. Of course, the
unexpected. Of course, the L
unexpected. Of course, the TR
unexpected. Of course, the T BN R
unexpected. Of course, the T AN T e
unexpected. Of course, the TR NE G R e R
results in the Senate where )
results in the Senate where ANt
results in the Senate where even more unexpected with
even more unexpected with e
even more unexpected with Democrats flipping a seat there
Democrats flipping a seat there and taking the majority and
and taking the majority and still
and taking the majority and RN
and taking the majority and (NN
and taking the majority and still one race in Georgia to be
still one race in Georgia to be R
still one race in Georgia to be LR LT
still one race in Georgia to be called. The Republicans almost
called. The Republicans almost always
called. The Republicans almost EE R EL G
called. The Republicans almost always take control of the
always take control of the T
always take control of the house in
always take control of the - AR )
always take control of the house in the midterms, but some
house in the midterms, but some e
house in the midterms, but some surprises here. Now President
surprises here. Now President Biden and
surprises here. Now President L R
surprises here. Now President R RN et o]
surprises here. Now President R R R i e )
Biden and the Democrats are L
Biden and the Democrats are going to have to
Biden and the Democrats are IR CECR R
Biden and the Democrats are going to have to deal with that
going to have to deal with that e
going to have to deal with that TR e
going to have to deal with that for the next two years. Indeed,
for the next two years. Indeed, the president says he is
the president says he Is looking
the president says he is looking forward to working with
looking forward to working with Republicans to
looking forward to working with SRR G T
looking forward to working with Republicans to push through his
Republicans te push through his agendas,
Republicans to push through his agendas, especially for
agendas, especially for hard-working families. Is he
hard-working families. Is he L
hard-working families. Is he going to be able to do that in
going to be able to do that in e lai[o-¥4
going to be able to do that in el Y|
going to be able to do that in g i o ET Y
going to be able to do that in e o X EF A GF ]S
going to be able to do that in practice? | saw that message of
practice? | saw that message of congratulations that just came
congratulations that just came out.
congratulations that just came Lo e
congratulations that just came T T e
congratulations that just came R
congratulations that just came out. But that is going to make
out. But that is going to make things difficult for President
things difficult for President N
things difficult for President Biden and
things difficult for President L R
things difficult for President R RN et o]
things difficult for President Biden and the Democrats in this
AN GER V[T SR R G progressive
Biden and the Democrats in this progressive agenda, these
progressive agenda, these campaign promises that Joe
campaign promises that Joe Riden
campaign promises that Joe IR
campaign promises that Joe RBiden said he
campaign promises that Joe MR
campaign promises that Joe Biden said he was going
campaign promises that Joe R IG EREI L R
Biden said he was going to N
Biden said he was going to DI
Biden said he was going to pursue. So now to pass the less
pursue. So now to pass the less el
pursue. So now to pass the less controversial legislation in
controversial legislation in )
controversial legislation in N
controversial legislation in N
controversial legislation in the house is going to be
the house is going to be it dla oL
the house is going to be difficult for Democrats and
difficult for Democrats and they can
IR IV e T QARG
IR IV e T they can forget about
difficult for Democrats and QIS AEL R G AN
they can forget about passing )
they can forget about passing R e s e
QAL R G I D] the more controversial matters.
G R TR TS E W Ela I [Na 14
G R TR TS E W Ela I P e s [ Te]
G R TR TS E W Ela President Biden will have to
President Biden will have to G\
President Biden will have to GV
President Biden will have to rely on what
President Biden will have to CVELRTLETE
President Biden will have to VLR E I
President Biden will have to VLR E IR
rely on what is signing his S a Tt
rely on what is signing his R
rely on what is signing his AN R O ]
rely on what is signing his e R O e RS el
executive orders and executive orders
executive orders and executive O]
executive orders and executive orders and agency rules are
orders and agency rules are T
orders and agency rules are more evenly, easily
orders and agency rules are RS U AR S VA O
more evenly, easily overturned in
more evenly, easily overturned TRy
more evenly, easily overturned NEG N e
more evenly, easily overturned in the courts and
more evenly, easily overturned RGO R e BB R e
more evenly, easily overturned in the courts and in other ways
MR GERGITG DT RL R GLIRE than an
in the courts and in other ways than an act of Congress.
than an act of Congress. I [Na 14
than an act of Congress. I P e s [ Te]
than an act of Congress. President Biden is also going
President Biden is also going to
President Biden is also going I
President Biden is also going to deal with
President Biden is also going T R G RT3 N
President Biden is also going to deal with oversight from
to deal with oversight from I
to deal with oversight from L LS
to deal with oversight from House Republicans. That is one
House Republicans. That is one of
House Republicans. That is one SRy
House Republicans. That is one of the biggest takeaways of
of the biggest takeaways of today.
of the biggest takeaways of LV AR
of the biggest takeaways of today. The Republicans
of the biggest takeaways of ULV AR NGO L R
of the biggest takeaways of today. The Republicans in the
today. The Republicans in the S}
today. The Republicans in the A E Y
today. The Republicans in the PN E
today. The Republicans in the House have said they would go
House have said they would go after Hunter Biden,
House have said they would go A R IR G
House have said they would go after Hunter Biden, they would
after Hunter Biden, they would go
after Hunter Biden, they would G
after Hunter Biden, they would R CR UG
after Hunter Biden, they would go after the Afghanistan
go after the Afghanistan NN
go after the Afghanistan withdrawal, they would go after
withdrawal, they would go after )
withdrawal, they would go after the origins
withdrawal, they would go after GRS
withdrawal, they would go after QRO RO R
withdrawal, they would go after the origins of Covid. When |
the origins of Covid. When | Y-\
the origins of Covid. When | say go
the origins of Covid. When | ZVLE
the origins of Covid. When | say go after, | mean look into.
say go after, | mean look into. I
say go after, | mean look into. These are things that
These are things that Republicans
These are things that I R Z L
These are things that I R L R )
These are things that Republicans want to look into
Republicans want to look into and
Republicans want to look into Rl
Republicans want to look into IR By A )
Republicans want to look into and will now have an
and will now have an Yo gl lie
and will now have an S TR )
and will now have an opportunity to do so. Great to
opportunity to do so. Great to get
opportunity to do so. Great to AT Ig
opportunity to do so. Great to get your analysis, thank you
get your analysis, thank you very
get your analysis, thank you AR
Brazil’s President-elect has vowed to fight
Speaking at the COP27 summit in Eqypt, Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva said there would be no climate security for
the world if the Amazon T A o
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, reports
from the conference in Egypt.
# Ole, ole, ole, ola!
# Lula, Lula!
Lula received a hero’s welcome N G I AL G O
pLICHANER Ll was his message.
He said fighting climate change will be his number one priority
and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that
police the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
TRANSLATION: It’s time to act.
We have to stop this (O R RG]
What we need Is hope, hope combined with immediate
and decisive action for the future of the planet
and for humankind.
# Lula, Lula!
There is no question that Lula is the star of this conference,
but he faces real problems at home - Brazil’s finances
are in trouble, he doesn’t have control of the parliament
and there’s no doubt his rival, Jair Bolsonaro, will be
making trouble for him.
Under Bolsonaro, rates R A G RS I L2
He was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go
into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
Lula says his target is zero deforestation.
He promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police
the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
But his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
TRANSLATION: This won’t be an easy process.
There was a dismantling of all policies related
R R lar e el
But if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams,
I am confident we will be able TR
That change cannot come quickly enough, say
the indigenous communities who are on the front
TN RGN i e Y R e e
They are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers
and deforesting our forests.
The crowds surged around VA IR A e
ENCI AR
Lula says he’s urging the UN to allow Brazil to host
the 2025 UN climate conference, and he says he wants it to be
Nasa’s Artemis rocket has finally launched,
Our Science Editor, Rebecca Morrelle, was watching.
IR 5L
It was the moment they have T
It was the moment they have been waiting for. After months
been waiting for. After months of
been waiting for. After months RIS
been waiting for. After months of setbacks, Nasa’s most
of setbacks, Nasa’'s most a0
of sethacks, Nasa’s most powerful rocket was finally on
powerful rocket was finally on ite
powerful rocket was finally on (R
powerful rocket was finally on its way. The start of
its way. The start of LR
its way. The start of humanity’s return to
its way. The start of humanity’s return to the moon.
humanity’s return to the moon. We rise together, back to the
We rise together, back to the moon and beyoend.
We rise together, back to the moon and beyond. It is
We rise together, back to the LGRS S A R ]
moon and beyond. It is an BN
moon and beyond. It is an incredibly complex machine. It
incredibly complex machine. It has so many components
incredibly complex machine. It R UG A I R )
incredibly complex machine. It has so many components to get
has so many components to get 3]
has so many components to get 8 8 million
has so many components to get SRR TG
has so many components to get 8.8 million pounds of thrust
8.8 million pounds of thrust i
8.8 million pounds of thrust R
8.8 million pounds of thrust off the ground requires many
off the ground requires many G
off the ground requires many systems to work together
systems to work together perfectly.
systems to work together e u b
systems to work together perfectly. It did that today.
perfectly. It did that today. I
perfectly. It did that today. VR )
perfectly. It did that today. VLT I
perfectly. It did that today. No people are on board this
No people are on board this R
No people are on board this -1
No people are on board this time, but this test flight will
time, but this test flight will i
time, but this test flight will A AL
time, but this test flight will A A A
time, but this test flight will show if it is safe
time, but this test flight will A A AR - i
time, but this test flight will show if it is safe for adults.
R AR R LS 57
R AR R LS ISR
show If it Is safe for adults. ISR Zh
show If it Is safe for adults. They want to land the first
They want to land the first woman
They want to land the first i Es N ls]
They want to land the first S E R R
They want to land the first woman in the first person of
woman in the first person of e
woman in the first person of colour on the moon. |
woman in the first person of e L R e e
woman in the first person of e I R PR e R e
colour on the moon. | wanted to 1y
colour on the moon. | wanted to ]
colour on the moon. | wanted to be an astronaut
colour on the moon. | wanted to N e e
colour on the moon. | wanted to N e e
colour on the moon. | wanted to be an astronaut since | was
be an astronaut since | was Ty
be an astronaut since | was R I
be an astronaut since | was five years old. For anybody who
five years old. For anybody who wants a
five years old. For anybody who N - E N
five years old. For anybody who wants a dream, if
five years old. For anybody who T R T PR R 13
five years old. For anybody who wants a dream, if they can see
wants a dream, if they can see L)
wants a dream, if they can see I AGG
wants a dream, if they can see somebody they can identify with
somebody they can identify with Y
Sy LR QR RGO RYI G PRy
Sy LR QR RGO RYI G ER NI
Sy LR QR RGO RYI G a little bit, to put it into a
a little bit, to put it into a (17
a little bit, to put it into a totally different perspective
totally different perspective and
totally different perspective RO
totally different perspective RGOS AT A
totally different perspective LRGSR ARl
totally different perspective and they say, wait a minute,
and they say, wait a minute, that
and they say, wait a minute, G E )
and they say, wait a minute, that person is
and they say, wait a minute, QR R
and they say, wait a minute, that person is just like me,
that person is just like me, and they did it.
that person is just like me, LRGSR R
that person is just like me, and they did it. | can do
that person is just like me, SRS R EEL TR
and they did it. | can do It, el
and they did it. | can do It, too. And
and they did it. | can do it, I B EGIE
and they did it. | can do it, too. And this station has an
(GNP TR QIR EL I DT Tyl achis
too. And this station has an e e )
too. And this station has an important role to
(GNP TR QIR EL I DT important role to play. This
important role to play. This WIS
important role to play. This ILER ]
important role to play. This huge dish is part of a network
huge dish is part of a network of antennas around the world
of antennas around the world tracking the spacecraft. The
tracking the spacecraft. The AELE]
tracking the spacecraft. The IR
tracking the spacecraft. The LRI R e
tracking the spacecraft. The data it receives is vital. It
data it receives Is vital. It il
data it receives Is vital. It will help
OE IR R & W will help Nasa to work
data it receives is vital. It will help Nasa to work out
will help Nasa to work out exactly where the spacecraft
will help Nasa to work out S M AR IR e LA
exactly where the spacecraft is and
exactly where the spacecraft is R ]
exactly where the spacecraft is IR R
exactly where the spacecraft is and how fast it is moving as it
and how fast it is moving as it YT
and how fast it is moving as it heads towards them
and how fast it is moving as it TR LRGSR
and how fast it is moving as it Y LR L LRt st Na o)
and how fast it is moving as it heads towards them in. And this
heads towards them in. And this s the
heads towards them in. And this is the first signal sent back.
is the first signal sent back. G
is the first signal sent back. This doesn’t look Like
is the first signal sent back. This doesn’t look like very
This doesn’t look like very much
This doesn’t look like very e B e)
This doesn’t look like very much to most people, but
This doesn’t look like very much to most people, but to the
much to most people, but to the communication engineers this is
communication engineers this is 0
communication engineers this is pure magic. What
communication engineers this is IR EL R E YT
communication engineers this is pure magic. What you would
pure magic. What you would normally see
pure magic. What you would W EIECRS
pure magic. What you would IR
pure magic. What you would normally see is a flat line of
normally see is a flat line of noise,
normally see is a flat line of AT L8
normally see is a flat line of noise, but we are picking up
noise, but we are picking up )
noise, but we are picking up the signal from the Artemis
the signal from the Artemis spacecraft.
the signal from the Artemis S El e A1)
the signal from the Artemis spacecraft. With a last look
spacecraft. With a last look back
spacecraft. With a last look ¥ Te &
spacecraft. With a last look L F e & )
spacecraft. With a last look T R e ldee i)
spacecraft. With a last look T R Tlaee e
spacecraft. With a last look N RN e N R
back at the outcome of the spacecraft has a 26 day
back at the cutcome of the spacecraft has a 26 day journey
spacecraft has a 26 day journey YN
spacecraft has a 26 day journey Y LERLIE
spacecraft has a 26 day journey LR LI
spacecraft has a 26 day journey ahead. This is just the
ahead. This is just the LG GR
ahead. This is just the LGRS
ahead. This is just the beginning. The start of 1
beginning. The start of 1 million
beginning. The start of 1 I
beginning. The start of 1 million mile journey
OGN AR N RS El | million mile journey that is
million mile journey that is being described as Apollo for a
being described as Apollo for Ty
being described as Apollo for a (TR NI
That is it from us, thank you e
That is it from us, thank you IR IR
Hello there, the weather is L]
Hello there, the weather is LR
Hello there, the weather is I G
Hello there, the weather is looking pretty unsettled, quite
looking pretty unsettled, quite Y
looking pretty unsettled, quite A
looking pretty unsettled, quite PRl
looking pretty unsettled, quite a lot of rain in
looking pretty unsettled, quite ER SR I R F I
looking pretty unsettled, quite a lot of rain in places and the
a lot of rain in places and the ST
a lot of rain in places and the S
a lot of rain in places and the risk of localised flooding. It
risk of localised flooding. It s
risk of localised flooding. It is all because of
risk of localised flooding. It T N R s
risk of localised flooding. It TR A ER Y]
risk of localised flooding. It T T NI R
is all because of an area of low
s all because of an area of NG
s all because of an area of low pressure which is
is all because of an area of low pressure which is expected
low pressure which is expected to hang around for Thursday and
to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even into Saturday
Friday, even into Saturday uInihh
Friday, even into Saturday UGBS
Friday, even into Saturday UGG S (R
Friday, even into Saturday morning before it eventually
morning before it eventually fizzles out. This is the low
fizzles out. This is the low )
fizzles out. This is the low pressure system I’m talking
pressure system I’m talking L
pressure system I’m talking EL LT A TN
pressure system I’m talking about, moving eastwards and
about, moving eastwards and then
about, moving eastwards and QLI
about, moving eastwards and then pulling back northwards
then pulling back northwards and westwards across the
and westwards across the country
and westwards across the ST A DN
and westwards across the country during Thursday and
country during Thursday and Friday
country during Thursday and BTG
country during Thursday and Friday where it will weaken,
Friday where it will weaken, e
Friday where it will weaken, nNnaie
Friday where it will weaken, i
Friday where it will weaken, but it will bring a lot of rain
but it will bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at
and fairly strong winds at times. We stopped Thursday on a
times. We stopped Thursday on a w1117
times. We stopped Thursday on a AT
times. We stopped Thursday on a chilly note for western
chilly note for western e ELD R
chilly note for western Scotland, Northern Ireland and
Scotland, Northern Ireland and )
Scotland, Northern Ireland and e
Scotland, Northern Ireland and IRt
Scotland, Northern Ireland and R ]
Scotland, Northern Ireland and there is frost and fog but
there is frost and fog but Ay
there is frost and fog but elsewhere where
there is frost and fog but A e R R
there is frost and fog but A e R I R iR
there is frost and fog but elsewhere where we have the
elsewhere where we have the G
elsewhere where we have the cloud, wind
elsewhere where we have the IR L |
elsewhere where we have the cloud, wind and rain,
cloud, wind and rain, temperatures
cloud, wind and rain, N S
cloud, wind and rain, U S R NG
cloud, wind and rain, PO S IR DN R L
cloud, wind and rain, temperatures between five and 9
temperatures between five and 9 NN
temperatures between five and 9 degrees. A
DI E VI LT R VR LI R GGV
DI E VI LT R VR degrees. A thoroughly wet day
degrees. A thoroughly wet day to
degrees. A thoroughly wet day e ]
degrees. A thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday, area of
to come for Thursday, area of low
to come for Thursday, area of WG
to come for Thursday, area of TN
to come for Thursday, area of AR LR ]
to come for Thursday, area of low pressure, as you can see,
low pressure, as you can see, I
low pressure, as you can see, pushing northwards and west.
pushing northwards and west. FI3d
pushing northwards and west. East England, strongest of the
East England, strongest of the winds along the North
East England, strongest of the OGEEI G LR IR G TE]
winds along the North Sea el
winds along the North Sea AR LT
winds along the North Sea RN
winds along the North Sea LR N A
winds along the North Sea MR NS R
winds along the North Sea coast. The best of any brighter
coast. The best of any brighter weather of
coast. The best of any brighter N e )
coast. The best of any brighter weather of the start is in
weather of the start is In Northern Ireland but
LR G RO R I S| Northern Ireland but there
LR G RO R I S| WG R R R e R
Northern Ireland but there were particularly warm, nine to 11
particularly warm, nine to 11 W (LI
particularly warm, nine to 11 W G RG]
particularly warm, nine to 11 I NG RGN R G
degrees. And then threw Thursday night the rain
Thursday night the rain e la al T
Thursday night the rain e TR ]
Thursday night the rain continues to pile into eastern
continues to pile into eastern Yue i)
continues to pile into eastern o i Ela s Ta )
continues to pile into eastern Y I ]
continues to pile into eastern Scotland and a few showers
Scotland and a few showers elsewhere into Northern
elsewhere into Northern Ireland. Wet weather
elsewhere into Northern R IR R s TR i ]s
Ireland. Wet weather for e as)
Ireland. Wet weather for Northern England and North
Northern England and North A
Northern England and North TV E I 0] E L1 Y
Northern England and North Wales. Probably the driest
Wales. Probably the driest weather towards the south of
weather towards the south of )
weather towards the south of the country. Because there is
the country. Because there is e
the country. Because there is T e u e 0]
the country. Because there is T e s 0 s I TaTs|
the country. Because there is more cloud and wind across the
more cloud and wind across the )
more cloud and wind across the N 2
more cloud and wind across the R R
more cloud and wind across the whole of the UK,
more cloud and wind across the N R R G- i
more cloud and wind across the whole of the UK, it will be
whole of the UK, it will be I
whole of the UK, it will be quite as cold for many, seven
quite as cold for many, seven to
quite as cold for many, seven ]
quite as cold for many, seven to 9 degrees. For Friday there
to 9 degrees. For Friday there 3
to 9 degrees. For Friday there e
to 9 degrees. For Friday there TR
to 9 degrees. For Friday there IR 2
to 9 degrees. For Friday there is our area of low pressure,
is our area of low pressure, starting
is our area of low pressure, el
is our area of low pressure, starting to weaken, but it will
starting to weaken, but it will bring a lot of rain to the
bring a lot of rain to the northern
bring a lot of rain to the et e NIk
bring a lot of rain to the et N
bring a lot of rain to the e R R
bring a lot of rain to the GO R R G R a2
northern half of the country, Y
northern half of the country, A VARG
northern half of the country, (VA GERTLo
northern half of the country, Y AU R
especially the east of o i Ela sl
especially the east of Scotland. By this peint, rain
Scotland. By this point, rain Y
Scotland. By this point, rain AT
Scotland. By this peint, rain really will be accumulating
really will be accumulating P et ]
really will be accumulating across Angus, Aberdeenshire and
across Angus, Aberdeenshire and ST
across Angus, Aberdeenshire and S
across Angus, Aberdeenshire and risk of localised flooding
risk of localised flooding here. Something quieter for
here. Something quieter for England generally. Best of the
England generally. Best of the e
England generally. Best of the sunshine on
England generally. Best of the AR
England generally. Best of the sunshine on Friday again a part
sunshine on Friday again a part N
sunshine on Friday again a part A N e a)
sunshine on Friday again a part of Northern Ireland, Wales,
of Northern Ireland, Wales, e | )
of Northern Ireland, Wales, U R e ]
of Northern Ireland, Wales, Central and southern England.
Central and southern England. T
Central and southern England. B[R
Central and southern England. Y]
Central and southern England. Up to 12 degrees, but chilly
Up to 12 degrees, but chilly further north
Up to 12 degrees, but chilly e e ey
Up to 12 degrees, but chilly e e R o
Up to 12 degrees, but chilly further north where it will
further north where it will Pas e ala i)
further north where it will e 18 a a0l
further north where it will f R )
further north where it will W R Rl A
continue to be windy, especially for the Northern
especially for the Northern e
especially for the Northern Isles. That fizzles
especially for the Northern AR R i Fed R 0
especially for the Northern Isles. That fizzles out on
Isles. That fizzles out on IO
Isles. That fizzles out on Saturday and a brief
Isles. That fizzles out on OGN MG G
Isles. That fizzles out on OO L MG R
Saturday and a brief spell of GG
Saturday and a brief spell of quieter weather before the next
quieter weather before the next o=
quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through on
frontal system moves through on R OTOEV
frontal system moves through on Saturday night into Sunday and
Saturday night into Sunday and T
Saturday night into Sunday and (Tl Y
Saturday night into Sunday and followed by sunshine and
followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
followed by sunshine and LS e A e
followed by sunshine and blustery showers. It starts off
blustery showers. It starts off =1
blustery showers. It starts off EIE 3
blustery showers. It starts off fairly dry for many on Saturday
fairly dry for many on Saturday and quite chilly. Wet and windy
and quite chilly. Wet and windy weather
and quite chilly. Wet and windy O L
and quite chilly. Wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday
weather sweeps through Saturday night to Sunday and that will
night to Sunday and that will )
night to Sunday and that will R
night to Sunday and that will be followed by sunshine
night to Sunday and that will TR R RG]
be followed by sunshine and showers.
ILIEREN ) e [ W s
President Biden has congratulated the Republican
Party after they secured control of the US House of
Representatives, following last week’'s midterm elections.
The Democrats still hold the Senate.
The Republican majority RGO R T
President Biden’s ability to push through his
CHIE BT ED
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky says he’s in no doubt
the missile strike that killed two people in Poland
on Tuesday was not caused by Ukrainian Air Defence.
Nato, Poland and the US believe the incident was most likely
caused by a Ukrainian air defence missile.
And Brazil’s President-elect, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva,
has told the COP27 summit in Eqypt that fighting
climate change will be his number one priority.
He said there would be no climate security for the world
without a protected IR
Now on BBC News, Talking Movies.
| have come to London’’s Victoria and Albert Museum
to the first exhibition ever to explore the global spread
of Korean pop culture - the drama, music, fashion
and cinema that swept the world.
I’m mixed race.
My mum is Korean, my dad is British, so, it brings me
pride, it adds recognition for Korea, makes it
more well-known.
Hello, I am Tom Brook with a special edition
of Talking Movies devoted to Korean cinema.
I’m here in London at a special exhibition
at the Victoria and Albert Museum.
It is called, Hallyu! The Korean Wave .
It’s really looking at how Korean pop culture has burst
In Talking Movies, we will be looking at the growing global
impact of Korean cinema.
LRI R =T gl ] OG- R L 7]
on the movie Parasite, two years after its historic
Also Park Chan-wook, a towering figure in South Korean cinema,
And how women are beginning to make an impact in
South Korea’s film industry, long dominated by men.
And with many hits like I IR AR 4
e il Yl mnls i
What is the world about to see?
Korean pop culture of differing types is on display
at the exhibition, including characters from the Netflix
series Squid Game, the deadly survival drama that has become
a global sensation.
To help me understand the Quran Wave as it
pertains to cinema, | spoke LR I PR 1)
Korean drama and cinema really GG RN RO A CL R BRI
First a rippling across Asia and this was a really crucial
and hinge moment in Korean history because by the 1990s,
Korea was a new young democracy that has overcome many years
of oppression and repression, starting from the colonial
period in 1910, going through the territorial
division and the Korean War and virtually 30 years
of military rules.
So it means by the 1990s, R IRt R e
enjoying a creative license they had not enjoyed
before for many decades.
South Korea’s first democratic presidential elections in 1987
were a certainly a turning point, when years of military
dictatorship came to an end, and then the film industry
was helped when funding from both public and private
sources began to increase.
In 1999, Korea managed to create its first home-grown
Hollywood-style blockbuster with the action film, Shiri.
From that point, | think N LR I a e
that the cinema is a very valuable cultural export
and there were conscious policies that were put in place
to support the growth of Korean film industry,
ICIG GRS R T S along with making the whole
Korean society more open.
So, Korean cinema certainly benefited from this openness,
from removal of the censorship restrictions, from, really,
the attention of the government to nurture it, to support it
NGRS
Nowadays, South Korean SO G U VRN
IR s -
The claim is made that it often outdoes Hollywood
in terms of originality.
TRANSLATION: We are a very small country, but we are
a very packed country, the population is very high.
And because of this hustle mentality, as a person
who works in film myself, we have to really, really
hustle and strive to make high-quality films and | think
that’s the driving force that has made Korean films
as good as they are today, and that appeals
to a global audience.
Well, you may recognise this set up - it is the bathroom
scene from the film Parasite LR R 2
painstakingly recreated here at the exhibition,
under the guidance of the set designer from the film.
Parasite was, of course, a movie that changed
the perception of Korean cinema IR R e ldls
What was it about the film that enabled it to become
a breakthrough international hit?
From Seoul, Juwon Park RO e
With four Oscar wins, including for best director
and best picture, Parasite dominated the 2020 Oscars,
becoming the first film not in the English language to ever
TRANSLATION: It is the first AR O TN )]
movie to win so this could be a big event but | think,
at the same time, things like this will happen more
T AT R T news any more.
LGB YN0 B R G114 there was a sense of immense
pride that came from it, IR IR R
a really good example that shows that you can actually
bring artistic success along with commercial
success, and that the IR CL
The film itself is a darkly funny nightmare of what happens
when a poor Korean family become indispensable
servants to a rich family.
They move into the luxurious home and find
they can’t give it up.
It is a jaw-twisting plot combining comedy and horror
as well as social commentary.
LY RV ROl BTNV g 2y (PR in an era of capitalism.
I think it is inevitable R IR R e - Nl
and poor, not just me, I s R e e 10
| belong to the front, you belong to the tail.
But Bong Joon-ho was no overnight success.
He was well known to cinemaphiles and had already
worked with international stars like John Hurt, Tilda Swinton,
and Chris Evans on 2013 sci-fi thriller, Snowpiercer.
Another striking commentary on class structure,
using a train condemned to travel around the globe,
carrying rich at the front, poor at the back.
Bong Joon-ho has spent most of his film-making in South Korea.
But no district has become IR E I T R G
Jahamun Tunnel in Seoul, LG G DR I R R G R
iconic scenes in Parasite, where they run down
a long staircase after their harrowing escape.
An area that features in many guidebooks and is a stopping
point for many tourists.
Bong Joon-ho said of Parasite’s win, that it removed
the barriers that subtitles in films had been to English
speaking audiences.
Certainly, Parasite e e e e A a1l
TRANSLATION: Really, because of the amazing charm
Ll LR A become so popular.
The expressions, the gestures, the physicality they express.
Parasite will quite simply stand in history
as one of the great films of the 21st century.
Korean cinema, at least when it comes to film-making,
has been pretty much a man’s game with male directors
calling the shots, but things are changing.
As Emma Jones reports, women are gaining ground both
in front of the camera LR B
The First Lady of Korean film, Kang Soo-youn, became Korea’s
first international superstar after winning the best actress
olgP LR IR TR R T for Im Kwon-taek’s film,
The Surrogate Woman, I AR UGl
given to a couple to bear a surrogate child.
She died this year aged 55, but Kang was known
for playing memorable, complex female characters
long before that was considered to be important.
35 years after The Surrogate Woman, Perhaps Love is actress
Jo Eun-ji’s directing debut, the tale of a middle-aged
writer falling for his attractive student,
and told humorously.
She thinks seeing the breakthrough of stories
for and by women are K-film’s big challenge.
TRANSLATION: Of course, there are persisting problems
in the Korean film industry today.
| do feel it is a sensitive issue so | don’'t want to step
on any toes or anything, but there is definitely
gl R @l lel gl e [0
One of the things that comes IR N s R RN EI
character narratives in Korean cinema today.
| feel like there’s definitely N SR U SR TS |
in that area, but on the other hand because, as you know,
there has been a lot of global recognition for Korean cinema,
Iit’s also thriving.
There have been some noticeable LSO I T LI To|
iIn 2008, Forever The Moment, by new wave female auteur
Yim Soon-rye, a fictionalised FYuns e B R e 1s]
2016’s The Truth Beneath, directed by Lee Kyoung-mi
2016’s The Truth Beneath, Y LR A R LI IR
is a fast-paced thriller about a political
scandal and kidnap.
It was a big hit with Korean critics, although it was
co-written by Park Chan-wook, and unlike his erotic
thriller The Handmaiden, also from 2016, didn’t get
invited to major festivals.
It’s really interesting to think why that was.
And | think partly that was because festival programmers
and directors were not paying R R SR ]
and films about women, and partly it is probably to do
with the fact that she’s not such a well-known figure
in the West, and so doesn’t Y R NN R R E IRl
someone like Bong Joon-ho LR E G iR
But hopefully will have in future.
But I think it was just RV RS
Maintaining a good outward appearance has been part
of traditional Korean society for centuries, and in modern
times, this pressure inevitably and usually falls upon women.
Has this got something to do with the way women
are portrayed in film?
Certainly, this year’s notable films by female directors deal
with a highly sexualised society.
Jeong-sun, widely played at festivals this year,
is Jeong Ji-hye’s debut film G R L N D IR
epidemic of digital sex crime through the story of one woman
LRV N is ruined by it.
The director of the London Korean Film Festival,
Lee Eun-ji, this year has again a spotlight on women’s voices.
| would say young female film-makers in Korea,
they are still struggling and they mostly talk
about women’s rights, also daily lives of the young women
and that’s why they talk about more deep relationships,
characters, like mother and daughter, but they can go
more deep down and in more detail and dig into different
ways how to film RGO IR P
A short film, Nipple War 3 by Paek Si-won, has also gained
a few headlines as a humorous take on a female TV producer
refusing to pixelate parts of a woman’s body on screen.
Just as in the rest of the world, women’s
voices are getting heard, but as yet they are
rarely getting rewarded.
You might wonder what’s going on behind this
They are showing a very violent clip from the classic
Korean movie, Oldboy, RO A R R e
That film was directed by Park Chan-wook,
who is one of South Korea’s most illustrious film-makers.
Recently he had a new film that came out, it’s
South Korea’s submission to the Oscars next year.
It’s called Decision To Leave, IR E el la]
to talk about the film.
Decision To Leave tells a story of a detective investigating
the suspicious death of a man R R aERel A
His widow seems unmoved.
Has she played a role in his demise?
L TR YWl R
The director hopes the ethical conflict posed in the film can
engage the audience.
TRANSLATION: | would say when the emotion or the desire
of love comes into conflict with social ethics, then
sometimes love itself becomes a prison for other people.
And for some, the social ethics become prisen for them.
So that contrast may be something that the audience can
take away and really think about afterwards.
Director Park Chan-wook studied philosophy.
He was a film critic.
He knows cinema history, N YR NG L R 3T
by British director Alfred Hitchcock.
It is said that Hitchcock’s A LI R T IEY R Yed o [
influenced Decision To Leave.
| watched Vertigo when | was in college, and that inspired me
so much that | decided to become a film-maker one day.
So, | don’t think | will ever R NE RNy
of Hitchcock, and Decision I VR R o1 F1g
film that shows much influence from him.
As | mentioned, a clip TN L S T e
celebrated 2003 film Oldboy was on display at the Hallyu!
It’s of a violent fight Rt PRI R
an impressively choreographed sequence in a movie which tells
of a man kidnapped for 15 years who, upon release,
ELCI [ R (R A down his captor.
The picture brought South Korean cinema a lot of very
positive international acclaim.
| do agree with you that it was OGRS T A IR
cinema on the map but, you know, there are other
Korean films before Oldboy, of course, that were
But Oldboy was the film that made this whole brand that’s
Decision To Leave doesn’t S e e A e 4
Chan-wook 5 trademark extremes.
The closest the leads come RSN DRI UG R Lea g Lwa [y
The reviews of this rather different Park Chan-wook
film have been strong.
Its plot turns may be hard to follow, but it’s
a beautifully accomplished picture and you always know
you’re watching the work of one of the great masters
of world cinema.
Ever since Parasite won N A el RO e 1d
and the top prize at the Cannes Film Festival,
everyone has been wondering what the next big thing will be
e iR ARl T
Well, Emma Jones has been finding out what lies ahead,
what’s in the pipeline, what great, compelling cinema
from South Korea Is on its way.
It’s not just Korean auteurs ORI Gl bR
exposure internationally.
Alienoid, by director Choi Dong-hoon, is a melting
pot of time travel, sci-fi aliens and fantasy,
all in one big blockbuster.
It’s pure fun, designed to entertain -
One of Korea’s most commercially successful
directors, Chol’s credited with introducing the heist
genre to Korea - most famously in 2012’s The Thieves,
still one of the country’s most successful movies.
LA Thank you, nice to meet you!
Nice to meet you.
| met him as Aliencid N R U
The movie’s just been released in the US and Canada,
LR U LR g el e T2 of being sold
R T
TRANSLATION: | showcased my other film over ten years ago
with the London Korean Film Festival and the Korean
WL M O-T 0 - [ sl S certainly does feel different.
But the audience remains a mystery.
My life’s focus is on how | make good films.
But the Korean film-makers - IR G TR O
are expanding, so | do now ATl R A E )
international audience finds good and interesting
in my films, so | think NG eI
Next, Chol is working NERGEYMRNII ZT)
starring this famous face - Lee Jung-jae, the former
model now actor, basking in global fame thanks
to Emmy-winning Netflix show Squid Game.
Lee Jung-jae Is the star of Hunt, and it’s also
his directing debut.
It is one of Korea’s top ten biggest movies of 2022,
now coming out internationally.
This espionage thriller rattles along at 100
bullets per minute.
It’s plot is that after the assassination of
South Korea’s President Park in 1980, North Korea
His huge fan base may well R R e
when he was offered a world premiere at the Cannes Film
Festival, but he’d laboured on the script for four years -
long before Squid Game.
TRANSLATION: | actually had no ambition for directing.
In Korea, most directors write their own screenplays and | had
no faith in my ability to write my own, so | actually
wanted to give producing a try, because I’ve been acting for 30
years, so | thought maybe producing would be possible,
so | bought the rights for the original script
and then | tried to find F e ac a s R iaied
to help me fix the screenplay and direct.
1 T 9 R TSR] to write my own scenario
and because | worked so hard O R T EY YL
| know best how to do it, RN G R R R L
and decided to direct this as well.
For those who prefer Korean arthouse, Japanese
auteur Hirokazu Kore-eda shot his latest film
Song Kang-ho of Parasite fame is the lead actor here again,
and after he was awarded the Cannes Film Festival Best
Actor prize, this too will have a global release.
It’s a quirky story, with Song Kang-ho playing
an unusually kindly broker of baby sales, surprised
when one mother returns for her baby.
TRANSLATION: With a story like this, if it was reported
on the news, they’d be bad guys - brokers trying
But when you have a camera inside the van, you start
to see a different side R I U RR e
the audience to see i e AN R A
a glimpse of what you wouldn’t get to see -
and | think | do that a lot Tl AT
| wanted to show a different side to what we’d see
in the media, and for people IR N ke
know the whole story.
There’s still one of the biggest beasts of all ready
to be unleashed on audiences, Hansan: Rising Dragon,
RSl El Il
A prequel to Korea’s most successful movie ever,
2014’s The Admiral - the story of how a tiny
Korean Navy defeated a much larger Japanese fleet.
Thanks to this global appetite for K-content,
LCIEENR N TR L] to punch above their weight.
This exhibition confirmed to me LI G R IR e
of the very best cinema in the world, but there’s
something ominous in all the creativity in those films
informed by themes of class warfare and violence.
Korean cinema is perhaps serving as a sentinel,
warning nations where income inequality is growing of
the dangers that may lie ahead.
Well, that brings our Korean cinema special to a close.
We hope you’ve enjoyed the programme.
Please remember you can always reach us online
at bbc.com/TalkingMovies and you can find us on Twitter.
So, from me, Tom Brook, and the rest of the Talking
Movies production team here in London, it’s goodbye.
T R (T W &
As we leave you with some exhibition highlights
and enjoyable participatory activity.
THAT THAT FEATURING SUGA OF BTS BY PSY PLAYS.
L= # Go!
AN X
# That, that, | Like that. ARG e
# Gibun joa, baby! # Baby!
# Heundeureo jwa u wi araero. =R
# One, two, three to the four. =R
# That, that, | like that.
LR GEI NG EL
# That, that, | like that, baby. I like that.
# It’s like that, that, yo.
# That, that, | like that.
LR GEI NG EL
# that, that, | like that. # It’s like that, that, yo.
# Do what you want! # Say what you want!
# Do what you want!
Hello there, the weather is looking pretty unsettled,
quite a lot of rain in places LRGN i
localised flooding.
It’s all because of an area of low pressure which is expected
to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even into
Saturday morning, before it NENOE A F#{ RN
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about,
moving eastwards and then pulling back northwards
and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it will weaken, but it will bring a lot
of rain and fairly strong L LR
We start Thursday on a chilly note for western Scotland,
Northern Ireland, and there’s frost and fog, but elsewhere
where we have the cloud, wind and rain, temperatures
between 5-9 degrees.
A thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday,
our area of low pressure, as you can see, pushing
Heavy rain, East England, strongest of the winds along
The best of any brighter weather is in Northern Ireland
but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night the rain continues to pile
into eastern Scotland and a few showers elsewhere
Wet weather for Northern England and North Wales.
Probably the driest weather towards the
south of the country.
Because there is more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, it won’t be quite as cold for many,
7-9 degrees.
For Friday there is our area of low pressure, starting
to weaken, but it will bring PRI R AR s e s 1gs
half of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating across Angus,
Aberdeenshire and the risk of localised flooding here.
RlTn GV T for England generally.
MG RG R T (E on Friday again.
Parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, Central
and southern England.
Up to 12 degrees, but chilly e e R o
will continue to be windy, especially for
N el A
That fizzles out on Saturday and a brief spell of quieter
weather before the next frontal system moves through
on Saturday night into Sunday, and followed by sunshine
and blustery showers.
It starts off fairly dry for many on Saturday
and quite chilly.
Wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday night
to Sunday and that will be followed by sunshine
and showers.
Welcome to BBC News - I’m Rich Preston.
Our top stories.
President Biden congratulates G I ]
as they secure a majority in the US House
of Representatives - marking a return to divided
[ lpilclale in the United States.
Disagreement over the Poland missile strike
as Ukraine insists its air defence teams weren’t to blame.
A rousing reception for Brazil’s president
elect, Lula Da Silva - who told the UN climate
summit he will stop the deforestation of the Amazon
ft off of Artemis 1.
NASA’s most powerful rocket finally blasts off.
We begin in the United States, where President Biden has
congratulated the Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy
on securing a majority in the House of Representatives.
It marks a return to divided government in America,
with Democrats still retaining a slim majority in the Senate.
The White House says the president is ready to work
with House Republicans IR R
for working families.
Earlier | spoke to our North America Correspondent,
Peter Bowes and | asked what America’s divided
government means for the next two years of US politics.
Well, this is, as you say, divided government
returning to Washington.
WL =T NN unusual situation.
Of course, historically it’s happened many times before.
But what it means is O R GGG TEh S
in charge in the House of Representatives, it
will certainly stymie Joe Biden’s intentions,
his political agenda over the next couple of years
LGB QRN in a position to block
any legislative R R A R
The Republicans will be in charge of the crucial
committees in the House of NN R
They can bring forward their own legislation
and possibly any inquiries, L AL LIS
against Joe Biden that they choose to pursue.
So it will be a difficult time in Washington.
We don’t expect a huge amount to get through to happen
in terms of new legislation.
But it is interesting that Joe Biden is reaching
out and this is typical of Mr Biden’s style.
He is reaching out to the Republicans, saying
that he would like to at least AR U
to work together.
Well earlier | spoke IR IS L
Max Kutner and asked TS SRR LR e T 0]k
that was expected.
Rich, this was expected RGNl
opposite the president’s party
almost always gains control RO L i)
the whole Congress in a midterm election.
So this was expected.
M CH G G R T administration had plenty
of time to prepare for this.
Biden even went through a similar thing when he was vice
president under Obama and the Republicans gained
control of Congress then.
So this was expected.
And what wasn’t expected was actually the just how
slim this Republican majority would be.
Right now, they only have one A R RGN R
in the coming days as the final IR LR
LA G G EICTNeTy majority expands at all.
Max, I think I’m right in saying it was a six seat gain
for the Republicans, where did they win those?
Well, it was mainly in the West.
In recent days, we’ve been looking a Lot at California.
One perhaps thinks of California as a blue state,
a lot of Democratic areas.
But it really came down R RO AR R G E
that said this this Republican majority is not looking
like it’s going to be as big as the Republicans had hoped.
And this was a bit unexpected.
And, of course, the results in the Senate were even more
unexpected, with Democrats flipping a seat there
and taking the majority and still one race in Georgia
But so, again, the Republicans almost always take control
But some surprises here.
LT President Biden and
the Democrats are going
to have to deal with that for the next two years.
Well, indeed.
And the president says he’s looking forward to working
with Republicans to to push through his agendas, especially
for hard working families.
LR IR LR to do that in practice?
Yeah, | saw that message of congratulations, Rich,
that just came out.
But this is going to make things very difficult
for President Biden and the Dems and this
progressive agenda, all these campaign promises that in 2020
Biden said he was going to pursue.
So now to pass the less controversial legislation
in the House is going to be difficult for Democrats,
and they can forget about passing the more
s G IR GG e
President Biden is now going to have to rely
on what is under his purview,
which would be signing executive orders and directing
federal agencies to do rulemaking.
Of course, executive orders and agency rules are more
easily overturned in the courts and in other ways
than an act of Congress.
L G NI going to deal with oversight
from House Republicans, LRGSR
of the biggest takeaways today.
The Republicans in the House have said that they would go
after Hunter Biden, they would go after
the Afghanistan withdrawal, they would go after
the the origins of Covid.
And when | say go after, BTN E e e R )
are all things Republicans want to be looking into.
And now we’ll have an opportunity to do so.
There’s continued AR R e I
of a missile attack which led R RO R R N
on Polish territory.
President Zelensky insists Russia was behind the strike,
but NATO, Poland and the US R B R G S A A LS G
the incident was most likely caused by a Ukrainian
N e a3y
Katya Adler reports.
These have been nail-biting moments for Poland and its
allies, gathering evidence and intelligence about last
night’s missile strike close to Poland’'s border with Ukraine.
Yerevan lives nearby.
His family heard the explosion, he said,
and were really scared.
Nato was also nervous.
You’ll notice almost more emphasis today on who likely
wasn’t behind the strike than who probably was.
We have no indication that this was the result
of a deliberate attack, and we have no indication that
Russia is preparing offensive military actions against Nato.
To Western leaders, RN A
Poland’s president says it seems the explosion
was caused by Ukrainian air defence systems.
An unfortunate error, he said.
Moscow did pound Ukraine with missiles yesterday.
If it had struck or targeted neighbouring Nato member
Poland, as first suggested in Polish media, the whole
alliance could have been called on, meaning confrontation
with nuclear power Russia.
Nato really wants to avoid that, while still supporting
Ukraine’s military.
Nato leaders’ carefully crafted, measured response
today shows how much they fear Europe is on a knife edge.
They’ve had a sharp shock reminder of the ever-present
potential of Russia’s war to escalate and spread
beyond Ukraine’s borders.
Kyiv sometimes accuses allies of getting too used
to all those missiles raining i R R Rt
If that ever was the case, last night was a huge wake-up call.
But it’s also caused a rift with Kyiv, determined Russia
was behind the strike in Poland.
TRANSLATION: | have no doubt that this is not our
missile, not our strike.
| believe this is a Russian IR SR s R 0ld
military reports.
That’s a very rare public break T G IR G e
At a meeting of world leaders today, the Prime Minister
assured Ukraine support against Russia was unwavering,
and there were strong words from his Foreign Secretary.
The House should be in no doubt that the only reason
why missiles are flying through European skies
and exploding in European villages is because of Russia’s
barbaric invasicn of Ukraine.
As the investigation continues on the ground in Poland,
Nato says it’s boosting air defences across eastern
Europe as well as Ukraine, just in case.
Katya Adler, BBC News, Nato.
Bill Roggio is a Senior Fellow at the Foundation
for Defense of Democracies and Editor of the
Long War Journal.
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for making the time. G
Thank you for making the time. IR
Thank you for making the time. This is a war on Nato’s Bore
This is a war on Nato’s Bore da, even
This is a war on Nato’s Bore da, even though it is not a
This is a war on Nato’s Bore da, even though it is not a war
da, even though it is not a war with
da, even though it is not a war B EL]
da, even though it is not a war with Nato itself, an
da, even though it is not a war N F R P R
da, even though it is not a war with Nato itself, an event like
with Nato itself, an event like this
G FLGRI VA AR A LG this was kind of inevitable?
this was kind of inevitable? Frankly, |
this was kind of inevitable? Frankly, I am
this was kind of inevitable? Frankly, | am surprised it
Frankly, 1 am surprised it hadn’t
Frankly, | am surprised it hadn’t happened sooner.
Frankly, | am surprised it hadn’t happened soener. This
Frankly, | am surprised it hadn’t happened sooner. This is
hadn’t happened sooner. This is Y
hadn’t happened sooner. This is R (B g
hadn’t happened sooner. This Is a spill-over that is expected
a spill-over that is expected N
a spill-over that is expected N RS
a spill-over that is expected NS R R
a spill-over that is expected of overall of this magnitude.
of overall of this magnitude. Yy
of overall of this magnitude. Y|
of overall of this magnitude. YN Y
of overall of this magnitude. When | saw the news
of overall of this magnitude. AR R
of overall of this magnitude. When | saw the news | thought
When | saw the news | thought 3
When | saw the news | thought LI a1
When | saw the news | thought it highly unlikely the Russians
it highly unlikely the Russians would target a Nato country.
would target a Nato country. e
would target a Nato country. The Russians have its hands
The Russians have its hands full
The Russians have its hands TR
The Russians have its hands RIS T
The Russians have its hands full in Ukraine and is losing
full in Ukraine and is losing e
full in Ukraine and is losing NI
full in Ukraine and is losing RS Ta s |
full in Ukraine and is losing in Ukraine and the last
VISRV R R RS T} in Ukraine and the last thing
in Ukraine and the last thing they would want is to drag in
they would want is to drag in )
they would want is to drag in the alliance. | thought it was
the alliance. I thought it was PN
the alliance. | thought it was F R ldc:1118
the alliance. | thought it was NN e Iy
the alliance. | thought it was an errant missile from
the alliance. | thought it was NN e IRt R
an errant missile from the Russians but the most likely
Russians but the most likely e 1a0e]
Russians but the most likely scenario it
Russians but the most likely e NEle iR L
Russians but the most likely e NEla R Ll
Russians but the most likely scenario it was and in Crainey
scenario it was and in Crainey and -- Ukrainian air defence
and -- Ukrainian air defence missile
and -- Ukrainian air defence I ]
and -- Ukrainian air defence LI T KLY
and -- Ukrainian air defence I T R A e
and -- Ukrainian air defence missile. | am only shocked it
missile. 1 am only shocked it e
missile. | am only shocked it e ey
missile. | am only shocked it took nine months
missile. | am only shocked it e A et a R Ne
missile. | am only shocked it e e e e R R
missile. | am only shocked it took nine months for this to
took nine months for this to happen. Despite that analysis
happen. Despite that analysis that
happen. Despite that analysis G e
happen. Despite that analysis eI R L
happen. Despite that analysis that it was a Ukrainian air
that it was a Ukrainian air ey
that it was a Ukrainian air defence missile, President
defence missile, President I
defence missile, President Zelensky insists it wasn’t? |
Zelensky insists it wasn’t? | think President Zelensky is
think President Zelensky is X
think President Zelensky is eager to draw Nato further into
eager to draw Nato further into )
eager to draw Nato further into R ZR
eager to draw Nato further into the wall. Nato wants to
the wall. Nato wants to NI
the wall. Nato wants to obviously stay out of
the wall. Nato wants to T VASE A N R G
the wall. Nato wants to obviously stay out of the water
obviously stay out of the water '
obviously stay out of the water T
obviously stay out of the water O R a1
obviously stay out of the water T O R 18 e (o)
obviously stay out of the water R R I R e R [T
obviously stay out of the water R R R R R
risk... It wants to reduce the potential risk
risk... It wants to reduce the potent|al I
risk... It wants to reduce the potent|al risk of nuclear
potential risk of nuclear o aig il
potential risk of nuclear a8 ie A IR A
potential risk of nuclear o alit eI A R
potential risk of nuclear confrontation. Ukraine is not a
confrontation. Ukraine is not a member
confrontation. Ukraine is not a Sl Tatle T
confrontation. Ukraine is not a member of Nato so
confrontation. Ukraine is not a NI R AV E R T e )
confrontation. Ukraine is not a member of Nato so article five
Tl E LR O g dfa R Y
member of Nato so article five a1
member of Nato so article five does not apply.
member of Nato so article five [ A e
does not apply. President I
does not apply. President N E N
does not apply. President Zelensky also, it
does not apply. President NI S
does not apply. President Zelensky also, it looks bad
Zelensky also, it looks bad that a
Zelensky also, it looks bad R IR IE)]
Zelensky also, it looks bad that a Ukrainian air defence
that a Ukrainian air defence Ay
that a Ukrainian air defence RG]
that a Ukrainian air defence I G R )
that a Ukrainian air defence missile killed two Polish
missile killed two Polish aiara e
missile killed two Polish aiara sl T4
missile killed two Polish R N AU
IR IET R T T citizens but they must
missile killed two Polish citizens but they must be more
citizens but they must be more Mo
citizens but they must be more upfront with this. It hurts
upfront with this. It hurts President Zelensky and the
President Zelensky and the Ukrainian government to take
Ukrainian government to take this
Ukrainian government to take QI
Ukrainian government to take (LT
Ukrainian government to take this position. It really
this position. It really LA
this position. It really A
this position. It really smacks, | think, to a lot of
smacks, | think, te a lot of Nato
smacks, | think, to a lot of Nato leaders as an attempt to
Nato leaders as an attempt to e
Nato leaders as an attempt to Sl L Bl
Nato leaders as an attempt to e A IR ite e
Nato leaders as an attempt to draw Nato further into this
draw Nato further into this "
draw Nato further into this war. In the last couple of
war. In the last couple of YN
war. In the last couple of R )
war. In the last couple of weeks we have
war. In the last couple of YN R R ]
war. In the last couple of R R R R BT
weeks we have seen massive el =1
weeks we have seen massive withdrawals by Russia in huge
withdrawals by Russia in huge I YTy
withdrawals by Russia in huge I I
withdrawals by Russia in huge areas like Kherson which was
areas like Kherson which was L
areas like Kherson which was L
Sl LRGN G T R I R L]
Sl LRGN G T R I R seen as a victory for
areas like Kherson which was seen as a victory for Ukrainian
seen as a victory for Ukrainian e
seen as a victory for Ukrainian T e TR T
seen as a victory for Ukrainian e LT e N LR T ]
seen as a victory for Ukrainian forces. There has been this
forces. There has been this IR
forces. There has been this massive missile strikes on
massive missile strikes on Ukrainian infrastructure ?
massive missile strikes on Ukrainian infrastructure? The
Ukrainian infrastructure? The Russians are struggling to hold
Russians are struggling to hold ]
Russians are struggling to hold oh to
Russians are struggling to hold RO
Russians are struggling to hold on to the territory it
on to the territory it I
on to the territory it IV
on to the territory it I AL IR
on to the territory it currently has. We have winter
currently has. We have winter coming so most people,
coming so most people, including myself, expect
including myself, expect military operations to slow
military operations to slow Ll
military operations to slow oy PRI Ta]
military operations to slow down. Ukrainian has taken its
down. Ukrainian has taken its il
down. Ukrainian has taken its Bl
down. Ukrainian has taken its e IR
down. Ukrainian has taken its LR R e e 3
down. Ukrainian has taken its toll in its successful attempts
toll in its successful attempts to regain territory. These
to regain territory. These Ay
to regain territory. These IR LY
to regain territory. These missile strikes are an attempt
missile strikes are an attempt to
missile strikes are an attempt R I Ch]
missile strikes are an attempt to weaken the
missile strikes are an attempt R IO R
missile strikes are an attempt R I ORI
missile strikes are an attempt R ChE G R A Y
to weaken the resolve of the Ukrainian people
to weaken the resolve of the NSEIEL N L G
to weaken the resolve of the Ukrainian people as well as
Ukrainian people as well as hinder
Ukrainian people as well as G
Ukrainian people as well as R GER S
Ukrainian people as well as IR G
Ukrainian people as well as hinder the power supplies, as
hinder the power supplies, as )
hinder the power supplies, as R IETs]
hinder the power supplies, as the Ukrainian military will
the Ukrainian military will 3\
the Ukrainian military will (VA
the Ukrainian military will rely on that
the Ukrainian military will (AN RG N
the Ukrainian military will rely on that and getting trips
rely on that and getting trips to
rely on that and getting trips Ry
rely on that and getting trips R Rt
rely on that and getting trips to the front. They are lobbying
to the front. They are lobbying I
to the front. They are lobbying IR
to the front. They are lobbying hundreds of missiles
to the front. They are lobbying I LR A I ]
to the front. They are lobbying hundreds of missiles a day.
QUGG N TR NG ) ale-)
hundreds of missiles a day. e R )
hundreds of missiles a day. Once those air
hundreds of missiles a day. e RO N S
hundreds of missiles a day. Once those air defences go
Once those air defences go Sl
Once those air defences go down, the Russian
Once those air defences go S TR L UL T s
Once those air defences go down, the Russian Air Force
down, the Russian Air Force il
down, the Russian Air Force IR
down, the Russian Air Force N E R
down, the Russian Air Force will have greater freedom.
down, the Russian Air Force (W E R R R LD [
will have greater freedom. | think
will have greater freedom. | i QAL
will have greater freedom. | GG E
will have greater freedom. | GG AR
will have greater freedom. | QNSO RG R FLY
will have greater freedom. | think that is the play we
will have greater freedom. | OISO R ARG
think that is the play we are XN
think that is the play we are seeing with the Russians.
OIS OEI R G TRERTR: () seeing with the Russians. The
seeing with the Russians. The strategy hasn’t
seeing with the Russians. The strateqy hasn’t worked well,
strategy hasn’t worked well, S a1 e
strategy hasn’t worked well, Y R 3
strategy hasn’t worked well, whether this part of the
whether this part of the strategy
whether this part of the E VAL
whether this part of the strateqy works or not remains
strategy works or not remains to
strategy works or not remains R
strategy works or not remains Rl
strategy works or not remains R .
strategy works or not remains R
strategy works or not remains to be seen. But the Ukrainians
to be seen. But the Ukrainians Bl
to be seen. But the Ukrainians remain very resilient and they
remain very resilient and they remain determined and they
remain determined and they O
remain determined and they S OLL R
remain determined and they SOLLRT R
remain determined and they SOLLR R GRS
remain determined and they stood up to the Russians and
stood up to the Russians and they
stood up to the Russians and OV C G
stood up to the Russians and O TGRS
stood up to the Russians and O S CE L R
stood up to the Russians and OV CT A CE K R
stood up to the Russians and they deserve all of our praise
they deserve all of our praise e
they deserve all of our praise Eh e
they deserve all of our praise for their willingness
they deserve all of our praise R GEITANIL IR
they deserve all of our praise for their willingness to defend
for their willingness to defend and
for their willingness to defend LR s )
for their willingness to defend and retake territory. Really
and retake territory. Really L)
and retake territory. Really good to
and retake territory. Really LGRS
and retake territory. Really LRI AT
and retake territory. Really good to get your analysis.
good to get your analysis. T4
good to get your analysis. Thank you
good to get your analysis. =S TR s
good to get your analysis. Thank you very much. Thank you.
China’s President, Xi Jinping, and Canada’s Prime Minister,
Justin Trudeau, exchanged tense LR R AL
of the G20 Summit in Bali on Wednesday.
President Xi had been meeting several world leaders,
for the first time in person N GO E Ll
But a short follow-up e L N L R
and Mr Xi was picked up RGN TR L W A
wasn’t entirely friendly.
International health organisations are warning that
a cholera outbreak in Haiti is worsening, with a dramatic
increase in the number of people falling ill.
The head of the Pan American Health Organisation,
said officials had now confirmed over
700 cholera infections, with more than 140 deaths
since the first cases were detected in October.
It’s believed the true numbers could be much higher.
She added that half a million people are at risk
of contracting the disease.
A new study has found that climate change severely
worsened the heavy rains that caused largescale flooding
across swathes of Nigeria RIS GIRTE TS
killing hundreds of people.
The floods were recorded YRR A )
countries’ history.
The report by World Weather Attribution says
extreme seasonal rainfall and the release of water
from dams caused the flooding.
They concluded the event was made 80 times more
likely by climate change.
Stay with us on BBC News. Still to come. ..
Stay with us on BBC News. Still to come... And
Stay with us on BBC News. Still R T - R i
Stay with us on BBC News. Still to come... And liftoff of
to come... And liftoff of e
to come... And liftoff of Artemis fund. Nasa’s
to come... And liftoff of Artemis fund. Nasa’'s most
Artemis fund. Nasa’'s most a1
Artemis fund. Nasa’s most (TN G
Artemis fund. Nasa’s most powerful rocket blasts off.
Benazir Bhutto has claimed victory in Pakistan’s general
election and she’s asked S S I
tc name her as Prime Minister.
Jacksen’s been released on balil of $3 million after turning
himself in to police in Santa Barbara.
It was the biggest NI R R ls
of the first growing European antinuclear movement.
The South African government has announced that it’s opening
QLRI R T T whites-only beaches
to people of all races.
This will lead to a black majority government in this
country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
Part of the centuries-old Windsor Castle, one
of the Queen’s residences, has been censumed by
fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has
caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines. ..
Presdient Biden has congratulated the Republicans
after they regained control RGN Y
of representatives.
It could limit the President’s ability to get his
legaslative programme through.
The news about the US mid terms elections came as a bill that
would make same-sex marriages legal across the country
cleared a major hurdle in the Senate.
12 Republicans joined all 50 Democrats
to move the Respect for Marriage Act forward.
That puts it on track I R IR R e
QIR [ SRRy in next January.
I’m joined now by Kadia Goba, politics
reporter at global news DI RIS
1 UG
1 publication Semafor. this bill likely to pass? |
Is this bill likely to pass? | think they
Is this bill likely to pass? | GG R Gl
Is this bill likely to pass? | OISO GV
Is this bill likely to pass? | OISO T GG CR UG
think they definitely have the Il ]e
think they definitely have the support. What happened today
support. What happened today Ty
support. What happened today ]
support. What happened today LR L )
support. What happened today was a procedural vote and as
was a procedural vote and as you
was a procedural vote and as RN
was a procedural vote and as T T A P
was a procedural vote and as you mention, 12 Republicans
you mention, 12 Republicans 5!
you mention, 12 Republicans sided with Democrats to qualify
sided with Democrats to qualify same-sex marriage. It is a
same-sex marriage. It is a pretty
same-sex marriage. It is a AL
same-sex marriage. It is a (LR BITEY
same-sex marriage. It is a pretty good indication it is
pretty good indication it is L
pretty good indication it is going to
pretty good indication it is IRLRGIY
pretty good indication it is going to go forward. The
pretty good indication it is MR RC R EIC M LR G
going to go forward. The key word
going to go forward. The key R 0]
going to go forward. The key GG
going to go forward. The key word here is federal, why is a
word here is federal, why Is a federal
word here is federal, why is a federal law
word here is federal, why is a S F AL T 18 A
word here is federal, why is a SN I AR
federal law necessary? Well, I
federal law necessary? Well, QIR
federal law necessary? Well, MRl ko 4
federal law necessary? Well, MR R Lo @)
federal law necessary? Well, this dates back to when the
this dates back to when the SN
this dates back to when the ST R T
this dates back to when the SRS L G
this dates back to when the SRS A E L RO
this dates back to when the Supreme Court made the decision
Supreme Court made the decision to bring
Supreme Court made the decision RN g i
Supreme Court made the decision to bring abortion rights to the
to bring abortion rights to the individual
to bring abortion rights to the L RGEIRIG
to bring abortion rights to the individual states. When
to bring abortion rights to the LR GTE IR e IR R
individual states. When that IR
individual states. When that happened, many Democrats felt
happened, many Democrats felt TS |
happened, many Democrats felt RIS -]
happened, many Democrats felt TS B Rl 4
happened, many Democrats felt T R R )
happened, many Democrats felt alarmed in that the same thing
alarmed in that the same thing i
alarmed in that the same thing could happen when it comes to
could happen when it comes to same-sex marriage. Because not
same-sex marriage. Because not 1R
same-sex marriage. Because not all states actually on a
all states actually on a same-sex marriage. So this way
same-sex marriage. So this way they
same-sex marriage. So this way QS OEL VG
same-sex marriage. So this way VR O] VAN T
same-sex marriage. So this way VR OE] RN IR 4 %1
same-sex marriage. So this way they actually ensure that it
they actually ensure that it makes it much more difficult or
makes it much more difficult or R Y
makes it much more difficult or makes it
makes It much more difficult or R R R e
makes It much more difficult or makes it more difficult going
makes it more difficult going T Elon
makes it more difficult going T L.
makes it more difficult going R L - CR ]
makes it more difficult going L E L -G VR
makes it more difficult going L E L - CR C VR U C A P P
forward. As you mention, 12 LI UL
forward. As you mention, 12 Republicans joined those 50
Republicans joined those 50 e o L
Republicans joined those 50 Democrats. That is not all
Democrats. That is not all Republicans, what is the push
Republicans, what is the push back against this? You know,
back against this? You know, that
back against this? You know, G A
back against this? You know, R L]
back against this? You know, G E I CEN
back against this? You know, that is a great question. |
that is a great question. | S
that is a great question. | talked to a
that is a great question. | E LR R ]
that is a great question. | talked to a couple of them.
talked to a couple of them. e )
talked to a couple of them. N
talked to a couple of them. Some of them
talked to a couple of them. N R s M Ts|
talked to a couple of them. N R B E ]
talked to a couple of them. Some of them had an issue
talked to a couple of them. N RN RN ik
Some of them had an issue with )
Some of them had an issue with e el e
Some of them had an issue with the amendment process because
the amendment process because e S
the amendment process because Democrats close
the amendment process because e e R
the amendment process because e el L R a1 Ta el el Na s
Democrats close the amendment e
Democrats close the amendment process. But also one of the
process. But also one of the ]
process. But also one of the big resounding
process. But also one of the JEREILGIL GRS
process. But also one of the RGBT
process. But also one of the big resounding push backs was
big resounding push backs was that this wasn’t necessary.
that this wasn’t necessary. Republicans felt that most
Republicans felt that most REI
Republicans felt that most states respect same-sex
states respect same-sex marriage, why are we doing
marriage, why are we doing I
marriage, why are we doing this? As | mentioned, Democrats
this? As | mentioned, Democrats felt
this? As | mentioned, Democrats T ETR R - sl
this? As | mentioned, Democrats felt alarmed that this
this? As | mentioned, Democrats T EIRe - R F R s I as 01 sl
this? As | mentioned, Democrats felt alarmed that this could be
felt alarmed that this could be overturned
felt alarmed that this could be P aetlsi B ls]
felt alarmed that this could be e ]
felt alarmed that this could be it R R tlad
felt alarmed that this could be overturned in a court and
overturned in a court and ey
overturned in a court and therefore they
overturned in a court and O NROS e
overturned in a court and therefore they needed to
therefore they needed to ensure, enshrined
therefore they needed to NI e R
ensure, enshrined the legislation.
ensure, enshrined the LI LT A G 1Y
legislation. These representatives, they
legislation. These NI IR G S LG
legislation. These N C PR G S LR
representatives, they are to T
representatives, they are to IR
representatives, they are to NG RIS
representatives, they are to IR U R R
representatives, they are to represent the views of those in
represent the views of those in e
represent the views of those in R e
represent the views of those in their constituencies. What did
their constituencies. What did )
their constituencies. What did the opinion polls
their constituencies. What did QR R Y
their constituencies. What did the opinion polls say amongst
the opinion polls say amongst American
the opinion polls say amongst LN
the opinion polls say amongst American people about this?
American people about this? G
American people about this? IR
American people about this? IR
American people about this? AR
American people about this? This is a very interesting
LR R Al I thing.
LR R Al I i
LR R Al I QIS
This Is a very interesting thing. It is the
This Is a very interesting QI R R
LR R AN G ] QI AR R R
thing. It is the reason why Democrats. .. It
thing. It is the reason why I T LR 2 1
thing. It is the reason why Democrats... It was very
Democrats... It was very MG ND]
Democrats... It was very interesting that Democrats did
interesting that Democrats did s
interesting that Democrats did T
interesting that Democrats did e G
interesting that Democrats did AR R
interesting that Democrats did not put this vote before the
not put this vote before the i g
not put this vote before the midterms. More than 70% of
midterms. More than 70% of LN T e Ta
midterms. More than 70% of Americans actually agree with
Americans actually agree with same-sex marriage. Had they
same-sex marriage. Had they Al
same-sex marriage. Had they e R
same-sex marriage. Had they RO
same-sex marriage. Had they i RO I
same-sex marriage. Had they done this all had Democrats
done this all had Democrats actually put the
done this all had Democrats Ela G (A G R
done this all had Democrats actually put the vote on the
actually put the vote on the e
actually put the vote on the TG e
actually put the vote on the I e R
actually put the vote on the floor before the midterms, it
floor before the midterms, it Il
floor before the midterms, it I R
floor before the midterms, it would have been a sticking
would have been a sticking Lilis
would have been a sticking IS
would have been a sticking point for many Republicans
point for many Republicans OLLiin
point for many Republicans OLLLLR{S
point for many Republicans running for office. OK, keep
running for office. OK, keep very
running for office. OK, keep AR
running for office. OK, keep very much. Thank you for having
very much. Thank you for having i
Brazil’s President-elect has vowed to fight
Speaking at the COP27 summit in Eqypt, Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva said there would be no climate security for
the world if the Amazon T A o
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, reports
from the conference in Egypt.
# Ole, ole, ole, ola!
# Lula, Lula!
Lula received a hero’s welcome N G I AL G O
pLICHANER Ll was his message.
He said fighting climate change will be his number one priority
and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that
police the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
TRANSLATION: It’s time to act.
We have to stop this (O R RG]
What we need Is hope, hope combined with immediate
and decisive action for the future of the planet
and for humankind.
# Lula, Lula!
There is no question that Lula is the star of this conference,
but he faces real problems at home - Brazil’s finances
are in trouble, he doesn’t have control of the parliament
and there’s no doubt his rival, Jair Bolsonaro, will be
making trouble for him.
Under Bolsonaro, rates R A G RS I L2
He was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go
into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
Lula says his target is zero deforestation.
He promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police
the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
But his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
TRANSLATION: This won’t be an easy process.
There was a dismantling of all policies related
R R lar e el
But if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams,
I am confident we will be able TR
That change cannot come quickly enough, say
the indigenous communities who are on the front
TN RGN i e Y R e e
They are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers
and deforesting our forests.
The crowds surged around VA IR A e
ENCI AR
Lula says he’s urging the UN to allow Brazil to host
the 2025 UN climate conference, and he says he wants it to be
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Sharm el Sheikh,
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Sharm LG T
Nasa’s Artemis rocket has finally launched,
marking the start of a new era, which it’s hoped will
eventually see humans return to the moon.
Technical hitches and two hurricanes prevented
previous launch attempts, DR RS G TRl
blasted off on its debut flight from Florida’s
Kennedy Space Centre.
Our Science Editor, Rebecca Morrelle, was watching.
And here we go.
It was the moment they’d been waiting for.
Three, two, one...
After months of setbacks, Nasa’s most powerful rocket
was finally on its way - the start of humanity’s
return to the moon.
We rise together, back to the moon, and beyond!
It’s an incredibly complex machine.
It has so many components.
To get 8.8 million pounds of thrust off the ground
requires many systems that all have to work together
perfectly, and it did just that today.
No people are on board this time, but this test
flight will show if it’s R
The ultimate plan is to land the first woman and first
person of colour on the moon.
| wanted to be an astronaut from the time
| was five years old.
For anybody that has a dream E R RIS
if they see somebody that they can identify
with a little bit, it puts them into a totally different
perspective where they can say, well, "Wait a minute,
that person was just like me, and they did it,
so | cando it, too.”
LU RGN O N of Cornwall, the Goonhilly
Earth Station has an important role to play.
This huge dish is part NN e
around the world tracking the spacecraft, and the data
T N AR
It will help Nasa to work out exactly where the spacecraft
is and how fast it’s moving as it heads towards the moon.
AU IER G TR {13 signal sent back.
This doesn’t look like very much, | think, to most people,
but to communication engineers, G RERTN F Lo [N
What you would normally see is just a flat line of noise.
But we’re picking up the signal from space,
from the Artemis spacecraft.
With a last look back C IR Tl O GRS Ele e 1
now has a 26-day journey ahead.
This is just the beginning, the start of a million-mile
journey that’s being described as Apollo for a new generation.
Rebecca Morelle, BBC News.
Now before we go, live YT S ik
of surprises, especially when animals are involved.
Here’s what happened to one Kenyan journalist who was
reporting from an elephant orphanage.
Human actions are destroying habitats, decimating our
habitats, decimating our ecosystem
habitats, decimating our AR
habitats, decimating our ecosystem and the Circle of
ecosystem and the Circle of B
ecosystem and the Circle of R ias
ecosystem and the Circle of N AT
ecosystem and the Circle of A ST R
ecosystem and the Circle of N ST R Y
ecosystem and the Circle of life. It is up to us to be
life. It is up to us to be guardians of our natural world,
guardians of our natural world, I
guardians of our natural world, Ry
guardians of our natural world, AR R e
guardians of our natural world, save the species and provide a
VRO LR TR (YL LR home.
1y [N LAUGHTER
Thanks for watching.
L CRVLEN G IR T IR ]
for the next couple of days.
We’re going to see quite
a lot of rain in places, the risk of some
localized floeding, too.
And it’s all because of one area of low pressure, expected
to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even into
Saturday morning before it NENOE A F#{ RN
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about, moving
a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back
northwards and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it slowly will fill, it will weaken.
But it’s going to bring a lot of rain and fairly
strong winds at times.
Now we start Thursday off on a really chilly note
for western Scotland, Northern Ireland, that
some frost and fog here.
But elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind
and the rain and temperatures remaining between five
and nine degrees.
But a really thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday.
Our area of low pressure, as you can see here,
slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
Some heavy rain for eastern Scotland, northern England,
North Wales, eastern England, the strongest of the winds
along the North Sea R e e
Probably the best of any brighter weather after that
chilly start, Northern Ireland and across the south
and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere
particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night, the rain continues
to pile into eastern Scotland.
A few showers elsewhere into Northern Ireland,
some wet weather for northern England and North Wales,
probably the driest weather towards the south
of the country.
But because there’s more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, there won’t be quite as cold | think for many
- seven to nine degrees.
So for Friday there’s our area of low pressure again starting
to fill at this point in weaken, but it’s still going
to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half
of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating
across Angus Aberdeenshire risk NI |
HGLGIR TR
Something a little bit quiet | think for England generally.
Still a few showers around the best of the sunshine on Friday.
Again, parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, central
and southern England up to around 12 degrees there,
but distinctly chilly further R e R | e e a a0l
to be windy, especially for the Northern Isles.
Saturday, brief spell of quieter weather before the next
frontal system moves through during Saturday
night into Sunday, followed by sunshine
and blustery showers.
So it starts off fairly dry, | think for many on Saturday,
quite chilly, mind you.
And then wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday night
to Sunday, and that’ll be followed by sunshine
and showers.
ILIEREN ) e [ W s
President Biden has congratulated the Republican
Party after they secured control of the US House of
Representatives, following last week’'s midterm elections.
The Democrats still hold the Senate.
The Republican majority RGO R T
President Biden’s ability to push through his
CHIE BT ED
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky says he’s in no doubt
the missile strike that killed two people in Poland
on Tuesday was not caused by Ukrainian air defence.
Nato, Poland and the US believe the incident was most likely
caused by a Ukrainian air defence missile.
And Brazil’s President-elect, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva,
has told the COP27 summit in Eqypt that fighting
climate change will be his number one priority.
He said there would be no climate security for the world
without a protected IR
Now on BBC News, Click.
This week, fighting N d R A
Will Mastodon make A Tl TR AL Tk e
Not if Elon has anything to do with it, | would imagine.
What is the blueprint for a green workspace?
we’ll ask its creator, Niklas Zennstrom.
The man behind Skype? Indeed.
Ty T
And fancy a dance? VPR E Lo
Right, I’ll go on my own then.
At the club that is powered by body heat.
Well, bye, then.
We’re in the midst of an energy crisis.
And office buildings CICR a0
power-hungry beasts.
Plus, in the post-Covid world, ORI L AR G
actually using them.
LG IR GIRDEL TV Yy ]y buildings is they can have
energy efficiency built-in from the ground up.
Literally.
But how about all of those existing buildings, the ones
that are climate-controlled but not climate-minded?
We’ve come to Atomico House in London, an office building
which has been given a new greener lease of life.
This building has had R e a e
GG SRR et R s Ts
sustainably sourced, vintage or recycled.
The floors are made from recycled wood and clay plaster,
while no fossil fuels are used for the heading or hot water.
for the heating or hot water.
Even the food is friendly.
These guys are using as locally-sourced ingredients
as possible, they never cook N L RS A L
have leftover Fridays, which means they don’t need
to throw much away at WL AL e
and, for your information, it smells gorgeous!
VNPT G TR the building’s secrets
and meet the man behind it, who you may recognise,
ST {3 N R LR RO
VERY HIGH PITCHED WHIRRING SOUND.
Believe it or not, it’s a sound that can destroy cancer.
Human trials in the UK and US are currently assessing
Human trials in the US and RO R TIN
how safe and effective R N AR T
cancer but interestingly, researchers have now found that
histotripsy can, in some cases, kick-start an immune response,
which means the body can start fighting the disease
RICcEY 1B
Yasmin Morgan-Griffiths has been following one cancer
patient on his TSI
Peter is a Guinness World Record-holding skateboarder
but he had to retire from competing when he was
diagnosed with neuroendocrine cancer three years ago.
(el a R RV ] organs of the body,
including the liver.
IR GRS into a roller-coaster.
Just absolutely terrifying.
You don’t know how long you’ve got whatsoever.
Peter’s liver tumours are so small and widespread they can’t
be removed through surgery.
He had several rounds I RELIE RG]
and chemotherapy, but these took a heavy toll on him.
Fatigue, energy levels, really heavily hit.
| had my review and they basically said | was not
responding to the chemo.
But then, Peter was offered the chance to undergo
a new cancer treatment at St James’s Hospital
Histotripsy Is a type of focused ultrasocund
which destroys tissue inside the body,
completely noninvasively.
It’s much more precise than treatments which use heat
or radiation, meaning it can R e
which are small and widespread in vital organs like the liver.
US-based tech company Histosonics is running the most
advanced histotripsy trial to date.
There’s tiny, nanometre-sized micro bubbles that naturally
exist within tissue, and when we hit a focus point
with the ultrasound, it excites those bubbles
and those bubbles expand and collapse and they
mechanically destroy tissue.
Patients will awake NI R G e DG
and generally most times not G AGEIR G AT
The team is going to be using standard ultrasound
to identify where in Peter’s body the tumour is.
Then they will use this robotic arm to deliver a much stronger
therapeutic type of ultrasound to destroy it.
Histosonics’ technology TR R R A e
because tumours there are notoriously hard to treat
and survival rates are low.
The hope Is histotripsy R
patients like Peter better treatment options.
It sounded amazing, really.
At the time, my alternative was basically to go to a stronger,
heavier chemo, and | was hoping RO R R
This is quite an opportunity.
Leeds Teaching Hospital’s NHS Trust is one of 16 centres
in the US and Europe taking part in the global
Hope For Liver trial.
Its aim is to find out how safe IR e RO R A
Just 46 people worldwide have received the procedure
so far, including Peter.
VTR N R g TRt e
Professor Tze Min Wah is overseeing his treatment.
In the middle, next across, R TR R U L
That’s the focal point RGN i
VR R R sk
So, can you see bits of the tumour being
destroyed right now?
You can see the focal point is destroying
a tumour, and as you can see the bright area here.
Early studies have shown histotripsy can also kick-start
an immune response that enables the body to fight
I RIcEy i ]
This is what tumour o ICRNEE s e e 4
like before histotripsy.
The changing colour shows the immune system has been
stimulated to destroy e IR
The Hope for Liver trial is investigating how and why
histotripsy triggers this response and how reliably
it can be seen in humans.
Two out of eight patients in a small initial
S A E R G (e
That is, yeah, what I’m really hoping for is that you get
the immune response and it starts to clear up all
of the disease in the lLiver.
Cancer experts say N SR G
a significant breakthrough.
It would be potentially game-changing for a lot
of cancer patients.
DI L R L =D RN treatment, you don’t need
the toxic drugs that we may use in a standard chemotherapy,
so you could have an example where you use histotripsy
to stimulate the immune system and then you come
in with the immune-activating drugs, and they might be able
But there are some concerns.
It may release bits of cancer in the process of breaking
it up, and obviously, QR RO GR G
is If you release cancer cells around the body,
QL R TR I LR with the spread of the
cancer to other places.
I’ve not seen any evidence of that happening but it’s
something we, and I’m R R R
watch out carefully for.
It’s not clear if an immune responses been triggered
in Peter but a month after his procedure,
Professor Wah was able R RN
This is an MRI before treatment for Peter and this is the day
after and you can see this area is now totally treated
and the dark area represents cancer cell death.
Does that mean that we are looking at a good outcome
for Peter, potentially, at the moment?
Yes, early efficacy has proven to be very promising for him.
And we will need to follow him up long-term.
Histosonics is working LR B R
of its machine to sell to hospitals once they’ve
secured regulatory approval.
We’ve developed the platform to be adaptable to almost
any part of the body.
What we are doing in the liver might be the most challenging.
It’s deep, It moves and those FICR G Rl S
VR ETRTTCRG L T T TV R ) N RGN LR R IR
everything we do gets easier.
There are also early trials, separate from Histosonics’,
investigating whether histotripsy can work
on other parts of the body.
Peter’s cancer is now stable, but he still has other tumours
in his body and he is waiting to see whether histotripsy
stimulates an immune response before exploring
other treatment options.
| think no matter what the outcome on immune response is,
| think it’s going to be pretty dramatically life-changing
anyway, just for the LIRS R A ]
Knowing that that’s gone is a huge relief.
That was Yasmin, and now NI QIR R SR Y
in the news of recent weeks - Elon Musk’s purchase
His takeover hasn’t been without issues, shall we say?
From charging for verification to laying off half of
LR TV LTS of Twitter users are exploring
another little-known platform called Mastodon.
Our Technology Editor, Zoe Kleinman, gives us the lowdown.
It gets its name from a prehistoric elephant
..with a heavy metal band.
Yes, Mastodon, an alternative to Twitter, has exploded
in popularity lately.
The first thing you have to do when you sign up
AR
There are loads of them and they are themed
by things like country, city, interests, UK,
Glasgow, gaming and so on.
It does not matter which one you choose because you can see
RO LR G TR UEIE NS LTREES Eldh
community of people AU C AR
sharing the same sort of stuff that you’re
NGB Ul
By the way, you don’t tweet here, you toot.
One of the attractions of this platform is that
No one person or company owns Mastodon.
Servers all link up to form R el R e e e e
but they are all owned by individuals and
different organisations.
It means you can be at the whim SRR R e
and if that goes down, so does your account.
You can switch servers if you want to, but people
are saying it’s quite a faff.
There’s also the issue of moderation, because it
iIs not centrally run, Mastodon moderation differs
from server to server - NI N e e
have none.
It’s free to use but some R L R s e a8
because they do not get paid.
It’s what’s called open-source software, it’s a little bit
geeky, and has been developed by those who have IT knowledge
and you need a little bit of understanding of that
The servers are struggling to keep up with demand.
Mastodon has been around for about six years
but hundreds of thousands of people have flocked to it
since Elon Musk bought Twitter.
This is still a small TR R AL e s
300 million active users, but this small cpen-source
platform is rapidly TN CR
That was Zoe, and now, MR SR e
Tesla is recalling just over 40,000 cars in the US
because of a potential power steering problem.
Elon Musk’s electric car manufacturer says its power
steering assist system may fail NGOG R E Cl
hitting a pothole.
A former RAF pilot has started a business in which he scatters
the ashes of loved ones from a drone.
Christopher Mace, founder of Aerial Ashes, says
he was Inspired to start the venture after scattering
the remains of ex-service personnel at sea during his
The drone allows ashes to be scattered in uncommeon places.
We’ve scattered ashes NS A TS
where there was a connection there, we scattered ashes
on rivers, inland - which works particularly well
for the Hindu community.
AirBnB guests will soon be able R RO R IR
of their stay, including cleaning and service fees,
in a step towards better pricing transparency
on the platform.
CEO Brian Chesky said the change will come in December.
And finally, why watch a movie when you can attend a meeting?
US cinema chain AMC is teaming up with Zoom to launch
el [y B E L T [ which it’s calling Zoom Rooms.
The partnership with Zoom will roll out sometime in 2023.
I’ll bring the popcorn!
It’s a quiet day here at Atomico House, where Spencer
and | are exploring its green ot G e
On the surface, what is going on in this building can
seem pretty low-tech.
There are windows to open if you get hot, there
are lights that can be turned M R ke
actually sensors on them.
And in each room Is one of these dials.
The temperature is set R R RN
So you only turn it down or up if you really, really need to.
Plus there is something M NLE L
on with the walls.
In the meeting rooms, there is a phase change
material where they are exposed, and that will abserb
heat from the space into the material,
and then when it is not occupied it will dissipate that
heat back into the rcom.
Sensors all around the building are collecting masses of data
G R G SR T} collated into one place.
To make sure that the building is really doing the job
Creating graphs like on energy NI PO RO
explain a lot about the real world use, compared to that
of ten-year predictions that AR N L
But what really makes this set-up different?
A really good example is light, because people’s eyes work out,
we can work at a huge variety NG LS
and therefore when a light R I L R G L R
which uses much more energy, we don’t necessarily notice it.
It seems a bit brighter because our eye adjusts,
and actually you can turn, N ROV R G G T
to a much lower level, where you can still do
everything just as effectively, LR AU A U
more pleasant, but using significantly less energy.
This building’s evolution and ethos has been born out
Yeah, and this is probably a good time to meet the man
behind the building, and a whole lot more.
Niklas Zennstrom co-founded Skype, and Atomico is his tech
focused adventure capital firm.
And when he is looking for companies to invest in,
he is also interested in how they intend to affect
the planet.
The whole mission of Atomico is to support founders,
game-changing founders TR GR G LA R X
and replace legacy businesses with new ways of doing things.
And potentially build great businesses, and by doing that,
building sustainable businesses that are, for example,
replacing eating meat by lab-produced meat,
building electrical aeroplanes or indoor farming.
But we also, we are encouraging founders to do that.
LIV VR RN ) that we need to walk the talk,
and we need to lead by example, by looking after our
own house, literally.
You founded Skype, which is the type of technology
that’s now allowing people to work from home
@ i I IS
It might be tempting to think you would be
all for closing offices anyway?
We created Skype e TR A
that we were remote workers.
When we started, we had people in different places
and we wanted to be able to communicate.
But you know what, there is nothing that
beats coming together.
And as humans, we are not individualistic,
we are like crowd people.
I am very much for getting together, it doesn’t mean
you always have to be together, because | was just on a video
call with some of our colleagues because they are
working intensely on a project, RN R LRI
at home so | can go deep and focus on something.
| believe that you have a combination.
You are very passionate E N ARG
to compete with Silicon Valley.
How are we doing?
If you would ask the guestion, say five or seven or ten years
ago, you would have probably started with, why is it that
Europe is failing in tech?
LR AR doing really well.
Because there will be R R R a1
about the tech sector any more, because every company, when we
talk about sustainability, if you talk about companies
that are going to have a long duration, they need to be
tech-enabled companies.
And this is just about the global movement
of entrepreneurship which is happening everywhere,
and it is fantastic, it should not be one place
SLENN RGN G T 4 [T G IR C AR
You are an entrepreneur, you have met a load
of entrepreneurs, what makes a good entrepreneur?
That is a good question, and the hardest question to know.
The whole team, we are meeting a lot of entrepreneurs,
we always ask ourselves TR N YA
We don’t know, ask us in ten years.
You don’t know, it’s impossible.
But there are a few things - you have to have grit,
passion, perseverance.
And they need to be so passionate about their field,
that they want to disrupt or build, so that they really
inherently understand it.
And they need to be able to articulate their strategy
and they need to be a leader so they can get people
And they need to have R G
Because it’s not easy.
Thank you so much IR N
One more question for you, you’ve heard of solar power
and wind power and wave power, are you familiar with
the power of dance?
Not really.
OK, well strap in - because Shiona McCallum has
been to a nightclub in Glasgow which is trying to harness
the energy of body heat.
It’s no secret our world is heating up.
Each year, temperatures rise CIR R R R ]
and glaciers shrink.
So at a time of unprecedented climate change, what more can
be done to reduce our global carbon emissions?
You may have heard of wind, wave or solar power.
LI RN T =1L 0] the power of dance?
Well, that’s the aim of a venue here in Glasgow
who are putting the planet TR e
By converting people’s body heat into renewable energy,
they aim to drastically reduce their carbon footprint.
SWG3 is a huge warehouse which hosts major club nights.
The venue claims it is R ENEG R RO
a heating and cooling system RGN
aptly called BODYHEAT.
And I’ve managed to get exclusive access
I’ve been here as a customer for a couple of big gigs
and in that meeting it kind of just occurred to me
there was a lot of heat being generated in the spaces
when great music LI EVEGR
We can capture that heat and we can store it in the ground.
You and | just standing here right now are generating
about 150 watts of energy.
When you start dancing, ST AN Bl
like the Rolling Stones or something, you might be
generating, like, 250 watts.
And then if you have got like a big DJ, absolutely
slamming bass line making everyone jump up and down,
slamming basslines, making everyone jump up and down,
you could be generating 500-600 watts of energy.
Can you quantify that for me?
| don’t know that | kind of know what that means.
Your house might need a ten kilowatt system,
so that’s 10,000 watts.
So you and | would be generating about...
1% to 2% of the heat that is needed to heat
your whole house up.
But how exactly does the BODYHEAT system work?
The heat from the dancers is sucked up into vents
and rather than just LG T LRV AT
the atmosphere like a regular AC unit, it is transferred
into a specialised fluid and then pumped into a dozen
boreholes 200 metres under the venue’s community garden.
The sandstone and mudstone here absorb and retain
the heat, effectively acting like a thermal battery.
Then, when that energy is needed, weeks or even months
later, it can be transferred back through heat pumps
tc warm or cocl the venue.
We have attached temperature sensors to all of the borehole
loops, so we can see the individual temperature
of each loop and how that is varying, and that
all feeds back into the control system in the plant room,
50 we can see not just the total temperature
of the system but each individual loop and that allows
us to balance it for efficiency.
The BODYHEAT system is being turned on at a party,
and what better way than an event honouring
a dance that originated in Scotland, the slosh?
# Time goes by, so slowly...
And with every step, each person is their own generator
of renewable energy.
Which you can see, using this forward-looking
infrared camera.
HUNG UP BY MADONNA PLAYS.
But just how much heat RS O K
So I have a graph up here, this is what the control
system Is showing us, from the temperature
goeing into the borehole.
LR R TR TR T from the amount of people
dancing and the amount RN VRVIE TR T dlyTe
intec the boreholes.
Tonight, you can see there is a little spike here,
and that is 200 people doing the slosh for 30 minutes.
We managed to raise QR U ORI L
13 to 14.5 degrees.
LN R I IR G ARG R
but you get a thousand people in there, dancing for four
VSIS - N 08 you could generate about 800
kilowatt hours of thermal energy,
that’s a lot of energy.
In fact, David claims that is enough energy
to make 34,000 cups of tea, N N
So if the system Is so groundbreaking, then why
N R R e X
Heat in many ways is sort of forgotten energy source.
We were basically a petro-economy during the ‘80s
and ‘90s and early ‘00s, but as time goes on,
as we’ve seen, as those costs rise, geothermal becomes
ever more competitive.
As innovative as body heat is, though, it
s @ huge investment.
So how could the venue justifies installing a system
that costs over £600,0007
Any development has risk attached to it,
and when you are putting in a system which is the first
time ever, you are taking a bit of a leap of faith.
But someone has to be LRI A T
If we can make it work RN ROV
there’s no reason we can’t E R R RN
and other environments, and not just here in Scotland,
in the UK, across Europe and further afield.
The team here is clearly iR R G IR
technology, and the importance N LGRS
help the environment.
And clubbers have an extra reason to stay on the dance
floor all night long.
Call me ignorant, but I think the slosh looks a lot
like Lline dancing.
I think you’re going to get a lot of angry responses.
True.
From line-dancers and sloshers alike, no doubt.
Thanks for watching, LB TR
L CRVLEN G IR T pretty unsettled.
For the next couple of days, we’re going to see quite
a lot of rain in places, the risk of some
localized floeding, too.
And it’s all because of one area of low pressure, expected
to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even into
Saturday morning before it NENOE A F#{ RN
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about moving
a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back
northwards and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it S R RV NN
But it’s going to bring a lot of rain and fairly
strong winds at times.
Now we start Thursday off on a really chilly note
for western Scotland, Northern Ireland, that
some frost and fog here.
But elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind
and the rain and temperatures remaining between five
and nine degrees.
But a really thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday.
Our area of low pressure, as you can see here,
slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
Some heavy rain for eastern Scotland, northern England,
North Wales, eastern England, the strongest of the winds
along the North Sea R e e
Probably the best of any brighter weather after that
chilly start, Northern Ireland and across the south
and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere
particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night, the rain continues
to pile into eastern Scotland.
A few showers elsewhere into Northern Ireland,
some wet weather for northern England and North Wales,
probably the driest weather towards the south
of the country.
But because there’s more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, there won’t be quite as cold | think for many
seven to nine degrees.
So for Friday there’s our area of low pressure again starting
to fill at this point in weaker, but it’s still going and
weaken, but it’s still going
to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half
of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating
across Angus, Aberdeenshire, risk of localised flooding.
Something a little bit quiet, | think, for England generally.
The best of the LU R EA
Again, parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, central
and southern England up to around 12 degrees there,
but distinctly chilly further R e R | e e a a0l
to be windy, especially for the Northern Isles.
Saturday, brief spell of quieter weather before the next
frontal system moves through Saturday night into Sunday,
followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
So it starts off fairly dry, | think for many on Saturday,
quite chilly, mind you.
Then wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday
inte Sunday, followed WAL L R G
LI 1o - T top stories:
President Biden congratulates the Republicans as they secure
a majority in the US House S N
marking a return to divided government
Disagreement over the Poland missile strike
as Ukraine insists its air defence teams weren’t to blame.
As protests continue RN e N - s
sentences are handed down by the Revolutionary courts.
IR e s CInIca T
And to the moon and back - NASA’s most powerful
rocket launches a new era of space exploration.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
We begin in the United States, where the Republican party has
won the 218th seat needed to give them control of the US
House of Representatives, following last week’s
It marks a return to divided government in America,
with Democrats still retaining a slim majority in the Senate.
Earlier | spoke to our North America Correspondent,
Peter Bowes and | asked what a divided government
means for the next two years of US politics.
Well, this is, as you say, divided government
returning to Washington.
WL =T NN unusual situation.
Of course, historically it’s happened many times before.
But what it means is O R GGG TEh S
in charge in the House of Representatives, it
will certainly stymie Joe Biden’s intentions,
his political agenda over the next couple of years
LGB QRN in a position to block
any legislative R R A R
The Republicans will be in charge of the crucial
committees in the House of NN R
They can bring forward their own legislation
and possibly any inquiries, L AL LIS
against Joe Biden that they choose to pursue.
So it will be a difficult time in Washington.
We don’t expect a huge amount to get through to happen
in terms of new legislation.
But it is interesting that Joe Biden is reaching
out and this is typical of Mr Biden’s style.
He is reaching out to the Republicans, saying
that he would like to at least AR U
to work together.
There’s continued AR R e I
of a missile attack which led R RO R R N
on Polish territory.
President Zelensky insists Russia was behind the strike,
but NATO, Poland and the US R B R G S A A LS G
the incident was most likely caused by a Ukrainian
N e a3y
Katya Adler reports.
These have been nail-biting moments for Poland and its
allies, gathering evidence and intelligence about last
night’s missile strike close to Poland’'s border with Ukraine.
Yerevan lives nearby.
His family heard the explosion, he said,
and were really scared.
Nato was also nervous.
You’ll notice almost more emphasis today on who likely
wasn’t behind the strike than who probably was.
We have no indication that this was the result
of a deliberate attack, and we have no indication that
Russia is preparing offensive military actions against Nato.
To Western leaders, RN A
Poland’s president says it seems the explosion
was caused by Ukrainian air defence systems.
An unfortunate error, he said.
Moscow did pound Ukraine with missiles yesterday.
If it had struck or targeted neighbouring Nato member
Poland, as first suggested in Polish media, the whole
alliance could have been called on, meaning confrontation
with nuclear power Russia.
Nato really wants to avoid that, while still supporting
Ukraine’s military.
Nato leaders’ carefully crafted, measured response
today shows how much they fear Europe is on a knife edge.
They’ve had a sharp shock reminder of the ever-present
potential of Russia’s war to escalate and spread
beyond Ukraine’s borders.
Kyiv sometimes accuses allies of getting too used
to all those missiles raining i R R Rt
If that ever was the case, last night was a huge wake-up call.
But it’s also caused a rift with Kyiv, determined Russia
was behind the strike in Poland.
TRANSLATION: | have no doubt that this is not our
missile, not our strike.
| believe this is a Russian IR SR s R 0ld
military reports.
That’s a very rare public break T G IR G e
At a meeting of world leaders today, the Prime Minister
assured Ukraine support against Russia was unwavering,
and there were strong words from his Foreign Secretary.
The House should be in no doubt that the only reason
why missiles are flying through European skies
and exploding in European villages is because of Russia’s
barbaric invasicn of Ukraine.
As the investigation continues on the ground in Poland,
Nato says it’s boosting air defences across eastern
Europe as well as Ukraine, just in case.
Katya Adler, BBC News, Nato.
Well earlier | spoke to Brad Bowman who Senior Director
of the Center on Military IR Rl Ny e
at the Foundation for ST R AN e e
| asked what he made of NATO’s R RO UL
incident in Poeland.
In the initial hours there was a lot of heated
rhetoric and suggestions of how Washington and our allies
in Europe should respond.
I think the right move was to take a deep breath,
gather the facts and consult OISR
That is exactly what R s a1 A=t a e ]s
and its Nato allies did.
It is a good thing we did because as is often the case
in war, the first reports are not accurate.
If we had responded based on initial conjecture,
we could have made a big mistake with
far-reaching consequences.
For my part | would applaud the Biden administration and Nato.
This could have been a dramatic SN URLRGCRZ1S
and because cooler heads prevailed, the crisis has
NN e COR i A
This was a tragic incident, two innocent people killed
but arguably when you are R RO N e il
zone, things like this, runs the risk of happening,
do you think we will AN R R T
as this war continues?
I hope not, but | do worry that that might be the case.
Any course of action following Putin’s unprovoked
invasion of Ukraine has some risk associated.
The strategy the US and our European allies have pursued
since February the 24th R R E I A E R G
defend themselves against this unprovoked invasion,
WIS RV U T e [ T on the eastern flank
of the alliance and try to hold the alliance together
as best we can.
(RG] GF LTy GRS [T
We want to do everything we can to help Ukraine
LOICRNTIG G o e ey Bl between Russia and Nato.
Something we were able to do during the whole
length of the Cold War.
This was a moment of NN AR 4
Continue to arm Ukraine will incur some risks,
but the cost of not doing so will be greater.
Nato says Russia still bears the responsibility
because Ukraine wouldn’t be using its air defences if it
didn’t need to, is that a fair response from Poland?
We are looking at the largest invasion in Europe since
World War Il, and provoked by Putin, an illicit war.
Russia bears culpability for this war, the initiation
of war and the way they have conducted it as the G7
put out in a statement today, has been barbaric.
I don’t think it is a hyperbole to say that.
It was on Tuesday when roughly 90 missiles were raining down
on Ukraine, including R SR L BN A e
You can sit and criticise, but when you have 90 missiles
raining down on you, mistakes can happen.
(LR T (S
BT I R y[o
We regret the loss of life but
We regret the loss of Life but Y
We regret the loss of life but |
We regret the loss of life but we need to put
We regret the loss of life but LR R N El
We regret the loss of life but LR R N E N R G
We regret the loss of life but LR R N E R AL
we need to put blame where it i FL
we need to put blame where it ultimately resides and that is
ultimately resides and that is with
ultimately resides and that is RSN R
International health organisations are warning that
a cholera outbreak in Haiti is worsening, with a dramatic
increase in the number of people falling ill.
The head of the Pan American Health Organization said
officials had now confirmed over 700 cholera infections,
with more than 140 deaths A R R e R I
were detected in October.
It’s believed the true numbers could be much higher.
She added that half a million people are at risk
of contracting the disease.
Let’s go te Iran now, where the judiciary has handed
down four more death sentences RGN RO R
of being involved in anti-government protests.
Authorities in Iran are trying RN IR L R L L T &
sparked by the death of a young woman, Mahsa Amini,
while In custody of Iran’s morality policy.
So far, nearly sixteen thousand protesters have been
arrested, and more than 300 F TN LR Al LR
| got this update from our reporter, Azadeh Moshiri.
Five people so far have heen sentenced to death,
that they’ve been charged with enmity against God,
waging a war against God.
That’s the charge that the revolutionary courts
typically use when they want to have a charge that
could be prosecuted and lead to a death sentence.
Now, the courts have said it’s for things like one
of the protesters hitting and killing a police
MR GER
Another one was supposedly in possession of weapons.
Another one waged I R
But what their families have said through statements
and comments to BBC Persian is that these were essentially
sham trials, that these protesters didn’t actually have
access to any of their lawyers and therefore weren’t able
to mount a credible defense that their fate was
essentially sealed the moment that they were indicted.
And that’s not new from the revolutionary courts.
That’s something that typically happens to political prisoners.
Now, we also know that more R 010 10T sl Tanat-Ta 3
have been issued so far.
Some of those, dozens of them, N TR O e
And so it’s important to stress that this is just the beginning
of one of the most brutal and violent phases of
the Islamic Republic’s crackdown on protesters,
that more death e LR R et
LY RO EL e T et TR R
protests is not waning.
People are still putting their YR NE G NG s e
to challenge the system.
Meanwhile, news out SRR I En s e g
about Iran’s influence on British security,
Yes, there was a warning by the head of MI5, the British
intelligence service, that Iran is continuing
to silence its critics, but that that isn’t just
happening within Iran, that G E R AN DR R LI
It’s worth listening to what he had to say.
And this was during his annual address about the current
and most pressing security threats that are facing
the United Kingdom right now.
Iran projects threat to the UK directly through its aggressive
intelligence services.
At its sharpest this includes ambitions
to kidnap or even kill British or UK based individuals
perceived as enemies of the regime.
We’ve seen at least ten s B A RO
since January alone.
The Foreign Secretary made clear to the Iranian regime
just last week that the UK will not tolerate intimidation
or threats to life towards journalists or any individual
living in the UK.
So what he’s talking NG R I RIET
intelligence services have targeted British citizens,
as well as people in Britain through about ten kidnap
or murder plots.
And the way they’ve done this is they’ve
used their own spies.
Sometimes they’ve used TR R
They’ve even tried to lure people to Iran to then
target them there.
And that this isn’t just happening in the UK.
The head of MI5 also said that this has been happening
across Europe and it’s been happening for many years.
And of course, now it’s taking heightened importance
to the Islamic Republic IR IR YT T
to neutralise a threat RIS A SUR U TR L
they haven’t been RGN s =1L
CH VR G N o [ the back of the fact that UK
police told UK based Iranian journalists, especially ones
that are broadcasting like BBC Persian on its Farsi speaking
channels, that they have potential threats
China’s President, Xi Jinping, and Canada’s Prime
Minister, Justin Trudeau, exchanged tense words
on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Bali on Wednesday.
President Xi had been meeting several world leaders,
for the first time in person N GO E Ll
But a short follow-up conversation between Mr Trudeau
and Mr Xi was picked up RGN TR L W A
wasn’t entirely friendly.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come.
IR e s CInIca T
To the moon and back - a new era dawns as Nasa’s most
powerful rocket blasts off.
Benazir Bhutto has claimed victory in Pakistan’s general
election and she’s asked S S I
tc name her as Prime Minister.
Jacksen’s been released on balil of $3 million after turning
himself in to police in Santa Barbara.
It was the biggest NI R R ls
of the first growing European antinuclear movement.
The South African government has announced that it’s opening
QLRI R T T whites-only beaches
to people of all races.
This will lead to a black majority government in this
country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
Part of the centuries-old Windsor Castle, one
of the Queen’s residences, has been censumed by
fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has
caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines. ..
Presdient Biden has congratulated the Republicans
after they regained control RGN Y
of representatives.
It could limit the President’s ability to get his
legaslative programme through.
Families of the victims RGNS R e
in South Korea are demanding an official apology
from the country’s president.
More than 150 young people were killed in the crush,
and families want those in power to be held accountable.
Here’s our Seoul correspondent, Jean Mackenzie.
A woman sobs into the floor at the scene of the deadly crush.
This tragedy is more heartbreaking now it’s clear it
could’ve been prevented.
Mr Song is visiting his daughter’s ashes.
"Daddy’s here now," he says.
"l hope you’re doing well.”
24-year-old Unji was one of the last victims to be identified.
Doctors told her father R I LR R e
TRANSLATION: The most heartbreaking thing
s they anticipated that many people would gather that day,
but didn’t prepare for It.
Why?
Why did they not?
| just...
| should have taken e Nl N A
She was such a precious daughter for us.
Who do you want to take responsibility for your
daughter’'s death?
TRANSLATION: Someone high up needs to take responsibility
Thousands have taken to the street to demand
the president’s resignation.
Angry that no-one has taken responsibility.
..to the empty streets of [taewon. ..
The police cordon has finally been lifted, but the alley
s almost completely deserted.
Most of the bars and the restaurants are still closed,
and even the ones that are open C IR QGRS LA
It’s hard to see at this stage how these streets can
ever go back to the way they were before.
We haven’t really been here since Halloween.
Everyone that was lost, those were people that came
to our neighbourhood and people from our neighbourhood, so...
What are your biggest worries now going forward?
| fear being scapegoated for why there are problems.
This neighbourhood has a really special and unique place
within Korea, but it hasn’t always been supported.
Many of the protesters were angry with the president
here before ltaewon.
But if he fails to punish the right people, these
EHNT LT oL R LR TN N
Jean MacKenzie, BBC News, Seoul.
A new study has found that climate change severely
worsened the heavy rains that caused largescale flooding
across swathes of Nigeria RIS GIRTE TS
killing hundreds of people.
The floods were recorded YRR A )
countries’ history.
The report by World Weather Attribution says
extreme seasonal rainfall and the release of water
from dams caused the flooding.
They concluded the event was made eighty times more
likely by climate change.
Brazil’s President-elect has vowed to fight
Speaking at the COP27 summit in Eqypt, Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva said there would be no climate security for
the world if the Amazon T A o
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, reports
from the conference in Egypt.
# Ole, ole, ole, ola!
# Lula, Lula!
Lula received a hero’s welcome N G I AL G O
pLICHANER Ll was his message.
He said fighting climate change will be his number one priority
and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that
police the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
TRANSLATION: It’s time to act.
We have to stop this (O R RG]
What we need Is hope, hope combined with immediate
and decisive action for the future of the planet
and for humankind.
# Lula, Lula!
There is no question that Lula is the star of this conference,
but he faces real problems at home - Brazil’s finances
are in trouble, he doesn’t have control of the parliament
and there’s no doubt his rival, Jair Bolsonaro, will be
making trouble for him.
Under Bolsonaro, rates R A G RS I L2
He was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go
into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
Lula says his target is zero deforestation.
He promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police
the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
But his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
TRANSLATION: This won’t be an easy process.
There was a dismantling of all policies related
R R lar e el
But if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams,
I am confident we will be able TR
That change cannot come quickly enough, say
the indigenous communities who are on the front
TN RGN i e Y R e e
They are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers
and deforesting our forests.
The crowds surged around VA IR A e
ENCI AR
Lula says he’s urging the UN to allow Brazil to host
the 2025 UN climate conference, and he says he wants it to be
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Sharm LG T
Nasa’s Artemis rocket has finally launched,
marking the start of a new era, which it’s hoped will
eventually see humans return to the moon.
Technical hitches and two hurricanes prevented
previous launch attempts, DR RS G TRl
blasted off from Florida’s N A R
Our Science Editor, Rebecca Morrelle, was watching.
And here we go.
It was the moment they’d been waiting for.
Three, two, one...
After months of setbacks, Nasa’s most powerful rocket
was finally on its way - the start of humanity’s
return to the moon.
We rise together, back to the moon, and beyond!
It’s an incredibly complex machine.
It has so many components.
To get 8.8 million pounds of thrust off the ground
requires many systems that all have to work together
perfectly, and it did just that today.
No people are on board this time, but this test
flight will show if it’s R
The ultimate plan is to land the first woman and first
person of colour on the moon.
| wanted to be an astronaut from the time
| was five years old.
For anybody that has a dream E R RIS
if they see somebody that they can identify
with a little bit, it puts them into a totally different
perspective where they can say, well, "Wait a minute,
that person was just like me, and they did it,
so | cando it, too.”
LU RGN O N of Cornwall, the Goonhilly
Earth Station has an important role to play.
This huge dish is part NN e
around the world tracking the spacecraft, and the data
T N AR
It will help Nasa to work out exactly where the spacecraft
is and how fast it’s moving as it heads towards the moon.
AU IER G TR {13 signal sent back.
This doesn’t look like very much, | think, to most people,
but to communication engineers, G RERTN F Lo [N
What you would normally see is just a flat line of noise.
But we’re picking up the signal from space,
from the Artemis spacecraft.
With a last look back C IR Tl O GRS Ele e 1
now has a 26-day journey ahead.
This is just the beginning, the start of a million-mile
journey that’s being described as Apollo for a new generation.
Rebecca Morelle, BBC News.
ILF
That’s it for now. M
That’s it for now. Much more on )
That’s it for now. Much more on N
That’s it for now. Much more on the BBC News website.
You can reach me on Twitter - I’m @ RichPreston.
Hello there, the weather is looking pretty unsettled,
quite a lot of rain in places LRGN i
localised flooding.
It’s all because of an area of low pressure which is expected
to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even into
Saturday morning, before it NENOE A F#{ RN
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about,
moving eastwards and then pulling back northwards
and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it will weaken, but it will bring
a lot of rain and fairly strong L LR
We start Thursday on a chilly note for western Scotland,
Northern Ireland, and there’s frost and fog, but elsewhere
where we have the cloud, wind and rain, temperatures
between 5-9 degrees.
A thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday,
our area of low pressure, as you can see, pushing
Heavy rain, East England, strongest of the winds along
The best of any brighter weather is in Northern Ireland
but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night the rain continues to pile
into eastern Scotland and a few showers elsewhere
Wet weather for Northern England and North Wales.
Probably the driest weather towards the
south of the country.
Because there is more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, it won’t be quite as cold for many, 7-9 degrees.
For Friday there is our area of low pressure, starting
to weaken, but it will bring PRI R AR s e s 1gs
half of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating across Angus,
Aberdeenshire and the risk of localised flooding here.
RlTn GV T for England generally.
MG RG R T (E on Friday again.
Parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, Central
and southern England.
Up to 12 degrees, but chilly e e R o
will continue to be windy, especially for
N el A
That fizzles out on Saturday and a brief spell of quieter
weather before the next frontal system moves through
on Saturday night into Sunday, and followed by sunshine
and blustery showers.
It starts off fairly dry for many on Saturday
and quite chilly.
Wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday night
to Sunday and that will be followed by sunshine
and showers.
ILIEREN ) e [ W s
President Biden has congratulated the Republican
Party after they secured control of the US House of
Representatives, following last week’'s midterm elections.
The Democrats still hold the Senate.
The Republican majority RGO R T
President Biden’s ability to push through his
CHIE BT ED
I SE T NN (L[ Volodymyr Zelensky says
he’s in no doubt the missile strike that killed two people
in Poland on Tuesday was not caused by Ukrainian
air defence.
Nato, Poland and the US believe the incident was most likely
caused by a Ukrainian air defense missile.
And Brazil’s President-elect, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva,
has told the COP27 summit in Eqypt that fighting
climate change will be his number one priority.
He said there would be no climate security for the world
without a protected IR
Now on BBC News, HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk G LI R E O R
Next month, the ruling ANC in South Africa holds its five
yearly national conference, where President Cyril Ramaphosa
R I E CRl Cladl )] as leader of the party,
which puts him in a position R E e
But South Africa is currently in the midst of a severe
economic meltdown, with mass unemployment and crippling
power cuts and a political culture which many are warning
could bring the state to the point of collapse.
My guest is the South NP (RS G
Ronald Lamola, seen as one of the rising stars of
the ANC’s younger generation.
How does he account for the government’’s failure
to address the myriad challenges it faces?
Justice Minister Ronald Lamola in Pretoria,
People in South Africa are struggling.
Unemployment of at least 35%, nearly two thirds
for young people.
What’s happened to all those promises when the ANC
R R T T [ L T
You have let the country down, haven’t you?
There has been a breken promise.
And as you will have seen from the Zondo Commission’s
report, the hollowing out of institutions which
G RN =Dl is responding to, and we have
begun the process to rebuild R AL R GRS
National Prosecuting Authority, and we believe that we are
beginning to turn the corner because monies are being -
money is being recovered that has been stolen
from the fiscus, and also the institutions are
beginning to arrest G (G L G ST S
LR TG IR PR LTI gradually to be turning
LR G RL RGO are being restored, including
the SOEs, like Eskom, as you referred to the energy
crisis, the board, the new board, and the various
OGO RG] responsible in terms
of the energy crisis.
We believe that the great value we are rebuilding,
including the process that TR AL E IR
of the gas transition, and we are currently
participating in the COP27 where we are looking
at the transition that will be sustainable, that will be
responsive to reduce the carbon emissions,
but also continuing to use our natural endowment Llike coal
in @ manner that will help us to transition.
Appreciate that you’re trying to address your energy issues.
You say SOEs, the state owned enterprises,
which were mentioned, as you said, in the Zondo
Commission, that’s Chief Justice Raymond Zondo,
in June, when he concluded the judicial inquiry into state
capture in South Africa, when...and, of course,
by state capture we mean under former President Jacob Zuma
when businesses and politicians redirected public resources
into their own pockets.
You’re talking about all that.
But that’s a tired old excuse, isn’t it,
You are part of an administration that’s been
In power since 2019.
You could be doing more to tackle all these challenges.
It Is not a tired old excuse, because since we started
the administration, the sixth administration, as | have said,
we have started to reboot those RGO R TR
(G TR G QL T Y that was stolen is brought back
and the NPA in South Africa, we started to rebuild them,
including to help them to appoint competent
and experienced prosecutors, including to get from
the private practitioners, to help the National
Prosecuting Authority to be able to handle the complex
matters - and, as we speak, they are beginning to claw back
the money and other resources, including to hold
people accountable.
OK, let me - can | just interrupt you there?
Sorry, but | just want to pick up again on something that
Chief Justice Raymond Zondo said in his findings.
QR IR G government, should be
ashamed that this happened R G IR El R
and since Jacob Zuma’s resignation in February 2018,
the ANC have done little to tackle corruption
within the party ranks.
LG R R AT LN just blame it all on the
previous administration.
Zondo says you’ve not done much to get your acts together
to tackle corruption.
Yeah, hence we say it is not correct, because if you look
inte the institute today, it is beginning to account,
even in the previous R R L R LR L
LU EIECE LT Rl Te 31 in the ANC, where those that
are accused or who have been mentioned in the Zondo
Commission of inquiry have stepped aside.
Some of them that were arrested have stepped aside into
positions of responsibility.
As we speak now, the ANC does not have a Secretary General
precisely because of this issue.
So it is a sign that the ANC has been acting amongst
its members who were mentioned in that process, even those
that have been mentioned (AR R )
So the ANC is accountable to the people of this country
on some of these Issues, but the ANC also continues
RN CR G I G government to account,
including the current administration, where
the boards of the various state R A e e ]
being rebooted to be able to be fit for purpose,
to respond to the energy crisis, to respond to
the crippling challenges, of logistical challenges
at the Transnet, and also to the various roles
which the state owned enterprises are aimed for.
You mentioned Transnet there, that’s the large
South African rail, port and pipeline company.
But, you know, people are really struggling,
Justice Minister, ML Y s R
| mean, you know, after 28 years of ANC rule, you’ve got
people living in shacks still waiting for the promised
government housing.
We’ve talked about the power challenges.
People talking about the millions of dollars meant
to help fight Covid-19 were found to have been
misappropriated to the point that former President Thabo
Mbeki has said, you can’t have so many people unemployed,
S0 many poor people.
One day, It’s going to explode.
He’s predicting a kind of Arab Spring revolution in
South Africa if the government R SR IR G 1
He’s right, isn’t he? The clock is ticking for you.
The challenges SRS
it’s a global challenge.
Even in the Great Britain, across the globe, people
are struggling, including in the US, because of
the Covid-19 that has crippled economies across the globe.
It is a function that all of us are responding
to, and as you speak YR R e e R ]
were stolen during the Covid-19 period, most of the people that
were responsible for that have been held to account.
The monies have been clawed back through institutions
like the special investigating unit, and we are building
to ensure that there is an economic recovery plan
to take us back to the Covid-19 period, which is what
the current administration is responding to, and that
will also obviously need a compact between government
and the private sector so that we are able to respond
to the declining economy or lack of economic growth,
including to the challenge of unemployment, which affected
mostly young people, IR I R R R R El
if we are able to find that compact between us
and the private sector and society as a whole,
we will be able to respond to ensure economic growth
and to the challenge of unemployment.
OK, Justice Minister Lamola, AR VT AL
the Government’’s got the will to address all these
challenges, I put it to you, as Sanusha Naidu, an analyst
at the Institute for Global Dialogue, says,
how can you actually do R G 0
when, she says, so many of the state’s organs
are financially and systematically broken?
So, even if you had the will, TR R E IR G R O CR
The tools, as | have said, are being rebuilt as we speak, now.
The national prosecuting authority in the country,
responsible for prosecuting and dealing with some of these
challenges that you have raised, is being rebuilt.
We have been able to appoint E[ R G [ R e M 1
in a period of three years, which will enable them
to function, and we do believe that because of that rebuilding
of some of the institutions, like SARS, that has now
collected more than it had expected, it is a sign
that it is being rebooted and it is being now well
oiled for people.
So there is work to rebuild the institutions and you can
see some green shoots in that regard.
You mentioned the South African - SARS, which is the South
African Revenue Service, but | want to repeat
to you the point that Thabo Mbeki said, which,
he said, one day this X RLRCES LR
He’s saying you don’t U RGN R G
People are hungry now. I ESACI WL RLE G
They don’t have the power cuts, there are interruptions
to the water supply.
This is all going to take time, and they want
RN G A
But if there Is a compact between government
and the private sector, I R G E L
will have hope that we are (I WL RGN N
because they will see in action R T AT T R
They will see jobs being created.
They will also see those that TR R R R i T
being held accountable.
They will also participate in the project to rebuild our
democracy, and | do believe L PR i R )
to time, the people have an opportunity in South Africa
to participate in elections, which they have just done,
for the local government elections - also, in 2024,
soon, they will also participate in
an election process.
Our democracy enables them to participate.
It is not the same conditions in the Arab Spring,
as you said, where they did not have a period of regular
democracy to participate and to express a view in terms
of the country’s direction.
So | do believe that the people in this country,
as they participate and also play a role in legislative
frameworks and also in policy LA IR R el
to the challenges that they are feeling.
They will be able to continue to shape the country’s
democracy, not in a manner that they may be destructive,
but in a manner that is constructive and developmental.
You mentioned the municipal local elections last year.
The ANC won less than half N BRG R R R il
time, with South Africans naming corruption
as their top concern.
IR TG T faith in the ANC.
Yes, but we remain a leading party and we have demonstrated
to the people that we are rebuilding that trust
through ensuring that whoever IR NG R R et}
s held to account and institutions are able to stand
on their own without any interference from politicians
or from bureaucracy.
L AL GO T the judiciary, the rule of law
remains our standing beacon G R IR G R )
of this country.
LGl
So that whoever is involved RO RO E
local government, whether it’s the national government
or state-owned entities, will be held to account.
LGl
And could the president be held to account?
Because, as you know, he’s embroiled in a controversy
right now involving a theft of about four million USD
from his cattle farm in the north of the country.
The opposition, and even some within the ANC,
questioned whether he violated foreign exchange or tax rules.
The president denies any O LR Al
and he says the stolen money, QAU IS AU R E LG
for him, was the proceeds of an animal sale that he made.
The South African ombudsman that investigates allegations
on public misconduct is looking into this case.
So we’re all awaiting to see what happens there.
However, this doesn’t look good for you, does it?
LRI IR AL L
democratic person.
He has subjected himself to the institutions that are
appointed to investigate him.
He Is cooperating with them.
All the institutions TR R R e lee a1
agency, the, the public protector, as we have said,
including the processes of parliament, and the president
said he will cooperate with them wholeheartedly and fully.
And he knows that the institutions must be able
UL R R ] ] of the country is the one
that reigns supreme.
SR EVR GGV R G EL IR G R R Rt
LGl
We’ll see what happens in that particular case.
You’re..
The ANC, since it came to power 28 years ago, and including
G L TS (T BT which you serve, has
also been trying to deal with the longstanding issue
of land ownership.
According to President Ramaphosa, about 72%
of South Africa’s privately owned land is in the hands
of members of the white population, who account
for between 8-10% of people in South Africa.
And the black population, L FL O RO R A e
own a very small percentage of that land.
A bill to address this failed in Parliament last year.
So what is the main option now to really tackle this
long-standing injustice?
Yes, the bill could not go through because, as the ANC,
ULV I T IR AEL N
where the state owns the land for its own use,
individual saving, private ownership and touristic people,
and also communal land, where we need to provide
a security of tenure.
We have an option.
We are currently having an expropriation bill,
that is before Parliament and that expropriation
bill is now being passed by the National Assembly
awaiting concurrence by the National Council
of Provinces in Parliament.
Once it goes through I R A BN
(O[O QTR G for his accepting.
We also have the Land Court Bill, which is aimed to fast
track the disputes that are before the Land Court
now and also to make the Land Court permanent.
It will alse develop jurisprudence.
I AT e T a1 L which also have been passed
by the National Assembly, is now in the NCOP,
which immediately after being (R RGN
the National Assembly, it will have to be accepted
to by the, by the president.
The current sixth administration is, also,
in the process of distributing about 700,000 hectares of land
to respond to this challenge.
We remain committed R ER T
We will also obviously have to accelerate some
of the various pieces of legislation aimed
OK, thank you.
You’ve set that up very clearly for us.
You mentioned the NCOP, which of course, is
the National Council R SR L R
the upper house of the Seuth X LR i
Another big challenge which is often associated
with South Africa is the issue of crime.
We’ve seen the murder rate go up by 40% since 2010.
We’ve seen kidnappings for ransom quadruple.
We’ve seen the theft A eI et te N
as copper and power cables, resulting in billions
of dollars in damage.
Gold and platinum are illegally mined or stolen
and sold illicitly.
This is a dismal state of affairs for you as
Minister of Justice.
So, in a nutshell, what are you doing to tackle all this?
Yes, there is work happening with the NPA
and the South African police where there is a unit dedicated
to respond to the issue of theft of copper cables.
As you look now, there have TR R AT N N TR
EVER T IR L YT by our courts to various
criminals who played their role in cable theft.
Some of them have been sentenced to more than 15
years, some ten years.
So it has been a range of heavy AN R Rt
There is also a dedicated focus on the, on the issue
of the mining towns challenges.
And there’s been lots N R RN N Y
Oh, yeah.
Some of the criminals have already been convicted.
So there Is work in progress RO PR R R S
T N R o[ et ig- ]
But, yeah, you do YRR
Sorry to interrupt you here, AR & A RG]
of this, can you, Minister?
A report this year by a Geneva based NGO, the GITOC,
that’s the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organised
Crime, says all of the things | was talking about "are signs
that the state is struggling ReIN IR I R 48
"In three decades, organised crime has spread
across South Africa and forged links across the world”.
Yes, hence we are putting a focus on this form
of organised crime, and as | have said, some have
already been convicted.
It is important that we get the planners, the plotters,
QRN EEL TR G TR G L people that are the ones
who are making the chain of organised crime to work.
And that is where the focus RS R G R R a e
And then, with time, you will be able to see that happening.
And there has been soon, (A R
of this kind of crime syndicate...
0 we’ll be looking at that.
And you said you’re working... R HGEE R e
Sorry to cut across you then.
You said you were working with the NPA, which is, of course,
the National Prosecution Authority.
But let’s just look at the general kind of picture
for the ANC and its prospects.
The respected South African commentator William Gumede says
"There is a psychological acceptance within South Africa
GEI AR GLEL LR R G LR e RN R O E Ly
And he predicts that the ANC will lose its majority
nationally in the 2024 election.
LR R NI K isn’t it, that after nearly
three decades in power, SNGY S (iR L LR
as a kind of one-party state and people no longer trust
you to get things done?
South Africa has always been a multi-party democracy
You will remember he ran the country with the former
President de Klerk in a multi-party democracy.
So there has always been opposition parties.
They’ve always played a role in our country.
And we deliberately allowed a proportional
representation system to enhance in the flourishing
of various political parties and, and views in our country.
The ANC has been, obviously, a dominant organisation,
a leading party in that regard and we do believe, as the ANC,
that we were able to reconnect with the trust of the people,
ensuring that those that were involved in the,
in the theft of, of monies or siphoning of monies in these
fiscus are accountable.
If we ensure that all the institutions
of our democracy work, QR IR TGRS
the challenges of unemployment, lack of economic growth.
We will reconnect with the people of South Africa
and the ANC will continue to be the governing party.
OK, you talk about the multiparty democracy
system In South Africa.
| mean, could the ANC conceivably go a bit further?
Because, you know, there is the thought that there comes
a time when a party that’s been in office a long time
could benefit from not holding power exclusively.
And | tell you, a survey by the Social Research Foundation
in April this year showed that many potential voters
in Seuth Africa favour the idea of the party governing
in coalition with other parties.
Is that something that you think, an idea that could fly?
As I’ve said, the ANC has always accommodated
But an actual coalition government is the thought here.
There’s a coalition government, as | was concluding on that
point, we have always governed with them, with
R FLLET o F g a1
From time to time, you will find the leader
of the IFP at some stage.
Mr Buthelezi also played a role in government,
but the ANC believes that they must be a leading
party, which is the governing party, which is always the ANC.
In the metros in our country, like the city of Johannesburg,
the commercial hub, which is the capital city,
Nelson Mandela metro, I A R G R L Gy
goevernment are not yet the way in our country.
Our democracy has not yet matured to the level
where coalition governments can be one that is working.
It will be worse at the national level where you can
just have a situation almost like a yo-yo government.
So we are of the view that we must continue
to have a leading party, which is the ANC, to constitute
government so that there is a stable democracy and also
L CRETG R CUENGE economic growth.
You mentioned Buthelezi there.
QTR G $3 Mangosuthu Buthelezi
of the Inkatha Freedom Party.
Finally and briefly, Ronald Lamola, Justice Minister
in South Africa, you want to be elected Cyril Ramaphosa’s
deputy next month at the ANC party meeting, and that
would put you in pole position to run for president in 2029.
Do you believe you have N R R
Yes, | do.
Um, | am a person who grew up in a farm, in this country,
who, as a child of farm workers, who also went
on to acquire higher education from such an underprivileged
background, who also practised law, who believes
in the constitution of the country.
| have also been privileged now to be the Minister of Justice,
who has been responsible for the resetting of state
institutions, aimed to support our constitutional democracy,
like the NPA, which are now able to function free,
without any fear or favour or prejudice or interference
from anyone, whom we have given support in terms of resources
T W D LTl e TeE ][ and competent people
to work in regards to crime and corruption, and
also to provide them the necessary resources.
N[N gLV R () the development or the
continuous development of our constitutional
[l e=n’R
Ronald Lamola, Justice Minister in South Africa, thank you very
much indeed for coming MBI R RS e
L CRVLEN G IR T pretty unsettled.
For the next couple of days, we’re going to see quite
a lot of rain in places, the risk of some
localized floeding, too.
And it’s all because of one area of low pressure, expected
to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even into
Saturday morning before it NENOE A F#{ RN
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about, moving
a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back
northwards and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it S R RV NN
But it’s going to bring a lot of rain and fairly
strong winds at times.
Now we start Thursday off on a really chilly note
for western Scotland, Northern Ireland, that
Northern Ireland,
some frost and fog here.
But elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind
and the rain, temperatures remaining between five
and nine degrees.
But a really thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday.
Our area of low pressure, as you can see here,
slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
Some heavy rain for eastern Scotland, northern England,
North Wales, eastern England, the strongest of the winds
along the North Sea R e e
Probably the best of any brighter weather after that
chilly start, Northern Ireland and across the south
and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere
particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night, the rain continues
to pile into eastern Scotland.
A few showers elsewhere into Northern Ireland,
some wet weather for northern England and North Wales,
probably the driest weather towards the south
of the country.
But because there’s more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, it won’t be quite as cold | think for many
of the UK, it won’t be quite as cold I think for many,
seven to nine degrees.
So for Friday there’s our area of low pressure again starting
to fill at this point and weaken, but it’s still going
to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half
of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating
across Angus, Aberdeenshire, risk of localised flooding.
Something a little bit quiet, | think, for England generally.
The best of the LU R EA
Again, parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, central
and southern England up to around 12 degrees there,
but distinctly chilly further R e R | e e a a0l
to be windy, especially for the Northern Isles.
Saturday, brief spell of quieter weather before the next
frontal system moves through Saturday night into Sunday,
followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
So it starts off fairly dry, | think for many on Saturday,
quite chilly, mind you.
Then wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday
inte Sunday, followed WAL L R G
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
All eyes on Jeremy Hunt as he delivers the much
awaited Autumn Statement - higher taxes are expected in a
bid to tame soaring inflation.
Several US Senators side with Democrats to support same
sex marriage legislation.
Anger builds in South Korean as no-one is held
responsible for the deadly Halloween crush.
N AUYL ) LR LK
Rare pieces of furniture that once belonged to Marie
Antionette go under the hammer.
The British Chancellor, Jeremy Hunt will set
out his spending plans in his Autumn Statement later,
and is widely expected to announce an increase
to benefits, tax credits, and state pensions.
All households will receive R G R G R RN
SJICR Y ol Yoo By but at a less generous level,
and that cash will reportedly come from significant tax
increases for the most wealthy.
Our Business Correspondent Caroline Davies has
The new Chancellor,
IR A El (o= G i g [
The new Chancellor, the fourth this
The new Chancellor, the fourth GIREL
The new Chancellor, the fourth IR
The new Chancellor, the fourth this year and the new Autumn
this year and the new Autumn Statement. With inflation at
Statement. With inflation at its
Statement. With inflation at 1L
Statement. With inflation at its highest in 41 years and
its highest in 41 years and warnings about
its highest in 41 years and EIGIMGIRE T &1
its highest in 41 years and EIGIMGIEL T & GRS
its highest in 41 years and warnings about the UK facing
warnings about the UK facing )
warnings about the UK facing the longest recession since
the longest recession since records began, mistakes are
records began, mistakes are LR
records began, mistakes are W[N]
records began, mistakes are high. And around the UK people
high. And around the UK people PIe Y
high. And around the UK people IRV
high. And around the UK people EICE LAY |
high. And around the UK people EICEWCE LA
high. And around the UK people are already feeling it. What
are already feeling it. What you
are already feeling it. What RG]
are already feeling it. What you could buy for £2 is now
you could buy for £2 is now 2 50. You
you could buy for £2 is now 2.50. You worry it will impact
2.50. You worry it will impact immediately, clothing, heating
immediately, clothing, heating )
immediately, clothing, heating i
immediately, clothing, heating )
immediately, clothing, heating the house. Me and my partner
the house. Me and my partner have
the house. Me and my partner R0
the house. Me and my partner have said no presents for each
have said no presents for each G
have said no presents for each other. We have never not bought
other. We have never not bought Y To)
other. We have never not bought e R e e
other. We have never not bought each other a
other. We have never not bought e B 0 R e a1 E Y
other. We have never not bought each other a Christmas present
each other a Christmas present and
each other a Christmas present IR I
each other a Christmas present and this year we can’t afford
and this year we can’t afford il
and this year we can’t afford to. So
and this year we can’t afford R s
and this year we can’t afford to. So what do we think the
to. So what do we think the Wi Ea eI e
to. So what do we think the Chancellor plans to do? Firstly
Chancellor plans to do? Firstly Y
Chancellor plans to do? Firstly Ty
Chancellor plans to do? Firstly he is expected to raise state
he is expected to raise state TIE N
he is expected to raise state pensions, benefits and tax
pensions, benefits and tax el
pensions, benefits and tax credits in
pensions, benefits and tax SR Yl
pensions, benefits and tax S RO 1N 5
pensions, benefits and tax S RO T RS Sl
credits in April by September’s inflation
credits in April by September’s T iE R - Rl 4
credits in April by September’s T iE R IR R A
credits in April by September’s inflation rate. That was 10.1%_
inflation rate. That was 10.1%. il
inflation rate. That was 10.1%. LR TG
inflation rate. That was 10.1%. On energy, there
inflation rate. That was 10.1%. LY AR YR
inflation rate. That was 10.1%. On energy, there will be a
On energy, there will be a Jele)
On energy, there will be a price cap
On energy, there will be a alCE e R0
On energy, there will be a R Rl
On energy, there will be a R R R Al
On energy, there will be a price cap but it will rise, so
price cap but it will rise, so )
price cap but it will rise, so the typical household full pay
the typical household full pay just
the typical household full pay TGS
the typical household full pay just over £3000 a year.
Just over £3000 a year. Currently,
just over £3000 a year. (O (ARG
just over £3000 a year. (O ARG
TN R0V R Currently, they are paying
Currently, they are paying around £2500_
Currently, they are paying around £2500. Not everyone
around £2500. Not everyone lives in a
around £2500. Not everyone AL
around £2500. Not everyone lives in a typical household
lives in a typical household and
lives in a typical household R )
lives in a typical household and the cap
lives in a typical household EHLRG RS RS
lives in a typical household and the cap is on unit
lives in a typical househeld RO R R LIS LG
and the cap is on unit rates, e
and the cap is on unit rates, (I YT
and the cap is on unit rates, (T ST
and the cap is on unit rates, LR T (R 1T
and the cap is on unit rates, not your bills which means how
not your bills which means how St 1ile1]
not your bills which means how DR
not your bills which means how U R TE )
not your bills which means how much you pay will depend on how
much you pay will depend on how St 1ile1]
much you pay will depend on how ULV
much you pay will depend on how much energy you actually use.
much energy you actually use. I
much energy you actually use. RO
much energy you actually use. And they will likely be
much energy you actually use. LRGSR A R P
And they will likely be tax e
And they will likely be tax I
And they will likely be tax rises. Energy companies are
rises. Energy companies are expected to be hit by an
expected to be hit by an expanded windfall tax. The
expanded windfall tax. The LFE s
expanded windfall tax. The Treasury are
expanded windfall tax. The I RIS A e
expanded windfall tax. The Treasury are expected to say
Treasury are expected to say )
Treasury are expected to say I
Treasury are expected to say LR 0]
Treasury are expected to say M RN
Treasury are expected to say M RO Nt )
there needs to be cuts to spending plans but those will
spending plans but those will )
spending plans but those will R T 0]
spending plans but those will R L
spending plans but those will be pushed back until after
spending plans but those will (R TR E L R
be pushed back until after the EEE
be pushed back until after the I e R
be pushed back until after the G Cla i Wil
be pushed back until after the general election. After Liz
general election. After Liz IS Ta s |
general election. After Liz Truss and Kwasi
general election. After Liz SN R UL RS
general election. After Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng’s mini
Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng’s mini LG
Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng’s mini LOLLE L
Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng’s mini Budget and the turmoil in the
Budget and the turmoil in the NEIL
Budget and the turmolil in the markets, the Treasury feels
markets, the Treasury feels sl d
markets, the Treasury feels AT
markets, the Treasury feels under pressure to show it can
under pressure to show it can win
under pressure to show it can IRV ll 18
under pressure to show it can LRGN G e
under pressure to show it can win credibility back, while
win credibility back, while aYihl]
win credibility back, while R
win credibility back, while R T R G 1)
win credibility back, while RN G LRSI 1y
trying to reassure the country as
trying to reassure the country YRy
trying to reassure the country as the economy struggles.
as the economy struggles. 1 Y
as the economy struggles. Caroline Davies, BBC News.
Caroline Davies, BBC News. )
Caroline Davies, BBC News. There is a lot of nerves
Caroline Davies, BBC News. I R R A e [o e 00
There is a lot of nerves about this Autumn Statement and what
this Autumn Statement and what 3
this Autumn Statement and what -
this Autumn Statement and what R e
this Autumn Statement and what TR
this Autumn Statement and what Rt ]
't means for homes and L
't means for homes and LR
't means for homes and businesses. | will be
it means for homes and businesses. | will be talking
businesses. | will be talking to
businesses. | will be talking ]
businesses. | will be talking to a market analyst and the
to a market analyst and the Institute of directors about
Institute of directors about vty
Institute of directors about IET R (Y
Institute of directors about O ET S (G TATET
Institute of directors about what they want from this Autumn
what they want from this Autumn Statement.
what they want from this Autumn N il
what they want from this Autumn N RS
what they want from this Autumn N A RS R
what they want from this Autumn S A RS R F ]
what they want from this Autumn N A USRI E e N o)
Statement. All of that to come o
Statement. All of that to come later in
Statement. All of that to come B anE G
Statement. All of that to come later in the programme. Now to
later in the programme. Now to )
later in the programme. Now to NI
After a week of ballot-counting in the US
midterm elections, President Biden has
congratulated the man likely to be named the new Speaker
of the House of Representatives - Kevin McCarthy.
It comes after Republicans secured a slim majority
in the House, while Democrats held the Senate.
The return to divided US politics came just moments
after 12 Republicans sided T GRGCIN ai e e Rl
that would ensure country-wide recognition
of same sex marriage.
Here’s our North America correspondent, Peter Bowes.
Scenes of jubilation NG RIS
Supreme Court seven years ago when same sex marriage rights
were affirmed natichwide.
The court’s decision reflected rapidly changing public
opinion, which persists today T B R Ae s i
Americans, including a majority of Republicans,
supporting same sex unions.
But ever since the Supreme Court’s decision this year
to deny women in this country their constitutional
right to have an abortion, N N T R IR i
similar action could be taken R R G ik
decision on gay marriage.
This bill in the Senate could stymie any future
intentions of the conservative leaning court.
And it’s been made possible through the kind of cross-party
cooperation that Joe Biden will be hoping continues next
year, If he’s to advance his political agenda.
Republican senators have voted ORGP e R L e
to head off what many see as a possible attempt
by the court to further overturn the individual
freedoms of Americans following the Supreme Court’s
decision to overturn Roe versus Wade.
Women felt their health and well-being was dangered,
and our own abilities to make critical decisions about our
futures were suddenly thrown into question.
This fear trickled into other communities, including
the LGBTQ community.
On this vote, the yays are 62, the nays are 37.
Negotiations on a bill have been going on for months now.
The Senate has voted to move forward with legislation
to protect same sex unions.
All 50 Democrats and 12 Republicans voted to consider
the Respect for Marriage Act, Y R IR e e L
in the final days of QRN A C D[]
which is controlled by the Democrats.
Passing this bill is as personal as it gets
for many of us in this chamber.
Myself, Madam President, included my daughter
RS
my daughter in law are expecting a baby next spring,
and | want to do everything possible to make sure
their rights are protected hela s aE A
| want them and everyone in a loving relationship
to live without the fear that their rights could one
day be stripped away.
RS 1T Ly | [ 2T Ly welcomed the Senate decision.
He said, love Is love and Americans should
have the right to marry the person they love.
Today’s bipartisan vote brings the United States one step
closer to protecting that right in law.
The president has also congratulated his Republican
opponents on their success in the House of
Representatives, and he said he wanted to continue working
together to get things done for the American people.
] 11T BBC News.
A verdict is expected later in the murder trial
of four suspects charged in connection with
the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH-17.
All 298 people on board Wt a A
in the incident in 2014.
Anna Holligan reports.
On July 17th, 2014, 298 people boarded
Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 at Amsterdam’s
Schiphel Airport, bound for Kuala Lumpur.
Bbut they would never reach their destination.
The plane was shot out of the sky by a surface
wEIauIEAIG
It’s mass murder.
298 people were murdered.
Eight years on, today will bring a verdict
IR U LR EINTNER -]l T T s M
The justice we’re now witnessing here has been
a long time in the making.
Two separate inquiries were launched, one focusing
on what caused the plane to break up in midair.
The other, on who was criminally responsible.
Relatives at the epicentre of this disaster placed their
faith in the quest for justice.
Celina Fredericks, son Bryce and his girlfriend Daisy
were on board Flight MH-17.
We will never get our children back, we know that, some
people sometimes tell us.
R EICR VR U (ol 1dl s for this, for this case?"
We need the truth and we need justice.
A 3D reconstruction of the returned wreckage formed
part of the evidence that helped investigators
to identify the exact warhead that perforated the plane
and found it was fired ORI AU R L
the time held by Russian backed separatists forces.
Via intercepted telephone calls, witnesses, photos
and social media posts, they were able to point
QLRI 1T Russians and one Ukrainian.
The most prominent suspect is Igor Girkin, who prosecutors
say, Is a former colonel in Russia’s FSB
intelligence service.
Eliot Higgins, pioneering open source investigative work,
assisted the prosecution.
Anyone who would claim that Russia wasn’t involved
with this shootdown is really a ridiculous person.
Russia has always denied supplying the missile,
but many of the families think UL R R A
taken a tougher stance in response to MH-17,
the current conflict in Ukraine could have been prevented.
Putin has never been stopped.
He’s capable of everything, R O R i F o A
| hope the world wakes up now.
The four fugitives refused to face the judges and
S ARG -4
But the evidence presented during their trial has helped
the families to find the truth.
Among them, Elsa Meek’s father, Hans De Borst,
who cherishes his only child’s documents recovered intact
from the crash site.
It is extremely important to me, that feeling of justice
to be done gives a good feeling and gives, | hope, gives some
peace about this subject.
Anna Holligan, BBC News, Schiphol.
Families of the victims RGNS R e
in South Korea are demanding an official apology
from the country’s president.
More than 150 young people were killed in the crush,
and families want those in power to be held accountable.
Here’s our Seoul correspondent, Jean Mackenzie.
A woman sobs into the floor at the scene of the deadly crush.
This tragedy is more heartbreaking now it’s clear it
could’ve been prevented.
Mr Song is visiting his daughter’s ashes.
"Daddy’s here now," he says.
"l hope you’re doing well.”
24-year-old Unji was one of the last victims to be identified.
Doctors told her father R I LR R e
TRANSLATION: The most heartbreaking thing
s they anticipated that many people would gather that day,
but didn’t prepare for It.
why? why did they not?
| just...
| should have taken e Nl N A
She was such a precious daughter for us.
Who do you want to take responsibility for your
daughter’'s death?
TRANSLATION: Someone high up needs to take responsibility
Thousands have taken to the street to demand
the president’s resignation.
Angry that no-one has taken responsibility.
..to the empty streets of [taewon. ..
The police cordon has finally been lifted, but the alley
s almost completely deserted.
Most of the bars and the restaurants are still closed,
and even the ones that are open C IR QGRS LA
It’s hard to see at this stage how these streets can
ever go back to the way they were before.
We haven’t really been here since Halloween.
Everyone that was lost, those were people that came
to our neighbourhood and people from our neighbourhood, so...
What are your biggest worries now going forward?
| fear being scapegoated for why there are problems.
This neighbourhood has a really special and unique place
within Korea, but it hasn’t always been supported.
Many of the protesters were angry with the president
here before ltaewon.
But if he fails to punish the right people, these
EHNT LT oL R LR TN N
Jean MacKenzie, BBC News, Seoul.
Stay with us on BBC News, B R N
The latest arrivals for the World cup touch down
in Qatar as the holders STl N laai -
Benazir Bhutto has claimed victory in Pakistan’s general
election and she’s asked S S I
tc name her as Prime Minister.
Jacksen’s been released on balil of $3 million after turning
himself in to police in Santa Barbara.
It was the biggest NI R R ls
of the first growing European antinuclear movement.
The South African government has announced that it’s opening
QLRI R T T whites-only beaches
to people of all races.
This will lead to a black majority government in this
country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
Part of the centuries-old Windsor Castle, one
of the Queen’s residences, has been censumed by
fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has
caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines. ..
TR o F [ L] Jeremy Hunt, prepares
to deliver his much-awaited budget statement - higher taxes
are expected in a bid to curb soaring inflation.
In a show of unity in the US, NE GG RS
LG RV [T SR (T through same sex
marriage legislation.
Brazil’s President-elect has vowed to fight
Speaking at the COP27 summit in Eqypt, Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva said there would be no climate security for
the world if the Amazon T A o
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, reports
from the conference in Egypt.
# Ole, ole, ole, ola!
# Lula, Lula!
Lula received a hero’s welcome N G I AL G O
pLICHANER Ll was his message.
He said fighting climate change will be his number one priority
and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that
police the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
TRANSLATION: It’s time to act.
We have to stop this (O R RG]
What we need Is hope, hope combined with immediate
and decisive action for the future of the planet
and for humankind.
# Lula, Lula!
There is no question that Lula is the star of this conference,
but he faces real problems at home - Brazil’s finances
are in trouble, he doesn’t have control of the parliament
and there’s no doubt his rival, Jair Bolsonaro, will be
making trouble for him.
Under Bolsonaro, rates R A G RS I L2
He was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go
into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
Lula says his target is zero deforestation.
He promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police
the forest as soon as he takes office in January.
But his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
TRANSLATION: This won’t be an easy process.
There was a dismantling of all policies related
R R lar e el
But if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams,
I am confident we will be able TR
That change cannot come quickly enough, say
the indigenous communities who are on the front
TN RGN i e Y R e e
They are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers
and deforesting our forests.
The crowds surged around VA IR A e
ENCI AR
Lula says he’s urging the UN to allow Brazil to host
the 2025 UN climate conference, and he says he wants it to be
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Sharm LG T
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Myanmar’'s military government R A (W T
hundreds of prisoners from Insein prison in Yangon -
in an amnesty to mark QR AT LA | K )
It’s not clear exactly how many inmates will be set free,
but there’s speculation that several prominent foreigners
could be among them.
International health organisations are warning that
a cholera outbreak in crisis-hit Haiti is worsening.
At least 700 cholera infections have been confirmed
and more than 140 people have TR e R R iR I
were detected in October, AR N LR T s
numbers could be much higher.
Climate change severely worsened the heavy rains that
caused largescale flooding across swathes of Nigeria
LGOS T killing hundreds of people
according to a study by World Weather Attribution.
The floods displaced at least (L G
swept away hundreds of thousands of homes
and devastated more than half a million hectares of farmland.
Now it’s time for all the latest sports news.
I’m Gavin Ramshaw and this is your update
from the BBC Sport Centre.
The French World Cup squad arrived in Qatar on Wednesday
for the defence of the title they won in Russia in 2018.
They’re looking to become only the third team in history
and the first since Brazil in 1962
to win back-to-back World Cups.
But they haven’t been helped by a lengthy injury list.
Midfielders Paul Pogba and N’golo Kante,
LN G I LT g Ty T to the title four years ago,
are among those ruled out of this year’s tournament.
Striker Christopher ORI OR s s e ]
from the squad through injury on Tuesday and there’s a doubt
over the fitness of Karim Benzema.
They face Australia first.
Next, tennis, and Novak Djokovic will be able to play
in next year’s Australian Open AR R RGN Y]
the country was overturned.
Djokovic has won the Australian Open
RGO R [ and had his visa
cancelled after failing to meet the Covid requlations
that were In place at the time.
LRV L TN deportation triggered
a three-year ban on (RN DR R 11"
but a new government came RSN T )
and the country’s Covid rules have since been relaxed.
As a result, the visa ban has been overturned and Djokovic
will be granted a visa for next year’s tournament.
Meanwhile, on the courts, Djokovic is through to the last
four of the season-ending ATP Tour finals in Turin.
He beat Russia’s Andrey Rublev in straight sets
to make it two wins out of two in the group phase
and qualify for the semi-finals with a match to spare.
Djokovic took just over an hour to win 6-4, 6-1.
You know, I’m glad that I’m through that, you know,
is creating a bit of a relief, | think.
But pressure to win every single match is still there.
So | will not just Y RAse ]
in the park in that eIl e s R e
I will have the right E O R RS
with a good intensity and hopefully win against Medvedeyv,
who is, you know, MR RG N
players in the world RO A LS
So Djokovic through to the semi-finals but
Daniil Medvedeyv is out after a second successive defeat.
He was beaten in three sets by Stefanes Tsitsipas,
LRI @ TN Ta [T on a tie-break to keep
alive his hopes of making the last four.
Tsitsipas, who won this title in 2019,
plays Andrey Rublev on Friday and the winner
of that will qualify RO EI G
Finally, the International Olympic Committee has confirmed
Singapore as the host of the inaugural
Olympic Sports Week.
That will take place YA L
The 10C president, Thomas Bach, has said
the week marks an important RO R e
=[N DI R RSV o]s e Igd the growth of virtual sports
within the Olympic movement.
You can get all the latest I R R R )
BBC.com Forward Slash sports, including updates
from Australia against England RGNl R R
one-day matches.
France’s 18th century Queen, N e PR E LR L
for her love of luxury, and someone will soon be able
to take home two rare pieces of furniture that she once
owned - for a price.
LGSR ML AT the hammer at Christie’s
during Paris Classic Week.
Azadeh Moshiri reports.
Are clean
Are clean of extravagance and )
Are clean of extravagance and one with
Are clean of extravagance and RO NG
Are clean of extravagance and one with expensive taste. The
one with expensive taste. The "l
one with expensive taste. The R
one with expensive taste. The kind that could not be
kind that could not be 1N
kind that could not be curtailed, even
kind that could not be Wl R R
kind that could not be Wl R G R Al
kind that could not be curtailed, even if it sent her
curtailed, even if it sent her to
curtailed, even if it sent her Ry
curtailed, even If it sent her to the guillotine. People
curtailed, even If it sent her to the gquillotine. People are
to the guillotine. People are still fascinated by it marry
still fascinated by it marry and to an a
still fascinated by it marry LR LR
still fascinated by it marry and to an a to. Some of
still fascinated by it marry R LRI R A s
and to an a to. Some of her treasured
and to an a to. Some of her N R
and to an a to. Some of her treasured possessions are up
treasured possessions are up e
treasured possessions are up for auction.
for auction. TRANSLATION: We have two
TRANSLATION: We have two fabulous pieces. One was
fabulous pieces. One was R R
fabulous pieces. One was delivered to Marie
fabulous pieces. One was R R N Ea - e e e
delivered to Marie Antoinette 1
delivered to Marie Antoinette R )
delivered to Marie Antoinette at the beginning
delivered to Marie Antoinette CI R QR LI
delivered to Marie Antoinette CI R QR LTGRO
delivered to Marie Antoinette at the beginning of her life
at the beginning of her life and
at the beginning of her life R )
at the beginning of her life IR e e
at the beginning of her life RN ]
at the beginning of her life and the other a part of the
and the other a part of the last
and the other a part of the EYI R 00e
and the other a part of the A TR
and the other a part of the last four years of her life.
last four years of her life. e
last four years of her life. IR a1 8
last four years of her life. I R
last four years of her life. IR R L e
last four years of her life. IR R L N R
The cabinet was delivered in 1770. Marry
The cabinet was delivered In 1770. Marry two and was
The cabinet was delivered in 1770. Marry two and was only 15
1770. Marry two and was only 15 years old and had just arrived
years old and had just arrived 3
years old and had just arrived R -
years old and had just arrived AT R )
years old and had just arrived in France. We can imagine she
in France. We can imagine she Ty
in France. We can imagine she ]
in France. We can imagine she was a lost
in France. We can imagine she TR R Tty
in France. We can imagine she was a lost future monarch and
was a lost future monarch and )
was a lost future monarch and - Nei=d
was a lost future monarch and the chair dates
was a lost future monarch and N TR E e 4
was a lost future monarch and the chair dates back to the end
the chair dates back to the end N
the chair dates back to the end N Sdhe
the chair dates back to the end N AN L
the chair dates back to the end of her life. These pieces
of her life. These pieces Yoo ge - el
of her life. These pieces O R e
of her life. These pieces T R e R
of her life. These pieces PO R e R N e
adorned where the Austrian el
adorned where the Austrian TR T
adorned where the Austrian princess hosted lavish parties.
princess hosted lavish parties. In
princess hosted lavish parties. RET e
princess hosted lavish parties. RET )
princess hosted lavish parties. In honour of that
princess hosted lavish parties. In henour of that history, the
In honour of that history, the Ch
In honour of that history, the Cabinet is
In honour of that history, the NS AR e
In honour of that history, the N BRI E R i)
In honour of that history, the N AR B RN
In honour of that history, the N R AR RN R e
Cabinet is estimated to be more than
Cabinet is estimated to be more R
Cabinet is estimated to be more than $1 million and the chair,
than $1 million and the chair, up
than $1 million and the chair, TR (1)
than $1 million and the chair, TR
than $1 million and the chair, up to areund 300,000.
than $1 million and the chair, up to around 300,000. History
up to around 300,000. History shows people are willing to
shows people are willing to )
shows people are willing to LT
shows people are willing to L R T
shows people are willing to cough up the money.
shows people are willing to LT RO R A L
shows people are willing to cough up the money. Last year,
cough up the money. Last year, Y
cough up the money. Last year, ERELS
cough up the money. Last year, a pair of
cough up the money. Last year, SR IR
cough up the money. Last year, a pair of her diamond bracelets
a pair of her diamond bracelets ey
a pair of her diamond bracelets Y sl
a pair of her diamond bracelets were sold for more than $8
were sold for more than $8 SR
were sold for more than $8 million. That was several times
million. That was several times )
million. That was several times the original estimate.
the original estimate. Historians argue
the original estimate. G ER TGN
the original estimate. Historians argue her excesses
Historians argue her excesses ey
Historians argue her excesses were often exaggerated, but
were often exaggerated, but vty
were often exaggerated, but T Ak
were often exaggerated, but Y I R e |
were often exaggerated, but N AR R
were often exaggerated, but N A R R e
what isn’t contested is her o
what isn’t contested is her A H G
what isn’t contested is her opulent taste. Now mere
opulent taste. Now mere commoners can
opulent taste. Now mere IRl i
Now before we go, live YT S ik
of surprises, especially when animals are involved.
T
We are advised not to work with S EICH
Here’s what happened to one Kenyan journalist who was
reporting from an elephant orphanage.
Human actions are destroying habitats, decimating our ego
habitats, decimating our ego Gl
habitats, decimating our ego system and destroying the
system and destroying the o lga )
system and destroying the o laa N
system and destroying the circle of Life.
system and destroying the circle of Life_ It
system and destroying the circle of Life. It is
system and destroying the circle of life. It is up to us
circle of life. It is up to us to
circle of life. It is up to us R
circle of life. It is up to us to be guardians of our own
to be guardians of our own etk
to be guardians of our own natural world, save our species
natural world, save our species and
natural world, save our species NG
natural world, save our species NI X
natural world, save our species and provide a home...
and provide a home... TN 0T
and provide a home... T 013
LAUGHTE He ¥
He finally gave into the giggles.
He finally gave into the S[L L IR
He finally gave into the giggles. You couldn’t
He finally gave into the LIRS G R 11y
He finally gave into the giggles. You couldn’t carry on
giggles. You couldn’t carry on with that. |
giggles. You couldn’t carry on T GRG AR
giggles. You couldn’t carry on QR GE AE E
giggles. You couldn’t carry on T R G IR 1 N e ¢
giggles. You couldn’t carry on with that. | will be back with
with that. | will be back with )
with that. | will be back with R )]
with that. | will be back with G GRS
with that. | will be back with the top business stories and
the top business stories and today that is
the top business stories and GUEV RO R R )
the top business stories and today that is the Autumn
today that is the Autumn Statement.
today that is the Autumn NS
today that is the Autumn S LN R
today that is the Autumn Statement. As promised, we have
tatement. As promised, we have e
Statement. As promised, we have NEG RS ]
Statement. As promised, we have NEC RS A e
Statement. As promised, we have several experts lined up to
several experts lined up to e
several experts lined up to | LS
several experts lined up to talk you through what we can
talk you through what we can Y Ia
talk you through what we can i a ol
talk you through what we can 4o Ja s Rl
talk you through what we can expect. | will be back in just
expect. | will be back in just Y
expect. | will be back in just a moment.
L CRVLEN G IR T pretty unsettled for
the next couple of days.
We’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places,
the risk of some localized flooding, too.
And it’s all because of one area of low pressure,
expected to hang around for Thursday and Friday, even
into Saturday morning before it NENOE A F#{ RN
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about,
moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back
northwards and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it slowly will fill, it will weaken.
But it’s going to bring a lot of rain and fairly
strong winds at times.
Now we start Thursday off on a really chilly note
for western Scotland, Northern Ireland, that
some frost and fog here.
But elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind
and the rain and temperatures remaining between five
and nine degrees.
But a really thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday.
Our area of low pressure, as you can see here,
slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
Some heavy rain for eastern Scotland, northern England,
North Wales, eastern England, the strongest of the winds
along the North Sea R e e
Probably the best of any brighter weather after that
chilly start, Northern Ireland and across the south
and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere
particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night, the rain continues
to pile into eastern Scotland.
A few showers elsewhere into Northern Ireland,
some wet weather for northern England and North Wales,
probably the driest weather towards the south
of the country.
But because there’s more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, there won’t be quite as cold | think for many -
seven to nine degrees.
So for Friday there’s our area of low pressure again starting
to fill at this point in weaken, but it’s still going
to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half
of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating
across Angus Aberdeenshire risk NI |
HGLGIR TR
Something a little bit quiet | think for England generally.
Still a few showers around the best of the sunshine on Friday.
Again, parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, central
and southern England up to around 12 degrees there,
but distinctly chilly further R e R | e e a a0l
to be windy, especially for the Northern Isles.
Saturday, brief spell RS IR U R G
the next frontal system moves through during Saturday
night into Sunday, followed by sunshine
and blustery showers.
So it starts off fairly dry, | think for many on Saturday,
quite chilly, mind you.
And then wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday night
to Sunday, and that’ll be followed by sunshine
and showers.
This is BBC News with the latest business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt to unveil widespread tax
rises and spending cuts R RO SR
But he’ll insist his Autumn Statement is NOT
an austerity plan.
Welfe
| pick up concerning government alge
| pick up concerning government g e 0L
| pick up concerning government o lga s i e 4
| pick up concerning government circles about not making the
circles about not making the recession with a
circles about not making the T A G ER A
circles about not making the recession with a well started
recession with a well started EIE
recession with a well started already any worse.
recession with a well started L A L -
recession with a well started already any worse. -- concern
already any worse. -- concern 3
already any worse. -- concern LN EauEnl
already any worse. -- concern in government circles.
To that end, energy bill support for households
IS set to continue, but at a less generous rate.
Energy firms are expected to pick up the tab,
with @8 much wider windfall tax.
AN T TN RS AG
a multi-billion-dollar fund to rebuild Ukraine’s
infrastructure and turn the country into the world’s
first digital green economy.
Plus, 100 ideas that could change the world.
An event in Dubai honours inventions by the brightest
young minds from across R G
We’ll be hearing from the organiser.
We start here in the UK where, as you’ve been hearing,
in the next few hours, the government’s finance
chief, Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt,
will be outlining his plans to repair the nation’s finances.
The BBC understands it will mean spending cuts
of around £30 billion as well as tax rises targeted
at wealthier people.
But fears over making the recession worse mean it
won’t be a return to austerity.
It’s thought state pensions IR SR BT Y
in line with the soaring T RSB E R
And households will continue to get support with energy bills.
As our economics editor Faisal Islam explains.
The energy price rescue, the Energy Price Guarantee
which was due to end in April will survive in a form
for all households, RGOS LE-Y WA
So a slightly less generous level which is consistent
with energy bills going up NI R PR R TR T[]
household now, to £3,000 for a typical household in April.
So difficult but it G E e N TR L N e
the support not gone on.
It would have been more like £4,000.
So a lot more support. How do they pay for this?
The big question.
Some expectations in industry now, a significant increase
in the windfall tax on energy companies as well.
What will be the impact RO
and will it be enough to secure the confidence of financial
markets, which were so rattled by the tax-cutting plans
of the previous Prime Minister and Chancellor?
Let’s hear from Sarah Hewin, Head of Research for Europe
=LY [T L Standard Chartered Bank.
So
IR
NG N
iR N
So here we are at last,
NI GICE GRS [
So here we are at last, this Autumn
So here we are at last, this L S = e
So here we are at last, this IR e e
So here we are at last, this Autumn Statement will be
Autumn Statement will be e |
Autumn Statement will be delivered in the mid-morning
delivered in the mid-morning today, much anticipated. What
today, much anticipated. What )
today, much anticipated. What do you think
teday, much anticipated. What do you think the Chancellor
do you think the Chancellor il
do you think the Chancellor IR
do you think the Chancellor will be saying? He’s going to
will be saying? He’s going to )
will be saying? He’s going to be presenting a combination of
be presenting a combination of tax
be presenting a combination of AT
be presenting a combination of tax increases and spending
tax increases and spending e
tax increases and spending R L
tax increases and spending LI
tax increases and spending cuts. This is really with a
cuts. This is really with a view
cuts. This is really with a TR )
cuts. This Is really with a view to reducing or eliminating
view to reducing or eliminating Y
view to reducing or eliminating a £50 billion hole in the
a £50 billion hole in the i
a £50 billion hole in the public finances. Se
a £50 billion hole in the public finances. So we
GV B R R public finances. So we are
public finances. So we are likely
public finances. So we are AN
public finances. So we are AT
public finances. So we are likely to see tax thresholds
likely to see tax thresholds )
likely to see tax thresholds AL
likely to see tax thresholds - AL
likely to see tax thresholds close in. | think
likely to see tax thresholds close in. I think beyond
likely to see tax thresholds close in. | think beyond the
close in. | think beyond the =l
close in. | think beyond the 2 |54
close in. | think beyond the I R Al ne ]
close in. | think beyond the I IR Bl et N s
close in. | think beyond the windfall tax increase on energy
windfall tax increase on energy companies, for the majority of
companies, for the majority of )
companies, for the majority of the population the taxation
the population the taxation RTee I
the population the taxation RTee IRl
the population the taxation TSt eI R | B s
the population the taxation increases will come via stealth
increases will come via stealth EY
increases will come via stealth taxes, raising tax thresholds
taxes, raising tax thresholds on
taxes, raising tax thresholds Bl e at]
taxes, raising tax thresholds R R
taxes, raising tax thresholds on income tax, potentially on
on income tax, potentially on e
on income tax, potentially on other sorts
on income tax, potentially on IR R
on income tax, potentially on other sorts of taxation, like
other sorts of taxation, like i
other sorts of taxation, like capital gains tax and
capital gains tax and R e e
capital gains tax and e E e R T
capital gains tax and ML Eh e R &1
capital gains tax and e R AU
capital gains tax and inheritance tax as well, so
inheritance tax as well, so that
inheritance tax as well, so R
inheritance tax as well, so MR R
inheritance tax as well, so ORI R G R IR
inheritance tax as well, so ORI R G- 1
that over the years, as inflation
that over the years, as R E AR eI
that over the years, as inflation increases and wages
inflation increases and wages and
inflation increases and wages LR 11
inflation increases and wages GRS N
inflation increases and wages and profits increase, more
and profits increase, more people are caught in higher
people are caught in higher e Al a]
people are caught in higher N
people are caught in higher taxation bands. In
people are caught in higher taxation bands. |n terms
people are caught in higher taxation bands. In terms of
taxation bands. In terms of spending
taxation bands. In terms of NG LE
taxation bands. In terms of LN IRV P 10] o 11
taxation bands. In terms of LN RO I T L
spending cuts, probably a TNy
spending cuts, probably a Y )
spending cuts, probably a freeze in nominal terms, which
freeze in nominal terms, which Ty
freeze in nominal terms, which R R e )
freeze in nominal terms, which TR R
freeze in nominal terms, which RN N N
freeze in nominal terms, which RN e R N il
means because we have inflation I N11iM
means because we have inflation SN
means because we have inflation IV IV
means because we have inflation SNV R IV N
means because we have inflation LRIV ETE Y
means because we have inflation SRRV L RLC VA
currently at 11% and likely to 3
currently at 11% and likely to stay in double digits for a
stay in double digits for a "
stay in double digits for a while, that,
stay in double digits for a IR P
stay in double digits for a while, that, over time, that
while, that, over time, that il
while, that, over time, that will equate to a real terms cut
will equate to a real terms cut 3
will equate to a real terms cut in spending.
will equate to a real terms cut RS LI AR
will equate to a real terms cut in spending. We may well see a
in spending. We may well see a o
in spending. We may well see a cut to
in spending. We may well see a RO e
in spending. We may well see a RO Ih
in spending. We may well see a AR OIS GEEEIERE -e
cut to international aid. Lower T
cut to international aid. Lower AR
cut to international aid. Lower level of spending extended out
level of spending extended out ST
level of spending extended out beyond the next couple of
beyond the next couple of years.
beyond the next couple of IR )
beyond the next couple of years. The Chancellor has been
years. The Chancellor has been 1
years. The Chancellor has been at pains
years. The Chancellor has been IR0
years. The Chancellor has been at pains to say this is not an
at pains to say this is not an A A0
at pains to say this is not an austerity package that he will
austerity package that he will )
austerity package that he will N L G|
austerity package that he will be delivering today, but he is
be delivering today, but he is taking measures to make sure a
taking measures to make sure a e 1T s
taking measures to make sure a recession is more shallow and
recession Is more shallow and i
recession is more shallow and AT e )
recession is more shallow and A e o ]
recession is more shallow and A e LR Y
recession is more shallow and shorter. He and the Prime
shorter. He and the Prime YR
shorter. He and the Prime Minister Rishi Sunak have been
Minister Rishi Sunak have been very clear that this is about
very clear that this is about O]
very clear that this is about S IMLRIg e
very clear that this is about restoring Britain’s credibility
restoring Britain’s credibility in
restoring Britain’s credibility interms
restoring Britain’s credibility R R
restoring Britain’s credibility RE SR A ]
restoring Britain’s credibility RE A A
restoring Britain’s credibility R E LR
restoring Britain’s credibility in terms of how we manage our
in terms of how we manage our money.
in terms of how we manage our u S AE
in terms of how we manage our NG ARG GG
in terms of how we manage our money. Well they tick those
money. Well they tick those boxes? | think a lot of that
boxes? | think a lot of that has
boxes? | think a lot of that IR T W )
boxes? | think a lot of that R I G R ) 2
has been achieved already. Long-term interest
has been achieved already. KRG RN G ST
has been achieved already. Long-term interest rates now
Long-term interest rates now S L
Long-term interest rates now compared to
Long-term interest rates now I I R RIS
Long-term interest rates now compared to six weeks ago. The
compared to six weeks ago. The e
compared to six weeks ago. The AN E e e
compared to six weeks ago. The AN e P E
compared to six weeks ago. The AN E e T R -]
compared to six weeks ago. The new Chancellor has been able
compared to six weeks ago. The A e N R TN R
new Chancellor has been able to stabilise the markets.
new Chancellor has been able to eI R R Y
new Chancellor has been able to stabilise the markets. A lot or
stabilise the markets. A lot or vty
stabilise the markets. A lot or e
stabilise the markets. A lot or what is likely
stabilise the markets. A lot or AT A
stabilise the markets. A lot or W SN A
stabilise the markets. A lot or ST A N LR
stabilise the markets. A lot or W E ST AN AL RO
COEIECR IR R R T R [ Autumn
COEIECR IR R R T R [ L S = e
COEIECR IR R R T R [ Autumn Statement has
what is likely to be in the Autumn Statement has already
Autumn Statement has already ]
Autumn Statement has already been discussed in
Autumn Statement has already NIRRT R R
Autumn Statement has already been discussed in the media.
Autumn Statement has already RIS RGN
been discussed In the media. -- Y
been discussed In the media. -- A A
been discussed In the media. -- a lot of. So
been discussed in the media. -- RIS AT R
been discussed in the media. -- a lot of. So the markets
been discussed in the media. -- TR R A R R SRRy
been discussed in the media. -- a lot of. So the markets have a
a lot of. So the markets have a clear idea
a lot of. So the markets have a LA R
a lot of. So the markets have a AR A W]
a lot of. So the markets have a clear idea of what to expect.
clear idea of what to expect. T
clear idea of what to expect. It’s a big
clear idea of what to expect. (NN E G E LS
clear idea of what to expect. It’s a big challenge, of
It’s a big challenge, of course, because we
It’s a big challenge, of I R L
It’s a big challenge, of course, because we are already
course, because we are already L
course, because we are already LG
course, because we are already going into recession,
course, because we are already LRI NI )
going into recession, a negative GDP in the last
negative GDP in the last quarter,
negative GDP in the last IE UG
negative GDP in the last IE U EAG
negative GDP in the last I UG R GETIE
negative GDP in the last I G C RGNl
negative GDP in the last quarter, likely the same in the
quarter, likely the same in the current quarter. In those
current quarter. In those g 1 o
current quarter. In those Wl a8
current quarter. In those circumstances, normally there
circumstances, normally there o
circumstances, normally there would be
circumstances, normally there T sl -t e:)
circumstances, normally there would be more public spending
would be more public spending and
would be more public spending IR}
would be more public spending and tax cuts. In
would be more public spending IR R R & wd
would be more public spending and tax cuts. In fact what we
and tax cuts. In fact what we Py
and tax cuts. In fact what we are seeing
and tax cuts. In fact what we GRS
and tax cuts. In fact what we are seeing is a combination of
are seeing is a combination of spending
are seeing is a combination of NG LE
are seeing is a combination of I IV V| P &S
are seeing is a combination of spending cuts, tax increases
are seeing Is a combination of spending cuts, tax increases at
spending cuts, tax increases at Y
spending cuts, tax increases at Ry
spending cuts, tax increases at a time when the
spending cuts, tax increases at R R R e
spending cuts, tax increases at a time when the Bank of England
a time when the Bank of England 3
a time when the Bank of England RO
a time when the Bank of England EX TR
a time when the Bank of England is continuing to raise interest
s continuing to raise interest T
s continuing to raise interest I T
s continuing to raise interest rates. So it’s going to be a
rates. So it’s going to be a wE (L
rates. So it’s going to be a challenge to stabilise the
challenge to stabilise the SO UVA
challenge to stabilise the N 1) AL
challenge to stabilise the economy, and | think we are
economy, and | think we are L]
economy, and | think we are looking at
economy, and | think we are ISR
economy, and | think we are looking at recession. Hopefully
looking at recession. Hopefully e
looking at recession. Hopefully TR 1s]
looking at recession. Hopefully TR
looking at recession. Hopefully (RN Rl
looking at recession. Hopefully 1L R & s
(LN NIl glPd-Ts BT briefly, do
't can be minimized. Very ISR
't can be minimized. Very briefly, do you think to
it can be minimized. Very briefly, do you think to an
briefly, do you think to an -
briefly, do you think to an A )
briefly, do you think to an AN RO G
briefly, do you think to an extent the government has
extent the government has managed the message before this
managed the message before this Autumn Statement?
managed the message before this LR RS i A T e
managed the message before this Autumn Statement? For a period
Autumn Statement? For a period 3
Autumn Statement? For a period HRTE
Autumn Statement? For a period it was doom and gloom, very
't was doom and gloom, very St 1ile1]
't was doom and gloom, very much a
it was doom and gloom, very U N e}
it was doom and gloom, very NN R
it was doom and gloom, very UGN A R R S
it was doom and gloom, very much a period of tax cuts that
much a period of tax cuts that il
much a period of tax cuts that (T F T4
much a period of tax cuts that will impact everyone, and
will impact everyone, and actually what is delivered
actually what is delivered Eieyd
actually what is delivered later today might not be as bad
later today might not be as bad as
later today might not be as bad PR
later today might not be as bad as we feared?
later today might not be as bad IR R kAl
later today might not be as bad as we feared? | think the key
as we feared? | think the key thing
as we feared? | think the key iR
as we feared? | think the key IR
as we feared? | think the key QIR
as we feared? | think the key QI RER R G R (]
as we feared? | think the key thing is if the triple lock is
thing is if the triple lock is (G
thing is if the triple lock is kept on
QI TEERI R G LR ER T g IR
QI TEERI R G LR ER T g kept on pensions, and if
kept on pensions, and if T i
kept on pensions, and if TRy
kept on pensions, and if TN SR ]
kept on pensions, and if TR
kept on pensions, and if benefits rise in line with
benefits rise in line with inflation. Those
benefits rise in line with R IR )
benefits rise in line with inflation. Those are two
inflation. Those are two I
inflation. Those are two measures that
inflation. Those are two TN R G )
inflation. Those are two measures that are potentially
measures that are potentially very
measures that are potentially R i\
measures that are potentially very costly in terms of
very costly in terms of spending,
very costly in terms of NPT
very costly in terms of NG L I
very costly in terms of spending, but of course they
spending, but of course they %1\
spending, but of course they really make a difference to
really make a difference to TG
really make a difference to people who are currently
people who are currently struggling.
people who are currently I AT
people who are currently UL ARRE]
people who are currently SRR R G
people who are currently struggling. So in terms of the
struggling. So in terms of the T
struggling. So in terms of the RN R
UL AR R PR G message is not being quite
struggling. So in terms of the message is not being quite as
message is not being guite as bad
message is not being guite as LI
message Is not being quite as YL RL s
message Is not being quite as LR a1
message Is not being quite as LRI R G Ry
message Is not being quite as ORI R VG R E R IR
message Is not being quite as bad as it could have been, that
bad as it could have been, that s
bad as it could have been, that %)
bad as it could have been, that IS a more
bad as it could have been, that is a more positive aspect.
is a more positive aspect. T4
is a more positive aspect. Thank you,
Is @ more positive aspect. Thank you, good to talk
is @ more positive aspect. Thank you, good to talk to you.
Wealthier people here in the UK could be paying more tax,
it’s thought the threshold for paying the top rate of tax
here in the UK could be cut to £125,000 from £150,000.
Susannah Streeter is senior analyst at investment advisors
Hargreaves Landsdown, RN B
the West of England.
Nice to see you. In terms of T NEL
Nice to see you. In terms of IR E N
Nice to see you. In terms of N R E I
Nice to see you. In terms of personal finance, Sarah has
personal finance, Sarah has EIE
personal finance, Sarah has already mentioned the fact that
already mentioned the fact that tax
already mentioned the fact that RO nGE
already mentioned the fact that tax thresholds will
already mentioned the fact that RN R
already mentioned the fact that tax thresholds will be frozen,
tax thresholds will be frozen, )
tax thresholds will be frozen, el
tax thresholds will be frozen, so Moore could
tax thresholds will be frozen, N e e Sl
tax thresholds will be frozen, so Moore could be paying the
so Moore could be paying the higher
so Moore could be paying the LI )
so Moore could be paying the LI R
so Moore could be paying the higher rate of 40% tax on their
higher rate of 40% tax on their income. But also those at
higher rate of 40% tax on their RN R R )
income. But also those at the top
income. But also those at the N
income. But also those at the top end will be paying more as
top end will be paying more as N
top end will be paying more as e (R
top end will be paying more as MR ETE RO
top end will be paying more as well. That’s right, but |
top end will be paying more as well. That’s right, but I think
well. That’s right, but | think %1\
well. That’s right, but | think I VAGTY
well. That’s right, but I think really the decisions deemed to
really the decisions deemed to )
really the decisions deemed to be being taken to really help
be being taken to really help those on
be being taken to really help R
be being taken to really help R e e i
be being taken to really help those on the lowest incomes who
those on the lowest incomes who Py
those on the lowest incomes who FI R I
those on the lowest incomes who are certainly struggling much
are certainly struggling much e
are certainly struggling much T e N s
are certainly struggling much e R R Y
are certainly struggling much e R R R e
more than those wealthier individuals right now through
individuals right now through )
individuals right now through e )
individuals right now through the cost of living crisis.
the cost of living crisis. )
the cost of living crisis. ILECECE Y
the cost of living crisis. There really will be relief for
There really will be relief for those people receiving
those people receiving O
those people receiving benefits, those people relying
SN MR QTR Ll LR VN T ]
benefits, those people relying R d
benefits, those people relying RO A N
benefits, those people relying RO AR Fl e
benefits, those people relying on their pensions, that they
on their pensions, that they il
on their pensions, that they IR
on their pensions, that they will be updated as the rumours
will be updated as the rumours il
will be updated as the rumours Xl
will be updated as the rumours la iR 14
will be updated as the rumours ARG A
will be updated as the rumours A A R AR
will be updated as the rumours ARG LR R
will be updated as the rumours ARG AR N R
swirl if that Is to be the case Y
swirl if that is to be the case when announced
swirl if that is to be the case TN e R
swirl if that is to be the case when announced later. Let’s
when announced later. Let’s remember,
when announced later. Let’s T PR 1 o
when announced later. Let’s remember, that money, even if
remember, that money, even if e
remember, that money, even if T
remember, that money, even if it is agreed,
remember, that money, even if QLI M
remember, that money, even if it is agreed, it will not come
it is agreed, it will not come into
it is agreed, it will not come R R ee)
it is agreed, it will not come into force until April. In the
inte force until April. In the e e i)
inte force until April. In the meantime you still have big
meantime you still have big e o
meantime you still have big e R A ]
meantime you still have big stretches of time for people
stretches of time for people Ty
stretches of time for people - 1a
stretches of time for people who are really struggling,
who are really struggling, using food banks, to be able to
using food banks, to be able to iy
using food banks, to be able to S ANa i )
using food banks, to be able to survive. So a lot
using food banks, to be able to AN LR e
using food banks, to be able to AN LR R R e
using food banks, to be able to survive. So a lot of focus on
survive. So a lot of focus on TN g
survive. So a lot of focus on whether there
survive. So a lot of focus on YR G AL
survive. So a lot of focus on whether there may be any more
whether there may be any more hand-outs for those on the
hand-outs for those on the s
hand-outs for those on the lowest incomes, because the
lowest incomes, because the research we have
lowest incomes, because the LR e N ae |
lowest incomes, because the research we have carried out
research we have carried out L]
research we have carried out looking at how much cash people
looking at how much cash people it
looking at how much cash people G
looking at how much cash people might have at the end of the
might have at the end of the month by
pll RN R G LR R G T UINGE SR
pll RN R G LR R G T UGS G
pll RN R G LR R R G T UG SRS S I RS
pll RN R G LR R R G T month by next summer, even if
month by next summer, even if benefits
month by next summer, even if TN
month by next summer, even If benefits stay in line with
benefits stay in line with inflation, among the lowest
inflation, among the lowest oEI]
inflation, among the lowest paid half
inflation, among the lowest LN RS
inflation, among the lowest I = R R
inflation, among the lowest paid half of the country, one
paid half of the country, one in 100 say they wouldn’t have
in 100 say they wouldn’t have any
in 100 say they wouldn’t have VAL G
in 100 say they wouldn’t have VAL GG
in 100 say they wouldn’t have IR G IR IR LS
in 100 say they wouldn’t have any cash left over at the end
any cash left over at the end N
any cash left over at the end RGNt P
any cash left over at the end of the month. So you can really
of the month. So you can really T
of the month. So you can really a4
of the month. So you can really see it is
of the month. So you can really AR
of the month. So you can really see it is really difficult
TN A ER RG] o
TN A ER RG] R e
TN A ER RG] times for people right
TN A ERCEIBIG T TeT]N times for people right now and
times for people right now and they
times for people right now and S A
times for people right now and they need immediate help. And
they need immediate help. And they will be getting further
they will be getting further help with
they will be getting further ARG N Y)Y
they will be getting further help with energy bills beyond
help with energy bills beyond April
help with energy bills beyond Y Ta WP
help with energy bills beyond AR I
help with energy bills beyond April next year, it’s expected
April next year, it’s expected that
April next year, it’s expected Ela i
April next year, it’s expected eI R
April next year, it’s expected that will be announced today as
that will be announced today as N
that will be announced today as (G
that will be announced today as well. In terms of
that will be announced today as N (I RR SR A
well. In terms of market reaction to
well. In terms of market ¥ lad R E
well. In terms of market iR RGN
well. In terms of market e R RG]
well. In terms of market reaction to all this, of course
reaction to all this, of course )
reaction to all this, of course AR
reaction to all this, of course N E i
reaction to all this, of course the last mini Budget, delivered
the last mini Budget, delivered by
the last mini Budget, delivered W7
the last mini Budget, delivered WECZEEE T LR
the last mini Budget, delivered by Kwasi Kwarteng, we saw an
by Kwasi Kwarteng, we saw an extreme market reaction.
by Kwasi Kwarteng, we saw an e I E I R lasle MR CTl L
extreme market reaction. Gilt markets
extreme market reaction. Gilt eI )
extreme market reaction. Gilt markets have settled a lot
markets have settled a lot o)
markets have settled a lot ARG IR
markets have settled a lot since then, which has meant
since then, which has meant el
since then, which has meant borrowing costs have come down
borrowing costs have come down as
borrowing costs have come down IR
borrowing costs have come down as well, and that’s a big
as well, and that’s a big Eluisld
as well, and that’s a big Eluee s
as well, and that’s a big factor in this going forward.
factor in this going forward. T/
factor in this going forward. (T N
factor in this going forward. When it comes to projections
When it comes to projections FYe L
When it comes to projections YR ]
When it comes to projections about how big
When it comes to projections EL T ARG
When it comes to projections E T AR N ETa
When it comes to projections about how big the black hole is
about how big the black hole is e
about how big the black hole is TR
about how big the black hole is IR G ]
about how big the black hole is for the government, it could
for the government, it could actually be a lot smaller
actually be a lot smaller depending on the
actually be a lot smaller NG LR RO R I EladE
depending on the projections you
depending on the projections IR
depending on the projections R
depending on the projections [ R Y I T
depending on the projections you go with. Absolutely, let’s
you go with. Absolutely, let’s remember that
you go with. Absolutely, let’s T R G R G
you go with. Absolutely, let’s remember that this black hole
remember that this black hole s
remember that this black hole is actually a
remember that this black hole [T OF (Y I Eld
remember that this black hole T« O (R El g
remember that this black hole is actually a black hole the
s actually a black hole the government has set itself, it
e[EGINTT EER L s
government has set itself, it is committed for the
government has set itself, it TR AR R s o1
government has set itself, it TR et AR Rt e[ o re]
is committed for the debt to T
is committed for the debt to fall as a proportion of
is committed for the debt to 1 NI g R R
fall as a proportion of GDP g
fall as a proportion of GDP i)
fall as a proportion of GDP WA NN R
fall as a proportion of GDP RN IR
fall as a proportion of GDP over five years. So that
fall as a proportion of GDP RN IR R - A
fall as a proportion of GDP over five years. So that is why
over five years. So that is why e
over five years. So that is why it is
over five years. So that is why | AT (U}
over five years. So that is why it is scrambling around to try
LRI EL LTI R (R iy and find
it is scrambling around to try and find this money. As
it is scrambling around to try and find this meney. As you
and find this money. As you say,
and find this money. As you F R (1Y
and find this meney. As you say, the markets have been
say, the markets have been !
say, the markets have been IR 1hds]
say, the markets have been IR R e
calmed with the measures EIE
calmed with the measures LN T e
calmed with the measures already announced. After this |
already announced. After this | think
already announced. After this | R 1l
already announced. After this | i & el
already announced. After this | think what will switch is a
think what will switch is a T eIl
think what will switch is a focus on Britain’s long-term
focus on Britain’s long-term Y
ORI E IR G TR gy X R )
ORI E IR G TR gy health. We may have
focus on Britain’s long-term health. We may have managed to
health. We may have managed to e e ]
health. We may have managed to e R il
health. We may have managed to restore financial stability
restore financial stability il
restore financial stability SOl TR
restore financial stability right now, but when it comes to
right now, but when it comes to productivity
right now, but when it comes to D1 L)
right now, but when it comes to O LR G
productivity and the longer-term, the prospect of
longer-term, the prospect of ooyl
longer-term, the prospect of O aRie
longer-term, the prospect of growth for the UK, if you are
growth for the UK, if you are still going
growth for the UK, if you are IR
growth for the UK, if you are still going to make £30 billion
still going to make £30 billion 3
still going to make £30 billion BN GILG)
still going to make £30 billion MGG R N
still going to make £30 billion in spending cuts, that could
LRI GIL TP G LTl T
LRI GIL TP G LTl EN]
in spending cuts, that could fall on childcare
in spending cuts, that could EUE Rl I 1e Rt 1d
in spending cuts, that could fall on childcare for example,
fall on childcare for example, Pl e
fall on childcare for example, childcare funding not being
childcare funding not being listed to meet inflation. That
listed to meet inflation. That LS
listed to meet inflation. That lands on working families, and
lands on working families, and e
lands on working families, and T E
lands on working families, and T R
lands on working families, and N CELR G EI O A
lands on working families, and I CEL R G EIE: [ O (T
it means that actually, if you Py
it means that actually, if you are scrambling to pay for
are scrambling to pay for Gl
are scrambling to pay for childcare, you may leave the
childcare, you may leave the g4 ee
childcare, you may leave the workforce. Already we have seen
workforce. Already we have seen PN
workforce. Already we have seen TR RS L
workforce. Already we have seen IR E S LR
workforce. Already we have seen an exodus of people leaving the
an exodus of people leaving the g4 ee
an exodus of people leaving the workforce. Again, if you want
workforce. Again, if you want to boost productivity, rating
to boost productivity, rating Y a1
to boost productivity, rating T )
to boost productivity, rating R R
to boost productivity, rating home so that you
to boost productivity, rating R R G S LG
to boost productivity, rating R RO S VLR
to boost productivity, rating home so that you are not fine
home so that you are not fine because
home so that you are not fine RIS
heme so that you are not fine TR IR 1
heme so that you are not fine because your childcare provider
because your childcare provider has
because your childcare provider TR )
because your childcare provider R GRS
because your childcare provider R R RN
because your childcare provider has to impose fines because it
has to impose fines because it can’t survive, that’s not going
can’t survive, that’s not going to boost
can’t survive, that’s not going to boost productivity. --
to boost productivity. -- racing home. So these tiny cuts
racing home. So these tiny cuts could
racing home. So these tiny cuts NI
racing home. So these tiny cuts could add up to a big picture
could add up to a big picture of
could add up to a big picture A
could add up to a big picture of lower productivity in the
of lower productivity in the future
of lower productivity in the eI e
of lower productivity in the e R R
of lower productivity in the future for the UK. Which will
future for the UK. Which will [SE)
future for the UK. Which will have implications for
have implications for LT
have implications for N
have implications for husinesses as well, thank
have implications for businesses as well, thank you.
Let’s get some reaction from the business world.
Dr Roger Barker is Director of Policy at the Institute
of Directors, which is a lobby group for company bosses
What are you hoping will be in this Autumn Statement to boost
IO T IR ELE T LR T N
IO T IR ELE T LR T L YAl
IO T IR ELE T LR T business? If business
IO T IR ELE T LR T L A TR R
business? If business is L]
business? If business is looking for
business? If business is LR IEGT
business? If business is looking for the Chancellor to
looking for the Chancellor to YAl )
looking for the Chancellor to Yl ]
looking for the Chancellor to achieve a very delicate
achieve a very delicate EIEN - T
achieve a very delicate EIET e - T T
achieve a very delicate balance... Business recognises
balance... Business recognises that
balance... Business recognises LI TN )
balance... Business recognises LR R N )
balance... Business recognises LI TN I )
that measures are needed to )
that measures are needed to IR )
that measures are needed to (IR Rk 8
that measures are needed to IR ORI G e
that measures are needed to (I RO A R G
restore the credibility of the government in terms of its
government in terms of its public finances. What happened
public finances. What happened with
public finances. What happened R )
public finances. What happened RGNl
public finances. What happened with the mini Budget was
with the mini Budget was WG
with the mini Budget was clearly problematic, it wasn’t
RV Ty EL [ L N affordable, and business
clearly problematic, it wasn’t affordable, and business wants
affordable, and business wants )
affordable, and business wants GG TN
affordable, and business wants the government to
affordable, and business wants QNSO R
affordable, and business wants the government to get a grip on
the government to get a grip on that.
the government to get a grip on e oLt
the government to get a grip on that. But also
the government to get a grip on LN LN )
the government to get a grip on L L R R U A
the government to get a grip on that. But also we know, as your
that. But also we know, as your I
that. But also we know, as your previous speaker said, the
previous speaker said, the e L
previous speaker said, the economy now is probably
economy now is probably contracting and has been for a
contracting and has been for a Hair
contracting and has been for a little while. The Bank of
NURL IR Y- EL L Y England
little while. The Bank of England recently said that the
England recently said that the e L
England recently said that the economy would be in recession
economy would be in recession YT
economy would be in recession L E] VAT
economy would be in recession probably into 2024, a very
probably inte 2024, a very g Dl
probably inte 2024, a very protracted recession. So what
protracted recession. So what Y
protracted recession. So what we don’t want is that the
LR RE A ER G IR G government
LR RE A ER G IR G N EON N
we don’t want is that the government goes too far in the
government goes too far in the I
government goes too far in the opposite direction now compared
opposite direction now compared to
opposite direction now compared R e aira
opposite direction now compared to what Liz Truss and
opposite direction now compared R LR AR B 4 R
to what Liz Truss and Kwasi [CZT ]
to what Liz Truss and Kwasl Kwarteng did, and actually
Kwarteng did, and actually e
Kwarteng did, and actually A R
Kwarteng did, and actually GO UEL
Kwarteng did, and actually chokes off any growth over the
chokes off any growth over the T3 4s
chokes off any growth over the Y {RT-Y1d
chokes off any growth over the (PRI Ng
chokes off any growth over the VI RTE I XN
chokes off any growth over the next year or so, which would
next year or so, which would )
next year or so, which would N
next year or so, which would make it very difficult for
make it very difficult for EHLEIR
make it very difficult for business, business confidence
business, business confidence s
business, business confidence XL
business, business confidence LA
business, business confidence is already very fragile. So we
is already very fragile. So we still
is already very fragile. So we AT
is already very fragile. So we TR )
is already very fragile. So we still need to have some
still need to have some R Te e b
still need to have some T |
still need to have some NN R sl
still need to have some incentives and optimism which
incentives and optimism which il
incentives and optimism which will justify business investing
will justify business investing 3
will justify business investing RG]
will justify business investing in the future. Let’s talk
will justify business investing RGN R &I
in the future. Let’s talk about energy,
in the future. Let’s talk about N0 A
in the future. Let’s talk about NEC A
in the future. Let’s talk about energy, it is expected that new
energy, it is expected that new =l
energy, it is expected that new windfall taxes
energy, it is expected that new i Z RS Rl
energy, it is expected that new L R R T
energy, it is expected that new windfall taxes will be imposed
windfall taxes will be imposed on
windfall taxes will be imposed ]
windfall taxes will be imposed on big oil companies, but also
on big oil companies, but also electricity providers. What
electricity providers. What impact will that
electricity providers. What I R R T R
electricity providers. What impact will that have, do you
impact will that have, do you &
impact will that have, do you T A Y
impact will that have, do you think? Because the argument
think? Because the argument against that idea is it reduces
against that idea is it reduces RN na a1
against that idea is it reduces investment and stifles
investment and stifles N e
investment and stifles ENEIR (I
investment and stifles business. Yes, well, | think it
business. Yes, well, | think it il
business. Yes, well, | think it N T
business. Yes, well, | think it (WY NI
business. Yes, well, | think it (Y N R I
will represent a disincentive e
will represent a disincentive TR )
will represent a disincentive for those type of companies to
for those type of companies to e
for those type of companies to invest in
for those type of companies to M ARG
for those type of companies to invest in the future. But
for those type of companies to M AR T T e s
invest in the future. But on )
invest in the future. But on e e
invest in the future. But on RO R
invest in the future. But on the other hand, from a
the other hand, from a political perspective, it may
political perspective, it may )
political perspective, it may R
political perspective, it may TR R
political perspective, it may TR AR R e
political perspective, it may TR AR R ]
be too irresistible for the government to ignore, given
government to ignore, given current
government to ignore, given ot Belgei e
government to ignore, given current circumstances. In an
ST Rl EL LD Tl
current circumstances. In an ideal world, we wouldn’t have
ideal world, we wouldn’t have this
ideal world, we wouldn’t have I e ls|
ideal world, we wouldn’t have this kind of windfall
ideal world, we wouldn’t have QIR R L R E
ideal world, we wouldn’t have this kind of windfall tax, it’s
this kind of windfall tax, it’s e
this kind of windfall tax, it’s (T AT
this kind of windfall tax, it’s not really a positive thing,
not really a positive thing, they
not really a positive thing, QA LR
not really a positive thing, GV R A
not really a positive thing, QIR G
they don’t assist the I la 18
they don’t assist the (Jpla e A
they don’t assist the el e A R G
they don’t assist the predictability of the tax
predictability of the tax AR
predictability of the tax G T
predictability of the tax S G
predictability of the tax system. But it may be too
system. But it may be too Gl
system. But it may be too tempting for
system. But it may be too R R
system. But it may be too tempting for the government.
tempting for the government. But
tempting for the government. L N
tempting for the government. LI R 1
tempting for the government. But also, that money is going
But also, that money is going to
But also, that money is going R DR
But also, that money is going to be used, as we understand,
to be used, as we understand, to
to be used, as we understand, O
to be used, as we understand, to help households with energy
to help households with energy I
to help households with energy L
to help households with energy bills going forward, but could
UL R (e ELG AT g eI )
bills going forward, but could also possibly be used to help
also possibly be used to help AN T
also possibly be used to help businesses. What
also possibly be used to help N T TR LR R
also possibly be used to help TN TR LR N G
also possibly be used to help AN T LR R G
also possibly be used to help AR TR W N G R
businesses. What we know at the NN TN T
businesses. What we know at the moment, businesses have got
moment, businesses have got =0
moment, businesses have got G RLal
moment, businesses have got ARG RN
moment, businesses have got A VETTG RN G AT
moment, businesses have got help with energy bills until
help with energy bills until next
help with energy bills until YA Yo al
help with energy bills until ARV IA 0
help with energy bills until next April, but beyond that we
next April, but beyond that we 1R
next April, but beyond that we R e A
next April, but beyond that we don’t know what will
next April, but beyond that we don’t know what will happen for
don’t know what will happen for IR
don’t know what will happen for businesses, and some of them
businesses, and some of them Py
businesses, and some of them are facing extremely high
are facing extremely high 0
are facing extremely high N R e
are facing extremely high energy costs. Yes, they are,
energy costs. Yes, they are, and
energy costs. Yes, they are, N Rdar]
energy costs. Yes, they are, R
energy costs. Yes, they are, and that is something we will
and that is something we will )
and that is something we will be listening out for very much
be listening out for very much today. We do have helped until
today. We do have helped until Yo TaI T
today. We do have helped until April, but there is no sign
April, but there is no sign that
April, but there is no sign G e o E1
April, but there is no sign that global energy markets are
that global energy markets are going back, settling back to
going back, settling back to L
going back, settling back to previous levels in terms of the
previous levels in terms of the cost
previous levels in terms of the e
previous levels in terms of the A RN
previous levels in terms of the WA RN AR L
previous levels in terms of the cost of energy. There are many
cost of energy. There are many R )
cost of energy. There are many vulnerable businesses
cost of energy. There are many R N T R Tl e
vulnerable businesses out there, and energy bills are now
there, and energy bills are now il
there, and energy bills are now forming a significant
forming a significant PIGY e gl )]
forming a significant proportion of their costs. They
proportion of their costs. They Py
proportion of their costs. They are extremely keen to find out
are extremely keen to find out vty
are extremely keen to find out T
are extremely keen to find out TR
are extremely keen to find out what help the government could
what help the government could (Nl
what help the government could provide to them beyond April.
provide to them beyond April. i
provide to them beyond April. IR el
provide to them beyond April. IRl R %1
provide to them beyond April. IR RO A G
It is important that the government does do a
IERI el G T government does do a good job
government does do a good job identifying vulnerable sectors
identifying vulnerable sectors and
identifying vulnerable sectors LR NN
identifying vulnerable sectors R N R L G
identifying vulnerable sectors and companies, where it can
and companies, where it can e atala i)
and companies, where it can e AR
and companies, where it can continue the support beyond
continue the support beyond Y e R
continue the support beyond April, well into next year.
LY Jg WL I DA S 7T T4
LY Jg WL I DA S 7T Thank you
April, well into next year. =S TR s
April, well into next year. Thank you very much. On BBC
Thank you very much. On BBC [V
Thank you very much. On BBC News, whether you are watching
News, whether you are watching AN
News, whether you are watching A PRI
News, whether you are watching television, radio, online, we
television, radio, online, we il
television, radio, online, we IR
television, radio, online, we N LT
television, radio, online, we will be covering the Autumn
will be covering the Autumn SEI s
will be covering the Autumn N R ]
will be covering the Autumn e R
will be covering the Autumn Statement when the Chancellor
Statement when the Chancellor VLG
Statement when the Chancellor begins to present
Statement when the Chancellor VLRI ORI
Statement when the Chancellor begins to present it in
begins to present it in Parliament, and there will be
Parliament, and there will be analysis, so stay with us on
analysis, so stay with us on BBC
analysis, so stay with us on BRC News.
Out of the ashes - a multi-billion dollar fund
to rebuild Ukraine’s infrastructure and turn
the country into the world’s first digital green economy.
Benazir Bhutto has claimed victory in Pakistan’s general
election and she’s asked S S I
tc name her as Prime Minister.
Jacksen’s been released on balil of $3 million after turning
himself in to police in Santa Barbara.
It was the biggest NI R R ls
R GER IS E UL R DIGTLE]D N i el
The South African government has announced that it’s opening
QLRI R T T whites-only beaches
to people of all races.
This will lead to a black majority government in this
country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
Part of the centuries-old Windsor Castle, one
of the Queen’s residences, has been censumed by
fire for much of the day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has
caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
This is BBC World News, ARG LR
TR o F [ L] Jeremy Hunt, prepares
to deliver his much-awaited Budget statement -
higher taxes are expected in a bid to repair
the public finances.
In a show of unity in the US, NE GG RS
LG RV [T SR (T QIO BT 1P
marriage legislation.
Amazon has confirmed it Y TR R e R i
at its devices unit which makes the talking Alexa gadgets.
As we have been reporting this week, the tech giant
is planning to cut around 10,000 staff across
the business as the economic L R e e
Michelle Fleury in New York is following the story.
Amazon’s boss Andy Jassy is stepping up his
The online retail giant is aiming to get rid
of about 10,000 jobs.
And among the employees affected are those working
in its Alexa virtual assistant unit, its lunar cloud gaming
division and Lab 126, that the operation behind
All of this Is based on posts that have started popping up
on the job networking website LinkedIn.
So, what are these Amazonians saying?
Well, one employee wrote, "I’m joining many others
who are experiencing the feelings that come
with losing your dream job”.
Another said, "It’s unfortunate and heartbreaking to learn this
before the holidays™.
While another posted, "Although it’s tough
and sad, | think it’s also a new start for me”.
Adding that she was on a tTight timeline” to find a new job.
And that’s because some workers aren’t just losing their jobs,
they could lose their right to stay here in
For decades the tech LS ARG L
visas for guest workers who have special skills.
INATLTEL TN AR T is laid off, they have 60
days to find a new job or leave the country.
The lay-off comes as tens of thousands of jobs are being
shared across the tech industry which, after years of
LG PRI ] for tougher times ahead.
To Ukraine now, because an Australian mining
billionaire and his wife have launched an investment fund
aimed at rebuilding the country’s infrastructure.
Philanthropists Andrew and Nicola Forrest are
committing $500 million, N ORI T
LTI R GRS the fund to $100 billion.
Dr Forrest has been LR G- ][
He said Ukraine has R R G U
the world’s first digital green economy once the war is over,
and represents a huge opportunity for investors.
This will be a very attractive investment for anyone
who knows economic history.
You’ve seen the post-World War reconstruction,
the miracle economy of Japan, South Korea, of Germany.
But this will be different and stronger.
Their cap came in years later.
This will come in at LRI R G R A A
investment really needs it, where their primary
infrastructure really Y R N e e 0l
| feel that it would be ER s B i
I’m inviting other investors, professional investors,
institutions, sovereign funds to consider economic history
and then take into account, this is a people who haven’t
suffered for years and years and years pre-war and then
a long, drawn-out war like, say, World War II.
This is a people who are smart, Y N R iR
who are energized, and this war will end.
And when it does, Ukrainian people who love their country,
hard-working, intelligent, I L R G R
And that will become R iRl
Finally to Dubai, TN ENES L R GIR
Is showcasing "100 ideas that could change the world™.
The Prototypes for Humanity event brings together young
academics from 450 colleges, from the US to Nigeria
to Mexico and Azerbaijan, looking for inventions that
could have a positive impact on society, health,
AR R G- Vil i e
Tadeu Baldani is the Director of Prototypes for Humanity.
Thanks sc much for
Thanks so much for being on the programme. So this is where we
programme. So this is where we get the idea is, the innovation
get the idea is, the innovation that
get the idea is, the innovation Ela i
get the idea is, the innovation that will provide solutions to
that will provide solutions to )
that will provide solutions to N R R ek
that will provide solutions to some of the world’s biggest
some of the world’s biggest 1] ]I
some of the world’s biggest problems. Talk
some of the world’s biggest O R F T
some of the world’s biggest problems. Talk us through what
problems. Talk us through what you
problems. Talk us through what T
problems. Talk us through what you are finding out. It
problems. Talk us through what IR S
problems. Talk us through what you are finding out. It is the
you are finding out. It is the R
you are finding out. It is the I e
you are finding out. It is the IR e |
you are finding out. It is the most diverse and comprehensive
most diverse and comprehensive 0\
most diverse and comprehensive F VA
most diverse and comprehensive assembly of ideas from students
assembly of ideas from students Tee I8t
assembly of ideas from students from universities across the
from universities across the e
from universities across the world. What
from universities across the G IRTY EY SV
from universities across the world. What you see is an
world. What you see is an N0
world. What you see is an ACEE LR CI
world. What you see is an increasing interest in spending
increasing interest in spending S i)
increasing interest in spending time in solutions
increasing interest in spending IR A R it e
increasing interest in spending AR A R )
time in solutions for the 0 I
time in solutions for the problems affecting people and
IO R (Tad [ T L Ty T o 8118 s AT
IO R (Tad [ T L Ty T communities on a global scale
communities on a global scale and also locally. So for the
and also locally. So for the young people coming up with
young people coming up with ey
young people coming up with A
young people coming up with NI AGEEE]
young people coming up with these ideas and solutions, what
these ideas and solutions, what 3
these ideas and solutions, what TRy
these ideas and solutions, what is the key issue for them?
these ideas and solutions, what OO ARGk
is the key issue for them? | think they have a lot of
think they have a lot of freedom
think they have a lot of e s B
think they have a lot of freedom inside University,
freedom inside University, Y e
freedom inside University, o e B
freedom inside University, which is exactly what they need
which is exactly what they need to investigate the issues that
to investigate the issues that may not necessarily be covered
may not necessarily be covered -
may not necessarily be covered by the
may not necessarily be covered VRO
may not necessarily be covered by the private sector. After
by the private sector. After that,
by the private sector. After T 1)
by the private sector. After G E PRI R
by the private sector. After that, one of the key
by the private sector. After OE R R NG AU
that, one of the key missions N
that, one of the key missions e
O E T RO RO TR GRS E of our programme, it is to
of our pregramme, it is to enable
R DEl T [ R N E el ey
of our programme, it is to enable connections between
enable connections between academia and the public sector,
academia and the public sector, to
academia and the public sector, G ]
academia and the public sector, to allow a lot
academia and the public sector, G R
academia and the public sector, to allow a lot of these
to allow a lot of these innovations to
to allow a lot of these AT A A R e e i)
to allow a lot of these IR R e e
to allow a lot of these innovations to come to fruition
innovations to come to fruition and reach
innovations to come to fruition IRl R s
innovations to come to fruition and reach the people and the
and reach the people and the communities that they were
communities that they were LG
communities that they were designed for. Is there one
designed for. Is there one issue
designed for. Is there one TR s
designed for. Is there one TN ]
designed for. Is there one issue that’s a challenge for
issue that’s a challenge for )
issue that’s a challenge for the world, Like climate
issue that’s a challenge for the world, like climate change
the world, like climate change e
the world, like climate change IS ] CH
the world, like climate change for example, that is dominating
for example, that is dominating when
for example, that is dominating Y RV
for example, that is dominating when you look at the ideas
when you look at the ideas coming in, and
when you look at the ideas IR LR G
when you look at the ideas coming in, and the innovations?
coming in, and the innovations? |
coming in, and the innovations? Ko e
coming in, and the innovations? | think we have
coming in, and the innovations? B R RN ]
coming in, and the innovations? | think we have two important
| think we have two important ST
| think we have two important groups. One, the very topical
groups. One, the very topical N
groups. One, the very topical NS
groups. One, the very topical I TN Y)Y
groups. One, the very topical ones, like energy transition
ones, like energy transition and
ones, like energy transition IR e
ones, like energy transition and disaster alleviation, that
and disaster alleviation, that 3
and disaster alleviation, that E I
and disaster alleviation, that is becoming so
and disaster alleviation, that R I R E L
Is becoming so apparent AN
Is becoming so apparent everywhere we look today. And
everywhere we look today. And )
everywhere we look today. And RO I PR
everywhere we look today. And the other, ever present
the other, ever present challenges like climate change
challenges like climate change and
challenges like climate change NIl
challenges like climate change and access to health
challenges like climate change LR e RN iRl
challenges like climate change and access to health care. Just
and access to health care. Just Al
and access to health care. Just tell us
and access to health care. Just BT
and access to health care. Just tell us how this works. You
tell us how this works. You have
tell us how this works. You [ FNRYI
tell us how this works. You [ EVRY TN
tell us how this works. You have your event this week.
have your event this week. I
EYRNTI T G LRV & Those who
EYRNTI T G LRV & L R G IEL)
EYRNTI T G LRV & Those who grab attention,
QU EYTRYT T G RV Those who grab attention, whose
Those who grab attention, whose RS
Those who grab attention, whose ideas and solutions are
Those who grab attention, whose L T L ]
Those who grab attention, whose ideas and solutions are seen as
ideas and solutions are seen as among the best, do they get
among the best, do they get I
among the best, do they get investment, do they become
investment, do they become reality,
investment, do they become G AR %1
investment, do they become reality, what happens next?
reality, what happens next? e
reality, what happens next? That’s ocur
reality, what happens next? That’s our job, we
reality, what happens next? L EL R RN T
reality, what happens next? That’s our job, we are starting
That’s our job, we are starting e
That’s our job, we are starting Tl )
That’s our job, we are starting N K G
That’s our job, we are starting out to design a mechanism to
out to design a mechanism to I
out to design a mechanism to EITR T
out to design a mechanism to allow private and public
allow private and public companies
allow private and public N ERI R )
allow private and public companies to on-board the
companies to on-board the Sy
companies to on-board the EIN R
companies to on-board the NIRRT
companies to on-board the &I G R G R RN TN
companies to on-board the talents that we bring to Dubai,
talents that we bring to Dubal, and
talents that we bring to Dubal, R )
talents that we bring to Dubal, and the technologies. The
and the technologies. The hypothesis that some of
and the technologies. The G AR G ST R RO
hypothesis that some of these TN )
hypothesis that some of these issues are significantly
Issues are significantly ] 33
Issues are significantly ] R
Issues are significantly W SRR
Issues are significantly complex to be addressed just by
complex to be addressed just by academia or just by the public
academia or just by the public sector. ..
academia or just by the public sector... We are designing a
sector... We are designing a platform to bring them together
platform to bring them together and take
platform to bring them together IR R )
platform to bring them together and take these innovations
platform to bring them together DR R N el 2 el el r e
and take these innovations to )
and take these innovations to R G
and take these innovations to the people and the communities
the people and the communities they
the people and the communities S A G
the people and the communities they were designed for. Some of
they were designed for. Some of )
they were designed for. Some of R G
they were designed for. Some of the people here were awarded
the people here were awarded academic
the people here were awarded EI& L o g P
the people here were awarded EI& L [ g F
the people here were awarded academic prizes, a total of
academic prizes, a total of $100,000 covering the
CI=To LTyl o IgF LI R (1 W0 $100,000 covering the issues of
$100,000 covering the issues of ¥
$100,000 covering the issues of health, society, environment
health, society, environment and corporate solutions. Thank
and corporate solutions. Thank (/N
and corporate solutions. Thank VPR IS AN
and corporate solutions. Thank VRIS R
and corporate solutions. Thank you, interesting to hear about
you, interesting to hear about your
you, interesting to hear about LT
you, interesting to hear about your event. Just before we go,
your event. Just before we go, Y
your event. Just before we go, EE3 018
your event. Just before we go, EES 1A I
your event. Just before we go, a story on our website at the
a story on our website at the e
a story on our website at the T e a e e 0L
a story on our website at the T et e oL L]
a story on our website at the moment about a microchip
moment about a microchip wWpi]eElp
moment about a microchip company based in South Wales,
company based in South Wales, )
company based in South Wales, the British
company based in South Wales, ORI
company based in South Wales, the British government is now
RGN NG R saying the
the British government is now saying the takeover by a
saying the takeover by a Chinese
saying the takeover by a Nl
saying the takeover by a Chinese owned company must be
Chinese owned company must be T )
Chinese owned company must be reversed because of
Chinese owned company must be T R R A E e el
reversed because of national security issues. The firm
security issues. The firm Nexperia
security issues. The firm NIRRT
security issues. The firm N T AL
security issues. The firm N R A
security issues. The firm Nexperia says it is shocked and
Nexperia says it is shocked and il
Nexperia says it is shocked and T
Nexperia says it is shocked and will appeal this decision.
will appeal this decision. Semiconductors
will appeal this decision. YNt (o e s T as el ey ]
Semiconductors allow electricity to flow through
electricity to flow through (e
electricity to flow through [ Te R
electricity to flow through e R )
electricity to flow through devices that are extremely
devices that are extremely L
devices that are extremely XLl
devices that are extremely sought after, of course, going
sought after, of course, going Ty
sought after, of course, going into many devices that we use.
into many devices that we use. A global shortage at the
A global shortage at the e
A global shortage at the moment, and the deal has come
moment, and the deal has come sl d
moment, and the deal has come under scrutiny for a lot of
under scrutiny for a lot of I
under scrutiny for a lot of T I AR
under scrutiny for a lot of reasons. The latest
under scrutiny for a lot of T AR LR R A N
under scrutiny for a lot of T R LR A IRt
reasons. The latest line from )
reasons. The latest line from i
reasons. The latest line from R QT g i
reasons. The latest line from the UK Government. If you want
the UK Government. If you want to know more, read all about it
to know more, read all about it on our
to know more, read all about it Ma ey
to know more, read all about it on our website. Goodbye, | hope
on our website. Goodbye, | hope you’ve enjoyed the programme,
you’ve enjoyed the programme, T
you’ve enjoyed the programme, R ]
you’ve enjoyed the programme, LB TR
L CRVLEN G IR T pretty unsettled for
the next couple of days.
We’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places,
a risk of some localized flooding, too.
And It’s all because of one area of low pressure
which is expected to hang around for Thursday and Friday,
S AN CRE (T E NGRS
eventually fizzles out.
This is the low pressure system I’m talking about,
moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back
northwards and westwards across the country during Thursday
and Friday, where it slowly R (N (R G
but it’s going to bring a lot of rain and fairly
strong winds at times.
Now, we start Thursday off on a really chilly note
for western Scotland, Northern Ireland, got
some frost and fog here but elsewhere where we have
the cloud, the wind and the rain then temperatures
remaining between five and nine degrees.
But a really thoroughly wet day to come for Thursday.
Our area of low pressure, as you can see here,
slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
Some heavy rain for eastern Scotland, northern England,
North Wales, eastern England, the strongest of the winds
along the North Sea R e e
Probably the best of any brighter weather after that
chilly start, Northern Ireland and across the south
and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere
particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
And then through Thursday night, the rain continues
to pile into eastern Scotland.
A few showers elsewhere into Northern Ireland,
some wet weather for northern England and North Wales,
probably the driest weather towards the south
of the country.
But because there’s more cloud and wind across the whole
of the UK, it won’t be quite as cold | think for many -
seven to nine degrees.
So for Friday there’s our area of low pressure again,
starting to fill at this point in weaken, but it’s still going
to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half
of the country, especially MR AT E sl
By this point, rain really will be accumulating
across Angus, Aberdeenshire - risk of some localised
HGLGIR TR
Something a little bit quieter, | think, for England generally.
Still a few showers around the best of the sunshine on Friday.
Again, parts of Northern Ireland, Wales, central
and southern England.
Up to around 12 degrees there, but distinctly chilly further
north where it will continue to be windy, especially
for the Northern Isles.
LG R Gl 7 R L O E)A
Brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system
moves through during Saturday night into Sunday,
followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
So it starts off fairly dry, | think for many on Saturday,
quite chilly, mind you.
And then wet and windy weather sweeps through Saturday night
to Sunday, and that’ll be followed by sunshine
and showers.
You’re a liar. And you’re a liar. Oh, my God! This game is insane.
Today we’re looking at the state of British politics....
..asking, Is technology ruining football?
Are we too obsessed with our phones? el |- YNa:40
Helen from Hull wants to know, how hot’s the planet going to get?
LU TR PRe IR 1 I e T TS keep going up and up.
Also, Rach, did you know space has its own smell? Really?! What of?
The world is fast-moving and can be confusing.
EY NN ICEI A with Rachel and Rick.
| want to uncover the true Agatha Christie.
She was an incredibly precocious child. She saw terrible things.
No one prepared these girls PTG (A
There’s a reason Agatha Christie
is the bestselling AR R
How many other women AU R IR ORI I8 K
She was a pioneering, radical writer and woman.
So, here’s the experiment.
What would happen if we developed our very own race
team of young drivers and mechanics who haven’t got the connections
and haven’t got the cash but dropped them right in at the deep end?
You steal the parachutes, | will steal an aeroplane.
I’m Oti Mabuse. I’m rediscovering my roots
and meeting trailblazers GG R R G TR G E. SR
We are full of ambitious people.
When you know where you come from, you know where you’re going.
At last, Strictly’s back in the home of ballroom.
Hello, Blackpool!
Get ready for a dazzling night on the dance floor.
What more do you want?
Strictly Come Dancing, live from Blackpool:
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Naga Munchetty
and Charlie Stayt.
Our headlines today.
Tax rises and spending cuts are expected when the Chancellor
Support for households with their energy cost is likely
to be extended beyond April - but average bills will rise.
So what are the hopes of people coping with spiralling costs?
I’m in Gloucester to find R E Y CR I G
are hoping the to get from today’s announcement.
Egg rationing in some shops - QNG TR 4
a temporary issue, R RO AL
going out of business.
Wales have moved their first training session back to cope
with the heat in Qatar today.
While yesterday, all 26 England players were put through their paces
ahead of their World Cup opener.
160 miles in four days and still going strong -
we’re with rugby league star Kevin Sinfield as he takes his
Ultra Marathon challenge for MND charities onto the tough end
And the weather is not going
And the weather Is not going to
And the weather is not going to help. We
And the weather is not going to [ IR EITY
And the weather is not going to help. We have got some heavy rain
help. We have got some heavy rain and strong winds in Central, Eastern
and strong winds in Central, Eastern and
and strong winds in Central, Eastern A e 0k 1gs ]
and strong winds in Central, Eastern GGG Rl
and strong winds in Central, Eastern and southern parts of the country.
and southern parts of the country. To the west, it is cold with frost
To the west, it is cold with frost and
To the west, it is cold with frost T e i)
To the west, it is cold with frost and some dense fog currently
To the west, it is cold with frost RN O IR L RO AT
and some dense fog currently in Northern Ireland.
Details later in the programme.
Good morning. It’s Thursday, the 17th of November.
LR RN TR out his plans on spending cuts
and tax increases in his NI E LU S QTR G ]
Jeremy Hunt has warned that he’s planning
into the economic storm, although he’s also expected
to announce an increase to benefits, tax credits, and state pensions,
and to extend some help with energy bills beyond April.
It’s thought this will be funded by significant tax increases,
as our business correspondent I N N
New Chancellor, the fourth this year, and a new Autumn Statement.
With inflation at its highest in 41 years, and warnings about the UK
facing the longest recession since records began,
the stakes are high, and around the UK people
are already feeling It.
What we usually buy for £2 is now £2.50.
You start worrying how it’s going to impact
immediately, you know, feeding, clothing and heat
Me and my partner have said no presents for each other.
We’ve been together T LR
we’ve never not bought each other RGN G I
and this year we’re not buying each other a Christmas present
because we simply can’t afford to.
So what do we think the Chancellor plans to do?
Firstly, he’s expected to raise R A R LR R
credits in April, by September’s inflation rate.
On energy, there’ll still be a price cap, but it will rise,
so that the typical household will be paying
DN X WV RY Y| &
Currently, they’re paying around £2,500.
Not everyone lives in a typical household, and the cap is on unit
rates, not your bills, which means how much
you pay will still depend on how much energy you actually use.
And there will Likely be tax rises.
Energy companies are expected to be hit by an expanded windfall tax.
The Treasury are expected to say there needs to be cuts to spending
plans, but those will be pushed back until after the general election.
after Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng’s mini-budget,
and the turmoil seen in the markets,
the Treasury feels under pressure to show that it can win credibility
back, while trying to reassure the country
as the economy struggles.
Caroline Davies, BBC News.
We’re joined now by our chief political
correspondent Nick Eardley.
Good morning. The Government as a balancing act to kind of try to get
balancing act to kind of try to get a8
balancing act to kind of try to get right, especially after the last
right, especially after the last Sl
right, especially after the last RG]
right, especially after the last IR I S T
right, especially after the last mini Budget? Yeah, | think
right, especially after the last mini Budget? Yeah, I think it
right, especially after the last mini Budget? Yeah, | think it wants
mini Budget? Yeah, | think it wants to
mini Budget? Yeah, | think it wants VoI
mini Budget? Yeah, I think it wants to avoid exactly what happened in
to avoid exactly what happened in )
to avoid exactly what happened in AR
to avoid exactly what happened in N E i
to avoid exactly what happened in the last mini Budget, which is why
the last mini Budget, which is why Y
the last mini Budget, which is why R (00
the last mini Budget, which is why LA
the last mini Budget, which is why we already know a great deal of what
we already know a great deal of what )
we already know a great deal of what R e
we already know a great deal of what N a
we already know a great deal of what the Chancellor is planning today. He
the Chancellor is planning today. He 3
the Chancellor is planning today. He is going
the Chancellor is planning today. He LR
the Chancellor is planning today. He is going to talk about if facing
s going to talk about if facing into the storm. | think he
s going to talk about if facing RIS TR R N e
s going to talk about if facing RIS TR G i R
into the storm. | think he means the Xeca s
into the storm. | think he means the economic storm, but he has got the
economic storm, but he has got the ]
economic storm, but he has got the pictures today, put it that way. The
pictures today, put it that way. The ]
pictures today, put it that way. The big thing the Government needs to do
big thing the Government needs to do today is to try to persuade voters,
today is to try to persuade voters, MPs and
today Is to try to persuade voters, MPs and the financial markets
today Is to try to persuade voters, e - R E oG B ld S R E] s
MPs and the financial markets that e
MPs and the financial markets that it has a plan, that it
MPs and the financial markets that I ELR G E i
MPs and the financial markets that it has a plan, that it has a
it has a plan, that it has a A )
it has a plan, that it has a sensible economic
it has a plan, that it has a N X n I L
it has a plan, that it has a sensible econemic plan that can

Citation: BBC News, 02:00 17/11/2022, BBC1 London, 240 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C011F3F?bcast=137844817 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)