what was it like recovering in that hospital?
he’s to be transferred to a safe hospital in bristol where surgeons are going to and save hand.
but there will be some road to recovery.
it is straight to the hospital for me, so, not a lot of bristol that will be seeing it for a while.
so we went on this attack on independence day, the whole of the ukrainian frontline pushed forward.
didn’t think he was going to go on the frontline.
so the way these work is that in order to to improve the flow of traffic on the motorways and keep traffic moving, what the government has done here over recent years is bring in these sort of measures.
now, part of the problem was that there were accidents happening there, and as that panorama programme revealed, there had been some 30—plus deaths on some of those motorways in recent years.
hospital bosses are concerned.
malcolm spent the night in a&e at saint thomas’s hospital in london after falling and breaking a finger.
hospital bosses say the needs a period of stability.
what did restrictions on the call to prayer look like before and the change now?
so what did restrictions look like re and how did this change come bout, and now?
so the way these work is that in order to to improve the flow of traffic on the motorways and keep traffic moving, what the government has done here over recent years is bring in these sort of measures.
now, part of the problem was that there were accidents happening there, and as that panorama programme revealed, there had been some 30—plus deaths on some of those motorways in recent years.
so what did restrictions look like before and how did this change come about, and now?
talked to families and individuals who said this their children never get to experience and for many of our neighbours and our community members who are not muslim, they are extremely welcoming and so tremendous support and excitement and think we have set a precedent spacex plans to carry out its first test flight on monday of starship, the most powerful rocket ever built, designed to send astronauts to the moon and eventually beyond.
l1 carries crew and cargo and the first—stage super heavy booster rocket.
reactions to it being signed were largely positive.
for the generation to come, it be fantastic, one for the generation to come, it = 1 1 for the generation to come, it will be fantastic, one of the test things in our history, nyway.
but in some areas of the city, like here in west belfast, where walls that separate the two sides of the community tower over houses — and, in some cases, run through people’s back gardens — peace isn’t something that’s a certainty.
john hume and other peace builders were once john hume and those peace builders at their peak wasn’t in my lifetime, so we do have that new opportunity.
the area has seen a surge in drug-related violence in recent years.
thousands of christians filled jerusalem’s old city on saturday for an important orthodox easter ritual, despite restrictions by israeli police.
church leaders urged christians to ignore restrictions and criticised the police presence at the event.
a sacred, ancient symbol of scotland’s monarchy known ernment 70 of scotland’s monarchy known government in exico ave covid government in mexico have killed people including a child attack in waterpark —— gunmen in mexico have led 0 8 people, including a ild, in attack on a aterpark in exico.
i’m in seoul, south korea, for the first time since the pandemic, and i’m looking for signs of this hyper—advanced nation’s continued push into - of which my banana latte is a small sign.
please wear a face mask for the health of the people it’s no surprise this policy was given a boost by covid, when we were all encouraged not to touch anything or be near anyone.
it went viral, but not in the way they’d hoped.
: testing out my voice clone.
the company’s terms and conditions are clear that you can only clone your own voice, but not everyone has abided by its rules.
99% of commenters are kind of positive, that we’ve seen, and for less than 1% of what was generated, it was usually against terms of service — whether it was hate speech or variations of that.
mark nitzberg is a professor at berkeley’s research asked him whether we should presidential elections in 2024, we’ll very likely see many more deepfakes than we did in the last cycle, just 8 and i’m not sure what measures we are taking to counter what effect that might have.
but the conflict is no doubt rewriting the rules of engagement online.
her types involve keeping = shoulder opening it up at peak times xtra lane.
