but on a more positive note, what we do see is a stronger impetus for policymakers to quickly shift gear in other words, we learned our lesson from the pandemic expect the unexpected.
remember in 2020, when the world came together to diagnose what the covid crisis was and then stepped up to support businesses and households?
covid put digital in india - quite an impressive growth and very good performance we see the concentration in africa on diversifying to future shocks.
you know, think we’re really at the moment at a somewhat perfect storm in a negative sense that we see hoth the financial and economic crisis unfolding and at the same time, seeing the sustainability challenges that the planet is facing, you know, colliding at the same time.
as armed police guard the hospital, families wait cutside.
it’s the second day of the australian open biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting, none more to the competition for the first time since being against covid-19.
any people thought he should have followed the rules.
eing this gative towards o1 0s being this negative towards a 01 a being this negative towards women should not be part of e, it should be in general, women take a lot of crap, you will, use my language.
i so, the use cases for this are suggested to be, first of all, training, so you can train people to use equipment and they get a aar - also, design - you could design a new car, for example, and run your fingers rgn0 before it actually exists.
getting back up towards its pre-pandemic size.
the question, of course, is whether these hig expos have permanently changed as a result of covid.
after three years of the pandemic, think this feels phenomenal, and the excitement, the crowds.
there are two countries that have the world’s attention you’ve got china with a covid explosion, and you’ve got russia with its invasion of ukraine.
i’ve come out here to test an automatic car inspection app called raven.
but the covid pandemic is really proven the importance of innovation in the area.
and a few weeks ago, in a collaboration with merck, moderna announced positive results of a phase trial from its personalised - i’ve been talking to the of moderna, stephane bancel, and asked him what he thinks 4 think as we move away from chemotherapy and into immunotherapy and personalised treatment, think we will start to see less side effects of what we saw with chemo, which was very drastic, chemo was going with a a big hammer on everything and very hard for cancer patients.
what we know today which we didn’t know 20 years from now it’s a mutation in our 4 % you have, so what we do then is we make a product for one human being, so we build a robot to make product for one human being at a time.
it takes us around 60 days, having been by the time we launch, it will be around 30 days, from the biopsy like a covid vaccine, getting in your arm, the medicine that is made just for you, for your cancer, designed based on the sequence then is it one vaccine, is it a series of vaccines?
our rebokeh app spent about a year in beta with about 100 beta users, where our sole goal was to solicit feedback from people with vision impairment, optometrists, ophthalmologists.
as armed police guard the hospital, families wait cutside.
none more so than fans of novak djokovic, who’s returning to the competition for the first time since being deported from australia because he wasn’t vaccinated against covid-19.
37 deaths per 1,000 people.
the death rate was the highest since 1976 and was higher in 2022 than it was in 2021 no reason has been given but the number of deaths coincides with outbreaks of covid-19 - an illness which china has blamed for relatively few deaths.
this has been going on for years, and that’s think it’s also important to recognise that this is not just about covid or the last three years.
as armed police guard the hospital, families wait cutside.
novak djokovic is getting ready to compete in the australian open a year after being banned due to covid.
it’s the second day of the australian open biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting, none more so than fans of novak djokovic who’s returning to the competition for the first time since being against covid-19.
pandemic, you cannot solve it.
but the pandemic surely taught us that the complex trading relationships that the has helped build over the last few decades, they break down, whether it’s because of a pandemic and everything that came with it in terms of restrictions on travel and trade, or whether it be a1 51 whatever the cause, the fact a 18" well, let me let me disagree with you slightly, stephen.
are vulnerabilities in the way our global supply chains are built, and the pandemic and the war in ukraine pointed out those vulnerabilities.
to the problem in the pandemic.
they also have the largest number of cases brought against them, 157.
in the words of the australian government, "china is increasingly testing the global "trade rules and norms by engaging in practices "that "that are utterly inconsistent there are some people around the world who think you’re are you?
some of the agreements and rules were made prior to the time that china came a member in 2001 of this organisation.
let’s take the subsidies and countervailing measures agreement - that was made in 1995, at the time that now things have changed substantially.
south korea, others who feel that the inflation reduction act, in their opinion, breaches rules, they have to address, have a dialogue with the united states.
absolutely no export restrictions on food, humanitarian supplies, so that the world food programme can purchase, get access easily and be able feeding who are hungry secondly, they agreed in a declaration that they’ll keep restrictions on food down, and we were at about 78 restrictions.
we want us to phase out as many restrictions as we possibly can, so it’s a net contribution to making food cheaper i have to end with this very simple question.
now let’s take you to australia it’s day two at the australian open in melbourne, but the scorching heat halted outdoor matches, = o1 ¢ put to their ultimate test.
he wants it a number 10 win at the open and year he was a 3 ensationally deported from the when arrived because country when he arrived because of australia’s country when he arrived because of australia’s strict border i laula rules.
he was unvaccinated for covid-19 rules.
he was unvaccinated for id-19 and that saw him out and covid-19 and that saw him out i - and out of the tournament entirely.
the battle to keep skilled workers - the latest jobless and we find out what are the latest cunsumer trends that will shape we begin in china where we’ve just had a slew of data that shows how deep the impact of both the pandemic and its demographics is having on society and the economy.
excluding the year covid hit in 2020, this is china’s worst showing in nearly 50 years.
many population experts think this is going to usher a period of likely usher in a period of decline in china’'s opulation bers.
and decline in china’s population i rs.
and the reason for this being problematic is what demographic decline.
really basically what this is meaning is this e- surge in covid cases is current surge in covid cases is likely current surge in covid cases is 1 likely to further exacerbate this preblem.
we’ve been very i 01 ried about china mainly because of the covid related mpact but certainly these e-pandemic structural issues 4 come back to the fore.
there are many issues of course that dated the pandemic.
we know that wouldn’t be reached use of the problem € because of the problem with 0 covid.
there’s zero lockdown policies.
covid.
there’s zero lockdown 101 cies.
however, that lifting of restrictions, ad ter than many had anticipated, very much think some hope that early gives some hope that very early
i on in the first quarter of this we’ll see some recovery in ctivity and many hope a nsumption-led recovery and t’s what’s been outlook, a consumption-driven, timent-driven recovery at st.
people rough covid used to working in different patterns.
online shopping is also undergoing a people led revolution, general browsing and researching products online is in decline, with many consumers shifting to social media sites such as tiktok and instagram for trends and user generated recommendations.
and so where viral technology come into is thing?
we have a trend alled young and disruptive, is all about generation z, were hit hard by the pandemic pandemic at a crucial stage of life and they all their life and they are all about online and platforms like ok and they are looking for thentic interaction tiktok and they are looking for tedl a tiktok
