the authorities say the deaths were caused by home-made fireworks.
the sad thing is when peak with hem, as ave with you speak with them, as have with ' family back in afghanistan, even they are living in tough though they are living in tough situations, they think about their ies back in afghanistan.
but are they a positive thing?
well, first of all, of course, you need to maybe also ask if everything has to have a positive effect on the way we see it as humans.
the opposition, for eir part, have responded by saying government is out of touch and utting the country on a of managed decline.
1% in august - in line with inflation during the peak of the cost-of-living crisis.
etween the long-term easures, in ense this is the oblem that 4 problem that the chancellor measures, in a sense this is the problem that the chancellor has, has been anaemic, he is growth has been anaemic, he is going, well, we avoided recession, growth figures are pretty but the growth figures are pretty anaemic, and the economy will shrink lightly, although not hit the very slightly, although not hit the technical measure of two quarters in ssion restriction which succession of restriction which ould make it a recession.
that will be, ings will be better, but much etter, so the question is oing to be for people at home, und the , they are going to around the , they are not going to feel very different, really, in ple of ears down the line, and the measures in this, they might some impact, the measures in this, they might the measures in this, they might have some impact, in terms of ing people into the workforce, but those will ake ime, so the childcare thing is a big deal, urse.
and they say there uld be a bigger shift that the vernment could be g, bringing government could be doing, bringing to the economy, not these measures, is is a big thing, tr4 big things
the chancellor said there a % decline in he space has been a 9% decline in the space of the year in terms of the number ople working as childminders 2 -t and he wants to create an incentive or them to register and therefore into workforce.
nurseries are suffering, the funding not cover the staffing it does not cover the staffing osts, and resources we need, to - cate the children, all of this ill have a negative impact on how a sery can run.
as an industry we manufacturing company, and we reasonably all, the are reasonably small, so the key 1 are the physical ones, the orporation tax going from 19 to small ompany is neither here there and the recovery of capital investment is a nor there and the recovery of capital investment is a restatement was repackaged holding what of what was there before and repackaged holding what was the i deduction from the previous years
back are generally the long term sick and disabled and although there were some budget measures for that group, clearly £1 billion spent on tax breaks on pensions is €1 billion not available for cutting mental health waiting lists and all those kind of things.
haven’t had of covid?
haven’t had conversations like that with of rents, it’s only my parents, it’s only been positive of that one of my parents is on arch today.
the chancellor says we are not to accept being the worst going to accept being the worst rforming major economy in the g7, recognise the fact we are the \ major economy has not as not i only major economy that has not to its pre-pandemic level we re going to correct that and they be hope and ambition but it is ore of will be hope and ambition but it is - aie more of the same.
a - what about the tax incentives for business invest and some of the measures encouraging people who are king age but not working?
authorities say the deaths were caused by home-made fireworks.
was oping there might have been more isive action with hoping there might have been more a action with measures to tackle the cost decisive action with measures to tackle the cost of living crisis.
one of the unifying in british politics is that 4 country faces a problem with and people say that the is growing as well as some of the not growing as well as some of the furozone countries and the and g7 ountries, we have not other g7 countries, we have not unced back from the pandemic, so holds growth back?
the creators of the viral artifiical intelligence platform, the upgrade means it can respond to images as well as words, suggesting recipe ideas from a picture of ingredients captions and descriptions.
indeed the very first anywhere to license a covid vaccine.
for a small research n4 but a very ambitious company like ourselves where we are really on the research in the like ourselves where we are really i focused on the research in the field of nfectious diseases for lnerable populations, we develop ibodies, and companies ours antibodies, and companies like ours
because lief which is essentially a overnment reinvestment in what we our sector, allows us to go deeper nto the cience, longer into science it llows us to the science and it allows us to 103 loy more scientists and it gives high probability of success in ching our which is reaching our goal which is developing these very innovative ines for vulnerable medicines for vulnerable populations.
the infectious diseases that we are focused on are € vid and flu and we have seen the vastating effects of those 0 eases especially on hose where vaccines diseases especially on those where diseases especially on those where vaccines have limited value and l1 times not at all because the populations do not the immune response so you have to put tibody in hem.
of managed decline, falling behind our competitors, the sick man of europe once again.
1% in august, in line with inflation during the peak of the cost-of-living crisis.
