Those cold Arctic winds, though, are out into the North Sea
on Wednesday and we start to see our weather coming in from the Atlantic,
so that’s not such a cold direction. The winds will be a lot lighter
on Wednesday as well, and after a chilly start we’ll see cloud amounts
tending to increase, although many places will be dry.
Now, it won’t feel as cold but it’s still cold for the time of year.
Those temperatures are way below what they should be
at this time of the year. And we’ve got an area of low pressure
arriving across northern parts of the UK
with that weather front turning it a little wetter and windier
across the northwest of Scotland
and we’ll see that cloud thickening as it moves down
and brings some rain into other parts of Scotland
and Northern Ireland through the day. Much of England and Wales
will be dry. It’ll be a cold, potentially frosty start
in the south, 3 lot of cloud to come, but those temperatures are
rising to the heady heights of 11 or 12 degrees.
Still not great for this time of year.
Weather front that’s bringing the rain in the north
then tracks its way southwards across the UK as we head
into Friday as that low pressure moves away.
And you can see we’ve got this line of rain. Uncertainty as to how
quickly it’ll move away from southern parts of England.
Once it does, though, there’ll be some sunshine and some showers,
the wind direction goes back to a northerly,
we get colder air coming down the north,
and those showers turn wintry in northern Scotland
as temperatures drop away. We’re not expecting a surge of cold air,
though, across the UK next weekend.
High pressure is going to block that off
and sit across the southern half of the UK.
Will allow some weather systems to come in from the Atlantic
into some of that colder air across mainly northern parts of Scotland.
So, you ran see from our city forecast
there’s not a great deal of wet weather
as we head into the outlook.
It’s going to be largely dry,
still cold at night,
but gradually by day those
temperatures should be rising to nearer normal values.
The best—dressed show in town is back! Yay!
How are we all? Very excited!
They all look great.
Your time starts now.
While the needles are stitching...
Chill! ..the dock keeps ticking.
Sewers, you’ve had half your time.
Who’ll be the first to come apart at the seams?
It’s quite sexy, isn’t it?
Ooh, you are awful.
I heard what you said, and I like it.
It’s all so beautiful, isn’t it?
The return of The Great British Sewing Bee...
# Got a secret
# Can you keep it?
# Swear this one you’ll save... #
They found Alison’s body.
WHISPERING: It’sJenna.
PHONES RING # Taking this one to the grave... #
"I’m still here."
ALL: "And I know everything — A."
You rest assured I will find out what happened.
# Cos two can keep a secret
# If one of them is dead. #
THEY SCREAM
Friends share secrets — that’s what keep us close.
The secret’s out.
The warning is stark.
TRANSLATION: The number of Covid—19 cases reported
in the past 2A hours is alarming and is a matter
of concern.
It could turn into a hazardous situation.
Almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases,
which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
If the cases increase in this proportion, the impact
of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of Covid—19 in India,
the country recording 12.5 million infections.
On Sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest
level since September with more than 93,000.
More than half of those were in Maharashtra,
the state facing tighter restrictions from Monday.
That includes a night—time curfew and full lockdown
on weekends.
TRANSLATION: This is a very good decision by the government
as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain
of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very
beneficialfor all of us.
Stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task,
virus is a mammoth task, tickling in a country with a
tickling in a country with a population of 1.3 billion.
—— particularly.
Despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive,
so far administering more than 68 million doses,
it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
Tanya Dendrinos, BBC News.
Aid groups in Mozambique say nearly 10,000 people have been
evacuated from the northern town of Palma, which was
recently attacked by Islamist militants.
The Mozambican authorities say thousands are still hiding
in the forests surrounding the area, in desperate need
of food and water.
The BBC’s Vumani Mkhize brings us this report from nearby
Pemba, where many victims have sought refuge.
This man hasjust gotten off the rescue ferry
at Pemba harbour.
His tears are for his dead father, his brother still
missing.
All morning, they arrived, a steady procession of over
1,000 survivors grateful to be alive, but in shock.
They spoke of decapitations, bodies on the streets,
and fleeing through dense forest from the gun—wielding
insurgents.
This distraught woman lost two sons during the attack.
TRANSLATION: It hurts a lot.
Every day, we saw mothers crying.
Three, four of their children — they don’t know where they are.
It’s too painful.
GUNFIRE.
Isis—linked insurgents began the coordinated attack on Palma
just over a week ago, killing indiscriminately
and displacing thousands.
The official death toll is still not yet known and,
according to the UN, tens of thousands of people
have been displaced.
Among those missing is British man Philip Mawer.
His family fear the worst.
As victims made their way out of the besieged town,
doctors struggled to keep up with the wounded.
We could not help everybody.
I mean, the need was huge there.
This population is really in need of medical care,
protection and evacuation, and food.
I’m at a local community sports complex that’s been converted
into a makeshift shelter for survivors of the deadly
attack in Palma.
Now, these are some of the victims who have come
here seeking shelter and refuge following the horrors
that they encountered at the hands of the insurgents.
The people that made their way off the boat
are the lucky ones.
Thousands remain scattered in the forest
surrounding Palma.
Many will not survive.
And with reports of an ongoing conflict in Palma, Mozambique
will struggle to keep up
with the escalated humanitarian crisis.
—— with the escalating humanitarian crisis.
Vumani Mkhize, BBC News, Pemba, Mozambique.
To the US now.
Emergency workers in Florida are trying to prevent
catastrophic flooding as after a leak in a toxic
wasterwater reservoir.
This is all happening in Florida’s Tampa Bay,
where the Piney Point Reservoir is located.
More than 300 homes have been evacuated.
This is the wastewater reservoir which contains 480
million gallons — that’s over 2 billion litres —
of polluted water.
And this is the leak itself, which is now a week old.
Efforts to plug it have failed so workers are now using these
pipes to pump dozens of gallons out to prevent any flooding,
should the containment wall break.
Here’s Governor Ron DeSantis on the emergency response
efforts.
To be clear, the water being discharged to Port Manatee
is not radioactive.
It is primarily saltwater from the Port Manatee dredge
project, mixed with legacy process water and stormwater
run—off.
We’re currently pumping out 33 million gallons per day.
This new process will help to significantly increase
the volume of water that we are pumping out
at Piney Point.
I asked Florida’s Agriculture Commissioner Nikki Fried what’s
happening in her home state.
So what is happening is that this is an old phosphate mining
this is an old phosphate mining location, where the phosphate
location, where the phosphate mining has stopped for many,
mining has stopped for many, many years but unfortunately,
many years but unfortunately, this has been something that
this has been something that has been on the radar
this has been something that has been on the radarfor the
has been on the radar for the department
has been on the radarfor the department of and for
department of and for protection for decades that, in
protection for decades that, in fact, there were leaks in the
fact, there were leaks in the piping, which is exactly what
piping, which is exactly what has happened, and these flumes
has happened, and these ﬂumes in the
has happened, and these flumes in the water would start to
in the water would start to kind of seep into the bay and
kind of seep into the bay and out of the water and so while
out of the water and so whila it is not
out of the water and so while it is not radioactive, it is
it is not radioactive, it is extremely filled with nutrients
extremely filled with nutrients that when they collide with
that when they collide with
something like Tampa Bay and the water he created by the
the water he created by the tired so right now the EPA has
tired so right now the EPA has unsuccessfully stopped the
unsuccessfuuy stopped the spill
unsuccessfully stopped the spill into the waterways but
spill into the waterways but unfortunately, at some point,
unfortunately, at some point, all of this is going to have to
all of this is going to have to be drained, significant
be drained, significant problems here and it could end
problams here and it could end “P
problems here and it could end up being a tremendously
up being a tremendously detrimental environmental
detrimental environmental disaster here in the state of
disaster here in the state of Florida. Just how preventable
Florida. just how preventable was this,
Florida. Just how preventable was this, in your opinion?
was this, in your opinion? Extremely preventable. This was
Extremely preventable. This was something that back even in the
something that back even in the late 905 early 2000 was told to
late 905 earty 2000 was told to the
late 905 early 2000 was told to the governors of our state over
the governors of our state over 20 plus years was made aware
20 plus years was made aware that this is a disaster waiting
that this is a disaster waiting to happen and it is not
that this is a disaster waiting to happen and it is notjust
to happen and it is not just this mining
to happen and it is notjust this mining location, we’ve got
this mining location, we’ve got other phosphate mining places
other phosphate mining places all across
all across the state of Florida and unfortunately, the past 20
and unfortunately, the past 20 years have been under one
years have been under one party’s
years have been under one pa rty’s control have
years have been under one party’s control have really
party’s control have really kind of spent time deregulating
kind of spent time deregulating and not having enough
and not having enough attention, financial resources,
attention, financial resources, this is something that should
this is something that should have been addressed 20 years
have been addressed 20 years ago but unfortunately now, we
ago but unfortunately now, we are hitting a historic disaster
are hitting a historic disaster here in the state because
here in the state because action was not taken, even our
action was not taken, even our current governor and you heard
current governor and you heard eartier
current governor and you heard earlier tonight,
current governor and you heard earliertonight, he
current governor and you heard earlier tonight, he was made
eartier tonight, he was made aware
earlier tonight, he was made aware of this situation last
aware of this situation last year and unfortunately, he also
year and unfortunately, he also took no action to have
took no action to have prevented these leaks and this
prevented these leaks and this a priority for the states are
a priority for the states are not only are there homes
not only are there homes in the area but are really going to be
area but are really going to be impacted but also the
impacted but also the ecosystem, the environment, the
ecosystem, the environment, the fish and life in that community
fish and life in that community so resourcing retired on our
so resourcing retired on our coastal communities will not
coastal communities will not only mean the killing of our
only mean the killing of our fish but all of those
fish but all of those communities are our impact on
communities are our impact on the economic revenue from
the economic revenue from people coming and visiting but
peopla coming and visiting but these
people coming and visiting but these communities are also of
these communities are also of their survival rate is based on
their survival rate is based on the fishing industry that will
the fishing industry that will collapse and we will start
collapse and we will start seeing a lot of these red tie
seeing a lot of these red tie and algae blooms loss and
and algae blooms loss and because of this discharge
because of this discharge coming from the mining
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come:
Often someone’s best friend
and often a lifeline in lockdown,
but what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
This funeral became a massive demonstration of Black power.
The power to influence.
Today is about the promise of a bright future.
A day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
I think that Picasso’s works were beautiful,
they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody
who loves art.
This is BBC News.
The latest headlines:
A royal crisis inJordan — former crown prince Hamza says
he’s under house arrest, accused of plotting
to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions in India’s worst affected state
of Maharashtra — as the country records
the world’s highest number of daily infections.
Pope Francis has used his Easter Urbi et Orbi message
to focus on the victims of coronavirus.
He urged a quickening of the vaccine rollout
around the world.
Our Rome correspondent Mark Lowen reports.
St Peter’s Basilica echoed to its emptiness.
Beneath Michelangelo’s dome, a small group of worshippers
gathering for Easter mass, more a consolation
than a celebration, a time to reflect on a painful year
and for the leader of the world’s Catholics
to comfort those whose faith has been shaken.
Pope Francis focused on the pandemic in his message,
calling the resurrection of Christa symbol of hope
for those who had lost loved ones, jobs, and time
with friends or in the classroom.
And he spoke of the panacea.
TRANSLATION: Vaccines are an essential tool
in this fight.
I urge the entire international community in a spirit of global
responsibility to commit to overcoming delays
in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their
distribution, especially in the poorest countries.
The Pope talked of conflict across the world, condemning
what he called "Scandalous military spending amidst
the pandemic."
There were words too for the victims of the Burmese
coup.
TRANSLATION: I am close to young people from all over
the world, and at this time especially to those of Myanmar
who are committed to democracy, making their voices heard
peacefully, aware that hatred can only be dissipated by love.
Churches could stay open today despite the whole of Italy
being put into the tightest Covid restrictions.
But the measures were strict with Italians battling
a third wave.
With shops and restaurants closed across the country,
it’s a second straight lockdown Easter.
"It’s just a few of us at lunch today," she says.
"We were hoping for a faster solution to all of this."
"I’m meeting with my family today, my mother has already
been vaccinated, so we are beginning to see light
at the end of the tunnel," he says.
Not a moment too soon for the medics, who managed
a touch of Easter cheer today and some sweet treats.
How they keep their spirits up is itself a miracle,
giving us all hope that real joy isn’t too far off.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Rome.
Exit polls for Bulgaria’s parliamentary election suggest
the centre—right party of Prime Minister
Boyko Borissov has won the most votes with around 25%.
If confirmed, he will need the support of others
to continue governing.
Mr Borissov’s main challengers are the pro—Russia Socialists,
with approximately 16 percent of the votes,
according to the exit polls.
The elections were held in spite of high levels
of coronavirus infections.
The swimmer Rikako Ikee has qualified
for the Tokyo Olympics three years after being
diagnosed with leukaemia.
The 20—year—old athlete won the 100m butterfly
at the trials in 57.77 seconds.
She only resstarted her Olympic training last year.
She cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was
really surprised.
Loretta Race is a reporter for SwimSwam News.
Thank you for coming on the programme. Pause for a second
programme. Pause for a second because I just want to show our
because I just want to show our viewers the moment of the because I just want to show our viewers the moment of the win.
viewers the moment of the win. We ran
viewers the moment of the win. We can see the joy and emotion
We ran see the joy and emotion because
We can see the joy and emotion because this is such a hugely
because this is such a hugely significant moment obviously
significant moment obviously for her but represents for the
for her but represents for the country as well and she is
country as well and she is clenching her
country as well and she is clenching herfist
country as well and she is clenching her fist and then the
clenching her fist and then the tears come as she realises the
tears come as she realises the huge significance of
huge significance of what she has done. Wonderful photos. I
has done. Wonderful photos. I want to get your reaction. You
want to get your reaction. You were watching that. What would
were watching that. what would your
were watching that. What would your reaction when you saw it?
your reaction when you saw it? It was utter amazement. She
It was utter amazement. She just returned to racing, her
just returned to racing, her first official race back was
first official race back was August of last year. Here we
August of last year. Here we are seven months later and she
are seven months later and she qualified for the Olympic
qualified for the Olympic Games. She was targeting Paris,
Games. She was targeting Paris, this 20—year—old, so the fact
this 20-year-old, so the fact that she
this 20—year—old, so the fact that she was way ahead of
that she was way ahead of schedule and her body and her
schedule and her body and her mind has persevered is
schedule and her body and her mind has persevered isjust a
mind has persevered isjust a testament to her character and
testament to her character and mental
testament to her character and mentalfortitude. And physical,
mental fortitude. And physical, and then,
mentalfortitude. And physical, and then, wow. How do you go
and then, wow. How do you go about tilting back
about tilting back after that treatment? Oh, my goodness. In
treatment? Oh, my goodness. In March 2020, that was her first
March 2020, that was her first time in the pool. In over 400
time in the pool. In over 400 days. All she did was walk
days. All she did was walk around. Not even talking actual
around. Not even talking actual physical swim workouts. She had
physical swim workouts. She had to build back a lot of her
to build back a lot of her musda
to build back a lot of her muscle mass that was lost and
musda mass that was lost and if you see
muscle mass that was lost and if you see obviously in the
if you see obviously in the video, she is still very slim,
video, she is still very slim, so she had to fight her way
so she had to fight her way back in her mind and in the
back in her mind and in the pooL
back in her mind and in the pool. The reaction of the wind,
pool. The reaction of the wind, of course it is huge
personally. Are we reading too much into it to say actually it
much into it to say actually it really represents the country
really represents the country and says something wider than
and says something wider than just her achievements? Allen
just her achievements? Allen absolutely not. Everyone around
absolutely not. Everyone around the world is rooting for her,.
the world is rooting for her,. And the fact that everyone need
And the fact that everyone need some positive news nowadays.
some positive news nowadays. The Olympics are a beacon of
The Olympic are a beacon of hope for all
The Olympics are a beacon of hope for all of us and the fact
hope for all of us and the fact that they are going to be going
that they are going to be going on, the fans and spectators,
on, the fans and spectators, she is just a
she is just a deacon of light and it is just
she isjust a deacon of light and it isjust going
and it isjust going to give us all inspiration as we move
all inspiration as we move forward to
all inspiration as we move forward toJuly for the
forward to July for the Olympics. And
forward toJuly for the Olympics. And what about
Olympics. And what about realistic chances come the
realistic chances come the actual main competition? That
actual main competition? That was like a very good question.
was like a very good question. She has a 100 freestyle coming
She has a 100 freestyle coming “P
She has a 100 freestyle coming up on Wednesday. It is very
up on Wednesday. It is very realistic, even her
realistic, even her qualification for the medley
qualification for the medley relay, that she could
relay, that she could potentially
relay, that she could potentiallyjoin
relay, that she could potentially join the freestyle
potentially join the freestyle relay as well. Individual
relay as well. Individual qualification
qualification would just be complete icing on the cake.
complete icing on the rake. At this point
complete icing on the cake. At this point she is so
this point she is so overwhelmed that it is almost
overwhelmed that it is almost like she has already won the
like she has already won the gold medal. Great stuff and
gold medal. Great stuff and great to have you want, thank
great to have you want, thank you.
For so many people, one of the worst things
about the global pandemic has been loneliness.
Millions unable to meet family orfriends
and crying out for company.
One possible solution has been to get a pet,
but some are worried about what will happen to
those animals once the lockdown is over.
Tim Allman reports.
This is Ooshie. For Marcus and his daughter,
his daughter, she has made life that little bit more bearable.
that little bit more bearable. One of around a million dogs
One of around a million dogs and cats that have found new
and rats that have found new homes
and cats that have found new homes in Germany since the
homes in Germany since the Covid crisis began.
Covid crisis began. TRANSLATION: A pandemic is
TRANSLATION: A pandemic is busily a time when we stay at
busily a time when we stay at home a lot, confined, that
home a lot, confined, that means I have to work from home.
means I have to work from home. The children are also at home
The children are also at home a lot so it is a good time to get
lot so it is a good time to get a dog used to a family. Across
a dog used to a family. Across the country, there was a 20%
the country, there was a 2096 increase
the country, there was a 20% increase in dog ownership last
increase in dog ownership last year. One survey showing that
year. One survey showing that more than eight out of ten
more than eight out of ten owners said animals like Ooshie
owners said animals like Ooshie provided emotional support.
provided emotional support. But the lockdown won’t last
the lockdown won’t last forever. And the manager of
forever. And the manager of this shelter in Berlin is
this shelter in Berlin is concerned about what happens
concerned about what happens next. TRANSLATION: We estimate
next. TRANSLATION: We estimate that after the current lockdown
that after the current lockdown ends, there will unfortunately
ends, there will unfortunately be a crazy number of abandoned
be a crazy number of abandoned animals dropped off at our
animals dropped off at our shelter, when people return to
shelter, when people return to their normal lines. —— lives.
their normal lines. -- lives. Marty is
their normal lines. —— lives. Marty is typical, Staffordshire
Marty is typical, Staffordshire Terrier mix, he is lovely but a
Terrier mix, he is lovely but a lot to handle this the message
lot to handle this the message is a simple one. A dog is for
is a simple one. A dog is for life, not a pandemic. That is
life, nota pandemic. That is about
life, not a pandemic. That is about it from me. Get in touch
about it from me. Get in touch with me on your thoughts
with me on your thoughts on any of the stories we are covering
of the stories we are covering right now.
I’m on Twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones.
This is BBC News.
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in Worcester
where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air.
And that cold air is now moving southwards behind this cold
front, a much, much chillier feel to the weather for Easter
Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely, but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the South.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places, and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over
over the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for Eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland.
And it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts, but actually,
greater chance of seeing some showers inland,
and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too, 2—9
Celsius at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer or perhaps just a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us.
50, through the middle of the week, some slightly
higher temperatures, but then actually by Friday,
in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
but what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
The half—brother of the King ofJordan is being investigated
for allegedly plotting with foreign parties
to destabilise the kingdom.
In a video sent to the BBC, Prince Hamzah denied being part
of any conspiracy, but said he’s under house arrest
and accused Jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
New coronavirus restrictions are being introduced in India’s
worst—affected state Maharashtra, as the country
records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
On Sunday, India recorded 93,000 cases.
The country now has the third highest number of cases
in the world, after the United States and Brazil.
Emergency workers in the US state of Florida
are trying to stop catastrophic flooding after a leak
More than 300 homes have been evacuated.
of polluted water.
Efforts to plug the leak have so far failed.
Now on BBC News, Global Questions talks to two former
female presidents — one from Africa and one
from Europe — who’ve both been trailblazers for women’s
rights for decades.
Hello, and welcome to Global Questions.
With me, Zeinab Badawi.
Thousands of women all over the world are protesting
against gender violence and sexism, and are demanding
an end to the violation of their right.
This week, we have two distinguished former female
presidents, one from Africa and one from Europe,
answering questions about why women still have
to endure discrimination.
That is Global Questions — Sexism and Violence
Against Women in a Patriarchal World.
To bring you this edition of Global Questions,
our two panellists and specialists are joining us
via video link from all over the world.
Let me tell you who is in the hot seat this week giving
the answers.
Well, we have two leading global stateswomen
who were co—chairs of the Women’s Leaders Network
of the Africa Europe Foundation.
Mary Robinson was the first female president in
the Republic of Ireland, elected in 1990.
Before becoming a politician, she trained as a lawyer.
On leaving office, she became the UN High Commissioner
for Human Rights.
And Ellenjohnson Sirleaf there must was the first woman
to be elected a head of state in Africa.
She was president of Liberia until 2018.
An economist by training, she was the joint recipient
of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2011 for her work
in promoting women’s rights and for her leadership
during and after a Liberia’s civil war.
Welcome to you both.
And remember, you, too, can join the conversation —
it’s #BBCGlobalQuestions.
We have lots and lots of great questions and I’m sure some
really brilliant on those from a two panellists so let’s
get straight down to business and Faith Immanuel in Lagos,
Nigeria.
Faith, your question, please?
Oh, good evening!
I’m really excited to be here.
My name is Faith Immanuel in Lagos and my question
is as follows — given our culture, why is there a sense
of male entitlement?
Ellenjohnson Sirleaf, this gets straight down
to business, doesn’t it?
Why does the patriarch you still exist?
The long—standing cultural assumptions are what gave
credence to the patriarchy.
Women have been addressing this over the years.
Fortunately, in more recent times as a result of this
continued struggle on the part of women, some of these
assumptions are increasingly no longer valid and we need
to continue to make sure we make that point.
Mary Robinson.
I agree very much with Ellen.
I think a lot of boys sense, in a lot of cultures,
they are valued more than girls, then they
see their role models —
the president is a man, the prime minister as a man,
judges are all men, and it reinforces that sense that men
are more important and therefore have that
sense of entitlement.
That’s what we need to change.
50 both of you think it’s a cultural problem,
it’s not something that can be addressed with legislation,
because Faith asks why there is a sense of male
entitlement.
And it seems to be resistant to even good laws
trying to eradicate it.
I think the laws can help.
Removing the laws that descriminate can help and also
a kind of an educational change based on equality.
Which is what generation equality, the forum that is
equality, the forum that is taking place in Mexico and
taking place in Mexico and Paris this year is all about.
It’s all about asserting the true equality and the more
women move who high office in various ways and
leadership at local deal,
the more we will address it.
Laws will help but unless those laws are implemented
and unless we have the environment in which
the implementation is insisted upon by those
in society, both men and women,
then it is most difficult to get away from those
assumptions.
Let’s go to Casablanca, Morocco.
What do you want to ask Ellenjohnson Sirleaf and Mary
Robinson?
Thank you, Zeinab.
Both Madam Presidents, what an honour to be
with you in the session today.
Thank you for the opportunity, BBC Global Questions.
My question today is about women in leadership positions.
Many of us in this position often hear that we are too
articulate or too direct or even too confident.
Why do people make these kind of statements, and do you think
that this can lead to self—limiting ambitions
for women and many other girls who are growing
to be these leaders?
Thank you.
Mary Robinson, what is your answer to Dana?
Thank you, Dana.
It is true that women in leadership are often judged
differently than men.
The traits that are valued in men, like decisiveness,
assertiveness, bold action, can often be seen
as shrill, bossy — all the negative terms
when a woman is doing exactly
the same thing.
And that is a cultural trait itself.
I actually think the best way to counter it is to ignore it.
I remember when I was elected president of Ireland in 1990,
I was the first woman president.
I was absolutely determined to do it confidently,
feeling that actually, I would do a betterjob
precisely because I was a woman.
I didn’t want to be seen as being like the men,
I wanted to do it differently and use all my skills
and leadership qualities as a woman to do the job
and I think that is the way to counter it.
EllenJohnson Sirleaf, I mean, societal expectations of women
they shouldn’t fight in combat
or go into space and not be too confident, as Dana was saying.
What do you think about this?
If these values — articulate, direct —
were the ones that are attributed to women,
that would be great.
We would claim it.
Most times, the values that are attributed are the ones
that have a negative overtone.
Too many times, when women are assertive, it’s said
that they are aggressive even though men would
be called assertive.
So I don’t think we have a problem with these particular
attributes, and women are just prepared to stand up
and accept those.
They have no problem with being called articulate.
We would like to see that.
And so, what we need to do is to make sure that women
continue to speak out, women continue to have their voice,
women continue to be regarded as the ones that
are going to claim the leadership
that they rightfully deserve.
Alright, Dana.
What do you want to say to what our two madam
presidents have said?
Thank you very much.
This is reassuring.
girl in the south ofJordan, fighting these stereotypes
and trying to break them and go beyond.
And I’m so happy there are other leaders encouraging
and inspiring girls in these emerging markets and around
the world to really break these
barriers and stereotypes.
Thank you very much.
Alright, let’s go to Sydney, Australia, to our next
question.
Our next question is from Rachel Wong, and I shoudl say,
you are the CEO of the think tank
Women’s Forum Australia.
Fire away.
It really is a privilege to discuss these issues
with such influential women.
My question today is, when are we going to wake
up to the insidous end to objectification
of women in culture, with shaped misogynistic
attitudes in pornography among other things.
How can we address it?
This is a huge problem, isn’t it?
The sectoral objectification of women deeply embedded
in particularly popular culture.
It really is.
objectification of women is a problem that’s got to be
resisted in the strongest of ways.
Representation of people is very critical to how we shape
very critical to how we shape the attitudes of women in
the attitudes of women in society.
And let me say, the media is a major concern
in this regard.
The media can be positive, in being able to uplift
the voices of women, but the media can also be very
negative.
And we’ve seen so many cases in recent times
where women who have achieved leadership roles are told —
when conveying their leadership roles, are being put
in a negative sense, which has happened in the case
of the Director of the World Trade Organization,
in which she was accorded and elected to this poisition
but in annoucing it, she was called names
that were degrading.
You’re talking about Ngozi Okonjo—Iweala,
What are you referring to there?
She was being attacked because she was the first woman
to be elected as director general of the World Trade
Organization and they did not want to give her the credit
for her talent and her managerial expertise.
Theyjust wanted to put her as — she was merely
a grandmother.
In other words, she should not be there.
And I think they need to apologise for that statement.
0K, alright, that is a disparaging statement
L111:
But let’s move onto the sexual of women and how they are shown
of women and how they are shown with easy access to porn and
with easy access to porn and advertising and pop videos and
advertising and pop videos and all the rest of it.
We need consumer revolt against that kind of objectification,
that misuse of the image of women to sell products
in a very sexy way and so on, and also the problems of social
media, that Ellen was talking about.
But we need to be careful that we do not intrude
on freedom of expression and have a censorship that can
be counter—productive,
you know, that can actually cause another kind of reaction.
I mean, it goes right across the board.
Women, when elected to high office, do suffer
you know, complaints about how they dress, how they speak,
how they work, how they smile.
It’s a much tougher world for women in public positions
and we know that, and part of it is the fact that we allow
an objectification and it’s how we really try to counter that
by having a society that values gender equality and that
will not tolerate, as consumers, this
objectification.
It will take time.
All right, Rachel, do you have any ideas yourself about how
governments can address this problem, because it
is a question you posed?
Yes, I couldn’t agree more that we need to ensure
equality across the board for women
with men, but I really don’t think we can do that
unless we seriously address the issue of pornography.
To recognise that porn is normalising violence
against women and that is conditioning men,
many from when they are just young boys,
to view girls as sexual objects to be used and abused and this
and exploitation that takes place on the porn industry
itself.
I think it’s time the government acknowledged
the inherently obstructive nature of porn and
address it in the correct way.
To Stanford, California.
To Audrey, your question, please?
Thank you so much for having me.
Madam presidents, I’d be interested to know what steps
men can take to achieve gender equality.
Mary Robinson.
It is really important that we engage men because gender
equality matters for both women and men,
and there efforts like
adopting a he for she approach, to be champions of gender
equality.
Actually, Ellen has been seeking to bring male
presidents in Africa together on this issue,
so I will pass to her in a moment, but I do think
it is really important to have men take on the child—rearing,
the home—making, the care of elderly, so that the burdens
and responsibilities at home are shared because until we do
that, we will not see a full equality.
How achievable is that?
Ellenjohnson Sirleaf, how achievable is it in Africa
to get the men to agree to be home—makers and take 50—50
share in the child rearing?
0h, we’re a long way off from that.
We have to ask the question, when will men recognise
the value of women, to know the contribution that women can
make to society?
They’re equally smart, knowledgeable, they are
courageous.
What does it take for them to recognise those
values that reside in there?
Their wives, their daughters?
What does it take?
What does it take?
What does that take, Ellenjohnson Sirleaf?
You’re posing the question, we’re all agog, we want
to know.
We need the policies, no doubt.
We need constitutional change, if that is required,
but we haven’t able to change the attitudes.
For people to see women be young, that says they ought
to be in the home.
Audrey, what do you think about what you’ve just heard?
These are excellent responses and just brings me back
to the thought that someone running an non—profit to get
more than in the industry and talking about the 50,
men will notjust disappear from the conversation,
they need to be active allies and that means really calling
out microaggressions, telling people when it’s not OK
to do or say certain things and these responses make me
optimistic about being a woman in the industry.
We like optimism also.
Not all doom and gloom.
It’s an honour to be here.
Thank you so much.
My question is, what do you think the biggest hurdle
to achieving gender equality and women’s economic
empowerment across the globe?
Biggest hurdle?
What’s the big obstacle?
Attitudes.
Attitudes, attitudes.
Male domination.
The world default for male power is what keeps women
behind.
It’s still what keeps women behind.
How do we change the attitude?
That’s what we need to address.
Lots of progress in there, as we mentioned, men who have
now been liberated from these old attitudes, and we need
to expand their numbers.
Attitude, attitude, attitude.
Yes, I agree with Ellen, and I think what we really need
is to have a sense that in the modern world,
we all benefit from more equality, therefore,
for men and women, this is the goal
and I think this is something that young people
understand more.
Young girls are leading as climate activists.
They are showing by the passion and how articulate they are
that they will change the world, if I can put it that
way, and I do think that a big hurdle is the fact
that there’s a lack of resources for what women
want to achieve.
Very little trickles down to women at local level
in their communities to make them resilient
to climate, for example.
A very small amount.
And it’s all the way — not only is power on the side
of men, SO are resources.
Thank you.
Now to Saudi Arabia for our last question.
Thank you for having me.
I am 17 years old, I’m part of the UN generation
of equality for youth group and I am also a UN delegate
for Girls Learn International.
I also run my own non—profit, and my question is, how can
we ensure that women have equal representation in power
in places of decision—making and leadership.
Thank you.
Right, all that and you’re only 17 here.
My goodness me.
Coming to you.
Ellen, how do we ensure equal representation and power
in decision—making and leadership?
ﬂ
I know I know in 2016 Liberia introduced a new law reserve in
introduced a new law reserve in parliamentary seats for women,
partiamentary seats for women, young
parliamentary seats for women, young people and people with
young people and people with disabilities. Our quota
young people and people with disabilities. Our quote is one
disabilities. Our quota is one of the ways
disabilities. Our quote is one of the ways forward?
——Are quotas one of the ways forward?
We need more than that, we need an enabling environment.
For that, go back changing attitudes.
And women cannot be the only ones that fight to change these
attitudes.
Men have to weigh in.
We’re trying to write a letter to all the male presidents
and male leaders and ask them to be willing to give
an open commitment to gender equality.
How will they respond?
We do not know, but I think we ought to ask them to do it.
Thank you.
What is your answer, Mary Robinson?
I agree but women have to be smart.
Take, for example, the Africa Euro foundation that
you mentioned at the beginning.
You mentioned we are co—chairs of a women as leaders
network, and that did not exist.
We invented it because the Africa Europe foundation
was going to be chaired by two men, we were invited to be
honorary presidents, which is not very significant
leaders network, and we already find the network
is giving a gender lens to the whole of the Africa
Europe foundation, all its strategy committees
— all of what it’s doing.
And what it is a great power in women led networks
at all levels, at local level, goals, networking.
I’m sure each of the questioners as part
of a network.
There’s a lot of trust in women leader networks because we know
that if we are not there for our ego but we are there
to change things, they are to problem
solve, they are to collaborate.
Can I ask you both very ugly because your older states women
and you’ve both been in positions of leadership,
but frankly the progress hasn’t been great, how is it?
In both your countries, the number of women
parliamentarians is only around a, I 107 one |n ten women leaders
globally is female, so why is it even when have women such
as yourself positions of leadership that the numbers
just don’t stack up on the progress isn’t as great
as we would like it to be?
I was actually going to pick up on the importance of quotes.
I think they do help to accelerate the equality
and I fully agree with them, I’ve seen it work in
so many countries.
Why is Scandinavia seen as being very good on women
playing a 50—50 role in parliaments and cabinets?
Because they began with quotes.
And I think we can all learn, we have quotes in Ireland
which are not working as well as they should,
but I do agree and I think it is very, very important
that we work at this during this gender equality year.
Very quickly, Ellen, progress has been very slow
here, you are on the world stage for many decades
but we still only have four countries in the world
with more than 50% of their Cabinet members are women.
The progress on women leadership is real and that may
have led to a pushback — that we were moving
too far, too fast.
But I think we need to just continue and the timing is now.
If there’s any time where inequities have been exposed,
it is in this Covid—19 year.
And now is the time to push even harder
and I believe the progress women have made can
now be discussed.
And Mary mentioned the quota system, some countries have
resisted the basis of competition and this would not
would not allow competition.
But we agree with that might
disagree with that because women are ready to compete
fully for any leadership position or any position
in society.
Thank you.
Saudi Arabia, a country which in many people’s hasn’t
got the bestrecord, let’s put it that way,
on women’s rights.
I these past few years, Saudi has seen a slow
but steady and promising progress in terms of women’s
rights, in recent years,
we were given the right to drive in 2018, the patriarchal
system is dissolving although it does still exist
in some circumstances unfortunately and I think
international pressure has been working release activist
from jail and progressing women’s rights.
I’m an optimistic person and I do believe in the country’s
ability to make a lot of gender equality progress
in the future.
Well, thank you and very good to end this programme
with a very articulate 17—year—old there.
Thank you very much indeed to my two panellists.
And thank you to my questioners who joined us from all over
the world and to you wherever you are watching this
programme.
That’s all from this edition of Global Questions.
Sexism and violence against women and a patriarchal world.
Remember, we are the programme bringing you the trend lines
behind the headlines and if you want to be part
of our next programme, submit a question on the website.
For now, from me, Zainab Badawi, goodbye.
Thank you very much indeed.
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
Worcestershire where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air.
And that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely, but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up
over the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland.
And it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts, but actually,
greater chance of seeing some showers inland,
and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too, 2—9
degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer or perhaps just a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us.
50, through the middle of the week, some slightly
in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
Welcome to BBC News, I’m Lewis Vaughanjones.
Our top stories:
Royal crisis inJordan, former Crown Prince Hamza
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions in India’s worst affected
state, as the country records the world’s highest number
of daily infections.
The Florida reservoir leaking toxic waste—water,
and the battle to prevent an environmental disaster.
And tears ofjoy, the swimmer who’s qualified for the Tokyo
Olympics after being diagnosed with Leukemia.
The half—brother of the King ofJordan is being investigated
to destabilise the kingdom.
In a video sent to the BBC, Prince Hamzah bin Hussein
denied being part of any conspiracy, but he accused
Jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
Our Chief International Correspondent Lyse Doucet
reports on this unprecedented crisis withinJordan’s ruling
family.
A young prince at the heart of a major royal rift.
Hamzah, 41 years old, graduate of Sandhurst
in the UK, Harvard in the US.
Now he says he’s under house arrest.
All my friends have been arrested.
My security has been removed, and the internet and phone
lines have been cut.
This is my last form of communication.
And in this video, passed to the BBC, rare public
criticism from a Jordanian prince.
I am not the person responsible for the breakdown
in governance, for the corruption and for
the incompetence.
Today on state TV, a dramatically different
account — Prince Hamzah and others accused of plotting
to destabilise the kingdom.
TRANSLATION: The investigations monitored interference
and phone cells, including with foreign parties,
which discussed the appropriate timing to start steps to shake
the security of our stable kingdom.
King Abdullah is being said to be trying to resolve this
within the family — an effort failing so far.
So much is so unclear.
There have long been some strains between brothers.
Hamzah was called the favourite of their father, the late King
Hussein.
There’s a striking resemblance between them.
But when the King lost his long battle with cancer in 1999,
he chose his eldest son, Abdullah, to succeed him.
Hamzah became Crown Prince.
2004 was a pivotal yearfor the prince.
He got married and was stripped of his royal title.
The King made his own son second in line.
Prince Hamzah has expressed veiled criticism before,
but nothing like this.
This crisis in a quiet corner of a volatile region has
rattled neighbours, including other Arab monarchies.
They’ve rushed to back the King.
The kingdom already worried about discontent over
an economic crisis made much worse by a painful pandemic,
now there’s uncertainty over whether this is a family crisis
or one which goes much further.
Lyse Doucet, BBC News.
Earlier, I spoke to Dr Annelle Sheline, senior
research fellow for the middle east programme at the sink tank
—— east programme at the think tank
the Quincy Institute.
I asked her how damaging this extraordinary family feud is.
This is really unprecedented and part of why we saw other
Arab monarchies around the region, as well as the US,
very quickly expressing support, which is interesting
because previously, especially under President Trump,
Jordan had been somewhat sidelined especially as the UAE
signed the Abraham Accords, and especially President
Trump’s efforts to shut down the two state solution.
King Abdullah was somewhat frustrated and there was also
the potential effort by the Saudis to possibly take
over control of the holy sites inJerusalem.
There’ve been of ongoing tension inJordan feeling
somewhat
dissatisfied by the way it was treated by the US
and its neighbours, so it is interesting new to see
the extent to which support is coming in from all its
neighbours and the US because the local monarchs know
that if something were to happen to King Abdullah,
that could potentially be similar to the situation we saw
in Tunisia ten years ago with the fall of the Tunisian
government and subsequent falls of other republican governments
around the region.
Are you saying this is self interest among those countries
preferring stability in that country rather
than a potentially destabilising separation
of powers?
Absolutely.
For all that Saudi Arabia might prefer to take control
of the Harambe Sharif inJerusalem, they are not
willing to allow King Abdullah to be overthrown.
If that were to occur then that could set a precedent
of destabilising monarchies all over the region.
When push comes to shove, the monarchs are all
on the same side and that’s their own side.
From the King’s point of view, was it worth the risk?
Was it a show of force from the authorities
in the country, saying that they will not put up
with this level of criticism, but they must have known
there will be this public blowback as well.
Yes.
In general, I worry a little bit that...
I have seen nothing that makes it look like there was in fact
an actual coup attempt and these allegations
that there was support from foreign forces.
A lot of this reminds me of Erdogan in 2016 alleged
a coup attempt and use that to really crack down
on academics and journalists and tighten
the screw in Turkey,
which had previously been seen as more democratic
and previouslyJordan has had a functioning parliament,
although the King remains the acting head of state
and ultimately makes the decisions.
I do wonder what this means for the future ofJordan
where King Abdullah has felt quite insecure over the past
year with Covid cases, had economics and Jordanians
are very frustrated, which is part of what former
Crown Prince Hamza was expressing, thatJordanians
are really frustrated so I think
King Abdullah is showing he will not tolerate criticism
from anyone, not even his half brother.
The Indian state of Maharashtra will see tighter
restrictions from Monday after a significant rise
in coronavirus infections.
India has the third highest number of cases in the world,
after the US and Brazil.
Tanya Dendrinos reports.
A crowded market in Mumbai.
Masks are on, but social distancing is virtually
impossible, and coronavirus cases are rising rapidly.
The warning is stark.
TRANSLATION: The number of Covid—19 cases reported
in the past 2A hours is alarming and is a matter
of concern.
It could turn into a hazardous situation.
Almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases,
which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
If the cases increase in this proportion, the impact
of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of Covid—19 in India,
the country recording 12.5 million infections.
On Sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest
level since September, with more than 93,000 recorded.
More than half of those were in Maharashtra,
the state facing tighter restrictions from Monday,
including a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
TRANSLATION: This is a very good decision by the government
as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain
of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very
beneficialfor all of us.
Stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task,
particularly in a country with a population of 1.3 billion.
Despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive,
so far administering more than 68 million doses,
it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
Tanya Dendrinos, BBC News.
Emergency workers in Florida are trying to prevent
catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic
wasterwater reservoir.
This is all happening in Florida’s Tampa Bay,
where the Piney Point reservoir is located.
More than 300 homes have been evacuated.
This is the waste water reservoir which contains 480
million gallons, that’s over two billion litres,
of polluted water.
And this is the leak itself, which is now a week old.
Efforts to plug it have failed.
50 workers are now using these pipes to pump water out
to reduce flooding, if the containment wall breaks.
Here’s Governor Ron DeSantis with an update on the emergency
response efforts.
To be clear, the water being discharged to Port Manatee
is not radioactive.
It is primarily saltwater from the Port Manatee dredge
project, mixed with legacy process water and stormwater
run—off.
We’re currently pumping out 33 million gallons per day.
This new process will help to significantly increase
the volume of water that we are pumping out
at Piney Point.
I asked Florida’s agriculture commissioner,
Nikki Fried what’s happening in her home state.
This is an old phosphate mining location where the phosphide
mining has stopped for many years but unfortunately this
has been on the radar for the department for almost
two decades, where if there are leaks in the piping
and these flumes then the water will seep into Tampa Bay
and seep out of the water.
While it is not radioactive, it is extremely filled
with nutrients that, when they collide with
Tampa Bay and the waterways, creates a red tide.
The department has been unsuccessfully stopping
it spilling into the waterways but unfortunately at some point
this will be have to do drained and significant problems
could end up being a tremendously detrimental
environmental disaster in Florida.
How preventable was this, in your opinion?
Extremely preventable.
This was something that even in the late 905 or early 20005
was told to the governors of our state that this
was a disaster waiting to happen.
It is notjust this location, we have other phosphate mining
places across Florida.
Unfortunately the past 20 years have been under the control
of one party and they have spent time deregulating and not
having enough attention and financial resources.
This is something that should have been addressed 20 years
ago but unfortunately
we are hitting an historic disaster in the state
because action was not taken.
Even the current governor, who you heard earlier,
he was made aware earlier last year and he took no action
to prevent the leaks and made this a priority for the state.
Not only will homes in the area be impacted, but also
the ecosystem, the environment and the fish lifeline in that
community will be affected.
This will have a huge impact of red tide on the coastal
communities, not only the killing of the fish
but all of the communities impacted economically
and also tourism.
A lot of these communities are based on a fishing
industry that will collapse if the red tide and algae
blooms from the mining location.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
SINGING.
A scaled back Easter Sunday, although the choir was able
to perform at Canterbury Cathedral.
At the Vatican, the Pope called for vaccines to be shared
with the world’s poorest countries.
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
This funeral became a massive demonstration of Black power.
The power to influence.
Today is about the promise of a bright future.
A day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
I think that Picasso’s works were beautiful,
they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody
who loves art.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
A royal crisis inJordan —
Former crown prince Hamza says he’s under house arrest,
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions in India’s worst affected state
of Maharashtra, as the country records the world’s highest
number of daily infections.
Allegations of sexual harassment against three famed
maestros of Indian classical music, the Gundecha brothers,
have sent shockwaves across much of India
in recent months.
A three—month long investigation by the BBC
heard multiple claims of a culture of systemic
sexual abuse and intimidation.
From Mumbai, Nikhil Inamdar has this report which contains
disturbing accounts from the victims.
For me, the music was most important.
I really wanted to come to India and dedicate my
life to music.
I was really impressed with how Ramakant Gundecha was teaching.
His teaching was mystical.
He had a lot of charisma.
He forced himself on me that morning.
He pulled my pants off and forcefully had sex with me.
This student says one of India’s most famous teachers
of traditional Indian music sexually assaulted her.
She left her home and family in Europe and travel to India
several years ago to learn Dhrupad, an ancient form
of Indian classical music.
It brought her to the Dhrupad Sansthan, an internationally
recognised music academy, run by three siblings known
as the Gundecha Brothers.
Now she’s one among several women from across the world
who allege that one of the three brothers,
the late Ramakant Gundecha, sexually assaulted her.
There are also allegations of sexual misconduct
against the other two, Akhilesh and Umakant Gundecha,
who now run the academy.
Ramakant died in 2019.
And Akhilesh and Umakant strongly deny all the
allegations.
The allegations against the Gundecha Brothers first
came to light in a Facebook post in September, bringing
#MeToo right to the heart of North Indian classical music.
It’s since been reported by the Indian media.
At least five women who’ve made the allegations
against the Gundechas have shared their experience
with the BBC, including Rachel Fairbanks, who says
the late Ramakant sexually molested her.
She decided to speak publicly and give us permission
to show her identity.
He asked me to get in the back of the car with him.
And I did that.
And then he started kissing me.
And he pulled my pants down and touched my vagina.
And I left very soon after that had happened.
I ended up not being able to even sit in Ramakant’s
presence any more.
Rachel’s allegations and those of the other women sparked
an investigation by an independent panel appointed
by the school.
But the law prevents us from disclosing details
of the investigation and its results.
We contacted Umakant and Akhilesh Gundecha,
the two surviving brothers.
Through their lawyers, both men have strongly denied
the allegations against them, stating that vested interests
were used in this episode as a tool to further
their agenda of causing damage to the art and reputation
to the Dhrupad Sansthan and Gundecha Brothers.
Both men also declined to speak to us on camera.
For some in the industry, such as prominent vocalist
Neela Bhagwat, the allegations expose deep—seated patriarchy
and power imbalance entrenched in the guru—shishya —
or teacher—student relationship.
The guru expects a complete submission and complete
subservience.
In the relationship with the guru, the female
student is vulnerable.
Bhagwat along with a household name in Indian classical music,
are rare exceptions to have spoken out in support
of the students.
The male maestros have largely remained silent.
It’s not known when or if the independent investigation
will be made public.
For the women, the trauma of what they went through lingers.
I have my tambura in the living room right now, and it’s
going to be sold, because, um, you know, unfortunately,
can’t sing this music without having flashbacks.
Nikhil Inamdar, BBC News, Mumbai.
Next, Pope Francis has used his Easter Urbi et Orbi
message to focus on the victims of coronavirus.
He urged a quickening of the vaccine rollout
around the world.
Our Rome correspondent Mark Lowen reports.
St Peter’s Basilica echoed to its emptiness.
Beneath Michelangelo’s dome, a small group of worshippers
gathering for Easter mass, more a consolation
than a celebration, a time to reflect on a painful year
and for the leader of the world’s Catholics
to comfort those whose faith has been shaken.
Pope Francis focused on the pandemic in his message,
calling the resurrection of Christa symbol of hope
for those who had lost loved ones, jobs, and time
with friends or in the classroom.
And he spoke of the panacea.
TRANSLATION: Vaccines are an essential tool
in this fight.
I urge the entire international community in a spirit of global
responsibility to commit to overcoming delays
in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their
distribution, especially in the poorest countries.
The Pope talked of conflict across the world, condemning
what he called "Scandalous military spending amidst
the pandemic."
There were words too for the victims of the Burmese
coup.
TRANSLATION: I am close to young people from all over
the world, and at this time especially to those of Myanmar
who are committed to democracy, making their voices heard
peacefully, aware that hatred can only be dissipated by love.
Churches could stay open today despite the whole of Italy
being put into the tightest Covid restrictions.
But the measures were strict with Italians battling
a third wave.
With shops and restaurants closed across the country,
"It’s just a few of us at lunch today," she says.
"We were hoping for a faster solution to all of this."
"I’m meeting with my family today, my mother has already
been vaccinated, so we are beginning to see light
at the end of the tunnel," he says.
Not a moment too soon for the medics, who managed
a touch of Easter cheer today and some sweet treats.
How they keep their spirits up is itself a miracle,
giving us all hope that real joy isn’t too far off.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Rome.
The swimmer Rikako Ikee has qualified for the Tokyo
Olympics three years after being diagnosed with leukaemia.
The 20—year—old athlete won the hundred meter butterfly
at the trials in 57.77 seconds.
She only resstarted her Olympic training last year.
She cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was
really surprised.
Loretta Race is a reporter for SwimSwam News —
I spoke to her a little earlier to get her reaction
to the qualification.
Thank you for coming on the programme.
Thank you for having me.
Let’s just pause for a second because I just want to show our
viewers the moment of the win.
We can see the joy and the emotion because this
is such a hugely significant moment, obviously for her,
but it seems to represents a little bit more for
the country as well, and she’s kind of clenching herfist
and then the tears come as she realises
the huge significance of what she’s done.
Wonderful photos.
And I want to get your reaction.
You were watching that.
What was your reaction when you saw it?
It was utter amazement.
I mean, shejust returned to racing, herfirst official
race back was August of last year.
And here we are about seven months later and she
qualified for the Olympic Games.
She was targeting Paris, this 20—year—old said,
so the fact that she’s way ahead of schedule
and her body and her mind has persevered
is just a testament to her character and mental fortitude.
And physical, and then, wow.
How do you go about building back after
that treatment?
So, in March 2020, that was her first time in the pool
in over 400 days.
And all she did was walk around.
I mean, we’re not even talking actual physical swim workouts.
And so she had to build back a lot of her muscle mass
that was lost, and if you see, obviously in the video she’s
still very slim, and so she had to fight her way back
both in mind and in the pool.
And it seemed to be — the reaction of the win,
of course it’s huge for her personally,
and are we reading too much into it to say actually it
really represents the country and says something wider
than just her achievements?
Oh, my gosh, absolutely not.
Everyone around the world is rooting for her,
and the fact that everyone need some positive news nowadays.
And the Olympics are a beacon of hope for all of us
and the fact that they are going to be going on,
even sans foreign spectators, she’s just a beacon of light
and that’s just going to give us all inspiration as we move
forward toJuly for the Olympics.
And what about realistic chances come the actual
main competition?
That’s a very good question.
So she has a couple of days off.
She has a 100 freestyle coming up on Wednesday.
It’s very realistic, given her qualification
in the butterfly for the medley relay, that she could
potentially join the freestyle relay as well.
Individual qualification would just be complete
icing on the cake.
At this point she’s so overwhelmed, so excited,
it’s as if she already won the gold medal.
Brilliant stuff, brilliant pictures, and great to have
you on, Loretta Race, thank you.
A lovely reflection on a
A lovely reflection on a remarkable achievement. I will
remarkable achievement. I will be back with the headlines but
be back with the headlines but remember, get me online anytime
remember, get me online anytime on social media.
I’m @LVaughanJones.
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
Worcestershire where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air.
And that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
Snow showers quite widely, but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places, and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up
over the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland.
And it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts, but actually,
greater chance of seeing some showers inland,
and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too, 2—9
degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer or perhaps just a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us.
50, through the middle of the week, some slightly
higher temperatures, but then actually by Friday,
in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
The half—brother of the King of Jordan is being investigated,
for allegedly plotting with foreign parties
to destabilise the kingdom.
New coronavirus restrictions are being introduced in India’s
worst affected state, as the country
records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
Emergency workers in the US state of Florida are trying
to stop catastrophic flooding after a leak
in a toxic waste—water reservoir.
More than 300 homes have been evacuated.
The reservoir contains over 2 billion litres
of polluted water.
Efforts to plug the leak have so far failed.
You
You are watching BBC World News.
Now on BBC News, Dateline London.
Hello, I’m Shaun Ley.
Welcome to the programme which brings together UK
commentators, BBC specialists and foreign correspondents
who file their stories for audiences at home
Dateline London.
This weekend, as Christians celebrate Easter and renewal,
we’re devoting the programme to one theme — after the pandemic,
can we renew our world?
And is reconciliation possible when people in so much
of it seem so angry?
To try to answer that are Catherine Pepinster,
the first woman to edit The Tablet, the international
Catholic newspaper.
Michael Goldfarb, veteran foreign correspondent
for US public radio.
His podcast FRDH is inspired by the ambition ofjournalism
as the first rough draft of history.
And in the studio, the BBC broadcaster and China
specialist, Vincent Ni.
Welcome to all of you.
It is good to have you with us this Easter weekend.
Pope Francis, who delivers his Easter message for a second
yearfrom inside the Basilica, rather than to the thousands
of Catholics who gather most years in St Peter’s Square,
practised what he preaches when, last month, he made
the first ever papal visit to Iraq.
He was seeking not only to reconcile Christianity
and Islam, but also to inspire Muslims to heal the division
within theirfaith.
Yet faith is weaponised in conflicts around the world —
used, if you’ll pardon the expression, to demonise
minorities.
China this weekend marking Qingming, the tomb sweeping
festival, stands accused ofjustifying conversion
and suppression of Uighers on the grounds of their faith,
Islam.
It now permits Catholics to worship.
Is that reconciliation or has the Vatican been co—opted
to Beijing’s cause?
How credible is reconciliation in Brazil or the United States,
where politics is now so polarised, and, perhaps not
coincidentally, so ineffectual?
In a global pandemic, which we’re all in together,
why are we so angry with each other, especially when it’s
manifestly not in our own best interest?
Catherine Pepinster, let’s start with the Pope.
This visit to Iraq was, on a personal level,
in terms of his own safety, quite a big
risk to run.
It’s the first time 3 Pope has been to Iraq,
even though it is one of the countries of one
of the birthplaces of Christianity.
It had quite a message designed to resonate
beyond that one country?
Yes, you are absolutely right.
This was an historic occasion for the Pope to go to Iraq,
but he was really quite committed to trying to get it
organised
and he wanted to take there a message of reconciliation.
Reconciliation is a word that has come up time and time again
throughout the eight years that Francis has been Pope.
I think if you look at his writings, when he mentions
reconciliation, he also always mentions dialogue.
That reconciliation means you have to talk to people,
you have to find ways through your differences.
He was also keen in that visit to show his solidarity
with the Christian minorities who have had such a terrible
time in recent years.
But alongside solidarity with one particular group,
he is saying, you have got to talk to the other side,
as it were, as well, you have got to have that encounter.
And I think it is something we see such a lack of at
the moment in our world.
You’ve mentioned some of the countries in your
introduction where this is such a problem.
We have also seen in places in the past such as in
South Africa and Northern Ireland that reconciliation
and dialogue can make a difference.
Michael, it might seem a trite to say, but plenty of people
will be watching this programme who I suspect will be thinking
it is all very well to say what the Pope is trying to do,
but religion, whether religious people themselves want it to be
this way or not, probably they don’t, but religion has
been used
as a justification for what is otherwise unjustifiable,
in terms of violence, in terms of political
and economic colonisation as well as subjugation.
Is faith the problem, not the solution?
Faith is not the problem.
It is exploitation by politics, politicians and rulers
that is a problem.
It has been a problem for a very, very long time.
We are still living, despite people’s concerns
we are ending the Age of Enlightenment.
The Age of Enlightenment began as a response to 150 years
of unimaginable barbarity and cruelty as Christianity
went through its great reformation in the West.
The foundational texts of the enlightenment,
I will mention two — the theological and the letter
concerning toleration byJohn Locke are both written
in a sense to say for too long, the clergy —
whether it be Catholic priests or ministers
in the Protestant faith — have had the ear of the prints
and they have been using that access to foment division
and impose their will on the whole of society.
And they called for toleration.
You can have a public space where you can be Catholic
You can be a Sunni or a Shia — although they were not
referring to the Islamic world then.
It has come now in modern times to the Islamic world
and we have been living less so today, but we have been
living for several decades while the Islamic world has
a kind of civil war that has been going on.
But it has been fomented by politicians and used
by politicians to cement their own power.
There is an element of hypocrisy in all of that.
My own view is faith is personal, faith is
what you were brought up in, and it should stay personal
but you have to be very careful when you bring it
into the world of politics,
because then it becomes a different game.
There is, Catherine, a kind of depressing
repetitiveness about this, isn’t there?
In the 16th and 17th century, it was Catholics
who were feared by some because they were said
to have divided loyalties —
how can they be loyal to our country when they still have
this loyalty to the Pope in Rome who is a foreign prince?
We’ve heard the same aboutJewish people —
well, they are a rootless people,
they cannot have any loyalty.
We have heard it about Muslims, we have heard it in various
forms that sound benign, the early ‘805 — could you be
truly British if you are cheering on India
cricket, for example.
It is the benign end, but it can slide very quickly
into something more sinister and more negative.
Is part of the problem, though, that faith itself encourages
this?
One thinks of the crime of apostasy — the idea
that
you can be of the same faith, but if you deviate
in a particular way, you are somehow betraying that
faith?
Michaeljust mentioned that politics is the problem
not faith.
I think it might possibly human nature that is
actually the problem.
These difficulties keep coming over and over again.
I think one area where we are seeing this insistence
on loyalty is in China.
We see this time and time again — the Chinese Communist party
seems to not be able to abide the idea that people
could have a loyalty, devotion to a particular
religious faith and also be Chinese, be accepting
of their government.
And if there is one area of Pope Francis that is hugely
controversial is his endeavours to form some kind of dialogue
with the Chinese, which doesn’t seem to be getting Christians
in the country any further down the road to some kind
of normal life.
It seems to be an intractable problem and his attempts
at reconciliation and dialogue with the Chinese, I don’t know
if he is naive, but is not getting anybody very far.
because that is an interesting example, isn’t it?
What had been the persecution of Christians, Catholics
in modern day China, and then this kind of insistence
from the Chinese leadership, as I understand it, right,
you can Chinese bishops, you can have practice,
but we kind of have to have a bit of approval
about who these people
are you are putting in charge, because you are almost setting
them up as a rival authority.
I agree with what Michael said — religion itself might not be
a problem but when it is mixed with politics, internal
politics or external geopolitics, it is a problem.
From China’s perspective, when they look at the map
where Xinjiang lies, it is bordered by eight
countries, Pakistan to India to Afghanistan and to Russia.
We are talking about their divided loyalty concept
and faith is one of the things that sometimes political
leaders
see as a potential threat?
Yes, there was an element of internal security,
also an element of external geopolitics here.
When it comes to faith and politics, if they are mixed
together, this is where the controversy lies.
Notjust in China, but also in Myanmar in the plight
of the Rohingya Muslims, Buddhist monks becoming very
political, some high—profile ones reportedly have said
things like every Muslim is dangerous.
This is where things start to get out of control.
You have religion mixed with politics.
That is an interesting example because we are at a point
in Myanmar, there is a kind of very — arguably quite
poisonous link between ethnic identity and faith.
If you are a nationalist loyal to Myanmar as a concept,
you are likely to be Buddhist.
90% of the population is Buddhist.
And as you’ve said, this idea that any Muslim
is potentially dangerous.
We have seen an example of that in the treatment
of the Rohingya minority.
Is there any pushback — is there a sense of any people
who are uncertain about the way this has gone?
Well, certainly, the international outrage over
the last three or four years.
We have seen reporters going into either Myanmar
or in neighbouring countries and reporting on the plight
of Rohingya Muslims.
Also Pope Francis last year also mentioned Yazidis,
Uighurs and Rohingyas, calling them persecuted people.
So there is international pushback, but we all know
what is happening in Myanmar today and there doesn’t seem
to be the opportunity to have a dialogue between
what is
happening in Myanmar and what is perceived outside.
As you said, it is not dialogue, it is dispersal
and execution for those who are protesting.
Michael, this takes us back to idea of the politics.
If we are talking about reconciliation and we talk
about politics, it’s hard not to think of the United States —
and again, weirdly there is almost a sense that
as the practice of religion has declined, or at least
the organised
practice of religion, some of that passion has gone
from faith into politics and politics has become almost
a form of religion in itself?
Let me just — before I come back to that,
I want to pick up on something Vincent
was saying.
This is again politics and religion, that neither
Pakistan nor Turkey, which are Muslim countries,
has been particularly loud
in criticising China
for its treatment of its Muslim minority in Xinjiang,
and that is politics writ large.
Turkey, both leaders of both countries are very,
very — they would call themselves Islamic politicians,
I think, but they are not standing up for their Muslim
brothers.
But coming back to America, some very, very interesting
opinion research came out this week.
They have sampled all kinds of opinion which shows that
despite the fact that Americans profess religion, one
of the most religious countries in the West, church
attendance has gone way down.
They haven’t explained why that should happen over the last
four or five years, but my guess is so—called
evangelical
Christians — and really, they are political Christians —
have become so dominant in parts of the country
that there are many people in the south, in Texas,
in the West now, who would consider themselves
in religious terms to be evangelical but don’t
want to go to church on Sunday and have a political agenda
poured down their throats, so they have stopped
going to church.
Part of the problem in America, and one of the reasons why
people have such a hard time talking, it does seem
to be going through — I think it is in a state
of cold civil war, there is the religious element.
There is a sense that "This is my faith.
lam right.
My political opinion is right."
That is more than just an intellectual thing,
it is something they believe, that this is what the
United States is, or was when it was founded and is no
longer, and I will fight, people use the word "fight",
to make it what it was at its founding.
And that is tied in with this political Christianity.
It is a big problem.
That’s a really interesting aspect of this, Catherine,
when we talk about the idea of reconciliation.
You were saying about the importance of dialogue.
Dialogue only works if people are talking to each other
and not past each other.
And there is this sense, in terms of the practice
of politics, they don’t have to be convinced by fact any
any more, it is an act of faith to believe in the ideology
they believe in?
How do you start to disentangle that, to be able to change
people’s minds if they fear that in changing their minds,
somehow, they are losing their identity?
I think one of the problems that we have right now
is the impact of social media.
Because I think social media is upping the ante
all the time,
it is making people much more divided, rather
than bringing them together.
And what it does is that it — people follow those
who they agree with, except when they are
unbelievably hostile to those they agree with.
And what we see lacking in social media — and I think
we see lacking so often in these
divisions and conflicts we are talking about here —
is that there seems to be a complete lack of humility.
There’s an assumption that one side is right and the other
side is completely wrong and can be completely dismissed.
And I hink if you are going to have dialogue,
you have got to have that humility develop as well.
And I think we see an enormous lack of that in politics
as well, that the conflicts often
involving politics, whether religion is part of it
or not, the situation is made even more difficult because of
this lack of humility.
And I am not sure how quite you encourage people to develop
that kind of humility but when it is
lacking, we just don’t get the dialogue that is needed.
Ad we get in a country like Brazil, a hugely
successful and powerful country — a country that many
admire and other countries aspire to be like Brazil,
to have gone from where Brazil was to where
it is now, but its politics has become increasingly
polarised and distrustful, increasingly convinced
the other side is corrupt and you cannot
engage with them.
President Bolsonaro now facing his former rival —
former president, rather, president Lulu da Silva,
who has become the focus of this,
it is hard to understand how a country like this gets
to that stage of reconciliation without something much worse
first?
Totally.
Completely, in a polarised world, it is ordinary people
who hear the brunt of the polarisaion, really.
Look at Brazil when it comes to the Covid health crisis
and a vaccine is not largely rolled out yet in the country.
And top leadership — Bolsonaro, President Bolsonaro
has been very reluctant to get people be inoculated, etc.
So it is ordinary people suffering from political
polarisation, and
that is the problem — that is the lack of leadership,
whether it is in Brazil or in the United States.
Biden certainly wants to bring the country together
but it will take him a long time, if not years,
to make it happen.
He is now starting from building infrastructure,
getting Americans inoculated by some time the summer
but again, we are facing this unprecedented scenario now.
We don’t know whether there will be an economic crisis
following this health crisis.
We don’t know how the great power competition between
the US and China will develop.
So this is a really divided and a divisive world
where there is no apparent leader who ran
bring everybody together from the international level
and from an individual countries level.
I want to perhaps end on the pandemic, butjust
picking up on what we were talking
about earlier, Michael, and Catherine gave
examples of where places had dialogue and reconciliation —
she mentioned South Africa, Northern Ireland had a peace
process of sorts but you could question whether
there was truly reconciliation.
Certainly there was a dialogue but was there any accounting
but was there any accounting for past crimes?
One country that seems to be happening in a way that has
surprised people is Colombia.
The big process has led to some former leaders of the Farc
rebel group actually being charged with war crimes.
So instead of saying we’re kind of going to, you know, we have
of going to, you know, we have suspended this, they are taking
suspended this, they are taking the reverse approach.
Is that a productive one, do you think?
In the case of Colombia — I mean part of it, there
are some countries where you ran bolster
these things through aid.
And let’s be clear that is what happened in South Africa,
and to a very considerable degree in Northern Ireland,
where there was a lot of inward investment
from the United States to make sure that in this transition
period where people who have been fighting insurgencies
against one another for decades — in the case
of Colombia, going back to the 19605 —
have an opportunity to talk and to deal with one
another in a world where economic gain
is being more evenly spread.
And this perhaps can bring us back to America,
where because inequality has been growing
at such a pace, people don’t feel like
they have that kinda of economic stake in the overall
health of the society.
Whereas in Colombia, that seems to be different.
It should also be said that if you know enough
about the wars that were fought in Colombia
between the Farc and other groups and various governments
and you know what half a century feels like,
and I’m now so old I do know what half a century feels like,
you mightjust be inclined to say "We don’t have to fight
about this stuff.
We really don’t."
50 time also heals, to a certain degree.
And that is some message of hope and optimism,
Catherine.
And I suppose one element is this — and we have heard it
in different forms — we’ve had people trying
to apologise and account for what has been done.
IFS:
Not even necessarily by hand.
Whether it is apologies for historic child sexual
abuse, whether it’s apologies for slavery in the Atlantic
slave trade, whether, in the most recent
example, it is a university, a relatively small institution
in a part of the United Kingdom saying -
out of step with other institutions around the world —
actually, we have got this thing, we have got this bronze
that was pillaged from Beinin, in what is now Nigeria,
and it is actually intolerable for us
to keep it, we will give it back —
small acts that might have a bigger resonance?
Yes, when we look at an issue such as we have this morning,
conflict across the world, it is easy to be very
pessimistic.
but I think you have just mentioned small acts
and if you look across society — and we have seen this
particularly in the pandemic —
that there are countless small acts that do make a difference.
The — I think the pandemic has exacerbated existing problems.
Michael was just mentioning inequality.
We have seen how inequality in the UK has really been
exasperated by pandemic, but the pandemic has
also highlighted the capacity for humanity to do
good as well.
And I think that is something perhaps at Easter we can
celebrate.
And Vincent, just on that thought, we have had this call
from a number of world leaders — including BorisJohnson
in the UK, Angela Merkel, President Macron —
in a sense acknowledging that they are not adequate
as individuals for the crisis — who is?
— the talk of a future treaty for pandemics and say
that we are all in this together, particularly
the calls over vaccine nationalism.
Has it been such a bad experience for the world
that this might be the thing to galvanise us
to do something together?
This is a really positive step.
Some 25 countries have joined a cause to establish this
treaty.
But I think the devil is always in the detail
and also in process.
We are in a time of every country believes they have
the right to set the rules.
It is ultimately about who sets the rules, it
is about whether it is the US, China,
the EU or the UK.
It is a very positive step but it will take some time,
especially contacts and negotiating a multilateral
treaty — we know how notorious
it can he sometimes — so
it is positive but it will take some time.
Time is one thing we have on our hands for now,
not least many people sitting at home.
Thank you for being with us.
Thanks to Catherine and to Michael and
to you Vincent, and for you watching us.
I am remembering that sometimes, you have
to make compromises.
What is it the Protestant Prince said?
That after years of religion, the massacre of terrible acts
in France when he said "Paris is worth a Mass".
From all of us at Dateline, have a good weekend.
We’re back next week at the same time.
Goodbye.
Good evening.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
temperature was in was where I got very close to 18 degrees.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air,
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over
the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland,
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts but actually,
a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again,
those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too —
2—9 degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us, so through the middle
of the week, some slightly higher temperatures but then,
actually, by Friday in northern areas, it will turn
cold once again.
This is BBC News — welcome if you’re watching here
in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones.
Our top stories:
Royal crisis inJordan — former Crown Prince Hamza
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions in India’s worst affected
state, as the country records the world’s highest number
of daily infections.
The Florida reservoir leaking toxic waste—water,
and the battle to prevent an environmental disaster.
And tears ofjoy, the swimmer who’s qualified for the Tokyo
Olympics after being diagnosed with Leukemia.
The half—brother of the King ofJordan is being investigated
for allegedly plotting with foreign parties
to destabilise the kingdom.
In a video sent to the BBC, Prince Hamzah bin Hussein
denied being part of any conspiracy, but he accused
Jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
Our Chief International Correspondent Lyse Doucet
reports on this unprecedented crisis withinJordan’s ruling
family.
A young prince at the heart of a major royal rift.
Hamzah, 41 years old, graduate of Sandhurst
in the UK, Harvard in the US.
Now he says he’s under house arrest.
All my friends have been arrested.
My security has been removed, and the internet and phone
lines have been cut.
This is my last form of communication.
And in this video, passed to the BBC, rare public
criticism from a Jordanian prince.
I am not the person responsible for the breakdown
in governance, for the corruption and for
the incompetence.
Today on state TV, a dramatically different
account — Prince Hamzah and others accused of plotting
to destabilise the kingdom.
TRANSLATION: The investigations monitored interference
and phone cells, including with foreign parties,
which discussed the appropriate timing to start steps to shake
the security of our stable kingdom.
King Abdullah is being said to be trying to resolve this
within the family — an effort failing so far.
So much is so unclear.
There have long been some strains between brothers.
Hamzah was called the favourite of their father, the late King
Hussein.
There’s a striking resemblance between them.
But when the King lost his long battle with cancer in 1999,
he chose his eldest son, Abdullah, to succeed him.
Hamzah became Crown Prince.
2004 was a pivotal yearfor the prince.
He got married and was stripped of his royal title.
The King made his own son second in line.
Prince Hamzah has expressed veiled criticism before,
but nothing like this.
This crisis in a quiet corner of a volatile region has
rattled neighbours, including other Arab monarchies.
They’ve rushed to back the King.
The kingdom already worried about discontent over
an economic crisis made much worse by a painful pandemic,
now there’s uncertainty over whether this is a family crisis
or one which goes much further.
Lyse Doucet, BBC News.
Earlier, I spoke to Jonathan Schanzer.
He is Senior Vice—President of the sink tank Foundation
for Defense of Democracies.
I asked him how serious these meetings were against the King.
Well, right now, theJordanian government is still,
I would say, holding a lot of this information close.
It’s only being shared by a very small circle.
I think we’ll be hearing more in the coming days
but I would say that off hand, looking at the arrests that
have taken place — right now, according to the news sources
out ofJordan, it’s somewhere between 16—20 people —
this does not sound like a widespread conspiracy
that stretches across theJordanian bureaucracy
and theJordanian military, so that would suggest that
either it’s a small group of people that they caught very
early on in a plot or perhaps, as your reporter suggested,
maybe this is a bitter squabble between two royals.
And the position and the strength of the King
in the country is crucial to many of its Western allies.
It is, but I think it’s worth noting that really,
over the last ten years, the kingdom has been rocked
to its core, I think first from the Arab Spring and some
of the challenges that met the kingdom on the street.
Then, of course, the Syrian civil war, which really had
a devastating impact economically.
There are about a million Syrian refugees that have
crossed over the border — the second largest population
centre in Syria — or inJordan right now,
it’s basically a Syrian refugee camp, the Za’atari camp.
And then, of course, we’ve got Covid—19, which has
destabilised the country economically, and it was
Add to all of that the fact that the country has somewhere
between let’s say 60 and 75% Palestinian in terms of place
of origin, where most of the — that’s where most of its
population comes from.
It makes the country somewhat unstable and,
of course, has a lot of Western countries very nervous
about what they’re seeing right now.
Well, given the long list of potential problems,
do you see now, in the coming weeks, months, years,
more criticism or, on the other hand, more clampdowns?
Well, I think maybe a bit of both, and that is not really
a great prognosis for the country.
I think that the real issue is about, I think,
quite frankly, as Prince Hamzah noted, that there are a lot
of questions out there about institution—building,
fighting corruption.
I think a lot of those things have been tabled primarily
because these are all legitimate threats that I just
noted — the Arab Spring and the Syrian civil war
and the Palestinian population — all of these things have been
very, very difficult for the kingdom to navigate
and I think it probably does sort of shine 3 Spotlight
on the needs of the country going forward.
Of course, we’re going to hope that things remain stable,
but this does not appear terrific at the outset here,
as the reports start to come in.
The Indian state of Maharashtra will see tighter
restrictions from Monday after a significant rise
in coronavirus infections.
India has the third highest number of cases in the world,
after the US and Brazil.
Tanya Dendrinos reports.
A crowded market in Mumbai.
Masks are on, but social distancing is virtually
impossible, and coronavirus cases are rising rapidly.
The warning is stark.
TRANSLATION: The number of Covid—19 cases reported
in the past 2A hours is alarming and is a matter
of concern.
It could turn into a hazardous situation.
Almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases,
which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
If the cases increase in this proportion, the impact
of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of Covid—19 in India,
the country recording 12.5 million infections.
On Sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest
level since September, with more than 93,000 recorded.
More than half of those were in Maharashtra,
the state facing tighter restrictions from Monday,
including a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
TRANSLATION: This is a very good decision by the government
as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain
of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very
beneficialfor all of us.
Stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task,
particularly in a country with a population of 1.3 billion.
Despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive,
so far administering more than 68 million doses,
it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
Tanya Dendrinos, BBC News.
Flash floods triggered by heavy rainfall have left at least 44
people dead in the Indonesian island of Flores and
the neighbouring state of East Timor.
In one village in eastern Flores, a mudslide buried
dozens of houses.
A landslide killed three people in the East Timor capital,
Dili with homes washed away.
Power supplies were cut and floodwaters also engulfed
the presidential palace.
Aid groups in Mozambique say nearly 10,000 people have been
evacuated from the northern town of Palma, which
was recently attacked by
Islamist militants.
Authorities say thousands are still hiding in the forests
surrounding the area, in desperate need of
food and water.
where many victims have sought refuge.
This man hasjust gotten off the rescue ferry
at Pemba harbour.
His tears are for his dead father.
His brother is still missing.
All morning, they arrived, a steady procession of over
1,000 survivors grateful to be alive, but in shock.
They spoke of decapitations, bodies on the streets,
and fleeing through dense forest from the gun—wielding
insurgents.
This distraught woman lost two sons during the attack.
TRANSLATION: It hurts a lot.
Every day, we saw mothers crying.
Three, four of their children — they don’t know where they are.
It’s too painful.
GUNFIRE.
Isis—linked insurgents began the coordinated attack on Palma
just over a week ago, killing indiscriminately
and displacing thousands.
The official death toll is still not yet known and,
according to the UN, tens of thousands of people
have been displaced.
Among those missing is British man Philip Mawer.
His family fear the worst.
As victims made their way out of the besieged town,
doctors struggled to keep up with the wounded.
We could not help everybody.
I mean, the need is huge there.
This population is really in need of medical care,
protection and evacuation, and food.
I’m at a local community sports complex that’s been converted
into a makeshift shelter for survivors of the deadly
attack in Palma.
Now, these are some of the victims who have come
here seeking shelter and refuge following the horrors
that they encountered at the hands of the insurgents.
The people that made their way off the boat
are the lucky ones.
Thousands remain scattered in the forest surrounding
Palma.
Many will not survive.
And with reports of an ongoing conflict in Palma, Mozambique
will struggle to keep up with the escalating
humanitarian crisis.
Vumani Mkhize, BBC News, Pemba, Mozambique.
Emergency workers in Florida are trying to prevent
catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic
wasterwater reservoir.
This is all happening in Florida’s Tampa Bay,
where the Piney Point reservoir is located.
More than 300 homes have been evacuated.
This is the waste water reservoir which contains 480
million gallons, that’s over two billion litres,
of polluted water.
And this is the leak itself, which is now a week old.
Efforts to plug it have failed.
50 workers are now using these pipes to pump water out
to reduce flooding, if the containment wall breaks.
Here’s Governor Ron DeSantis with an update on the emergency
response efforts.
To be clear, the water being discharged to Port Manatee
is not radioactive.
It is primarily saltwater from the Port Manatee dredge
project, mixed with legacy process water and stormwater
run—off.
We’re currently pumping out 33 million gallons per day.
This new process will help to significantly increase
the volume of water that we are pumping out
at Piney Point.
I asked Florida’s agriculture commissioner, Nikki Fried
what’s happening in her home state.
So what is happening is that this is an old phosphate
mining location, where the phosphate mining has
stopped for many, many years but unfortunately,
this has been something that has been on the radar
for the Department of Environmental Protection
for at least two decades that if, in fact, there was leaks
in the piping — which is exactly what’s happened —
in these gypsum ﬂumes, then the water was starting
to kind of seep into the Tampa Bay and seep out
of the water.
And so while it is not radioactive, it is extremely
filled with nutrients that when they collide
with something like Tampa Bay and the waterway creates a red
tide, so right now the Department of Environmental
protection has been unsuccessfully stopping
the spill into the waterways but unfortunately, at some
point, all of this is going to have to be drained.
Significant problems here and it could end up
being a tremendously detrimental environmental
disaster here in the state of Florida.
And just how preventable was this, in your —
in your opinion?
Extremely preventable.
This was something that back even in the late ‘905—early
20005 was told to the governors of our state, over 20—plus
years was brought aware that this was a disaster
waiting to happen.
And it is notjust this mining location —
we’ve got other phosphate mining places all across
the state of Florida.
And unfortunately, the past 20 years have been under one
party’s control have really kind of spent time deregulating
and not having enough attention, financial resources.
This is something that should have been addressed 20 years
disaster here in the state because action was not taken.
Even our current governor, who you heard earlier tonight,
he was made aware of this situation last year
and unfortunately, he too took no action to have prevented
these leaks and made this a priority for the states.
Not only are those homes that are in the area really
going to be severely impacted but it’s also the ecosystem,
the environment — the fish lifeline in that community —
so this is going to have a huge impact and if we start seeing
red tide on our coastal communities, not only
the killing of ourfish but all of those communities
that are impacted on the economic revenue,
not only from people coming and visiting,
but a lot of these communities are very, you know,
their survival rate is based on the fishing industry that
will collapse if we will start seeing a lot of these red tide
and algae blooms that will blossom because of this
discharge coming from the mining location.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Often our best friend — and often a life—line
in lockdown.
But what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
This funeral became a massive demonstration of Black power.
The power to influence.
Today is about the promise of a bright future.
A day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
I think that Picasso’s works were beautiful,
they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody
who loves art.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines:
A royal crisis inJordan —
Former crown prince Hamza says he’s under house arrest,
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions in India’s worst affected state
of Maharashtra, as the country records
the world’s highest number of daily infections.
Pope Francis has used his Easter message
to focus on the victims of Coronavirus.
He urged a quickening of the vaccine rollout
around the world.
Our Rome correspondent Mark Lowen reports.
St Peter’s Basilica echoed to its emptiness.
Beneath Michelangelo’s dome, a small group of worshippers
gathering for Easter mass, more a consolation
than a celebration, a time to reflect on a painful year
and for the leader of the world’s Catholics
to comfort those whose faith has been shaken.
Pope Francis focused on the pandemic in his message,
calling the resurrection of Christa symbol of hope
for those who had lost loved ones, jobs, and time
with friends or in the classroom.
And he spoke of the panacea.
TRANSLATION: Vaccines are an essential tool
in this fight.
I urge the entire international community in a spirit of global
responsibility to commit to overcoming delays
in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their
distribution, especially in the poorest countries.
The Pope talked of conflict across the world, condemning
what he called "Scandalous military spending amidst
the pandemic."
There were words too for the victims of the Burmese
coup.
TRANSLATION: I am close to young people from all over
the world, and at this time especially to those of Myanmar
peacefully, aware that hatred can only be dissipated by love.
Churches could stay open today despite the whole of Italy
being put into the tightest Covid restrictions.
But the measures were strict with Italians battling
a third wave.
With shops and restaurants closed across the country,
it’s a second straight lockdown Easter.
"It’s just a few of us at lunch today," she says.
"We were hoping for a faster solution to all of this."
"I’m meeting with my family today, my mother has already
been vaccinated, so we are beginning to see light
at the end of the tunnel," he says.
Not a moment too soon for the medics, who managed
a touch of Easter cheer today and some sweet treats.
How they keep their spirits up is itself a miracle,
giving us all hope that real joy isn’t too far off.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Rome.
The swimmer Rikako Ikee has qualified
for the Tokyo Olympics three years after being
——Exit polls for Bulgaria’s parliamentary election suggest
the centre—right party of Prime Minister —
Boyko Borissov — has won the most votes
with around 25%.
If confirmed, he will need the support of others
to continue governing.
Mr Borissov’s main challengers are the pro—Russia Socialists,
with approximately 16% of the votes,
according to the exit polls.
——The swimmer Reekako ee Kayay has qualified
for the Tokyo Olympics three years after being
diagnosed with leukaemia.
She only resstarted her Olympic training last year.
She cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was
really surprised.
Loretta Race is Our reporter for SwimSwam News.
I spoke to her a little earlier to get her reaction
to the qualification.
Thank you for coming on the programme.
Thank you for coming on the programme.
Thank you for having me.
Let’s just pause for a second because I just want to show our
viewers the moment of the win.
We can see the joy and the emotion because this
is such a hugely significant moment, obviously for her,
but it seems to represents a little bit more for
the country as well, and she’s kind of clenching herfist
and then the tears come as she realises
the huge significance of what she’s done.
Wonderful photos.
And I want to get your reaction.
You were watching that.
What was your reaction when you saw it?
It was utter amazement.
I mean, shejust returned to racing, herfirst official
race back was August of last year.
And here we are about seven months later and she
qualified for the Olympic Games.
She was targeting Paris, this 20—year—old said,
so the fact that she’s way ahead of schedule
and her body and her mind has persevered
is just a testament to her character and mental fortitude.
And physical, and then, wow.
How do you go about building back after
that treatment?
Oh, my goodness.
So, in March 2020, that was her first time in the pool
in over 400 days.
And all she did was walk around.
I mean, we’re not even talking actual physical swim workouts.
And so she had to build back a lot of her muscle mass
that was lost, and if you see, obviously in the video she’s
still very slim, and so she had to fight her way back
both in mind and in the pool.
And it seemed to be — the reaction of the win,
of course it’s huge for her personally,
and are we reading too much into it to say actually it
really represents the country and says something wider
than just her achievements?
Oh, my gosh, absolutely not.
Everyone around the world is rooting for her,
and the fact that everyone need some positive news nowadays.
And the Olympics are a beacon of hope for all of us
and the fact that they are going to be going on,
even sans foreign spectators, she’s just a beacon of light
and that’s just going to give us all inspiration as we move
forward toJuly for the Olympics.
And what about realistic chances come the actual
main competition?
That’s a very good question.
So she has a couple of days off.
She has a 100 freestyle coming up on Wednesday.
It’s very realistic, given her qualification
in the butterfly for the medley relay, that she could
potentially join the freestyle relay as well.
Individual qualification would just be complete
icing on the cake.
At this point she’s so overwhelmed, so excited,
it’s as if she already won the gold medal.
Brilliant stuff, brilliant pictures, and great to have
you on, Loretta Race, thank you.
For so many people, one of the worst things
about the global pandemic has been loneliness.
Millions unable to meet family orfriends.
One possible solution has been to get a pet —
but some are worried about what will happen to those
animals once the lockdown is over.
Tim Allman reports.
This is Uschi.
For Markus and his daughter, Analie, she’s made life
just that little bit more bearable.
One of around a million dogs and cats that have found
new homes in Germany since the Covid crisis began.
TRANSLATION: A pandemic is obviously a time
when we stay at home a lot, confined.
That means I have to work from home.
The children are also at home a lot so it’s obviously a good
time to get a dog used to a family.
Across the country, there was a 20% increase
in dog ownership last year.
One survey showing that more than eight out of ten owners
said animals like Uschi provided emotional support.
But the lockdown won’t last forever.
And the manager of this shelter in Berlin
is concerned about what happens next.
TRANSLATION: We estimate that after the current lockdown
ends, there will unfortunately be a crazy number of abandoned
animals dropped off at our shelter, when people return
to their normal lives.
Marty is typical of the kind of animal returned to the shelter
— a Staffordshire Terrier mix, he’s friendly, lovable,
but a lot to handle.
The message is a simple one —
a dog is for life, notjust a pandemic.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
That’s about it from me. I will be back with the headlines.
be back with the headlines. There is always plenty more
There is always planty more online.
There is always plenty more online. To download the BBC
online. To download the BBC News app.
And you can get in touch with me and most of the team
on Twitter, I’m @LVaughanJones.
I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones
I’m Lewis Vaughanjones and
I’m Lewis Vaughan jones and this is
I’m Lewis Vaughanjones and this is BBC News. Bye—bye.
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
Worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air,
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over
the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland,
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts but actually,
a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again,
those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too —
2—9 degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us, so through the middle
of the week, some slightly higher temperatures but then,
actually, by Friday in northern areas, it will turn
cold once again.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
The half—brother of the King of Jordan is being investigated,
for allegedly plotting with foreign parties
to destabilise the kingdom.
In a video sent to the BBC, Prince Hamzah denied being part
of any conspiracy, but said he’s under house arrest
and accused Jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
New coronavirus restrictions are being introduced in India’s
worst affected state, Maharashtra, as the country
records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
On Sunday, India recorded 93,000 cases.
The country now has the third highest number of cases
in the world, after the United States and Brazil.
Emergency workers in the US state of Florida are trying
to stop catastrophic flooding after a leak
in a toxic waste—water reservoir.
More than 300 homes have been evacuated.
Now on BBC News, it’s HARDtalk with Stephen Sackur.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
The proportion of wealth owned by a super—rich elite continues
to grow in societies around the world.
The glaring disparity between the have—mosts
and the have—nothings has fuelled a wave of political
angen
Well, my guest today, the former newspaper columnist
and editor, and one—time high society hostess,
Barbara Amiel, has written a memoir which, wittingly
or not, paints an extraordinary, even grotesque
picture of the lives of the wealthy.
So, why on Earth did she do it?
Barbara Amiel in Toronto, welcome to HARDtalk.
Thank you, good to be here.
Pleasure to have you on the show.
Let us begin by discussing your memoir, Friends and Enemies,
that you wrote last year.
Most people write memoirs, I would say, to make
themselves look good.
Your memoir, perhaps you would agree, didn’t
really do that.
So, why did you write it?
I don’t know whether it made me look good or bad,
but to be perfectly honest, I tried to be honest.
When you reach the stage in life that I’ve reached,
80, there is really no point in gilding the lily.
You hope it’ll work out, you hope that there’s something
redeemable in the life you’ve lived, and you tell it —
to use a horrible phrase — "like it is".
And I tried to do that.
Right, but it is full of anger.
It seems to be fuelled by a desire for vengeance,
and it tells a whole host of anecdotes and stories
about erstwhile friends who have become enemies.
And I guess you would accept that that perhaps doesn’t
reflect very well on them, when we get to the content,
reflect very well on them, when we get to the content,
but it also, in terms of its motivation, doesn’t
really reflect very well on you, either.
Well, I think there are a number of things that don’t
reflect well on me.
I wouldn’t put that at the top of the list.
I think that, erm, you...
People may desert you, or at least that’s what you
think they’ve done.
But, as you live the life I’ve lived, you gradually realise
that you are not the centre of everyone’s life, and that,
when bad things happen to you, it’s not a crime on the part
of many people not to want to be around you.
They’ve got their own lives to live.
They don’t want to hear about your troubles nonstop,
and theyjust get on with living.
So, I don’t think that everyone should be classed as an enemy
just because they don’t stand by you and hold your hand.
Before we get to your life in the very top of high
society, let us go back a little bit to the young
Barbara, who grew up in very difficult circumstances.
You were born in the UK in a suburb of London,
but by the time you were a teenager, you were taken
by your mum and your stepfather to Canada,
because your own birth father had committed suicide.
And by the time you were in your mid teens, you’d
basically been chucked out of the family home.
That must have had a huge impact upon you.
Actually, it didn’t have as much impact as you think.
And I didn’t really think of myself as hard done by.
It seemed to me a logical thing.
My mother was a...
I think the phrase now is borderline personality.
She was an emotionally and mentally disturbed woman.
I reminded her of my father, who she apparently loved very
much, and I certainly loved him very much.
And, on looking at me, she would invariably go
into the bathroom, lock the door, and attempt suicide.
And my stepfather decided that, for the sake of his wife,
it was better I not live at home.
And so, it was a bit of a surprise to come home
and see my things in cardboard boxes on the doorstep.
But I understood the rationale behind it.
And, in fact, living alone when you’re 1A is not so bad.
You have no rules, you have no parents.
If you can find a job and keep things going,
you can make a perfectly decent life for yourself.
In those days, it was easier to do — bear in mind,
we’re talking about the ‘505.
I think it might be harder now, but I could get a job,
I could lie about my age, and I managed.
What strikes me is that after what, in anybody’s terms,
I think was a pretty tough adolescence and young
womanhood, you showed extraordinary resilience.
You chose ultimately to go into the media,
and you actually broke some ground.
I think I’m right in saying you became the first female
editor of the Toronto Sun in Canada.
So you were extraordinarily successful, actually,
despite the difficulties of your past.
And yet — and I don’t wish to sound like a pop,
sort of, psychologist — that professional success
doesn’t seem to have been enough.
And I’m wondering why.
Well, I think most people — and I suspect, if you looked
into your own soul, you’d find that most people
want to do better professionally.
They also, in my case, want to have a parallel life —
in my case, a love life.
And I wanted to enjoy things.
It was hard for me to enjoy things because I have this
incredibly pessimistic nature, and assume that, around
the corner, the next ghastly thing is going to happen.
I was the first woman in Canada to be the editor of a daily
Metropolitan newspaper.
And my British assistant keeps telling me that I was the first
woman in North America who got it through her own merits,
rather than inheriting it from mummy or daddy.
But I didn’t think of it in terms like that.
Ijust wanted to get better.
And I never lived up to my own expectations,
and I never lived up to my own standards.
So, it was jolly disappointing.
When you were independent and successful, did you see
yourself as a feminist?
Not remotely.
I mean, Stephen, I come from a family where my
great—grandmother worked, my grandmother worked.
Every woman I knew worked.
And I didn’t know anything about glass ceilings.
And I think European women are somewhat more sophisticated
about work than North American women.
North American women always struck me as the most coddled
women in the world, but the ones that complain
the loudest.
So, I didn’t see myself as a feminist because it was
just not something on my radar screen.
I found that it was difficult to get ahead, but I did not
attribute that to gender.
In fact, I found that my gender injournalism, at least,
was as much a help as a hindrance.
Interesting — to my previous question, you said that you not
only wanted professional success, you wanted love,
you wanted relationships.
Your memoir — and this is where it gets intensely
personal — suggests that you actually saw friendships,
relationships with men and, indeed, sex in transactional
terms.
You know, it’s funny, that’s a favourite word
of interviewers.
And I don’t think it’s totally inaccurate, but it certainly
isn’t the whole story.
When I fell in love, I fell in love in absolutely
crazy, hopeless ways.
If I used sex transactionally, it wasn’t in quite the way
that you’re suggesting.
In other words, I didn’t sleep with someone to get ahead
inajob.
I think the one incident you’re referring to is my relationship
with George Weidenfeld, who I adored.
And, if I may, Barbara, to interject, Lord Weidenfeld —
who actually we’ve had on HARDtalk, as well,
of course, no longer alive — but he was renowned in London
as a great publisher and socialite, and womaniser.
You very bluntly say that, I think, while you were still
in your third marriage — but you’re in the UK —
you became close to Weidenfeld, and he clearly became
besotted with you.
And you say, and I’m going to quote this at some
length, "Being with him, I thought rather calculatingly
"gave me access and status.
"he threw great parties.
"I was trying to hang on to the social advantages
"without incurring the payment required sexually.
"And the only way I could deal with it was to avoid actual
"body—to—body contact and pleasure him orally."
I’m reading it out, but there is a question
underpinning it, which is, if that is not calculating,
manipulative, and transactional, I don’t
know what is.
Well, I do think it is calculating, manipulative,
and transactional.
Although you have left out other lines that I wrote,
in which I said how much I loved his conversation,
how much I loved his being, his sense of humour,
and his intellectual brilliance.
But the part that you read, I cannot take back.
I might have written it a little more, erm...
Oh, I don’t know, a little more gently, but it’s true.
I did enjoy the notion of sitting next to great
writers, politicians.
I did want to hang on to ourfriendship.
And what would’ve happened was, under normal circumstances —
because he had many, many women friends with whom he did not
have a sexual relationship — under normal circumstances,
I would’ve liked to have just been a friend that he wanted
to be with, because my conversation was so sparkling
and brilliant.
But obviously, my conversation wasn’t so sparkling
and brilliant, and he had otherfeelings for me.
And in order to hang on to the parts that I liked,
I had to cope with his feelings.
Now, if I had been a totally honest and decent person,
I would just have turned my back and said, "All right,
I’m going to give up the dinners.
"I’m going to give up the good conversation and the laughter,
"and the fun I had with him, because I can’t make
the payment he requires for it."
But unfortunately, I wasn’t that decent a person.
In that one relationship, there was a transactional
sexual aspect.
Yeah.
I mean, I don’t wish to dwell on difficult stuff,
because there’s lots to talk about.
Butjust one more relationship I do wish to ask you about,
which is with the Australian media mogul, Kerry Packer.
It’s a very bizarre episode.
And again, you’ve written about it, so I feel entitled
to ask you because you’ve been very open about it,
but I just don’t know what was going on inside your head.
He asked you a couple of times, at least, I think, to go
to a casino with him, just to sit with him,
be close to him, and watch him gamble vast amounts of money.
And when he won even more vast amounts of money,
he just gave you £100,000 on two different occasions.
And, rather than refuse it out of any, sort of,
sense of, I don’t know, dignity, you pocketed
the money.
What was going on then, do you think?
Well, I think you’re playing it, if I may say so,
not quite accurately.
I had no relationship whatsoever with Kerry Packer.
I was actually out to dinner with a gentleman that
I did know.
And Kerry Packer, who I had never met in my life, appeared.
And it turned out that the gentlemen I was having
dinner with was his adviser in gambling matters,
and said, "Would you like to come upstairs "and see
what we’re doing?"
And I’m a journalist, I’ve never been in a casino
before, I hadn’t seen these private rooms,
so I had no idea what I was going to see —
but it could have been a column.
And I went upstairs.
It was just Kerry gambling.
I didn’t know who he was.
I didn’t know how much he gambled.
And I sat there and watched in astonishment as this
stranger next to me insisted on showing me
that he was writing cheques for £500,000 3 hand.
When it was all over, he had won, I don’t know,
12 or £15 million for the evening.
And we went downstairs, and my date said, "Just wait
a moment," and came back and handed me this
cheque for £100,000.
And I did protest, as I wrote in the book.
I said, "Look, I can’t possibly take this," and I went
on and on.
My date looked at me with this, sort of, world—weary thing
and said, "This is the way it works.
Kerry always does this."
The next night was a repeat.
I tried to get out of it because I was on a column
deadline.
His chauffeur turned up.
I could have said no, but at that point,
it seemed pointless.
The same thing happened.
I was told to wear the same clothes —
I guess they’re superstitious.
I sat next to him, I drank the same cup of tea.
He won again.
This time, we had half of South America with us,
because his polo team joined us, as well.
Every member of the polo team got the same cheque.
And apparently, this is what Kerry does and what many
big—time gamblers do.
When they win, they have a, sort of, superstition,
and they give part of it to everyone around.
Now...
Sorry, Barbara.
I mean, the stories are, in their own right,
fascinating, kind of spellbinding.
But when the amalgam of them comes together,
including just the more prosaic detail of the houses that
you and your husband—to—be, Conrad Black, bought
in the course of your great successes in the 19905
in London and New York, and Palm Beach, and all
the vast closets of Manolo Blahnik shoes
and thejewellery, and the Birkin and Hermes
handbags — all this stuff you write about at great
length, the obsession you had with, for a while,
material things and being seen at the right parties
and hosting the right dinners for the best—connected people
in the world.
From the outside, it all looks kind of repulsive,
and I wonder whether you get that?
And are you, in a way, repulsed by the world that
you occupied at that time?
I’m repulsed, Isuppose, by the years I wasted,
because life ends up being rather short.
And it pains me very much that I wasted time on this.
It doesn’t pain me that I was with Conrad.
I think that’s the best decision I ever made
in my entire life.
In terms of the collecting of shoes and Chaneljackets,
I appear to have been ahead of my time.
London now seems to be awash with people who have a thousand
times more pairs of shoes.
But nevertheless, I was certainly excessive
in my consumption.
I always had been when I was much younger, although I didn’t
have the budget.
I was always having to write an extra article to pay
for the jacket I had just got.
So, this was not something new, it was just on a bigger scale.
I think what was repulsive about my life — and actually,
I rather resent being told I’m completely repulsive
of my lifestyle, but it is probably a fairjudgment
on your part — I think what was repulsive was that
I wasted time, particularly in New York.
Because in London, you see, Conrad was a proprietor.
The parties he gave were all part of meeting people
that the paper could then take advantage of, could interview,
contacts, news department.
But in New York, it wasn’t like that at all.
In New York, it was purely social.
And it was a society that, by and large, bored the living
daylights out of me.
Except I was fascinated with their consumption and,
because I was a weak and shallow person —
and I don’t say this in any breast—beating way,
I mean, it’s rather matter of fact — I wanted
to be like them.
I want to ask you about...
I wanted to...
Sorry, I want to ask you about one particular
question, which I think is important.
And the word that I’m interested in is "entitlement".
A former editor of yours on The Daily Telegraph,
Sarah Sands, said, "There’s something of the ancient Greek
about Barbara "and Conrad’s disdain for ordinary people
and their "belief in the entitlement of the elite."
And it’s an important word because entitlement often,
it seems, to people not in this elite world,
leads elite people to think that there’s one set of rules
for them, and another set of rules for everybody else.
Was that yours and Conrad’s approach to life?
Well, with all due respect to Sarah Sands, who’s actually
a person I like very much and whose talents I admire,
I think that’s absolute bunk.
The reason — it’s almost proven bunk, because I knew Conrad
was going to be all right in prison — was because he was
always interested in everyone.
He was as interested in the janitor as much
as he was in the high society.
But, if I may, never mind all that and how he coped
in prison, butjust on this point of entitlement —
and for people who aren’t remembering so well,
your husband, Conrad Black, was ultimately convicted
in a US court of serious crimes, obstruction ofjustice
and fraud, he was originally sentenced to 78 months,
it was shortened later.
But he did spend a significant amount of time in prison
as a convicted criminal.
And Ijust wonder, first of all, whether you knew,
as his wife, that he was up to crooked business?
And second of all, whether you and he felt that
somehow, it was OK, that you were somehow allowed to get
away with it?
Are you mad?
Do you think that I would have stayed with a criminal?
I know that I’m the spouse, and therefore, she would say
it, wouldn’t she?
But my husband was 100% innocent, which is why the most
left—wing justice on the US Supreme Court, Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, wrote in herjudgment vacating all the convictions
against him that they had to use invented law
to convict him.
And that was part of herjudgment.
The fact was that when it went down to a lower court,
there was a judge of great hostility who managed
to reinstate one or two charges.
And I think he was, in the end convicted of stealing something
like $200,000 by wire fraud — which is a crime which doesn’t
even exist in most countries.
The obstruction ofjustice was complete nonsense.
It took place theoretically in Canada, and the Canadian
court said there was no obstruction ofjustice.
So, I think you’re being — you’re slanting things.
My husband was entirely innocent.
And, were he not, I would not have been there.
I am many bad things, I am many horrible things,
possibly, you make your ownjudgments.
But one thing I am not is a criminal.
When he came out, you built a life with him,
but it was a life very different from the life before.
And you, again, going back to the concept of enemies and,
indeed, maybe vengeance as well, you do dish the dirt
on all the people who, after the fall of Conrad,
and I suppose that meant your fall, as well, in social
And it goes from all of your high—society friends
in New York City to even your hairdresser.
Has that made you...
Has it made you feel that the life you led
for so long was a completely false and fantasy life?
Is that how you feel about it now?
Not entirely, although that’s an aspect of it.
You know, it’s ironic because one of the first
articles I wrote before I had a full—time job writing
was called "In Defence of Vengeance".
I did not see this book as a vengeful book.
And it may be that I should never have kept the title —
which was the working title, Friends and Enemies —
because it doesn’t tell the whole truth about the book.
My hairdresserfired me, and it really is horrid to be
fired by your hairdresser.
So, what I did in the book was I mentioned exactly
what happened to us, and I let the chips fall
where they may.
Are you, er, and I’m thinking of an earlier part
of our conversation, you began life as this
extraordinarily strong—willed, independent, resilient
journalist, and yet, in the end, you lived a life
which was much more — and again, I don’t mean to be
pejorative — but much more about networking,
social climbing, and living the grandest of grand lives
than it was about, you know, reporting on the way the world
works, socialjustice issues, perhaps, you know, issues
of fairness in this world, challenges to the inequality
in this world.
If you could live your life over again, would you choose
to prioritise very differently?
And what lessons do you think can be learned from your life
by young women in 2021?
Well, because I am not an entirely vengeful person,
I will not send you all my columns.
But I never stopped working for one day when I was
In fact, if anything, I wrote more when I was married
with him in terms of political columns, social issues,
than when I wasn’t working.
So, I never set back and just enjoyed myself.
I kept working all through it.
Did I waste my life?
What can I tell young women?
I can tell young women that they should take a course
in financial planning, because I bitterly regret that
I did not know how to conserve money when I had it.
And I think that taking courses in financial planning would be
a hell of a lot more useful than taking courses
in gender studies.
Do I regret the time I wasted?
Of course I regret it.
Of course I regret it.
What the hell is the point of going to endless charity
dinners, talking to people that really do bore you,
when in fact you could be staying at home writing —
which later on, even before the troubles began,
is what I started doing.
But I didn’t do it soon enough.
Final thought.
In a way, I’m very confused because your book is so honest.
And yet, obviously, as you’ve frankly said to me,
you know that quite a lot of it reflects very
badly on yourself.
Would you say today that you are someone who enjoys
a high level of self—awareness, or not?
You know, it’s funny, some critics say that I’m
blatantly unaware because I say my husband is innocent.
Believe me, as a research journalist, I researched every
aspect of what he did.
So, I’m not blatantly unaware of that.
I hope I have some understanding of my weaknesses
and frailties.
I think I have some understanding of the value
I bring to life.
I don’t know.
You have to be the judge.
I really, you know, it’s very hard for a person to judge
themselves, because we always want to be better than we are.
And, as I said, I wrote as honestly as I could,
and that’s the best any writer can do.
Barbara Amiel, it’s been a pleasure having
you on HARDtalk.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Stephen.
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
Worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air,
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over
the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland,
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts but actually,
a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again,
those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too —
2—9 degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us, so through the middle
of the week, some slightly higher temperatures but then,
actually, by Friday in northern areas, it will turn
cold once again.
This is BBC News.
I’m Ben Boulos with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
and around the world.
Royal crisis inJordan, Former Crown Prince Hamza
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
state, as the country records the world’s highest number
of daily infections.
The Florida reservoir leaking toxic waste—water,
and the battle to prevent an environmental disaster.
And tears ofjoy, the swimmer who’s qualified for the Tokyo
Olympics after being diagnosed with Leukemia.
Hello and welcome.
The half—brother of the King ofJordan is being investigated
for allegedly plotting with foreign parties
to destabilise the kingdom.
In a video sent to the BBC, Prince Hamzah bin Hussein
denied being part of any conspiracy, but he accused
Jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
Our Chief International Correspondent Lyse Doucet
reports on this unprecedented crisis withinJordan’s ruling
family.
A young prince at the heart of a major royal rift.
Hamzah, 41 years old, graduate of Sandhurst
in the UK, Harvard in the US.
Now he says he’s under house arrest.
All my friends have been arrested.
My security has been removed, and the internet and phone
lines have been cut.
This is my last form of communication.
And in this video, passed to the BBC, rare public
criticism from a Jordanian prince.
I am not the person responsible for the breakdown
in governance, for the corruption and for
the incompetence.
Today on state TV, a dramatically different
account — Prince Hamzah and others accused of plotting
to destabilise the kingdom.
TRANSLATION: The investigations monitored interference
and phone cells, including with foreign parties,
which discussed the appropriate timing to start steps to shake
the security of our stable kingdom.
King Abdullah is being said to be trying to resolve this
within the family — an effort failing so far.
So much is so unclear.
There have long been some strains between brothers.
Hamzah was called the favourite of their father, the late King
Hussein.
There’s a striking resemblance between them.
But when the King lost his long battle with cancer in 1999,
he chose his eldest son, Abdullah, to succeed him.
2004 was a pivotal yearfor the prince.
He got married and was stripped of his royal title.
The King made his own son second in line.
Prince Hamzah has expressed veiled criticism before,
but nothing like this.
This crisis in a quiet corner of a volatile region has
rattled neighbours, including other Arab monarchies.
They’ve rushed to back the King.
The kingdom already worried about discontent over
an economic crisis made much worse by a painful pandemic,
now there’s uncertainty over whether this is a family crisis
or one which goes much further.
Lyse Doucet, BBC News.
James Dorsey is a senior fellow at the S Rajaratnam School
of International Studies.
He’s in Singapore.
He’s in Singapore.
Very good have you with us. What do you make of all that
what do you make of all that has
What do you make of all that has been going on over the last
has been going on over the last 24, 48
has been going on over the last 2A, 48 hours with the
has been going on over the last 2A, 48 hours with theJordanian
24, 48 hours with the jordanian Royals?
2A, 48 hours with theJordanian Royals? There have been
Royals? There have been long—standing fissures within
long-standing fissures within the
long—standing fissures within the family as well as within
the family as well as within jordanian
the family as well as within Jordanian societies. I would
jordanian societies. I would think again
Jordanian societies. I would think again there is much that
think again there is much that we do not know, that this is
we do not know, that this is primarily
primarily domestically driven and there has been widespread
and there has been widespread criticism, both within the
criticism, both within the ruling family and within
mling family and within society
ruling family and within society of corruption of
society of corruption of economic mismanagement. That is
economic mismanagement. That is not to say that other countries
not to say that other countries in the Middle East,
in the Middle East, particularly the Israelis, the
particularty the Israelis, the Saudis,
particularly the Israelis, the Saudis, the Emirati is don’t
Saudis, the Emirati is don’t have an interest in what is
have an interest in what is happening but I think it would
happening but I think it would be premature to suggest that
be premature to suggest that they are the driving force in
they are the driving force in this. In terms of
they are the driving force in this. In terms ofJordan’s
this. In terms ofJordan’s neighbours, how worried would
neighbours, how worried would they be by all of this, given
they be by all of this, given that jordan
they be by all of this, given thatJordan is a relatively
that jordan is a relatively stable,
thatJordan is a relatively stable, consistent, safe
stable, consistent, safe country and what can be a very
country and what ran be a very volatile
country and what can be a very volatile region? Again it
volatile region? Again it depends on what neighbours you
depends on what neighbours you are talking about. Relations
are talking about. Relations between Israel and King
between Israel and King Abdullah in weeks and months
Abdullah in weeks and months have not been good, as we have
have not been good, as we have seen on multiple incidents. The
seen on multiple incidents. The Saudis and the Emirati’s are
Saudis and the Emirati’s are very critical of King
very critical of King Abdullah’s refusal to endorse
Abdullah’s refusal to endorse the Middle East peace plan for
the Middle East peace plan for the Palestinians that have been
the Palestinians that have been put forward by the former US
put forward by the former US President Donald Trump and the
President Donald Trump and the Jordanians suspect that
Jordanians suspect that particularly the Saudis would
particularty the Saudis would like
particularly the Saudis would like to have a say in the
like to have a say in the administration of one of the
administration of one of the most holy sites of Islam in
most holy sites of Islam in jemsalem
most holy sites of Islam in Jerusalem and deep down they
jemsalem and deep down they suspect
Jerusalem and deep down they suspect that the Saudi and
suspect that the Saudi and Emirati endorsement of the
Emirati endorsement of the Tmmp plan
Emirati endorsement of the Trump plan at the time, in
Tmmp plan at the time, in effect
Trump plan at the time, in effect meant that they were
effect meant that they were more than willing to see
effect meant that they were more than willing to seeJordan
more than willing to see jordan as the
more than willing to seeJordan as the Palestinian state rather
as the Palestinian state rather than the West Bank. Just
than the West Bank. just brieﬂy,
than the West Bank. Just briefly, how do you see this
brieﬂy, how do you see this all being
briefly, how do you see this all being resolved, then? I
all being resolved, then? I think what you are going to see
think what you are going to see is what you have already seen.
is what you have already seen. A
A crackdown on critics within theJordanian
A crackdown on critics within the Jordanian elite,
A crackdown on critics within theJordanian elite, both
theJordanian elite, both within the ruling family as
within the mling family as well
within the ruling family as well as in the broader elite.
well as in the broader elite. The king, and that is also very
The king, and that is also very much a
The king, and that is also very much aJordanian
The king, and that is also very much a Jordanian tradition,
much a jordanian tradition, will try to
much a Jordanian tradition, will try to resolve this
will try to resolve this in—house. I think you are going
in-house. I think you are going to see
in—house. I think you are going to see less of the kind of
to see less of the kind of crackdown that we saw with
crackdown that we saw with Mohammed —— Mohammed bin
Mohammad -- Mohammad bin Salman.
Mohammed —— Mohammed bin Salman. Jordan has really
Salman. Jordan has really structural social and
structural social and economical problems and it is
economical problams and it is not going to
economical problems and it is not going to be resolved
not going to be resolved without addressing those. 0K,
without addressing those. 0K, james
without addressing those. 0K, James Dorsey there, thank you
james Dorsey there, thank you very much.
James Dorsey there, thank you very much. My pleasure.
The Indian state of Maharashtra will see tighter restrictions
from Monday after a significant rise in coronavirus infections.
India has the third highest number of cases in the world,
after the US and Brazil.
Tanya Dendrinos reports.
A crowded market in Mumbai.
Masks are on, but social distancing is virtually
impossible, and coronavirus cases are rising rapidly.
The warning is stark.
TRANSLATION: The number of Covid—19 cases reported
in the past 2A hours is alarming and is a matter
of concern.
It could turn into a hazardous situation.
Almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases,
which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
If the cases increase in this proportion, the impact
of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of Covid—19 in India,
the country recording 12.5 million infections.
On Sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest
level since September, with more than 93,000 recorded.
More than half of those were in Maharashtra,
the state facing tighter restrictions from Monday,
including a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
TRANSLATION: This is a very good decision by the government
as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain
of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very
beneficialfor all of us.
Stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task,
particularly in a country with a population of 1.3 billion.
Despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive,
so far administering more than 68 million doses,
it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
Tanya Dendrinos, BBC News.
In Bulgaria the centre—right party of Prime Minister Boyko
Borissov has emerged as the leader in the parliamentary
election, according to exit polls.
Mr Borissov had this to say to the anti—corruption parties
who opposed him.
TRANSLATION: So, my dear opponents, I know you all. Most
opponents, I know you all. Most of you have worked with me.
of you have worked with me. Celebrate! You are in the
Celebrate! You are in the parliament, you have become
partiament, you have become deputies.
parliament, you have become deputies. That was your goal
deputies. That was your goal since the summer. You’ve wanted
since the summer. You’ve wanted a coup, you were saying that
a coup, you were saying that peopla did
a coup, you were saying that people did not want us. Now you
peopla did not want us. Now you see, the
people did not want us. Now you see, the most peaceful, the
see, the most peaceful, the most tolerant, the most
most tolerant, the most positive, the cheapest
positive, the cheapest campaign, we did it.
But with only 25% of the vote, Mr Borissov’s GERB
party have not won enough to give them a majority
in the Assembly, and they will need to find partners
to form a coalition.
Efforts to find those partners will be complicated
by the anti—corruption and anti—establishment parties
who oppose them, and did well in the polls.
The former owner of Adidas, Bernard Tapie and his wife
have been attacked in a violent burglary at their estate near
Paris.
The 78—year—old, a former French finance minister,
is a controversial figure who’s been at the centre of legal
battles concerning corruption and fraud for decades,
and spent time injail.
He and his wife were asleep when four men slipped passed
security guards and broke into their home.
The couple were tied up with electrical cords,
physically assaulted and robbed of theirjewellery.
Emergency workers in Florida are trying to prevent
catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic
wasterwater reservoir.
More than 300 homes have been evacuated in Florida’s Tampa
Bay, where the reservoir is located.
Azadeh Moshiri reports.
Thousands of gallons of toxic waste water pumping out by the
waste water pumping out by the minute. This is what emergency
minute. This is what emergency workers in Florida’s Tampa Bay
workers in Florida’s Tampa Bay are hoping will prevent an
are hoping will prevent an environmental catastrophe. This
environmental catastrophe. This leak in the pony point
leak in the pony point Reservoir is now a week old.
Reservoir is now a week old. Initially workers try to plug
Initially workers try to plug the hole with rocks and other
the hole with rocks and other materials but that failed,
materials but that failad, forcing
materials but that failed, forcing the government to
forcing the government to declare a state of emergency
declare a state of emergency and evacuate 300 homes. What we
and evacuate 300 homes. what we are looking at
and evacuate 300 homes. What we are looking at now is trying to
are looking at now is trying to prevent and respond to if need
prevent and respond to if need be a real catastrophic flood
be a real catastrophic flood situation. To be clear, the
situation. To be clear, the water being discharged to point
water being discharged to point manatee is not radioactive. It
manatee is not radioactive. It is primarily water from
manatee is not radioactive. It is primarily waterfrom point
is primarily waterfrom point manatee dredge project mixed
manatee dredge project mixed with stormwater run—off upright
with stormwater run-off upright emergency
with stormwater run—off upright emergency operation is both
emergency operation is both ambitious and urgent. By flying
ambitious and urgent. By ﬂying and
ambitious and urgent. By flying and these pipes, teams are
and these pipes, teams are hoping to pump out enough water
hoping to pump out enough water to prevent a total collapse of
to prevent a total collapse of the reservoir which would flood
the reservoir which would ﬂood the
the reservoir which would flood the area. The reservoir itself
the area. The reservoir itself holds nearty
the area. The reservoir itself holds nearly 2 billion litres
holds nearly 2 billion litres of polluted water. The pipes
of polluted water. The pipes are currently
are currently pumping out 85,000 litres per minute
85,000 litres per minute stopping at close to 125
stopping at close to 125 million litres a day. But while
million litres a day. But whila the
million litres a day. But while the water being released is not
the water being released is not radioactive, experts say it is
radioactive, experts say it is filled with nutrients that
filled with nutrients that could devastate the local
could devastate the local environment by creating algae
environment by creating algae blooms that can suffocate
blooms that can suffocate marine life. It’s a man—made
marine life. It’s a man-made disaster
marine life. It’s a man—made disaster critics say could have
disaster critis say could have been
disaster critics say could have been prevented. This is
been prevented. This is something that back even in the
something that back even in the late 905, early 2000, was told
late 905, earty 2000, was told to the
late 905, early 2000, was told to the governors of our
late 90s, early 2000, was told to the governors of our states
to the governors of our states over 20 plus years, was aware
over 20 plus years, was aware that this was a disaster
that this was a disaster waiting to happen.
waiting to happen. This is something that should have
something that should have been addressed 20 years ago but
addressed 20 years ago but unfortunately now we are
unfortunately now we are hitting a historic disaster
hitting a historic disaster here in the state because it
here in the state because it actually was not taken. Workers
actually was not taken. Workers are scrambling to fix the
are scrambling to fix the situation but even if they can
situation but even if they ran prevent the
situation but even if they can prevent the contaminated water
prevent the contaminated water from crashing into the area,
from crashing into the area, the long—term concert answers
the long-term concert answers to the
the long—term concert answers to the environment are ill
to the environment are ill unknown. —— are still unknown.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Often a best friend, and a life—line in lockdown.
But what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
This funeral became a massive demonstration of Black power.
The power to influence.
Today is about the promise of a bright future.
A day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
I think that Picasso’s works were beautiful,
they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody
who loves art.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
A royal crisis in Jordan:
Former crown prince Hamza says he’s under house arrest,
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions
in India’s worst—affected state of Maharashtra
as the country records the world’s highest number
of daily infections.
Aid groups in Mozambique say nearly 10,000 people have been
evacuated from the northern town of Palma — which was
recently attacked by Islamist militants.
Authorities say thousands are still hiding in the forests
surrounding the area, in desperate need of
food and water.
The BBC’s Vumani Mkhize sent this report from nearby Pemba,
where many victims have sought refuge.
This man hasjust gotten off the rescue ferry
at Pemba harbour.
His tears are for his dead father.
His brother is still missing.
All morning, they arrived, a steady procession of over
1,000 survivors grateful to be alive, but in shock.
They spoke of decapitations, bodies on the streets,
and fleeing through dense forest from the gun—wielding
insurgents.
This distraught woman lost two sons during the attack.
TRANSLATION: It hurts a lot.
Every day, we saw mothers crying.
Three, four of their children — they don’t know where they are.
It’s too painful.
GUNFIRE.
Isis—linked insurgents began the coordinated attack on Palma
just over a week ago, killing indiscriminately
and displacing thousands.
The official death toll is still not yet known and,
according to the UN, tens of thousands of people
have been displaced.
Among those missing is British man Philip Mawer.
His family fear the worst.
As victims made their way out of the besieged town,
doctors struggled to keep up with the wounded.
We could not help everybody.
I mean, the need is huge there.
This population is really in need of medical care,
protection and evacuation, and food.
I’m at a local community sports complex that’s been converted
into a makeshift shelter for survivors of the deadly
attack in Palma.
Now, these are some of the victims who have come
here seeking shelter and refuge following the horrors
that they encountered at the hands of the insurgents.
The people that made their way off the boat
are the lucky ones.
Thousands remain scattered in the forest surrounding
Palma.
Many will not survive.
And with reports of an ongoing conflict in Palma, Mozambique
will struggle to keep up with the escalating
humanitarian crisis.
Vumani Mkhize, BBC News, Pemba, Mozambique.
Everyone in England will be offered two rapid Covid tests
each week under the government’s plans
to expand its programme.
The Health Secretary Matt Hancock says the additional
tests will play a crucial role in curbing future outbreaks
of the virus as life returns to normal.
Our health correspondent Jim Reed has this report.
Rapid lateral flow tests are
Rapid lateral ﬂow tests are already
Rapid lateral flow tests are already being used to test
already being used to test secondary school pupils,
secondary school pupils, families with children and
families with children and those who cannot work from
those who cannot work from home. From the end of the week,
home. From the end of the week, they will be offered to
they will be offered to everyone in England. These
everyone in England. These devices give a result in 30
devices give a result in 30 minutes. They can be picked up
minutes. They ran be picked up from a
minutes. They can be picked up from a local testing centre or
from a [oral testing centre or pharmacy
from a local testing centre or pharmacy ordered online and
pharmacy ordered online and delivered in the post. Even
delivered in the post. Even when people have no symptoms,
when peopla have no symptoms, they may be
when people have no symptoms, they may be infected and they
they may be infected and they may be infectious and if we can
may be infectious and if we ran catch
may be infectious and if we can catch those people early, then
match those peopla earty, then we ran
catch those people early, then we can break transmission. And
we ran break transmission. And that
we can break transmission. And that reduces the number of
that reduces the number of people who are infected, it
people who are infected, it reduces the likelihood of new
reduces the likelihood of new variants, and it helps keep
variants, and it helps keep everybody say. The
everybody say. The government 5575
everybody say. The government says the
says the twice-weekly test will be
says the twice—weekly test will be crucial to help prevent
be crucial to help prevent outbreaks in the future. But
outbreaks in the future. But labour
outbreaks in the future. But Labour said the mass testing
Labour said the mass testing programme must be backed by
programme must be backed by improved financial support so
improved financial support so those told to self—isolate can
those told to self-isolate ran afford
those told to self—isolate can afford it. And some scientists
afford it. And some scientists have questioned the accuracy of
have questioned the accuracy of the tests, especially in people
the tests, especially in people who don’t have symptoms. The
who don’t have symptoms. The tests are not good at ruling
tests are not good at mling out
tests are not good at ruling out and saying you don’t have
out and saying you don’t have Covid. We have to be very
Covid. We have to be very careful to get a message to
careful to get a message to everybody that says if the test
everybody that says if the test is negative, behave the same.
is negative, behave the same. Don’t believe you have not got
Don’t believe you have not got Covid. Don’t go and kiss and
Covid. Don’t go and kiss and cuddle your granny or grandad
cuddle your granny or grandad because it is not a test which
because it is not a test which tells us that, it is not a
tells us that, it is not a good enough test. The government
enough test. The government claims the kits are extremely
claims the kits are extremely accurate, particularly when it
accurate, particularty when it comes
accurate, particularly when it comes to identifying the most
comes to identifying the most infectious cases. In England,
infectious cases. In England, new problems are to drive. This
new problems are to drive. This week to convince people to make
week to convince people to make regular testing part of their
regular testing part of their weekly routine. In Scotland,
weekly routine. In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland,
Walas and Northern Ireland, mass
Wales and Northern Ireland, mass testing is also being
mass testing is also being expanded in places like
expanded in places like officers, factories and care
officers, factories and rare homes.
Jim Reed, BBC News.
For so many people, one of the worst things
about the global pandemic has been loneliness —
millions unable to meet family orfriends and crying
out for company.
One possible solution has been to get a pet,
but some are worried about what will happen to those
animals once the lockdown is over.
Tim Allman reports.
This is Uschi.
For Markus and his daughter, Analie, she’s made lifejust
that little bit more bearable, one of around a million dogs
and cats that have found new homes in Germany
since the Covid crisis began.
TRANSLATION: A pandemic is obviously a time
when we stay at home a lot, confined.
That means I have to work from home.
The children are also at home a lot, so it’s obviously a good
time to get a dog used to a family.
Across the country, there was a 20% increase in dog
ownership last year.
One survey showing that more than eight out of ten owners
said animals like Uschi provided emotional support.
But the lockdown won’t last forever, and the manager
of this shelter in Berlin is concerned about what happens
next.
TRANSLATION: We estimate that after the current lockdown
ends, there will unfortunately be a crazy number of abandoned
animals dropped off at our shelter when people return
to their normal lives.
Marty is typical of the kind of animal returned to the shelter.
A Staffordshire terrier mix, he’s friendly, lovable,
but a lot to handle.
The message is a simple one — a dog is for life, not
just a pandemic.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
Hello, I’m Chetan Pathak with your latest sports news.
We start with golf.
The first women’s major of the year has been won
by 21—year—old Patty Tavatanakit, the first rookie
to win the ANA Inspiration since198h.
There was a brilliant final—round charge from
Lydia Ko, who shot 62 — the lowest final—round score
in a women’s major — but Tavatanakit, from Thailand,
held her nerve to complete a wire to wire victory
at Mission Hills Country Club and claim herfirst LPGA
Tour win.
She closed with a four—under 68 — herfourth round in the 605 —
finishing 18—under, two shots ahead of Ko.
After a drought of nearly four years without winning a title,
former world number one Jordan Spieth has won
the Texas Open by two shots.
The American — whose last win came in the 2017 Open
at Royal Birkdale, which was the third major title
of his career — hit seven birdies in a final—round
6—under—par 66 to finish on 18 under and beat his playing
partner Charley Hoffman by two strokes.
A good time to return to winning ways, a week
before the Masters.
Staying with sport.
The swimmer Rikako Ikee has qualified for the Tokyo
Olympics two years after being diagnosed with leukaemia.
The 20—year—old athlete won the 100m butterfly
at the trials in 57.77 seconds.
She only restarted her Olympic training last year.
She cried when she realised she’d won, saying she
was really surprised.
Mikako Kotani is a the sports director
—— Mikako Kotani is the sports director
and spokesperson for the Tokyo Olympics Committee
and joins me now.
This is quite extraordinary, you were there, I believe, when
you were there, I believe, when this happened. Please talk us
this happened. Please talk us through that moment.
through that moment. Actually, I
I was watching television, I was in a
was in a different venue watching a different sport, but
watching a different sport, but it just give
watching a different sport, but itjust give me chicken bumps
it just give me chicken bumps and I
itjust give me chicken bumps and I was in tears, seeing her
and Iwas in tears, seeing her he so happy.
and I was in tears, seeing her he so happy. And have you
be so happy. And have you spoken to her about how she is
spoken to her about how she is feeling?
feeling? No, she is still competing, she has more races
competing, she has more races to go so I’ve tried not to
to go so I’ve tried not to bother her. And what does this
bother her. And what does this tell you? What indication does
tell you? what indication does this
tell you? What indication does this tell you about the sort of
this tell you about the sort of level of competition we are
level of competition we are going to be seeing at the Tokyo
going to be seeing at the Tokyo Olympics this year? What was
Olympic this year? what was the
Olympics this year? What was the question, the first part?
the question, the first part? How exciting do you think this
How exciting do you think this makes the competition this year
makes the competition this year as we look ahead to the limbic
as we look ahead to the limbic games? --
as we look ahead to the limbic games? —— Olympic Games. While,
games? -- Olympic Games. while, for sure, I have
games? —— Olympic Games. While, for sure, I have been hearing
for sure, I have been hearing lots and lots of comments that
lots and lots of comments that they are so looking forward to
they are so looking forward to watching her race at the
watching her race at the Tokyo Olympic.
watching her race at the Tokyo Olympics. But as a former
Olympics. But as a former athlete myself, I
Olympics. But as a former athlete myself, Ijust want
Olympics. But as a former athlete myself, I just want to
athlete myself, I just want to stay back, kind of. I
athlete myself, I just want to stay back, kind of. Ijust want
stay back, kind of. Ijust want to wish her good health and
to wish her good health and just be happy. How much of a
just be happy. How much of a difference do you think it
difference do you think it makes for athletes like Rikako
makes for athletes like Rikako do not have spectators because
do not have spectators because of course numbers will be
of course numbers will be limited. Again, as being an
limited. Again, as being an athlete, if you focus in your
athlete, if you focus in your race or performance, it does
race or performance, it does not matter, because you are
not matter, because you are inside your zone so you can
inside your zone so you ran pretend
inside your zone so you can pretend there is a big crowd,
pretend there is a big crowd, so it doesn’t matter if they
so it doesn’t matter if they are there or not. But from my
are there or not. But from my experience when I was swimming,
experience when I was swimming, I could hear and feel the
I could hear and feel the atmosphere through the water so
atmosphere through the water so I would try to send my cheers
I would try to send my cheers to her, which goes through the
to her, which goes through the water. 0K!
Mikako Kotani.
Thank you so much for
Thank you so much forjoining
Thank you so much for joining us.
A reminder of our top story —
Jordan has accused Prince Hamzah bin Hussein,
the half—brother of King Abdullah, of plotting
with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
The Deputy Prime Minister Ayman Safadi said communications had
been intercepted in which the conspirators discussed
steps to undermine the country’s security.
Prince Hamzah has categorically denied involvement in any
conspiracy, but says he’s under house arrest
with his communications cut.
You can reach me on Twitter.
I’m @BenMBoulos
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
Worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air,
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over
the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland,
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts but actually,
a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again,
those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too —
2—9 degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us, so through the middle
of the week, some slightly higher temperatures but then,
actually, by Friday in northern areas, it will turn
cold once again.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
Airline bosses pressure the UK Govenment to allow travel
earlier than planned.
Remote learning has become the new normal in the pandemic.
But will it become a permanent normal?
We find out.
And the massive surge in the sales of garden furniture.
Let’s run through some of the
Let’s mn through some of the main
Let’s run through some of the main business news for you.
We start in Greece, where the govenment is relaxing
some coronavirus restrictions today, despite an increase
in infections.
Shops will reopen for customers to pick up online orders
and to try on clothes and shoes in person.
But department stores and shopping malls remain closed.
People are also now allowed to travel between municipalities.
But with the economy so reliant on tourism,
which employs one in every five people, what plans
are being made to open up for the Summer season?
Bethany Bell reports from Athens.
The boats are in the dock, waiting for Torres’s. This man
waiting for Torres’s. This man and his team rent out
and his team rent out catamarans and yacht for trips
catamarans and yacht for trips to the Greek islands. Their
to the Greek islands. Their clients come from four the UK,
clients come from four the UK, the United States and South
the United States and South Africa. April is normally the
Africa. April is normally the start of the season. Things are
start of the season. Things are on hold because of the
on hold because of the pandemic. Greece is
pandemic. Greece is hoping to open up to visitors and may but
open up to visitors and may but it’s not clear which countries
it’s not clear which countries will be ready. This uncertainty
will be ready. This uncertainty for sure does not help anyone.
for sure does not help anyone. On our end, we are doing the
On our end, we are doing the best effort possible in order
best effort possible in order to be ready and we will be
to be ready and we will be ready when the borders open and
ready when the borders open and we ran
ready when the borders open and we can welcome all guests the
we ran welcome all guests the world.
we can welcome all guests the world. There are still tough
world. There are still tough covert restrictions in groups
covert restrictions in groups which have seen a surge of
which have seen a surge of infections but people are
infections but people are becoming increasingly
becoming increasingly frustrated. One in five workers
fmstrated. One in five workers has a job and
frustrated. One in five workers has a job and tourism. They are
has a job and tourism. They are worried about the summer
worried about the summer copy the Acropolis is
the Acropolis is open again after months of lockdown. This
after months of lockdown. This place would normally be packed
place would normally be packed with people but now it’s mainly
with peopla but now it’s mainly those living
with people but now it’s mainly those living locally and no—one
those living [orally and no-one is quite sure
those living locally and no—one is quite sure when the foreign
is quite sure when the foreign tourists will be able to
tourists will be able to return. Greece is planning to
return. Greece is planning to vaccinate all tourism workers
vaccinate all tourism workers and it is leading calls for
and it is leading calls for vaccination certificates or
vaccination certificates or passports to allow foreign
passports to allow foreign visitors to travel. It’s very
visitors to travel. It’s very important to have the passport,
important to have the passport, because everybody will feel
because everybody will feel really safe and our motto is
really safe and our motto is safety first, for the staff of
safety first, for the staff of the ecological sites and the
the ecological sites and the museums, and of course for the
museums, and of course for the public. After the worst year
public. After the worst year for global terrorism on record,
for global terrorism on record, Greece is really hoping for a
Greece is really hoping for a better summer.
The bosses from some of the biggest UK airlines have
asked Prime Minister Boris Johnson to give them
the approval for international travel in just weeks.
Authorities have said that the ban on foreign travel
will be in place on the UK at least until the 17th of May.
The chief executives of airlines like British Airways
and Virgin Atlantic have warned the government that economic
recovery is not possible without aviation.
They added that restrictions should not affect vaccinated
passengers.
The British Prime Minister is expected to outline
the government’s approach to easing those restrictons
later on Monday.
Joining me now is Russ Mould, Investment Director,
AJ Bell.
Good to see you. What do you
Good to see you. what do you make of
Good to see you. What do you make of this claim by the
make of this claim by the airtine
make of this claim by the airline that recovery is
airline that recovery is impossible without aviation? I
impossible without aviation? I think they are possibly
think they are possibly overstating the significance.
overstating the significance. It’s interesting that the
It’s interesting that the central bank governor addresses
central bank governor addresses this very issue announcing it
this very issue announcing it in the Financial Times this
in the Financial Times this morning and
morning and I think he calls it a spurious claim. They clearly
a spurious claim. They dearty have
a spurious claim. They clearly have some role to play in the
have some role to play in the consumer part of the economy
consumer part of the economy that they are essential to the
that they are essential to the full economic recovery is
full economic recovery is pushing it a little bit. It is
pushing it a little bit. It is interesting that they suggest
interesting that they suggest in a worst—case scenario they
in a worst-case scenario they would
in a worst—case scenario they would be allowed to enter
would be allowed to enter bankruptcy protection, keep
bankmptcy protection, keep operating,
bankruptcy protection, keep operating, preserve
bankruptcy protection, keep operating, preservejobs and
operating, preserve jobs and simply
operating, preservejobs and simply restructure their debts
simply restmcture their debts and
simply restructure their debts and come out the other side. So
and come out the other side. So in that case they would keep
in that use they would keep operating
in that case they would keep operating but the only people
operating but the only peopla who
operating but the only people who lose out our own holders
who lose out our own holders and shareholders and they
and shareholders and they should know the risks anyway. I
should know the risks anyway. I suppose, though, when you put
suppose, though, when you put it in context, you think
it in context, you think about when
when you go on holiday or a business trip, you may be take
business trip, you may be take a train or a cab to the
a train or a rah to the airport, you
a train or a cab to the airport, you may be by a coffee
airport, you may be by a coffee or breakfast when you get
or breakfast when you get there, and so it supports more
there, and so it supports more than
there, and so it supports more thanjust
there, and so it supports more than just the aviation sector,
than just the aviation sector, doesn’t it? Puts money into
doesn’t it? Puts money into jobs in retail, transport, food
jobs in retail, transport, food and drink and all sorts of
and drink and all sorts of things. Gama,
and drink and all sorts of things. Game, and obviously we
things. Gama, and obviously we have just
things. Game, and obviously we have just listened there that
have just listened there that in Greece one in five people
in Greece one in five people are employed in tourism
are employed in tourism so it is doarty a
are employed in tourism so it is clearly a key contributing
is dearty a key contributing factor,
is clearly a key contributing factor, but to
factor, but to say, I think with the airlines are trying to
with the aidines are trying to do is
with the airlines are trying to do is protect themselves
do is protect themselves financially, they have got a
financially, they have got a very, very operationally geared
very, very operationally geared model. One seat sold makes a
model. One seat sold makes a big difference to their profits
big difference to their profits and one seat not sold makes a
and one seat not sold makes a big difference to their losses
big difference to their losses so I think they are trying to
so I think they are trying to predict themselves financially
predict themselves financially as best they possibly can. I
as best they possibly ran. I suppose
as best they possibly can. I suppose the danger though, is
suppose the danger though, is if the pressure on the
if the pressure on the government as if they relaxed
government as if they relaxed the rules sooner than they
the mles sooner than they perhaps
the rules sooner than they perhaps would have done and
perhaps would have done and then they find there is a
then they find there is a situation where they have to
situation where they have to tighten the rules again, in
tighten the mles again, in some
tighten the rules again, in some ways that chopping and
some ways that chopping and changing and uncertainty is
changing and uncertainty is presumably worth four airlines
presumably worth four aidines and
presumably worth four airlines and other businesses.
and other businesses. Politically, the government
Politically, the government is committed to know
lockdowns which is something we will all be looking forward to
will all be looking forward to enormously but clearly safety
enormously but dearty safety is
enormously but clearly safety is mission—critical. The Greeks
is mission-critical. The Greeks have got their
is mission—critical. The Greeks have got their clear systems in
have got their dear systems in place to
have got their clear systems in place to keep people safe and
place to keep people safe and nobody wants to see the virus
nobody wants to see the virus spread extending beyond where
spread extending beyond where it is now so this is the
it is now so this is the extremely difficult balancing
extremely difficult balancing act. The airlines have tried to
act. The aidines have tried to protect
act. The airlines have tried to protect themselves by raising
protect themselves by raising money from lenders, selling
money from landers, selling aircraft,
money from lenders, selling aircraft, they are trying to
aircraft, they are trying to get themselves through to the
get themselves through to the other side as best as they
other side as best as they possibly can. What they
possibly can. What they desperately need now is Bottoms
desperately need now is Bottoms on seats and people buying
on seats and people buying drinks and sandwiches on the
drinks and sandwiches on the aeroplane and going through
aeroplane and going through airports. What the government
airports. what the government wants
airports. What the government wants is that as well
wants is that as well but what doesn’t want is the virus to
doesn’t want is the virus to spread and the economy to be
spread and the economy to be set back yet
spread and the economy to be setback yet again. 0K, we will
set back yet again. 0K, we will leave it
setback yet again. 0K, we will leave it there but thank you
leave it there but thank you very much for that.
The Indian state
of Maharashtra, which is home to the country’s financial
capital Mumbai, will impose tighter restrictions
after a sharp spike in Covid—19 infections.
The country saw the highest day of infections since
mid—September over the weekend, with more than 90,000
.n’ﬁ H4?
More than half of those were in Maharashtra.
Joining me now is India Business Correspondent Arunoday
Mukharji.
So with these tighter restrictions, what does that
restrictions, what does that mean and? Essentially, this is
mean and? Essentially, this is the state of Maharashtra which
the state of Maharashtra which has imposed restrictions which
has imposed restrictions which as you rightly pointed out
as you rightly pointed out covers more than half of the
covers more than half of the coronavirus cases, so the
coronavirus cases, so the government is essentially
government is essentially saying that from
saying that from seven in the morning to eight in the evening
morning to eight in the evening no more than five people will
no more than five peopla will be able
no more than five people will be able to in a
be able to congregate in a particular area, restaurants
particular area, restaurants and other public areas will be
and other public areas will be shut, there are restrictions on
shut, there are restrictions on modes of transport, no more
modes of transport, no more than two individuals on public
than two individuals on public transport and the buses have
transport and the buses have similar rules, they are trying
similar mles, they are trying to
similar rules, they are trying to reinforce these fresh
to reinforce these fresh restrictions and maintain a
restrictions and maintain a balance so that the economy
balance so that the economy doesn’t go off track once
doesn’t go off track once again. A lot of the
again. A lot of the considerations are being made
considerations are being made by the government but the
by the government but the situation is going from bad to
situation is going from bad to worse in the words of the
worse in the words of the health ministry
health ministry itself. Just to update you over the weekend we
update you over the weekend we saw 93,000 cases but India this
saw 93,000 cases but India this morning crossing another grim
morning crossing another grim milestone of having more than
milestone of having more than 100,000 cases in the last 2A
100,000 cases in the last 24 hours.
100,000 cases in the last 2A hours. That is a first for
hours. That is a first for India since the pandemic broke
India since the pandemic broke out last year. In fact India is
out last year. In fact India is only the second country in the
only the second country in the world after the US to register
world after the US to register 100,000 cases daily, so it is
100,000 cases daily, so it is certainly on the upward
certainly on the upward trajectory has. And of course
trajectory has. And of course Mumbai, the financial capital
Mumbai, the financial capital of India within the state that
of India within the state that has got these
has got these restrictions, what sort of reaction is
what sort of reaction is therefore from businesses? Do
therefore from businesses? Do they accept this as necessary
they accept this as necessary or are they very concerned?
or are they very concerned? They are concerned, and it’s a
They are concerned, and it’s a fine balance that the
fine balance that the government really has to make
government really has to make to ensure that businesses
to ensure that businesses continue to stay afloat at a
continue to stay aﬂoat at a time
continue to stay afloat at a time when India was limping
time when India was limping back to some sort of normalcy.
back to some sort of normalcy. Mumbai and itself also
Mumbai and itself also recording more than 11,000
recording more than 11,000 rases
recording more than 11,000 cases in the last 2A hours so
cases in the last 24 hours so that is
cases in the last 2A hours so that is another huge cause for
that is another huge cause for concern. On the weekends the
concern. On the weekends the government has also enforced
government has also enforced lockdowns, a curfew, rather,
lockdowns, a curfew, rather, not a complete lockdown, and in
not a complete lockdown, and in the evenings from eight in the
the evenings from eight in the evening to seven in the
evening to seven in the morning, no—one will be allowed
morning, no-one will be allowed on the
morning, no—one will be allowed on the streets of Mumbai. That
on the streets of Mumbai. That is another decision that has
been taken so very strict restrictions for a city like
restrictions for a city like Mumbai, the financial capital,
Mumbai, the financial capital, more restrictions are being put
more restrictions are being put in place in terms of contact
in place in terms of contact tracing, they are increasing
tracing, they are increasing the number of testing. There is
the number of testing. There is also a directive to the central
also a directive to the central government of the state
government of the state government of Maharashtra to
government of Maharashtra to 55V
government of Maharashtra to say that it is not only enough
say that it is not only enough to increase testing but you
to increase testing but you also have to ramp up contact
also have to ramp up contact tracing in order to ensure that
tracing in order to ensure that people actually isolate
people actually isolate themselves if they do test
themselves if they do test positive and if people are
positive and if peopla are found
positive and if people are found violating COVID
found violating COVID protocols, they will be
protocols, they will be penalised. 0K,
protocols, they will be penalised. OK, thanks very much
penalised. OK, thanks very much for that.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
South Korea’s LG Electronics has announced an exit
from the smartphone business.
The company’s smartphone division has logged nearly six
years of losses, amounting to nearly $5 billion.
Shareholder of parent company LG have earlier approved a plan
to spin off five secondary affiliates, as part
of its wider restructuring.
And it seems people are ready to go back to the movies again.
The Hollyfood film Godzilla vs Kong raked in nearly $50
million in ticket sales across North American cinemas
between Wednesday to Sunday.
It’s the biggest turnout for a movie since the pandemic
began.
And that’s happened even with the movie being made
available on the HBO Max streaming platform.
I dare say, many people in Scotland will be very
excited today as hairdressers open
their doors for the first time in over two months.
The grown out, choppy, faded coloured hairstyles
will be tamed once again.
According to grooming experts, the desire for reinvention
and marking a new beginning will be as vital to our mental
health as it is for our appearance, many of us have
spent the past year staring at ourselves through a screen,
experiencing ‘Zoom fatigue’, and now with the hope
of the vaccination roll out, many will be looking
for a new look to match their new found freedom.
Joining me now is Marc McCune, Salon Owner & Board Member
of The National Hair & Beauty Federation and owner
of two salons in Glasgow.
I’m guessing you are fully booked for the next few days?
booked for the next few days? We are, the appointments are
We are, the appointments are looking great for the next
looking great for the next three or four weeks,
looking great for the next three orfour weeks, I
looking great for the next three orfourweeks, I imagine
three or four weeks, I imagine it is the
three orfourweeks, I imagine it is the same for most salons
it is the same for most salons in Scotland, similar to a
in Scotland, similar to a period that we experience every
period that we experience every year in December
period that we experience every year in Decemberjust before
year in Decemberjust before Christmas so I am confident the
Christmas so I am confident the team
has lockdown affected your business? Short—term, the
business? Short-term, the government
business? Short—term, the government has provided
government has provided financial support and has
financial support and has allowed us to keep all of our
allowed us to keep all of our team employed. It has been a
team employed. It has been a strange year for our team. They
strange year for our team. They have only worked for really
have only worked for really five months in the last year,
five months in the last year, so really we are concerned more
so really we are concerned more about their mental well—being.
about their mental well-being. They are
about their mental well—being. They are slightly apprehensive
They are slightly apprehensive about coming back to work after
about coming back to work after being off for such a
about coming back to work after being off for such along
being off for such a long period of
being off for such along period of time, and we’re
being off for such along period of time, and we’rejust
period of time, and we’rejust trying to be as supportive as
trying to be as supportive as for that.
trying to be as supportive as forthat. Longer
for that. Longer term, we are not sure what the impact is
not sure what the impact is convenient. Were you worried
convenient. Were you worried duﬂng
convenient. Were you worried during the lockdown that people
during the lockdown that peopla had to
during the lockdown that people had to make do with doing their
had to make do with doing their home colours, home trims and
home colours, home trims and all of that, that they might
all of that, that they might decide that they’ve actually
decide that therve actually got quite
decide that they’ve actually got quite good at it and they
got quite good at it and they might not need to come to the
might not need to come to the headdresses anymore? You are
headdresses anymore? You are always up against colour
always up against colour companies, producing home
companies, producing home colouring anyway, so it’s
colouring anyway, so it’s always been a thing that we
always been a thing that we have been up against. I think
have been up against. I think that people’s habits will
that people’s habits will change due to
change due to this, as it had through the first
through the first lockdown when you have a lot treatments at
you have a lot treatments at home, a lot more clients
home, a lot more clients embracing going grey. One thing
embracing going grey. One thing that a lot of people would do
that a lot of peopla would do is cut
that a lot of people would do is cut the hair themselves,
is cut the hair themselves, so we were 0K there, but
we were 0K there, but it all has an impact on us at
moment, and if you are taking somebody who colours the hair
somebody who colours the hair more regularly in a salon and
more regularty in a salon and they are no
more regularly in a salon and they are no longer doing it,
they are no longer doing it, that has come off of our
that has come off of our turnover but I think, the skill
turnover but I think, the skill sets that headdresses have the
sets that headdresses have the peopla
sets that headdresses have the people can’t do at home. And
peopla can’t do at home. And presumably
people can’t do at home. And presumably you are having to
presumably you are having to put COVIDSafe urges in place,
put COVIDSafe urges in place, do you have to pass that cost
do you have to pass that cost onto customers? Does the price
onto customers? Does the price go
onto customers? Does the price 9° “P
onto customers? Does the price go up now? Prices went up after
go up now? Prices went up after the first lockdown anyway. If
the first lockdown anyway. If you imagine you are the client
you imagine you are the client that came in every six weeks to
that came in every six weeks to have their colour done, you
have their colour done, you know, you are using three times
know, you are using three times the amount of colour so we’ve
the amount of colour so we’ve got a pricing structure in
got a pricing stmcture in place to
got a pricing structure in place to compensate that, and
place to compensate that, and especially going back after
especially going back after this period, wages have gone
this period, wages have gone up, minimum wage has risen, and
up, minimum wage has risen, and we covered the cost of our PPE
we covered the cost of our PPE because we had our discount in
because we had our discount in we had to remove because
we had to remove because would be closed for so long, so that
be closed for so long, so that will happen again, the extra
will happen again, the extra 101:
will happen again, the extra 10% will cover the cost of
1096 will cover the cost of extra
10% will cover the cost of extra cleaning products and
extra cleaning products and PPE. Thank you very much.
H&M has found itself in yet another controversy,
this time, with the Vietnamese government.
The company recently faced a boycott in China
because of its stance on cotton from Xinjiang.
Let’s go to Mariko Oi, who’s following the story
from our Asia Business hub in Singapore.
Good to see you. What has
Good to see you. what has happened
Good to see you. What has happened this time? Why are it
happened this time? why are it -- that it
happened this time? Why are it —— that it is controversy with
-- that it is controversy with Vietnam?
—— that it is controversy with Vietnam? This time it
Vietnam? This time it is about a map on the company’s website,
a map on the companrs website, but we
a map on the company’s website, but we don’t know exactly which
but we don’t know exactly which one it is. First Beijing was
one it is. First Beijing was not happy with that map so
not happy with that map so China told H and correct it.
China told H and correct it. Then the changes made consumers
Then the changes made consumers in Vietnam angry who said the
in Vietnam angry who said the company was infringing on
company was infringing on Vietnam’s maritime
Vietnam’s maritime sovereignties —— H&M. We think
sovereignties -- HaM. We think it has
sovereignties —— H&M. We think it has something to do with the
it has something to do with the south China Sea. Of course,
south China Sea. Of course, China claims more than 80% of
China claims more than 8096 of it but
China claims more than 80% of it but others like the
it but others like the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia
Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Taiwan claim part of the
and Taiwan claim part of the same area as well, and Vietnam
same area as well, and Vietnam has been the most forceful, if
has been the most forceful, if you like, nation in pushing
you like, nation in pushing back against
back against Beijing’s claims. As you say it does not been a
As you say it does not been a few busy weeks for H&M, facing
few busy weeks for HaM, facing a boycott in
few busy weeks for H&M, facing a boycott in China for standing
a boycott in China for standing “P
a boycott in China for standing up against human rights abuses
up against human rights abuses in China’s Xinjiang which
in China’s Xinjiang which produces about one fifth of the
produces about one fifth of the world’s cotton but this renewed
world’s cotton but this renewed controversy that it finds
controversy that it finds itself between Vietnam and
itself between Vietnam and China will be a very tricky one
China will be a very tricky one as well because China obviously
as well because China obviously has a huge market there for the
has a huge market there for the company but numb is
company but numb is up—and—coming. —— but Vietnam.
up-and-coming. -- but Vietnam. On Mariko.
—— thank you, Mariko.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come:
Remote learning has become the new normal
in the pandemic.
But will it become a permanent normal?
We find out.
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
This funeral became a massive demonstration of Black power,
the power to influence.
Today is about the promise of a bright future —
a day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
I think that Picasso’s works were beautiful,
they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody
who loves art.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
A royal crisis in Jordan:
Former crown prince Hamza says he’s under house arrest,
accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
New coronavirus restrictions
in India’s worst—affected state of Maharashtra
as the country records the world’s highest number
of daily infections.
Remote learning has been difficult for many parents
and students, but it’s also unleashed a boom
in the education sector.
Companies that blend education and technology are suddenly
very appealing to investors.
Samira Hussein is our very exhausted parent of a remote
learner, and she has this report from New York.
For millions of students across the country learning no longer
the country learning no longer happens in the classroom but on
happens in the classroom but on a computer. Students as young
a computer. Students as young as five years old can spend
as five years old ran spend hours
as five years old can spend hours on mine. Learning.
hours on mine. Learning. Welcome to kindergarten in the
Welcome to kindergarten in the pandemic. Goodbye! And it is
pandemic. Goodbye! And it is not just at
pandemic. Goodbye! And it is notjust at my house, has
not just at my house, has been tough on
notjust at my house, has been tough on students, teachers and
tough on students, teachers and parents, but one group has seen
parents, but one group has seen a real benefit. This is an
a real benefit. This is an onUne
a real benefit. This is an online educational resource,
online educational resource, assault of Netﬂix for
assault of Netﬂix for learning, taking content from a
learning, taking content from a variety of sources newspapers
variety of sources newspapers and speeches and rewrites them
and speeches and rewrites them for different grade
for different grade levels and because it is online it can be
because it is online it ran be upgraded in a
because it is online it can be upgraded in a way that I have
upgraded in a way that I have updated in a way that
updated in a way that traditional schools cannot. One
traditional schools cannot. One thing people realises how
thing people realises how little textbooks are used
little textbooks are used anymore. Matthew is the founder
anymore. Matthew is the founder of Newsela and a former
of Newsela and a former educator himself. His company
educator himself. His company recently raised an additional
recently raised an additional $100 million in funding. Great
$100 million in funding. Great technologies are assistive to
technologies are assistive to the teacher, they are doing
the teacher, they are doing their bidding and empowering
their bidding and empowering the social classroom with a
the social classroom with a teacher at the centre of it,
teacher at the centre of it, that’s what great education
that’s what great education looks like. There is already a
looks like. There is already a ton of educational software out
ton of educational software out there, which is great, but
there, which is great, but speaking from my own
speaking from my own experience, my daughter and her
experience, my daughter and her friends who are all five are
already on the computer for hours a day. They don’t enjoy
hours a day. They don’t enjoy learning on the computer and
learning on the computer and miss being in a classroom. So
miss being in a classroom. So the remote learning experiment
the remote learning experiment has kind of work from this
has kind of work from this particular period in time but
particular period in time but it’s hard to see this as
it’s hard to see this as something more permanent. But
something more permanent. But investors still see an
investors still see an opportunity in educational
opportunity in educational technology. Investment in the
technology. Investment in the sector has been steadily
sector has been steadily increasing over the last five
increasing over the last five years but Morgan battles as the
years but Morgan battles as the Covid—19 pandemic has put that
Covid-19 pandemic has put that into
Covid—19 pandemic has put that into overdrive. Three years ago
into overdrive. Three years ago we had a really good idea, the
we had a really good idea, the likelihood is you would not
likelihood is you would not break into the market. With
break into the market. With Covid—19 obviously as we have
Covid-19 obviously as we have talked
Covid—19 obviously as we have talked about how changed that’s
talked about how changed that’s a really good ideas
a really good ideas are getting funded by smart investors. So
funded bysmart investors. So yeah.
funded bysmart investors. So yeah, it is a
funded by smart investors. So yeah, it is a different ball
yeah, it is a different ball game now than it ever was.
game now than it ever was. Investors see a new sector
Investors see a new sector expanding, even if many users
expanding, even if many users rannot
expanding, even if many users cannot wait to get back to the
cannot wait to get back to the real world classroom.
Samira Hussein, BBC News, New York.
With people allowed to meet again outside in the UK this
Easter, sales of garden furniture have soared.
The Leisure and Outdoor Furniture Association said
they’ve seen runaway demand from consumers who have been
stuck at home for months.
But retailers are facing soaring shipping costs
and delays to shipments, not helped by the latest
Suez delays.
Furniture giant Ikea is among the retailers
experiencing supply issues.
The Leisure and Outdoor Furniture Association said that
last year its members were being charged about $1,200
to get a container over from China and Indonesia.
This year, it’s between $7,000 and $10,000.
Joining me now is Tim Pennell, LOFA director and the sales
director of Bramblecrest.
That is quite a sharp rise in costs for the industry. Doesn’t
costs for the industry. Doesn’t mean we are seeing prices that
mean we are seeing prices that customers pay having to go up
customers pay having to go up sharply as well? Hello. The
sharply as well? Hello. The prices eventually do go down
prices eventually do go down the line to retail price
the line to retail price consumers will say in shops and
consumers will say in shops and garden centres. It has to be
garden centres. It has to be passed on and eventually it
passed on and eventually it will be absorbed by the resale
will be absorbed by the resale price so yes, the prices have
price so yes, the prices have gone up. But you do fit a fair
gone up. But you do fit a fair amount of product into one
amount of product into one container so once it’s absorbed
container so once it’s absorbed by lots of products, is
by lots of products, is possibly not as bad, but we are
possibly not as bad, but we are seeing increases of in the
seeing increases of in the region of 10—15, as much as 20%
region of 10-15, as much as 2096 on some
region of 10—15, as much as 20% on some retail prices. Of
on some retail prices. Of course it’s all very well if
course it’s all very well if you have got the products to
you have got the products to sell and pass the cost on but
sell and pass the cost on but if the products have been held
if the products have been held up and you have
up and you have not got the stock, that is an even
stock, that is an even bigger problem. Are you finding there
problem. Are you finding there are shortages of stock
are shortages of stock available? So very much, I
available? So very much, I mean, we had a recent surge in
mean, we had a recent surge in commuter
mean, we had a recent surge in commuterfor
mean, we had a recent surge in commuter for consumer demand
commuter for consumer demand which has been enforced focus
which has been enforced focus on the outdoor space and the
on the outdoor space and the prospect of another staycation,
prospect of another stayGtion, optimism
prospect of another staycation, optimism for a great summer. We
optimism for a great summer. We are finding that garden centres
are finding that garden centres that have been open throughout
that have been open throughout the recent lockdown have
the recent lockdown have reported record sales because
reported record sales because of the delays, they are now
of the delays, they are now selling all the way into the
selling all the way into the August deliveries so it has
August deliveries so it has taken an awful lot longer to
taken an awful lot longer to get the product to the
get the product to the customer, so yes, we are
customer, so yes, we are experiencing huge shortages.
experiencing huge shortages. Tim, what are
Tim, what are proving to be the most
most popular items that peopla are
most popular items that people are desperate to get their
are desperate to get their hands on? In terms
hands on? In terms of garden furniture and from a personal
furniture and from a personal experience
experience from our company Bramblecrest, we are
Bramblecrest, we are finding that fire pits are particularly
that fire pits are particularty popular.
that fire pits are particularly popular. Also sofa seating,
popular. Also sofa seating, relaxed casual dining and
relaxed casual dining and informal sofas, swing chairs
informal sofas, swing chairs and gazebos. Also outside post
and gazebos. Also outside post parasols, cantilevered, but
pa rasols, cantilevered, but ultimately
parasols, cantilevered, but ultimately casual dining sets,
ultimately casual dining sets, sofa seating are popular, with
sofa seating are popular, with fire pits inbuilt. I can quite
fire pits inbuilt. I ran quite imagine
fire pits inbuilt. I can quite imagine that fire pits are
imagine that fire pits are popular, given the way the
popular, given the way the weather has turned in England
weather has turned in England just in the last
with the rules allowing people to gather outdoors, I suppose
to gather outdoors, I suppose they are going to want those
they are going to want those sofas but also to keep warm as
sofas but also to keep warm as well.
sofas but also to keep warm as well. Tim, really good to speak
well. Tim, really good to speak to you. Tim from the outdoor ——
to you. Tim from the outdoor -- Tim from the
to you. Tim from the outdoor —— Tim from the Leisure and
Tim from the Leisure and Outdoor Furniture Association.
You can find me on social
You ran find me on social media. If
You can find me on social media. If you’re on BBC One,
media. If you’re on BBC One, breakfast is coming up but if
breakfast is coming up but if you are on BBC world, you have
you are on BBC world, you have me again! You very much for
me again! You very much for watching. --
me again! You very much for watching. —— thank you.
Hello, there.
Easter Sunday’s highest temperature was in
Worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 Celsius.
But at the other end of the UK, the weather was changing,
and it was changing drastically.
That was Shetland with some snow showers and some cold air,
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
Behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel
to the weather for Easter Monday.
The start of the new week bringing much colder days
and some frosty nights.
Snow showers quite widely but especially across northern
Scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some
really strong winds.
So as we start Monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold
front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
Behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers,
especially for coastal areas.
The showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow
in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern
Scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over
the highest ground.
And there will be blizzard conditions here, as I said,
with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
And even if you see sunshine through Monday afternoon,
4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
Factor in the strength of that northerly wind,
this is what it’s going to feel like.
It will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4
there in Aberdeen.
Now, as we head through Monday night into the early hours
of Tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing,
particularly for eastern and western coasts, some
for Northern Ireland and plenty more for northern Scotland,
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night,
and there could be some icy stretches around as well first
thing on Tuesday morning.
And another cold and wintry day to come on Tuesday with some
spells of sunshine.
Showers especially around the coasts but actually,
a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again,
those showers are likely to be wintry.
And it’s another cold day, still windy too —
2—9 degrees at best.
A subtle change as we head towards the middle part
of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little
frontal system here.
It is a warm front running in from the west.
As the name suggests, the air behind it will be
warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
Temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
That front will bring a little bit of rain for some,
but not quite all of us, so through the middle
of the week, some slightly higher temperatures but then,
actually, by Friday in northern areas, it will turn
cold once again.
I’m notjust going to let him get away with it.
We have got to find that money.
I think we might have a bit of a problem.
Where do you stay when you’ve got 27 million?
Where do we start?
What if we can’t find Frank?
Come on!
Kay Mellor’s The Syndicate.
The creek of the auditorium door.
The gentle hum of the orchestra tuning.
The adrenaline. The uncertainty.
Lights dimming.
The curtain slowly rising.
The music. The dancing.
Camaraderie. The applause.
Without theatre, this isn’t a city.
It brings people together.
It brings joy. Laughter.
Happiness. Sensation.
A place to escape. To connect.
To feel...
..if only for a short while...
..truly alive.
Live theatre lights up BBC Four this spring.
Every time they come out, I doubt myself.
Brand new...
Cases like this, Faith, are once in a career, if you’re lucky.
My advice is — be prepared.
Abercorran is becoming toxic.
If she’s going to take away my kids,
I might take away everything that’s precious to her.
We’re on the hunt for Britain’s next big jewellery star,
and what better way to do that
than through a TV competition slash talent search format?
Jewellery’s so tense!
Have you ever thought of just buying jewellery?
LAUGHTER
Often!
Lights.
Touker, I don’t want your answers. I’m thinking, Deborah.
Have you built a business model?
I beg your pardon?
It’s a little bit like you’ve sold your soul. Ssh!
WHISTLE BLOWS
My heart is literally pounding.
If this is what I think it is, it’s going to be genius.
I’m going to make you an offer.
Dragons’ Den continues...
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with RogerJohnson and Louise Minchin.
Our headlines today.
An expansion of the coronavirus testing programme.
Everyone in England will have access to two free rapid
tests a week from this Friday.
BorisJohnson will give more details about his plans to further ease
the lockdown in England today, including a Covid passport scheme
to restart big events.
m:
We are at a very empty Manchester Airport talking about the
Airport talking about the possibility of a foreign holiday on
possibility of a foreign holiday on the horizon. With the Downing Street
the horizon. With the Downing Street announcement later today.
Lockdown continues to ease in Scotland, as garden
centres, homeware shops and hairdressers all reopen.
After a half—time rocket from their manager,
Manchester United come from behind to beat Brighton
and tighten their grip on second place in the Premier League.
We’ll also speak to actor Riz Ahmed, who’s been Oscar—nominated
for his portrayal of a drummer who loses his hearing.
A colder day today with a significant wind chill and snow
significant wind chill and snow showers in the forecast down to
showers in the forecast down to lower levels, especially in the
lower levels, especially in the doom
lower levels, especially in the door. In between, there will be
door. In between, there will be sunshine. I will have the details
sunshine. I will have the details later.
sunshine. I will have the details later.
It’s Easter Monday, April the 5th.
Our top story.
Everyone in England will be offered two free rapid Covid tests each
week from this Friday, under the government’s plans
to expand its testing programme.
The Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, says the additional tests will play
a crucial role in curbing future outbreaks of the virus
as life returns to normal.
Our health correspondent Jim Reed reports.
Rapid lateral flow tests are already being used to test
secondary school pupils, families with children and those
who cannot work from home.
From the end of the week, they will be offered
to everyone in England.
These devices give a result in 30 minutes.
They can be picked up from a local testing centre or pharmacy
or ordered online and delivered in the post.
Even when people have no symptoms, they may be infected
and they may be infectious.
And if we can catch those people early, then we can break
transmission and that reduces the number of people
who are infected, it reduces the likelihood of new variants
who are infected, it reduces the likelihood of new variants
and it helps keep everybody safer.
and it helps keep everybody safer.
The government says that twice—weekly tests will be crucial
to help prevent outbreaks in the future.
But Labour said the mass—testing programme must be backed by improved
financial support so that those told to isolate can afford it.
And some scientists have questioned the accuracy of the tests,
especially in people who don’t have symptoms.
The tests are not good at ruling out and saying you don’t have Covid.
We have to be very careful to get a message to everybody that says
if the test is negative, behave the same way,
don’t believe you haven’t got Covid.
don’t believe you haven’t got Covid.
Don’t go and kiss and cuddle your granny or your grandad,
because it’s not a test that tells us that.
It’s not a good enough test.
It’s not a good enough test.
The government claims the kits are extremely accurate,
particularly when it comes to identifying the most
infectious cases.
In England, a new publicity drive will start this week
to try to convince more people to make regular testing part
of their weekly routine.
In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland,
mass testing is also being expanded in places like offices,
factories and care homes.
Jim Reed, BBC News.
The next stage of the government’s plan to ease lockdown measures
in England from April 12th is expected to be approved
by Cabinet ministers today.
The Prime Minister will also give details of a traffic—light system
for restarting international travel, and his plans to trial Covid
passports at major sporting events.
Our political correspondent, Nick Eardley, has more details.
In a week, we should be seeing this again in England.
Pubs and restaurants serving outside.
Nonessential shops opening their doors.
Hairdressers back open.
Those lockdown haircuts finally brought back under control.
The Cabinet will meet to discuss the latest data
on coronavirus this morning.
BorisJohnson will confirm his plans in a press
conference this afternoon.
He will also be talking about holidays.
But don’t expect firm dates or a list of where
we will be allowed to go.
There will in future, though, he a traffic light system.
Green will mean you don’t have to quarantine on return to England.


Citation: BBC News, 02:05 05/04/2021, BBC1 London, 235 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1828833F?bcast=134204233 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)