This is BBC News.
These are the latest headlines in the UK and around the world.
British tourists are to be banned from France.
From Saturday, only French citizens or British people
who live there will be
allowed to enter the country and they’ll have to isolate
for at least 48 hours.
But hauliers are exempt.
The UK Prime Minister calls for people to "socialise carefully"
this Christmas,
due to the threat from the new Omicron variant,
after Covid cases hit a record high yesterday.
If you think about getting a year’s worth of rain over a month,
then you’re going to get flooding and potentially severe flooding,
no matter how much you’ve shored up your defences,
and that’s the concern here.
As the virus continues to spread, business groups ask
for more Government help as customers cancel bookings.
Five children have died and four others are injured after falling
from a bouncy castle that was blown into the air in Australia.
And, in the Ashes, England under pressure as Australia start
well in the second Test.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK
or around the world.
British tourists are being banned from France as the country tries
to slow the spread of Omicron.
From Saturday, only French citizens, British people who live in France —
or those visiting family — will be allowed to enter
if they’re coming from the UK.
They will have to provide a negative Covid test
which is less than 2A hours old.
It comes as the UK Prime Minister and England’s Chief Medical Officer
warn people to think carefully before going to pubs
and restaurants this Christmas.
The warnings come as the UK recorded more than 78,000
new infections yesterday —
the highest figure since the start of the pandemic.
The hospitality and entertainment industries are calling on
the Treasury for fresh financial support, with many businesses saying
the advice is extremely worrying because they rely on revenue
from the festive period to cover quieter spells in the new year.
Many schools across the UK have said they are prepared to switch
to online learning if they have to next term, as more children stay
at home because of Covid.
We’ll have more on those stories throughout the next hour
and we’ll be hearing from England’s Chief Medical Officer
Professor Chris Whitty —
who will be giving evidence to MPs in the next half an hour.
But, first, on those new measures introduced by France.
Here’s Hugh Schofield, our Paris Correspondent,
on what the new restrictions for travellers mean.
There are going to be much tighter restrictions from Saturday,
first thing Saturday, midnight Friday into Saturday
and they cover two things.
One, restrictions on who can come into France and there is a long
list, which we have seen before, of what constitutes an essential
travel and nonessential travel.
Basically, if you are going just for fun, to see the sights,
you can’t,
and not for work either, unless it is very compelling
and if you are a French national, you can come, if you are resident
in France, you can come but you will have to prove
all of this with the authorities, you have to register on a website
before you come over.
So that is one side.
The other side is then that the testing is being ramped up.
You will have to have a test done within 2A hours,
or less than 2A hours before you come.
That can be a lateral flow test or a PCR test.
And, then, when you come, you will have to self isolate
at an address that you give to the authorities on this
but you can test yourself after 48 hours and, if you are negative,
you are free to move about,
otherwise you will have to stay isolating for seven days.
And it looks like the French are going to be quite strict
about enforcing that quarantine because, in the past,
they have often said it is a sort of voluntary quarantine,
implying they won’t really check up on it but it looks
like they will check up on this one so in a way a mirror on what is
happening in Britain, if you’re going from Britain
to France, it is quite similar, you have to isolate for 48 hours
and if you test negative, you can move so a big ramping up
of the restrictions.
Our Paris correspondent with the latest
Our Paris correspondent with the latest on those restrictions. Let’s
latest on those restrictions. Let’s talk about the situation here in the
talk about the situation here in the UK with Iain Watson. We were hearing
UK with Iain Watson. We were hearing slightly subtly different messages
slightly subtly different messages yesterday from the Prime Minister
yesterday from the Prime Minister and from England ‘s Chief Medical
and from England ‘s Chief Medical Professor Chris Whitty. We were, you
Professor Chris whitty. We were, you said
Professor Chris Whitty. We were, you said subtle and I think it was
said subtla and I think it was stark, to
said subtle and I think it was stark, to be honest, in terms of
stark, to be honest, in terms of tone. The Prime Minister was talking
tone. The Prime Minister was talking about the National with boosters,
about the National with boosters, Chris Whitty was saying don’t mix
Chris whitty was saying don’t mix unless you
Chris Whitty was saying don’t mix unless you have to before Christmas,
unless you have to before Christmas, talking about people having to
talking about peopla having to prioritise
talking about people having to prioritise who they socialise with.
prioritise who they socialise with. I guess it is not a matter of
I guess it is not a matter of official Government guidance,
official Government guidance, certainly no official restrictions
certainly no official restrictions but it is making people think, if
but it is making peopla think, if you want to
but it is making people think, if you want to see your family for
you want to see your family for example, over Christmas, do you
example, over Christmas, do you socialise with your friends first or
socialise with your friends first or does it put you at risk of catching
does it put you at risk of catching the virus that is rampaging through
the virus that is rampaging through the country, doubling every couple
the country, doubling every couple of days. We have already had a
of days. We have already had a record number of Covid cases, he
record number of Covid cases, he talked about one pandemic above the
talked about one pandemic above the other, deltas still in circulation,
other, deltas still in circulation, Omicron over and above that, so the
Omicron over and above that, so the message was pretty bleak from Chris
message was pretty bleak from Chris whitty, he
message was pretty bleak from Chris Whitty, he said everything he knew
whitty, he said everything he knew about
Whitty, he said everything he knew about Omicron was bad. The Prime
about Omicron was bad. The Prime Minister suggesting caution but not
Minister suggesting caution but not suggesting people had to cancel all
suggesting peopla had to cancel all their plans,
suggesting people had to cancel all their plans, so it was the tale of
their plans, so it was the talc of two press
their plans, so it was the tale of two press conferences last night.
two press conferences last night. The thing is now people are having
The thing is now peopla are having to deal
The thing is now people are having to deal with the real—life
to deal with the real—life consequences, so I ran into an empty
consequences, so I ran into an empty on their way into Westminster this
on their way into Westminster this morning he was telling me one
morning he was telling me one company in his constituency have
company in his constituency have cancelled, or had had 70% of its
cancelled, or had had 7096 of its bookings
cancelled, or had had 70% of its bookings cancelled in the run—up to
bookings ancellad in the mn-up to Christmas,
bookings cancelled in the run—up to Christmas, businesses are crying out
Christmas, businesses are crying out for support. The UK hospitality
for support. The UK hospitality industry, the group representing
industry, the group representing them suggesting takings could be
them suggesting takings could be down by as much as 40% and in about
down by as much as 4096 and in about half an hour,
down by as much as 40% and in about half an hour, Labour are going to
half an hour, labour are going to try to, if you
half an hour, Labour are going to try to, if you like, reflect that
try to, if you like, reﬂect that mood in
try to, if you like, reflect that mood in the Commons, they have asked
mood in the Commons, they have asked for an urgent question, a device to
for an urgent question, a device to get a Government minister to answer
get a Government minister to answer on any given topic and they are
on any given topic and they are talking about increasing business
talking about increasing business support. That said, the Treasury are
support. That said, the Treasury are saying, look, there is support in
saying, look, there is support in place for business. For example, in
place for business. For example, in hospitality and tourism, they play a
hospitality and tourism, they play a lower -- they
hospitality and tourism, they play a lower —— they pay a lower rate of
lower -- they pay a lower rate of VAT until
lower —— they pay a lower rate of VAT until next spring, some are
VAT until next spring, some are eligibla for
VAT until next spring, some are eligible for business rates relief
eligible for business rates relief as well, so they are suggesting they
as well, so they are suggesting they are not abandoning the field and
are not abandoning the field and there are some things in place at
there are some things in place at the moment but, nonetheless, there
the moment but, nonetheless, there are going to be demands to ratchet
are going to be demands to ratchet that up and Labour of course hoping
that up and labour of course hoping to start
that up and Labour of course hoping to start positioning themselves as a
to start positioning themselves as a party
to start positioning themselves as a Party of
to start positioning themselves as a party of business and hoping to
party of business and hoping to exploit the fact that the Chancellor
exploit the fact that the Chancellor is out of the country, in
is out of the country, in California, perhaps a legitimate
California, perhaps a legitimate thing for him to do but if the
thing for him to do but if the advice is coming in on people to be
advice is coming in on peopla to be cautious up to
advice is coming in on people to be cautious up to Christmas, if it has
cautious up to Christmas, if it has a knock-on
cautious up to Christmas, if it has a knock—on effect on hospitality in
a knock-on effect on hospitality in particular,
a knock—on effect on hospitality in particular, Labour
a knock—on effect on hospitality in particular, Labourare
a knock—on effect on hospitality in particular, Labour are going to be
particular, labour are going to be mnning a
particular, Labour are going to be running a campaign I think on the
mnning a campaign I think on the next few days
running a campaign I think on the next few days calling on the
next few days calling on the Chancellor to come home and come up
Chancellor to come home and come up with more cash. And if Omicron
with more rash. And if Omicron surges, as
with more cash. And if Omicron surges, as everyone is predicting it
surges, as everyone is predicting it is going to do, there is likely to
is going to do, there is likely to be more pressure on the Prime
be more pressure on the Prime Minister
be more pressure on the Prime Ministerfor more
be more pressure on the Prime Minister for more restrictions and,
Minister for more restrictions and, vet.
Minister for more restrictions and, yet, his party, you know, the
yet, his party, you know, the Conservative Party showed with that
Conservative Party showed with that rebellion in the Commons, 100 MPs
rebellion in the Commons, 100 MP5 voting against Covid passes that
voting against Covid passes that they don’t want restrictions. ——
they don’t want restrictions. -- read more
they don’t want restrictions. —— read more restrictions. That’s
read more restrictions. That’s right, it was a big and broad
right, it was a big and broad rebellion and people feel not only
rebellion and peopla feel not only has
rebellion and people feel not only has the Prime Minister lost some
has the Prime Minister lost some authority, but also he is reluctant
authority, but also he is reluctant to bring in any other restrictions
to bring in any other restrictions and risk another rebellion and
and risk another rebellion and another spectacle of a divided
another spectada of a divided party-
another spectacle of a divided party. He has said he will recall
party. He has said he will recall partiament if
party. He has said he will recall parliament if more restrictions are
partiament if more restrictions are needed
parliament if more restrictions are needed and certainly circulating in
needed and certainly circulating in Whitehall, there are some pretty
Whitehall, there are some pretty scary projections about the number
scary projections about the number of people who could end up in
of peopla who could end up in hospital
of people who could end up in hospital early in
of people who could end up in hospital early inJanuary and
of people who could end up in hospital early in January and Chris
hospital earty in january and Chris whitty was
hospital early in January and Chris Whitty was talking about, as
Whitty was talking about, as infections continue to tumble,
infections continue to tumble, perhaps the real pressure is coming
perhaps the real pressure is coming just after Christmas so the question
just after Christmas so the question of a recall can’t be entirely ruled
of a recall can’t be entirely mled out but
of a recall can’t be entirely ruled out but there are other weapons and
out but there are other weapons and the Government’s armoury and Boris
the Government’s armoury and Boris johnson
the Government’s armoury and Boris Johnson wouldn’t even go there
johnson wouldn’t even go there yesterday,
Johnson wouldn’t even go there yesterday, but he could, for
yesterday, but he could, for example, do what Nicola Sturgeon,
example, do what Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister of Scotland has done,
First Minister of Scotland has done, and issue guidance about how salt
and issue guidance about how salt for example, which is a bit stronger
for example, which is a bit stronger than just advice --
for example, which is a bit stronger thanjust advice —— my
for example, which is a bit stronger than just advice —— my guidance
than just advice -- my guidance about
than just advice —— my guidance about household mixing. Iain Watson,
about household mixing. Iain Watson, our political correspondent.
Andrew Hayward is a Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology
and Inclusion Health Research at University College London.
He explained what yesterday’s record—breaking case numbers
could mean for people over the next few weeks.
If you think about 75,000 positive tests yesterday,
that’s probably...
Only about half, or maybe even fewer people who do
have Covid ever get tested, so maybe that’s about 150,000 people
or more with the infection and we know that that’s doubling
approximately every two days, so, in two days’ time,
it would be 150,000.
Four days, 300,000.
600,000.
1.2 million, if it carries on doubling at that same rate,
so you can see from that maths that this is an extraordinary number
of cases on our way, because the strain is so highly
transmissible and it escapes, certainly, immunity related
to just the two doses, much better with three doses, so that’s
going to lead to a huge wave of infection and the way I think
of it is like, really, if you think about getting a year’s
worth of rain over a month, then you are going to get flooding
and potentially severe flooding, no matter how much you’ve shored
up your defences and that’s the concern here, that that huge
wave is going to cause lots of people to be off
work, having to isolate, which is going to cause disruption
and it’s also going to cause, it’s going to spillover into people
going into hospital.
Now, the rate at which it spills over is uncertain because we don’t
know exactly how severe it is yet, but we’ve no particular reason
to think it’s less severe than previous strains.
We know that Covid is always going to be less severe
if you’ve been immunised, but it may be that, rather
than the strain itself, that’s making a lot of cases
look less severe.
In a moment, we are going to be speaking to Professor Tim Spector
from King’s College London, who helped found the ZOE Covid app
which helps gather research on the spread of the virus
as well as its symptoms, but first let’s take a quick look
at the latest data from ZOE.
The ZOE Covid data team estimated there are currently 87,131
new symptomatic cases of Covid in the UK.
Meanwhile, in the official Government data,
a further 78,610 new cases were confirmed in the latest data.
ZOE also suggests that an average of one in 57 people in the UK
currently have symptomatic Covid.
And we can speak to Professor Tim Spector now.
Well, what is your view and your insight on what Omicron in
insight on what Omicron in particular is doing at the moment.
particular is doing at the moment. Well, to look at what Omicron is
Well, to look at what Omicron is doing, it is best to look regionally
doing, it is best to look regionally and the people reporting on the ZOE
and the people reporting on the ZOE aPP
and the people reporting on the ZOE app in London and the south—east
app in London and the south-east have been
app in London and the south—east have been giving us fascinating
have been giving us fascinating information and if anyone out there
information and if anyone out there hasn’t downloaded the app, please do
hasn’t downloaded the app, please do so now and help us look, like we did
so now and help us look, like we did in the first wave, to see what is
in the first wave, to see what is going on but we now know the
going on but we now know the majority of cases in London are now
majority of cases in London are now Omicron and so, by looking at the
Omicron and so, by looking at the symptoms of people in London
symptoms of peopla in London compared
symptoms of people in London compared to other regions, we get an
compared to other regions, we get an idea of what is happening and what
idea of what is happening and what we are seeing is not only the rates
we are seeing is not only the rates going up very fast and people
going up very fast and peopla getting
going up very fast and people getting infected generally two days
getting infected generally two days after a contact, rather than,
after a contact, rather than, previously with Delta, four or five
previously with Delta, four or five days, we are seeing predominately
days, we are seeing predominately cold like symptoms in people who
cold like symptoms in peopla who have
cold like symptoms in people who have been vaccinated or triple
have been vaccinated or triple vaccinated. So the majority of
vaccinated. So the majority of peopla who
vaccinated. So the majority of people who are testing positive only
peopla who are testing positive only have
people who are testing positive only have cold like symptoms, so
have cold like symptoms, so headaches, sore throats, runny nose,
headaches, sore throats, mnny nose, sneezing and
headaches, sore throats, runny nose, sneezing and fatigue and a minority
sneezing and fatigue and a minority now have the old classic symptoms.
now have the old classic symptoms. So most
now have the old classic symptoms. 50 most people we are seeing are
So most people we are seeing are getting cold
50 most people we are seeing are getting cold like
So most people we are seeing are getting cold like symptoms which can
getting cold like symptoms which ran be mild
getting cold like symptoms which can be mild or can actually be quite
be mild or ran actually be quite severe
be mild or can actually be quite severe but no one has actually had
severe but no one has actually had it so far reporting to us lasting
it so far reporting to us lasting more than about five days, although
more than about five days, although we are not seeing older people, we
we are not seeing older people, we are not seeing people who haven’t
are not seeing people who haven’t been by vaccinated, because they are
been by vaccinated, because they are the minority of people reporting on
the minority of peopla reporting on our app. But it
the minority of people reporting on our app. But it is a really
our app. But it is a really infectious blood, we ask people to
infectious blood, we ask people to send in reports of big outbreaks or
send in reports of big outbreaks or parties they have been too and we’ve
parties they have been too and we’ve got several of these where people
got several of these where people attended parties of 20 or 30 people,
attended parties of 20 or 30 peopla, all having
attended parties of 20 or 30 people, all having done lateral flow tests
all having done lateral ﬂow tests before
all having done lateral flow tests before hand and three quarters of
before hand and three quarters of them have ended up with proven
them have ended up with proven Omicron afterwards, so it is really
Omicron afterwards, so it is really hard to control this. So I think
hard to control this. So I think what we need to have is a new way of
what we need to have is a new way of dealing with this, the time scale at
dealing with this, the time scale at which it happens, we don’t have much
which it happens, we don’t have much warning, Test and Trace doesn’t
warning, Test and Trace doesn’t work, we knew —— do need to get the
work, we knew -- do need to get the word out
work, we knew —— do need to get the word out about symptoms, avoiding
word out about symptoms, avoiding anyone who has cold like symptoms,
anyone who has cold like symptoms, which is highly likely to be Omicron
which is highly likely to be Omicron now depending on where you live and
now depending on where you live and where you are and make sure the
where you are and make sure the lateral flow test is really close to
lateral ﬂow test is really close to when you are
lateral flow test is really close to when you are meeting people, because
when you are meeting people, because you may well have caught it in the
you may well have taught it in the interim
you may well have caught it in the interim and that is what is causing
interim and that is what is causing these problems. And it sounds like
these problams. And it sounds like your data
these problems. And it sounds like your data really bears out what we
your data really bears out what we have heard from South Africa, which
have heard from South Africa, which is it is incredibly transmissible
is it is incredibly transmissible but the symptoms tend to be milder.
but the symptoms tend to be milder. We were hearing from Chris Whitty
We were hearing from Chris whitty yesterday,
We were hearing from Chris Whitty yesterday, yes, the symptoms are
yesterday, yes, the symptoms are mild but don’t be complacent because
mild but don’t be complacent because there are going to be so many more
there are going to be so many more rases that
there are going to be so many more cases that that will still mean lots
rases that that will still mean lots of
cases that that will still mean lots of hospitalisations. Yes, it means
of hospitalisations. Yes, it means good news for the individual and bad
good news for the individual and bad news for the country and that is, in
news for the country and that is, in a way, you know, it is too early to
a way, you know, it is too earty to know the
a way, you know, it is too early to know the exact percentage of people
know the exact percentage of people that are going to go to hospital
that are going to go to hospital potentially have a long covert as
potentially have a long covert as well, which we mustn’t forget, we
well, which we mustn’t forget, we don’t talk about that much —— long
don’t talk about that much -- long Covid, but
don’t talk about that much —— long Covid, but these are all problems of
Covid, but these are all problams of having a
Covid, but these are all problems of having a widespread infection, it is
having a widespread infection, it is not just like a
having a widespread infection, it is notjust like a cold because that
not just like a cold because that small
notjust like a cold because that small proportion will get severe
small proportion will get severe illness but so far, of the reports
illness but so far, of the reports we have been getting, we haven’t
we have been getting, we haven’t seen any hospitalisations based on a
seen any hospitalisations based on a few thousand of our early reporters,
few thousand of our earty reporters, but we
few thousand of our early reporters, but we will know much more about
but we will know much more about this next week. There has been a lot
this next week. There has been a lot of talk throughout this pandemic
of talk throughout this pandemic that, as it goes on, coronavirus
that, as it goes on, coronavirus becomes milder, we learn to live
becomes milder, we learn to live with it, it becomes more like a
with it, it becomes more like a cold. And, as it mutates. Do you
cold. And, as it mutates. Do you think this Omicron is perhaps part
think this Omicron is perhaps part of that pattern, part of that
of that pattern, part of that process? I think it probably is and
process? I think it probably is and I think we have seen a very slow
I think we have seen a very slow shift, because it was looking like
shift, because it was looking like Delta was behaving a bit like this
Delta was behaving a bit like this anyway, so we are not seeing
anyway, so we are not seeing dramatic shifts from Delta but I
dramatic shifts from Delta but I don’t think many people had an app
don’t think many peopla had an app like ours
don’t think many people had an app like ours that was recording in such
like ours that was recording in such detail the symptoms of most people
detail the symptoms of most peopla who
detail the symptoms of most people who were vaccinated, so given that
who were vaccinated, so given that now the majority of the population
now the majority of the population are vaccinated, this milder reaction
are vaccinated, this milder reaction to it is quite logical, so
are vaccinated, this milder reaction to it is quite logical, sol
are vaccinated, this milder reaction to it is quite logical, so I think
to it is quite logical, so I think we are all hoping that it
to it is quite logical, so I think we are all hoping that itjust
we are all hoping that itjust continues to get milder and we just
continues to get milder and we just need to buy ourselves time until it
need to buy ourselves time until it gets into an equilibrium and, you
gets into an equilibrium and, you know, relatively few people are
know, relatively few people are badly affected by it. Tim, it is
badly affected by it. Tim, it is always good to get your insights,
always good to get your insights, thank you so much for giving us your
thank you so much for giving us your time.
And if you’re in the UK, you can access an NHS
Tracker which is live
now and will help you find out how your local services are coping
on the BBC website.
The tracker will run throughout winter and will show you the latest
data on waits for emergency treatment where you live.
Business groups in the UK are increasing pressure
on the Government to help firms suffering from the rise in Covid
cases — which has led to cancelled bookings.
The CBI, which represents British businesses,
urged ministers to provide support
"in lockstep with future restrictions",
and UK Hospitality has called for business rates to be
deferred and VAT discounts extended.
The Government has so far declined to offer further
support for business.
Joining me now is Rain Newton—Smith, chief economist at the CBI.
Thank you very much indeed for being with us and I suppose the fear for
with us and I suppose the fear for many businesses, whether it is a
many businesses, whether it is a pub, a restaurant, theatres, there
pub, a restaurant, theatres, there isn’t a lockdown but people are just
isn’t a lockdown but peopla are just cancelling, so
isn’t a lockdown but people are just cancelling, so almost the effect is
cancelling, so almost the effect is the same? Yes, there has been a huge
the same? Yes, there has been a huge impact on businesses so far, from
impact on businesses so far, from ancellad
impact on businesses so far, from cancelled bookings in restaurants
ancellad bookings in restaurants too, of
cancelled bookings in restaurants too, of course, the aviation sector,
too, of course, the aviation sector, really been hit by some of the
really been hit by some of the restrictions on flying and, then, it
restrictions on ﬂying and, then, it is such an
restrictions on flying and, then, it is such an important time for
is such an important time for gymnasiums and leisure centres, when
gymnasiums and leisure centres, when they are looking for people to renew
they are looking for people to renew their annual memberships and so many
their annual memberships and so many people are working from home now, so
people are working from home now, so there is a real impact on businesses
there is a real impact on businesses at the moment and I think what we
at the moment and I think what we are falling on
at the moment and I think what we are calling on the Government to do
are falling on the Government to do is to act now,
are calling on the Government to do is to act now, to get some of the
is to act now, to get some of the money they have already set aside to
money they have already set aside to support businesses through the
support businesses through the crisis, really get that money at the
crisis, really get that money at the door but also be clear now that, if
door but also be clear now that, if these restrictions continue beyond
these restrictions continue beyond january, that
these restrictions continue beyond January, that they will stand ready
january, that they will stand ready to support
January, that they will stand ready to support Cash flow in some of the
to support (“ash ﬂow in some of the really
to support Cash flow in some of the really affected businesses and
really affected businesses and sectors. I suppose that is the
sectors. I suppose that is the point, which are the business
point, which are the business sectors? Because it is going to be
sectors? Because it is going to be patchy.
sectors? Because it is going to be patchy, isn’t it? It is not like a
patchy, isn’t it? It is not like a lockdown where all businesses are
lockdown where all businesses are affected in exactly the same way.
affected in exactly the same way. That’s right and I think one of the
That’s right and I think one of the “75
That’s right and I think one of the ways they ran
That’s right and I think one of the ways they can do that is to really
ways they ran do that is to really have
ways they can do that is to really have that open communication with
have that open communication with businesses across sectors and I
businesses across sectors and I think we do have to recognise, and
think we do have to recognise, and we are in a really different space
we are in a really different space from where we have been previously
from where we have been previously with this crisis, we are not looking
with this crisis, we are not looking at the same widespread support that
at the same widespread support that we saw in the past that had been so
we saw in the past that had been so important in keeping people in
we saw in the past that had been so important in keeping people injobs
important in keeping peopla injobs and
important in keeping people injobs and keeping businesses open. What
and keeping businesses open. What businesses are saying is let’s use
businesses are saying is let’s use all of the tools at our disposal,
all of the tools at our disposal, the testing, the boosters, to keep
the testing, the boosters, to keep things as open as possible. That is
things as open as possible. That is first and foremost, they want to be
first and foremost, they want to be able to trade their way through the
able to trade their way through the latest crisis we are facing. But,
latest crisis we are facing. But, secondly, be ready to support cash
secondly, be ready to support rash ﬂow in
secondly, be ready to support cash flow in some of the really hard hit
ﬂow in some of the really hard hit sectors.
flow in some of the really hard hit sectors. Some of the big loan
sectors. Some of the big loan schemes, companies have to start
schemes, companies have to start paying those back in March, but we
paying those back in March, but we know, in aviation, in hospitality,
know, in aviation, in hospitality, some of these sectors are going to
some of these sectors are going to be reeling still from this crisis.
be reeling still from this crisis. We will emerge from it but they need
We will emerge from it but they need to have the safety valve that they
to have the safety valve that they don’t have to repay some of those
don’t have to repay some of those loans right away and look to extend
loans right away and look to extend some of the business rates relief,
some of the business rates relief, just to provide more breathing space
just to provide more breathing space but those businesses that are really
but those businesses that are really hard-hit
but those businesses that are really hard—hit from what we are seeing now
hard-hit from what we are seeing now and what
hard—hit from what we are seeing now and what we might see in the coming
and what we might see in the coming weeks. It must have been a real
weeks. It must have been a real sucker Punch, Omicron, for many
sucker Punch, Omicron, for many businesses, who thought perhaps they
businesses, who thought perhaps they were starting to see the back of the
were starting to see the back of the pandemic, starting to see a
pandemic, starting to see a recovery, starting to see their
recovery, starting to see their businesses return to something like
businesses return to something like normality and, then, it has all come
normality and, then, it has all come crashing down again. Yes, it has
crashing down again. Yes, it has been sort of heartbreaking for some
been sort of heartbreaking for some businesses and, you know, you see it
businesses and, you know, you see it from, you know, I
businesses and, you know, you see it from, you know, Iwas
businesses and, you know, you see it from, you know, I was in a shop
from, you know, Iwas in a shop yesterday and
from, you know, I was in a shop yesterday and the people serving you
yesterday and the people sewing you are so
yesterday and the people serving you are so desperate to be out there
are so desperate to be out there sewing
are so desperate to be out there serving customers and spreading good
sewing customers and spreading good cheer in
serving customers and spreading good cheer in the Christmas period but,
cheer in the Christmas period but, understandably, they are just not
understandably, they are just not seeing the footfall at the moment
seeing the footfall at the moment and I was
speaking to a tour operator who said last summer was really difficult,
last summer was really difficult, they were able to start bringing in
they were able to start bringing in some revenue but there were still
some revenue but there were still quite a lot of restrictions, so they
quite a lot of restrictions, so they were really looking forward to this
were really looking forward to this Christmas period, the all—important
Christmas period, the all-important january
Christmas period, the all—important January moment where people look
january moment where peopla look ahead to
January moment where people look ahead to the summer and start
ahead to the summer and start booking
ahead to the summer and start hooking their
ahead to the summer and start booking their summer holidays and so
booking their summer holidays and so I
hooking their summer holidays and so I think it
booking their summer holidays and so I think it is really important as
I think it is really important as well, and this builds on what Tim
well, and this builds on what Tim Specter was saying, we need to learn
Specter was saying, we need to learn to live with this virus and we need
to live with this virus and we need to understand that the economy will
to understand that the economy will be able to reopen and businesses
be able to reopen and businesses will recover but we need to make
will recover but we need to make sure that we have to support to
sure that we have to support to build that bridge to the other side
build that bridge to the other side and that we give individuals the
and that we give individuals the confidence that we are facing a
confidence that we are facing a period where we need to be more
period where we need to be more cautious, but it is important we
cautious, but it is important we have the businesses there to support
have the businesses there to support us as we emerge from this latest
us as we emerge from this latest wave and we learn to live with the
wave and we learn to live with the virus being around us and use the
virus being around us and use the tools from boosters and testing to
tools from boosters and testing to really make it practical for us to
really make it practical for us to do that. Thank you very much indeed
do that. Thank you very much indeed for talking to
up.
us and we are just getting some breaking news, actually, from
breaking news, actually, from Formula One, which is that Mercedes
Formula One, which is that Mercedes will not appeal against the outcome
will not appeal against the outcome of last Sunday’s season—ending Abu
of last Sundays season-ending Abu Dhabi
of last Sunday’s season—ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. Max Verstappen,
Dhabi Grand Prix. Max Verstappen, for Red Bull, is Formula One world
for Red Bull, is Formula One world champion officially, there is no
champion officially, there is no doubt about it because Mercedes are
doubt about it because Mercedes are not
doubt about it berause Mercedes are not appealing
doubt about it because Mercedes are not appealing against what happened.
not appealing against what happened. 24-year-old
not appealing against what happened. 24—year—old Max Verstappen of course
24-year-old Max Verstappen of course took the
24—year—old Max Verstappen of course took the title last weekend after
took the title last weekend after overtaking the Mercedes seven times
overtaking the Mercedes seven times world champion Lewis Hamilton, now
world champion Lewis Hamilton, now Sir Lewis Hamilton, on the last
Sir Lewis Hamilton, on the last laugh of the race up to the safety
laugh of the race up to the safety rar period. The
laugh of the race up to the safety car period. The Dutch driver Max
rar period. The Dutch driver Max Verstappen is
car period. The Dutch driver Max Verstappen is going to collect his
Verstappen is going to collact his tmphy
Verstappen is going to collact his trophy in
Verstappen is going to collect his trophy in Paris on Thursday, so
trophy in Paris on Thursday, so Mercedes announcing that they are
Mercedes announcing that they are withdrawing their appeal against a
withdrawing their appeal against a Max Verstappen’s title.
Five children have died and five others are injured after falling
from a bouncy castle that was blown more than 30 feet into
the air in Australia.
Police said two girls and two boys died at the scene
and another died in hospital later, with five others in a critical
condition following the incident, which took place during
an end—of—year party in Devonport, in Tasmania.
The Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison,
said it was "heartbreaking".
The events that have occurred today in Devonport, in Tasmania, are
The events that have occurred today in Devonport, in Tasmania, arejust
in Devonport, in Tasmania, arejust shattering. They are just
shattering. They are just unthinkably heartbreaking and young
unthinkably heartbreaking and young children, on a fun day out together
children, on a fun day out together with their
children, on a fun day out together with theirfamilies, and it
children, on a fun day out together with their families, and it turns to
with their families, and it turns to such horrific tragedy, at this time
such horrific tragedy, at this time of year. It just
such horrific tragedy, at this time of year. Itjust breaks your heart.
of year. Itjust breaks your heart. Scott Morrison, the Australian Prime
Scott Morrison, the Australian Prime Minister.
Our correspondent Shaima Khalil is in Sydney.
She has more on the investigation that will now follow.
Really, questions are being asked, of course, about how this happened,
what was anchoring that bouncy castle to the ground,
why it was lifted as high it has?
Also the weather conditions of the day, we haven’t heard
that they were extraordinary conditions or dangerous conditions,
they were fine until that gust of wind lifted the bouncy castle
in the air.
We also heard from the Tasmanian authorities, of course,
who say,
with that happening, the focus is going to be
on the families of course of those children, on the school community
and on the first responders who were first on the scene and had
seen this tragedy happen in the primary school.
President Biden has been visiting Kentucky to see the damage caused
by a series of deadly tornadoes.
7A—people were killed and more than 120 people are still missing.
7A people were killed and more than 120 people are still missing.
Some communities hit by the storms will need to be completely rebuilt,
as Nomia Iqbal reports.
This is one of the poorest towns in the state.
It has been left in apocalyptic ruins.
Many people are now wondering what’s next.
Officials say 75% of the town has been destroyed.
President Biden came to see the damage for himself.
The scope and scale of this destruction is almost beyond belief.
When you look around here, it’s just almost beyond belief.
These tornadoes devour everything in their path.
These tornadoes devour everything in their path.ed
President Biden has signed signed an emergency
declaration for the state.
It will provide funds for the emergency management agency,
known as Fema, to help with search and rescue, and provide food,
water and generators.
But many in this town have been relying on strangers for support.
Sally has managed to find her wedding ring
and pictures of her children.
She’s trying to clear up as much as she can ahead of another storm
that’s being forecast.
We’ve recovered more, I think, than we first thought,
because at first, itjust looked like a big pile of rubble.
But as you dig through you are able to find some things,
and we have found some things that are very important to us,
which makes me happier.
When you think everything is gone it’s quite heartbreaking.
Some people say they want more than just their neighbours helping.
I went to a shelter earlier, and some volunteers there,
who didn’t want to speak to me on camera, claimed
the government response by Fema has been really slow.
They also say they hope the President isn’t
just here for a photo op.
The President has also visited the town of Mayfield, an hour away.
Kentucky is a Republican state.
How he and his Democratic administration respond
to the disaster will be scrutinised by conservatives, the very people
he is trying to reach.
Nomia Iqbal, BBC News, Kentucky.
Tens of thousands of people in the Philippines are sheltering
from super—typhoon Rai, which has begun battering
the southern island of Siargo.
Winds of more than 165kph
are expected, along with heavy rain.
90,000 people have headed for emergency shelters,
and schools in the storm’s expected path have been closed.
The Red Cross says it’s threatening to hit coastal communities
like "a freight train".
Let’s return new to Omicron and the concern caused
by the rise in cases.
In response, England’s Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty
has urged people to be cautious when socialising.
He’s due to answer questions from MPs shortly.
Our health correspondent Nick Triggle is here.
m:
We heard from Chris Whitty yesterday, England’s Chief Medical
yesterday, England’s Chief Medical Officer, a warning to people over
Officer, a warning to peopla over the holiday
Officer, a warning to people over the holiday period to be very
the holiday period to be very careful and to prioritise who they
careful and to prioritise who they socialise with. Indeed, that was in
socialise with. Indeed, that was in response to the rising number of
response to the rising number of rases, nearty
response to the rising number of cases, nearly 79,000 infections
cases, nearly 79,000 infections confirmed yesterday, that is the
confirmed yesterday, that is the highest since the pandemic began,
highest since the pandemic began, although I must say we didn’t have,
although I must say we didn’t have, really, any testing in place during
really, any testing in place during that first wave so it is unclear how
that first wave so it is unclear how high cases got then. But the message
high rases got then. But the message was clear,
high cases got then. But the message was clear, because we are facing, he
was clear, because we are facing, he was quite honest, we are going to
was quite honest, we are going to see the numbers rise and rise in the
see the numbers rise and rise in the coming days and, of course, people
coming days and, of course, peopla who do
coming days and, of course, people who do come into contact and test
who do come into contact and test positive, they will then have to
positive, they will then have to isolate over the Christmas period if
isolate over the Christmas period if they test positive for no one so the
they test positive for no one so the message was think about the social
message was think about the social contacts you have an prioritise
contacts you have an prioritise those that are important. And I
those that are important. And I think we are going to hear a lot of
think we are going to hear a lot of that messaging we have heard in
that messaging we have heard in Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon saying
Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon saying limit your contacts to three
limit your contacts to three households and it is all about
limit your contacts to three households and it is all aboutjust
households and it is all about just trying to
households and it is all aboutjust trying to reduce some of the spread
trying to reduce some of the spread of Omicron so people can enjoy
of Omicron so people can enjoy Christmas and also relieve some of
Christmas and also relieve some of the pressure on the NHS that this
the pressure on the NHS that this coming wave is bound to bring. We
coming wave is bound to bring. We will hear more about the coming way
will hear more about the coming way from Chris Whitty but we were just
from Chris whitty but we were just talking about
from Chris Whitty but we were just talking about this to Professor Tim
talking about this to Professor Tim Spector from
talking about this to Professor Tim Spectorfrom King’s
talking about this to Professor Tim Spector from King’s College,
talking about this to Professor Tim Spectorfrom King’s College, who
Spector from King’s Collage, who mns
Spector from King’s Collage, who runs the
Spectorfrom King’s College, who runs the ZOE app, and he was saying
runs the ZOE app, and he was saying the symptoms do seem generally, as
the symptoms do seem generally, as South Africa showed, relatively
South Africa showed, relatively mild. But Chris Whitty’s point
mild. But Chris whitty’s point yesterday
mild. But Chris Whitty’s point yesterday in Downing Street was,
yesterday in Downing Street was, yes, symptoms are mild but there is
yes, symptoms are mild but there is going to be such a huge wave that it
going to be such a huge wave that it is still going to mean a lot of
is still going to mean a lot of hospitalisations. Indeed, there is
hospitalisations. Indeed, there is still a lot of uncertainty over
still a lot of uncertainty over whether it is causing milder
whether it is causing milder illness. There is a certain degree
illness. There is a certain degree of logic in this, because
of logic in this, because infections, re—infections and
infections, re—infections and infections after vaccination, are
infections after vaccination, are likely to be milder, but I think
likely to be milder, but I think Chris whitty
likely to be milder, but I think Chris Whitty plus my point yesterday
Chris whitty plus my point yesterday was
Chris Whitty plus my point yesterday was even if you have a virus, the
was even if you have a virus, the severity of which is halved, as soon
severity of which is halved, as soon as you get more than a doubling of
as you get more than a doubling of uses,
as you get more than a doubling of cases, than
as you get more than a doubling of cases, then the pressure increases.
rases, then the pressure increases. Let’s go to the
cases, then the pressure increases. Let’s go to the health and social
Let’s go to the health and social rare
Let’s go to the health and social care committee, Jeremy Hunt is the
rare committee, jeremy Hunt is the chair, the
care committee, Jeremy Hunt is the chair, the former Health Secretary
chair, the former Health Secretary and he will be hearing from Chris
and he will be hearing from Chris whitty.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining
Thank you very much forjoining us
Thank you very much for joining us at a busy
Thank you very much forjoining us at a busy period. Let’s start right
at a busy period. Let’s start right away with Chris Whitty. I want to
away with Chris whitty. I want to give you a
away with Chris Whitty. I want to give you a chance to elaborate on
give you a chance to elaborate on what you said yesterday. You said we
what you said yesterday. You said we should prioritise social events that
should prioritise social events that matter and de—prioritise more
matter and de-prioritise more trivial
matter and de—prioritise more trivial ones. In practical terms,
trivial ones. In practical terms, could you explain what you meant
could you explain what you meant when it comes to people thinking
when it comes to peopla thinking about
when it comes to people thinking about their plans for Christmas? I
about their plans for Christmas? I hope what I said was reasonably
hope what I said was reasonably dear
hope what I said was reasonably clear but I will phrase it
clear but I will phrase it differently and see if that helps. I
differently and see if that helps. I think everybody can see this is
think everybody ran see this is moving very
think everybody can see this is moving very fast and is highly
moving very fast and is highly transmissible and the rates are
transmissible and the rates are going to continue to go up. It is a
going to continue to go up. It is a period of the year when lots of
period of the year when lots of people have got things that really
people have got things that really matter to them family —wise and
matter to them family -wise and other parts of
matter to them family —wise and other parts of their life, my point
other parts of their life, my point was, and I hope I can reiterate
was, and I hope I ran reiterate this, people
was, and I hope I can reiterate this, people want to protect the
this, people want to protect the time that is most important to them
time that is most important to them and that does therefore mean in
and that does therefore mean in practice it is sensible for people
practice it is sensible for people to cut down on work or other
to cut down on work or other interactions with people,
interactions with people, potentially social ones that are
potentially social ones that are lass
potentially social ones that are less important to them, they reduce
less important to them, they reduce their chances of catching Covid—19
their chances of catching Covid-19 and passing it
their chances of catching Covid—19 and passing it on. I
their chances of catching Covid—19 and passing it on. Iwould not
their chances of catching Covid—19 and passing it on. I would not want
and passing it on. Iwould not want to say to
and passing it on. I would not want to say to people to do a particular
to say to peopla to do a particular thing, they
to say to people to do a particular thing, they should do this or that,
thing, they should do this or that, it is about saying that this is a
it is about saying that this is a period to prioritise. That was also
period to prioritise. That was also the message from the Prime Minister.
the message from the Prime Minister. To be more specific, the doctor
To be more specific, the doctor yesterday advised people not to go
yesterday advised people not to go to football matches if it was to
to football matches if it was to watch football. Do you agree with
watch football. Do you agree with that? She was saying that if you
that? She was saying that if you went to a stadium it is an
went to a stadium it is an opportunity to have a booster. That
opportunity to have a booster. That is a message we want to get out to
is a message we want to get out to people. Obviously, we want to
peopla. Obviously, we want to get back to a
people. Obviously, we want to get back to a situation where we are
back to a situation where we are back on a more normal track, the
back on a more normal track, the Route life through the booster
Route life through the booster programme. She was saying we are
programme. She was saying we are opening up stadiums over this
opening up stadiums over this weekend for booster, that there is a
weekend for booster, that there is a positive message from someone
positive message from someone heavily embedded in the booster
heavily embedded in the booster programme, if that means going to a
programme, if that means going to a stadium, that should be the
stadium, that should be the priority. You are not advising
priority. You are not advising peopla not
priority. You are not advising people not to go to football
people not to go to football matches? I am advising people to
matches? I am advising peopla to prioritise, if
matches? I am advising people to prioritise, if football is the most
prioritise, if football is the most important thing, that is a priority
important thing, that is a priority for them, that is the point I was
for them, that is the point I was meeting. Prioritise what matters to
meeting. Prioritise what matters to 7°“-
meeting. Prioritise what matters to you, if you wish to do those things,
you, if you wish to do those things, and wish to do so and not end
and wish to do so and not end up self isolating or not well at a time
self isolating or not well at a time when you don’t want to be, you would
when you don’t want to be, you would want to do fewer other things. If
want to do fewer other things. If you are planning in the next week to
you are planning in the next week to go to four or five social functions,
go to four or five social functions, your advice would be try not to go
your advice would be try not to go to the two or three that matter
to the two or three that matter this to you. That depends... Anyone who
to you. That depends... Anyone who has something that really matters to
has something that really matters to them, concentrate on that thing and
them, concentrate on that thing and build out from there rather than
build out from there rather than just accepting every invitation I’m
just accepting every imitation I’m going to
just accepting every invitation I’m going to every bit of work in
going to every bit of work in person. This applies to work
person. This applies to work situations too. Our team are way
situations too. Our team are way down in terms of the numbers coming
down in terms of the numbers coming in, that is quite right. Most other
in, that is quite right. Most other teams that I know and that is very
teams that I know and that is very sensible. Work from home if you tan
sensible. Work from home if you tan is government guidance and remain
is government guidance and remain so. To be Morse’s sapphic on
so. To be Morse’s sapphic on something
so. To be Morse’s sapphic on something that is going along at the
something that is going along at the moment... —— something that is
moment... -- something that is happening a lot
moment... —— something that is happening a lot at the moment,
happening a lot at the moment, Christmas parties, if it is not
Christmas parties, if it is not essential as compared to spending
essential as compared to spending time with your
essential as compared to spending time with yourfamily,
essential as compared to spending time with your family, for example,
time with your family, for example, then that would be a good thing not
then that would be a good thing not to go to. I’m trying to avoid and
to go to. I’m trying to avoid and you are trying to meet me, I am
you are trying to meet me, I am trying to avoid making people’s
trying to avoid making people’s choices for them but I would go on
choices for them but I would go on to say dearty
choices for them but I would go on to say clearly that people need to
to say dearty that people need to prioritise
to say clearly that people need to prioritise what matters to them and
prioritise what matters to them and cut down on the things that don’t.
cut down on the things that don’t. For some person it may be important
For some person it may be important to go to the office party, it is for
to go to the office party, it is for peopla to
to go to the office party, it is for people to make those choices. That
people to make those choices. That is very dear
people to make those choices. That is very clear and helpful. Thank
is very clear and helpful. Thank you. (“an I move
is very clear and helpful. Thank you. Can I move on to more questions
you. (“an I move on to more questions about
you. Can I move on to more questions about Omicron itself and what we do
about Omicron itself and what we do know and what we don’t know. One of
know and what we don’t know. One of the things you talked about that we
the things you talked about that we do not yet really have hard data on
do not yet really have hard data on is the extent to which vaccines
is the extent to which vaccines will stop you getting seriously ill. So
stop you getting seriously ill. So far, as I understand it, the studies
far, as I understand it, the studies seem to show quite a lot of vaccine
seem to show quite a lot of vaccine is given after two doses but much
is given after two doses but much lass
is given after two doses but much less after a third dose. Can I
lass after a third dose. (“an I ask if those figures
less after a third dose. Can I ask if those figures relate to antibody
if those figures relate to antibody deterioration and T cell
deterioration and T cell deterioration or only antibodies?
deterioration or only antibodies? There are two lines of evidence, the
There are two lines of evidence, the lab site and the clinical. For all
lab site and the clinical. For all of these, I know you know this, I am
of these, I know you know this, I am going out for people watching, there
going out for peopla watching, there are
going out for people watching, there are three things we are interested
are three things we are interested in, the ability of the vaccine to
in, the ability of the vaccine to stop people getting infected, the
stop people getting infected, the ability to stop people getting
ability to stop people getting severe disease and ending up in
severe disease and ending up in hospital and the ability to stop
hospital and the ability to stop peopla
hospital and the ability to stop people dying. In general, they get
people dying. In general, they get more effective as you go up the
more effective as you go up the line. At the moment on the lab site,
line. At the moment on the lab site, a lot of different la bs
line. At the moment on the lab site, a lot of different labs are looking
a lot of different labs are looking at the antibody data, half of the
at the antibody data, half of the immune system, that suggests
immune system, that suggests antibody response is much less
antibody response is much less effective against this variant than
effective against this variant than Delta and the original Wuhan strain.
Delta and the original Wuhan strain. That does not necessarily... Is
That does not necessarily... Is likely to translate into reduced
likely to translate into reduced ability to reduce infection and that
ability to reduce infection and that is what we are seeing. The clinical
is what we are seeing. The clinical studies are showing that lots of
studies are showing that lots of peopla are
studies are showing that lots of people are getting reinfected with
people are getting reinfected with Omicron who previously had been
Omicron who previously had been vaccinated or had a combination of
vaccinated or had a combination of vaccines and natural infection. It
vaccines and natural infection. It definitely is likely to bypass some
definitely is likely to bypass some of the ability to reduce infection.
of the ability to reduce infection. What we do not have is very good T
what we do not have is very good T cell
What we do not have is very good T cell studies in the same way as they
cell studies in the same way as they take longer to do from the lab site,
take longer to do from the lab site, we do not have clinical studies,
we do not have clinical studies, either
we do not have clinical studies, eitherfrom
we do not have clinical studies, either from South Africa
we do not have clinical studies, eitherfrom South Africa or the UK
either from South Africa or the UK or anywhere
eitherfrom South Africa or the UK or anywhere else that say with
or anywhere else that say with confidence what the level of
confidence what the level of protection of two doses, one dose,
protection of two doses, one dose, to doses and a booster dose our own
to doses and a booster dose our own hospitalisation and death. I think
hospitalisation and death. I think most people think on the positive
most people think on the positive side, we also think there will be
side, we also think there will be some preserved immunity,
some preserved immunity, particularly on the non—antibody
particularty on the non-antibody site, T cell
particularly on the non—antibody site, T cell and other site,
site, T cell and other site, therefore it is likely that someone
therefore it is likely that someone who has had one or two vaccines
who has had one or two vaccines already will have some protection
already will have some protection and with a booster considerably more
and with a booster considerably more protection against hospitalisation
protection against hospitalisation and death, even though the
and death, even though the protection against infection is less
protection against infection is lass good.
protection against infection is less good. Finally, on the booster, it
good. Finally, on the booster, it looks as though they restore some of
looks as though they restore some of the ability to actually reduce
the ability to actually reduce infection, probably quite a lot of
infection, probably quite a lot of it actually, at least for a period
it actually, at least for a period of time, and so there are multiple
of time, and so there are multiple reasons to get the booster. It will
reasons to get the booster. It will reduce a risk of severity, it will
reduce a risk of severity, it will reduce the risk of mortality and
reduce the risk of mortality and almost certainly reduce the risk of
almost certainly reduce the risk of transmitting and getting symptomatic
transmitting and getting symptomatic disease. We really want to push the
disease. We really want to push the point that booster is critical to
point that booster is critical to theirs. When will we get good
theirs. when will we get good data on
theirs. When will we get good data on hospitalisation rates and risk
on hospitalisation rates and risk of severe illness and death? We will
severe illness and death? We will get reasonable data from South
get reasonabla data from South Africa
get reasonable data from South Africa before the UK, but that will
Africa before the UK, but that will be for two doses because they
be for two doses because they haven’t got a booster programme in
haven’t got a booster programme in the way we have yet. They will go
the way we have yet. They will go first on the clinical side but there
first on the clinical side but there is good data coming here and I will
is good data coming here and I will ask Doctor Hopkins to talk about
ask Doctor Hopkins to talk about that because they say... They are
that because they say... They are leading on this. In terms of the
leading on this. In terms of the booster that would take longer
booster that would take longer because as of two weeks ago, almost
because as of two weeks ago, almost nobody had a booster and now we have
nobody had a booster and now we have got really good levels in the older
got really good levels in the older population. But we haven’t got all
population. But we haven’t got all the way down to the group which is
the way down to the group which is actually being infected by Omicron.
actually being infected by Omicron. Susan, do you want to add to what I
Susan, do you want to add to what I have said? We have a series of
have said? We have a series of studies we have planned and the
studies we have planned and the analysis is ready to run. What we
analysis is ready to mn. what we know is
analysis is ready to run. What we know is we need about
know is we need about 250 individuals in hospital before we
individuals in hospital before we ran
individuals in hospital before we can make a severity assessment
ran make a severity assessment compared to
can make a severity assessment compared to Delta. Also vaccine
compared to Delta. Also vaccine effectiveness assessment. We start
effectiveness assessment. We start mnning that
effectiveness assessment. We start running that assessment when we
mnning that assessment when we start having
running that assessment when we start having enough cases who had
start having enough rases who had been
start having enough cases who had been admitted to hospitals and we
been admitted to hospitals and we mn it daily
been admitted to hospitals and we run it daily until we have enough
mn it daily until we have enough parity to
run it daily until we have enough parity to determine that the results
parity to determine that the results are effective to allow us to
are effective to allow us to basically make assessments to
basically make assessments to release. How many Omicron patients
release. How many Omicron patients do we have in hospital as of today
do we have in hospital as of today or yesterday? 15, however, we are
or yesterday? 15, however, we are constantly working on data linkage
constantly working on data linkage to improve that, and we will release
to improve that, and we will release new numbers this afternoon. Sign
new numbers this afternoon. Sign like the real number will be much
like the real number will be much bigger than that, that is the number
bigger than that, that is the number that are proven. To give us all a
that are proven. To give us all a timescale, are you to have some
timescale, are you to have some reliable data before Christmas or is
reliable data before Christmas or is it going to be January before we
it going to be january before we really know
it going to be January before we really know the answer to that
really know the answer to that question? The earliest for reliable
question? The eartiest for reliable data is
question? The earliest for reliable data is the week between Christmas
data is the week between Christmas and New Year and probably early
and New Year and probably earty january.
and New Year and probably early January. Another question, about
January. Another question, about transmissibility. There has been a
transmissibility. There has been a lot of discussion about the doubling
lot of discussion about the doubling rate being two days or less.
rate being two days or less. Obviously, mathematically, that
Obviously, mathematically, that would mean with an two or three
would mean with an two or three weeks the entire population would be
weeks the entire population would be infected. Is that what you expect to
infected. Is that what you expect to happen? Would you expect the
happen? Would you expect the doubUng
happen? Would you expect the doubling rate to slow down as the
doubling rate to slow down as the infection progresses? The doubling
infection progresses? The doubling rate will slow down for two reasons,
rate will slow down for two reasons, the first is that people are taking
the first is that people are taking sensible precautions. It is clear
sensible precautions. It is clear they are taking sensible precautions
they are taking sensible precautions and that will slow down the doubling
and that will slow down the doubling rate. The points we made about
rate. The points we made about prioritising, interactions, matter
prioritising, interactions, matter to most to you, advise to work from
to most to you, advise to work from home, all designed to slow it down,
home, all designed to slow it down, at the beginning to buy us time to
at the beginning to buy us time to get through the booster. The number
get through the booster. The number of people who have already been
of people who have already been infected and have got immunity from
infected and have got immunity from the booster or from
infected and have got immunity from the booster orfrom Omicron itself
the booster or from Omicron itself will mean
the booster orfrom Omicron itself will mean that the group of people
will mean that the group of peopla it ran
will mean that the group of people it can now infect is getting smaller
it ran now infect is getting smaller and that
it can now infect is getting smaller and that will also slow it down and
and that will also slow it down and that reaches a peak. What we will
that reaches a peak. what we will see with
that reaches a peak. What we will see with this and we are seeing it
see with this and we are seeing it in South Africa, is that it will
in South Africa, is that it will be incredibly fast, even if people are
incredibly fast, even if people are taking more conscious actions, that
taking more conscious actions, that will help slow it down but it is
will help slow it down but it is going to be very fast and will peak
going to be very fast and will peak really fast, my anticipation as it
really fast, my anticipation as it may come down faster than previous
may come down faster than previous peaks but I can’t say that for sure,
peaks but I can’t say that for sure, it is a possibility. In terms of
it is a possibility. In terms of where we are going over the next
where we are going over the next couple of weeks, the rate of
couple of weeks, the rate of increase is going to be fairly
increase is going to be fairly impressive. Lets talk about the
impressive. Lets talk about the peak. The London School of medicine
peak. The London School of medicine and tropical medicine expect over
and tropical medicine expect over the winter months 20 to 30 million
the winter months 20 to 30 million British people will be infected with
British peopla will be infected with Omicron,
British people will be infected with Omicron, it will peak at 600,000
Omicron, it will peak at 600,000 infections per day around the end of
infections per day around the end of january,
infections per day around the end of January, hospitalisations between
january, hospitalisations between three
January, hospitalisations between three and 7000 per day. Is that your
three and 7000 per day. Is that your expectation as well? I have to admit
expectation as well? I have to admit I am extremely cautious of forward
I am extremely cautious of forward projections on exponential models.
projections on exponential models. If the London school, if the problem
If the London school, if the problem is that even a very small change
is that even a very small change in the inputs reach to a very big
the inputs reach to a very big difference in what you get out at
difference in what you get out at the other end, and there are some
the other end, and there are some really critical things that we do
really critical things that we do not know. We obviously do not know
not know. We obviously do not know what level it is going to peak, we
what level it is going to peak, we do not yet know what the effects in
do not yet know what the effects in terms of hospitalisations of two
terms of hospitalisations of two doses of vaccine, prior infection
doses of vaccine, prior infection and of the booster dose are, and
and of the booster dose are, and there is still debate about could
there is still debate about could this be a slightly milder version? I
this be a slightly milder version? I do not think it is to the point
do not think it is to the point of triviality, but all of these are
triviality, but all of these are really important. I am very careful,
really important. I am very careful, not... All the way through the
not... All the way through the pandemic I resisted reaching for
pandemic I resisted reaching for projection numbers except a short
projection numbers except a short time period when it is more reliable
time period when it is more reliable into public domain because I do not
into public domain because I do not think they are reliable and you
think they are reliable and you cannot put enough caveats on them.
cannot put enough caveats on them. Lets look at the numbers we do know,
Lets look at the numbers we do know, yesterday was the highest ever daily
yesterday was the highest ever daily reported level of infections. You
reported level of infections. You said you thought we might end up
said you thought we might end up because of the time—lag to
because of the time—lag to hospitalisations and deaths, we
hospitalisations and deaths, we could end up with a record number of
could end up with a record number of hospitalisations at the daily rate
hospitalisations at the daily rate as well, we don’t know, but we could
as well, we don’t know, but we could do that. The general view is that
do that. The general view is that the NHS starts to really struggle if
the NHS starts to really struggle if they have to cope with more than
they have to cope with more than 4000 per day, and the previous peak
4000 per day, and the previous peak in january was
4000 per day, and the previous peak inJanuary was 4500. Do we have to
injanuary was 4500. Do we have to confront
inJanuary was 4500. Do we have to confront the realistic possibility,
confront the realistic possibility, even likelihood that A500 previous
even likelihood that A500 previous maximum will be exceeded? There are
maximum will be exceeded? There are several different parts to theirs.
several different parts to theirs. We are talking about huge
We are talking about huge uncertainty. I do not want this to
uncertainty. I do not want this to be seen as I am saying this will
be seen as I am saying this will happen, there are a range of
happen, there are a range of possibilities. The peak of
happen, there are a range of possibilities. The peak ofjust over
possibilities. The peak ofjust over 4500, 4583 to be exact people
4500, 4583 to be exact people admitted at the absolute peak, it is
admitted at the absolute peak, it is possible, because it is going to be
possible, because it is going to be very concentrated, even if it is
very concentrated, even if it is milder, because it is concentrated
milder, because it is concentrated over a short period of time we could
over a short period of time we could have a higher number of that going
have a higher number of that going into hospital on a single day. It is
into hospital on a singla day. It is possible,
into hospital on a single day. It is possible, maybe less, but certainly
possible, maybe less, but certainly possible. It is going to be really
possible. It is going to be really concentrated in a short period of
concentrated in a short period of time very possibly. There are two
time very possibly. There are two caveats to that, one of the things
caveats to that, one of the things that matters to the NHS is how long
that matters to the NHS is how long peopla stay.
that matters to the NHS is how long people stay. If people stay in
peopla stay. If peopla stay in hospital
people stay. If people stay in hospital for a shorter period
hospital for a shorter period because they are protected by prior
because they are protected by prior vaccination, that means the total
vaccination, that means the total number could still be lower even if
number could still be lower even if the peak number per day is higher.
the peak number per day is higher. The total number, peak total number
The total number, peak total number of inpatients was just under 40,000,
of inpatients was just under 40,000, 39,254 to be
of inpatients was just under 40,000, 39,251; to be exact, it could be a
39,254 to be exact, it could be a higher daily
39,251; to be exact, it could be a higher daily rate, but ill or
higher daily rate, but ill or impatient rate if there is short
impatient rate if there is short hospitalisation. It could go the
hospitalisation. It could go the other way as well. The number going
other way as well. The number going could be lower in I see you,
could be lower in I see you, vaccines provide additional
vaccines provide additional protection against severe disease.
protection against severe disease. We should not assume that if we got
We should not assume that if we got the same number going in the front
the same number going in the front door, that necessarily translate
door, that necessarily translate into the same number in intensive
into the same number in intensive rare. We
into the same number in intensive care. We had the previous peak in
rare. We had the previous peak in january, what
care. We had the previous peak in January, what we did then was
January, what we did then was re—controlled by locking down the
re-controllad by locking down the country and
re—controlled by locking down the country and that brought that number
country and that brought that number down. Have you advised the
down. Have you advised the government that we need to be doing
government that we need to be doing more now than we are currently doing
more now than we are currently doing to reduce the spread of Omicron? I
to reduce the spread of Omicron? I am going to give a formal answer and
am going to give a formal answer and then a more helpful one. Michael the
then a more helpful one. Michael the only formal advice is what is
only formal advice is what is published from Sage,
published from Sage, And it is important, there will be a
And it is important, there will be a pub“:
And it is important, there will be a public enquiry, the convention is
public enquiry, the convention is not the Secretary of State you would
not the Secretary of State you would have expected the advice to
have expected the advice to ministers as confidential. What the
ministers as confidential. what the government
ministers as confidential. What the government has said, and I think
government has said, and I think what we have all said, to make
what we have all said, to make really tough economic and social
really tough economic and social decisions, there are some really key
decisions, there are some really key bits of information we do not have.
bits of information we do not have. There is a very wide range of
There is a very wide range of possibilities as to where that could
possibilities as to where that could 9°-
possibilities as to where that could go, and some of these are very
go, and some of these are very difficult for the NHS indeed and
difficult for the NHS indeed and some are much less so. We are
some are much lass so. We are getting your
some are much less so. We are getting your information the whole
getting your information the whole time. This has been reviewed by the
time. This has been reviewed by the government the whole time. They’ve
government the whole time. Therve got a dear plan
government the whole time. They’ve got a clear plan of action, which
got a dear plan of action, which is... which
got a clear plan of action, which is... Which has two strands, working
is... which has two strands, working from home
is... Which has two strands, working from home and all the things to slow
from home and all the things to slow things down at the initial stage of
things down at the initial stage of the upswing and the other really
the upswing and the other really critically is the booster programme.
critically is the booster programme. If the facts change and it becomes
If the facts change and it becomes dearer things
If the facts change and it becomes clearer things are heading the wrong
dearer things are heading the wrong way,
clearer things are heading the wrong way, ministers are always going to
way, ministers are always going to take constant reviews of this. I
take constant reviews of this. I really wa nted
take constant reviews of this. I really wanted to understand in terms
really wanted to understand in terms of setting expectations, I
of setting expectations, I appreciate you cannot tell as every
appreciate you cannot tell as every detailed conversation you have with
detailad conversation you have with the
detailed conversation you have with the Prime Minister, in terms of
the Prime Minister, in terms of assessing expectations, at the
assessing expectations, at the moment, theatre performances,
moment, theatre performances, Christmas parties, football matches
Christmas parties, football matches are going ahead, but if things
are going ahead, but if things continue to take a turn for the
continue to take a turn for the worse, we need to be prepared for
worse, we need to be prepared for that to change. Is that what you are
that to change. Is that what you are saying? If it looked as if the
saying? If it looked as if the vaccine was less effective than we
vaccine was less effective than we were expecting, that would be a
were expecting, that would be a material change to Arab ministers of
material change to Arab ministers of view of the rest going forward. Can
view of the rest going forward. (“an I add
view of the rest going forward. Can I add brisk which will happen
I add brisk which will happen irrespective, because of the
irrespective, because of the steepness of theirs, even if this
steepness of theirs, even if this ends up in a situation where booster
ends up in a situation where booster holders to a large degree for a lot
holders to a large degree for a lot of people, this is not an NHS point,
of peopla, this is not an NHS point, a lot of peopla
of people, this is not an NHS point, a lot of people will simultaneously
a lot of peopla will simultaneously fall ill
a lot of people will simultaneously fall ill and be unwell, isolating
fall ill and be unwell, isolating our raring for
fall ill and be unwell, isolating our caring for others across the
our raring for others across the whola
our caring for others across the whole economy, so that side of
whola economy, so that side of things
whole economy, so that side of things we need to take seriously.
things we need to take seriously. Thank you very much. You have been
Thank you very much. You have been very dear
Thank you very much. You have been very clear that Covid—19 will be
very clear that Covid-19 will be with us
very clear that Covid—19 will be with us for a long time, if not for
with us for a long time, if not for ever. In the event of more variants
ever. In the event of more variants of concern, is that your view that
of concern, is that your view that we will have to continue to live
we will have to continue to live with reduced social contact, the
with reduced social contact, the prioritisation for years to come?
prioritisation for years to come? The way I see this over a long time
The way I see this over a long time period, five years, that is a
period, five years, that is a critical question you have asked. If
critical question you have asked. If I project forward, I would
I project forward, I would anticipate in a number of years,
anticipate in a number of years, possibly
anticipate in a number of years, possibly18
anticipate in a number of years, possibly 18 months, possibly less or
possibly18 months, possibly loss or more, that
possibly 18 months, possibly less or more, that we will have polyvalent
more, that we will have polyvalant vaccines
more, that we will have polyvalent vaccines that cover a wider range
vaccines that cover a wider range and we will have several antivirals,
and we will have several antivirals, we had two reasonable ones, and the
we had two reasonable ones, and the variety of other countermeasures
variety of other countermeasures that mean that the great majority
that mean that the great majority and probably almost all of the heavy
and probably almost all of the heavy lifting when you get a new variant
lifting when you get a new variant unless it is extremely different,
unless it is extremely different, ran be
unless it is extremely different, can be made by medical means because
ran be made by medical means because the
can be made by medical means because the vaccines have a coverage and the
the vaccines have a coverage and the antivirus recovers the slack. We
antivirus recovers the slack. We have come from a place where we had
have come from a place where we had nothing so everything had to be done
nothing so everything had to be done by social distancing and all the
by social distancing and all the things that went with that at the
things that went with that at the beginning. Where we are at the
beginning. Where we are at the moment is a transition period, a
moment is a transition period, a large amount of it can be done and
large amount of it ran be done and this is why the
large amount of it can be done and this is why the tarmac is essential,
this is why the tarmac is essential, we are not in the safe haven I
we are not in the safe haven I expect we will have in a couple of
expect we will have in a couple of years. I
expect we will have in a couple of years. Ido
expect we will have in a couple of years. I do not see —— the booster
years. I do not see -- the booster is essential.
years. I do not see —— the booster is essential. This is something
is essential. This is something which will happen in this
which will happen in this transition, how we are responding to
transition, how we are responding to this variant is very different to
this variant is very different to how we would have responded before
how we would have responded before we had the vaccine. That is an
we had the vaccine. That is an example of how things are going to
example of how things are going to change and that change will
change and that change will continue. The transition period
continue. The transition period could last several years? Know, the
could last several years? Know, the risks will decrease over time, it is
risks will decrease over time, it is incremental, it is not a sudden
incremental, it is not a sudden thing, each six months will be
thing, each six months will be better than the last. How fast it
better than the last. How fast it will be, dangerous to protect
will be, dangerous to protect science, but from a scientific point
science, but from a scientific point of view, my expectations of being
of view, my expectations of being surprised on the upside on the way
surprised on the upside on the way through on the science so far.
through on the science so far. Faster vaccines, faster clinical
Faster vaccines, faster clinical trials, faster new drugs than I
trials, faster new drugs than I would have predicted at the
would have predicted at the beginning of the epidemic and that I
beginning of the epidemic and that I did predict at the beginning. My
beginning of the epidemic and that I did predict at the beginning. Myjob
did predict at the beginning. My job is to try and
did predict at the beginning. Myjob is to try and give it a cautious
is to try and give it a cautious central view.
is to try and give it a cautious centralview. It
is to try and give it a cautious central view. It could be slower,
central view. It could be slower, but it could be faster. I see a
but it could be faster. I see a future which is less risky than it
future which is lass risky than it is at the
future which is less risky than it is at the moment and it is less
is at the moment and it is lass risky now
is at the moment and it is less risky now than it was six months or
risky now than it was six months or a year ago. You foresee a situation
a year ago. You foresee a situation where we will be learning to live
where we will be learning to live with Covid—19 as we do with
with Covid—19 as we do with influenza and that is the longer
inﬂuenza and that is the longer term plan?
influenza and that is the longer term plan? That is how we have dealt
term plan? That is how we have dealt with every single major infectious
with every single major infectious disease. Historically, one of the
disease. Historically, one of the things medical science has been most
things medical science has been most effective act is every time it has
effective act is every time it has been fazed by a major infectious
been fazed by a major infectious threat, we have found a counter
threat, we have found a counter measure, including ones came from
measure, including ones came from really... The last big pandemic, was
really... The last big pandemic, was very different, we have
very different, we have countermeasures to that. The future
countermeasures to that. The future in the long run, it is not going to
in the long run, it is not going to go away as a problem, some years it
go away as a problam, some years it will be a big
go away as a problem, some years it will be a big problem, the way I
will be a big problam, the way I would
will be a big problem, the way I would see this with Covid—19 at the
would see this with Covid-19 at the moment,
would see this with Covid—19 at the moment, this is like a hairpin bend
moment, this is like a hairpin bend that has been put on our way. We
that has been put on our way. We were cruising along and that got
were cruising along and that got slowed right down and we had to go
slowed right down and we had to go rent it and now we have to get back
rent it and now we have to get back on track with the booster. We can
on track with the booster. We can accelerate out again. We hope it
accelerate out again. We hope it will get less and less necessary
will get less and less necessary as medical countermeasures mount up. I
medical countermeasures mount up. I want to ask some questions about
want to ask some questions about pressures on social care given the
pressures on social rare given the link to
pressures on social care given the link to NHS capacity. Amanda
link to NHS capacity. Amanda Prichard wrote to NHS leaders to
Prichard wrote to NHS leaders to encourage discharge from hospital by
encourage discharge from hospital by avoiding the need for social care
avoiding the need for social rare support with
avoiding the need for social care support with personal budgets and
support with personal budgets and hotel beds. The report of whole
hotel beds. The report of whole hotels being turned into temporary
hotels being turned into temporary rare
hotels being turned into temporary care have horrified groups. Hotels
rare have horrified groups. Hotels are not
care have horrified groups. Hotels are not configured to deliver care
are not configured to deliver rare and question
are not configured to deliver care and question the safety and
and question the safety and well—being of residents if they need
well-being of residents if they need urgent
well—being of residents if they need urgent medical assistance. Do you
urgent medical assistance. Do you think people can be cared for safely
think peopla ran be cared for safely in
think people ran be cared for safely in hotels
think people can be cared for safely in hotels and assess the
in hotels and assess the proportionate measure to take in the
proportionate measure to take in the context? I want to start by saying
context? I want to start by saying that I am not responsible for the
that I am not responsible for the operational side and I do not want
operational side and I do not want to start making out NHS policy. You
to start making out NHS policy. You have a situation where as with all
have a situation where as with all emergencies, you are doing the least
emergencies, you are doing the least bad thing that you can do which are
bad thing that you ran do which are still going to
bad thing that you can do which are still going to be far from perfect.
still going to be far from perfect. Many of the decisions we have taken
Many of the decisions we have taken in the health service and care
in the health service and rare system had
in the health service and care system had been way... Things we
system had been way... Things we would never want to do under
would never want to do under ordinary circumstances. But they are
ordinary circumstances. But they are lass
ordinary circumstances. But they are less bad than the alternative and if
less had than the alternative and if the
less bad than the alternative and if the alternative is a situation where
the alternative is a situation where people are stuck in hospitals and
peopla are stuck in hospitals and exposed to
people are stuck in hospitals and exposed to risks and the hospitals
exposed to risks and the hospitals as a result with people who could be
as a result with peopla who could be medically
as a result with people who could be medically discharged, people are
medically discharged, peopla are cute in
medically discharged, people are cute in ambulances outside with life
cute in ambulances outside with life receivable —— life threatening
receivable —— life threatening conditions, that is clearly even
conditions, that is dearty even worse
conditions, that is clearly even worse than any of the alternatives.
worse than any of the alternatives. No one would see this a perfect
No one would see this a perfect solution. It is a situation... There
solution. It is a situation... There are some peopla
solution. It is a situation... There are some people who can be cared for
are some peopla who ran be cared for any hotel
are some people who ran be cared for any hotel setting
are some people who can be cared for any hotel setting where it is a
any hotel setting where it is a matter of waiting for them to have a
matter of waiting for them to have a placement. For
matter of waiting for them to have a placement. Forsome
matter of waiting for them to have a placement. For some people,
matter of waiting for them to have a placement. Forsome people, it
matter of waiting for them to have a placement. For some people, it is
placement. For some peopla, it is fine. The
placement. For some people, it is fine. The colour clinician has to
fine. The colour clinician has to make sure as best they can that the
make sure as best they ran that the people who are
make sure as best they can that the people who are least at risk are the
people who are least at risk are the ones who end up going into hotels
ones who and up going into hotels are
ones who end up going into hotels are similar kinds of things and the
are similar kinds of things and the ones who are more at risk stay in
ones who are more at risk stay in hospital until such time as
hospital until such time as they have a placement to which they can
have a placement to which they ran move to.
have a placement to which they can move to. This is a matter of the
move to. This is a matter of the perfect being the enemy of the good.
perfect being the enemy of the good. We have to accept it is a very
We have to accept it is a very difficult period and was always
difficult period and was always going to be difficult and Omicron
going to be difficult and Omicron has made it more difficult, and we
has made it more difficult, and we will end up with some compromises
will end up with some compromises which are not things we would
which are not things we would normally wish to do. You are
normally wish to do. You are watching the Chief Medical Officer.
watching the Chief Medical Officer. We are going to say goodbye to
We are going to say goodbye to viewers on BBC world. We said at the
viewers on BBC world. We said at the point of the enquiry there were a
point of the enquiry there were a lot of things we had learnt and we
lot of things we had learnt and we said none of us would look back and
said none of us would look back and see the ideal advice was given. How
see the ideal advice was given. How do you think the mistakes of last
do you think the mistakes of last year’s discharge policy can be
year’s discharge policy can be avoided this time around and who is
avoided this time around and who is advising ministers on the care
advising ministers on the rare sector
advising ministers on the care sector and save the charge because
sector and save the charge because the advice was not very good last
the advice was not very good last year two I need to draw a
year two I need to draw a distinction between the discharge
distinction between the discharge policy which was more complicated
policy which was more complicated than was portrayed in was not what I
than was portrayed in was not what I was talking about. The discharge
was talking about. The discharge policy was in many situations a
policy was in many situations a safe policy, but I’ll have to come back
policy, but I’ll have to come back to that. It is an old debate. I
to that. It is an old debate. I think we are looking forward to a
think we are looking forward to a new set of threats. Not repeating
new set of threats. Not repeating the mistakes made before. There were
the mistakes made before. There were several mistakes that we made, I’ll
several mistakes that we made, I’ll give it a couple of examples which
give it a couple of examples which we are not doing now. The first
we are not doing now. The first mistake was I do not think we were
mistake was I do not think we were fast enough on cutting down on
fast enough on cutting down on peopla
fast enough on cutting down on people working between care settings
people working between rare settings rather
people working between care settings rather than staying in one
rather than staying in one particular one, that was essential,
particular one, that was essential, we did not spot the effects of
we did not spot the effects of people not having adequate sick pay,
peopla not having adequate sick pay, which
people not having adequate sick pay, which was an obvious point, when you
which was an obvious point, when you see it, we had not seen how much
see it, we had not seen how much that was driving things. There were
that was driving things. There were several others which we need to come
several others which we need to come back to. In my view, we have not
back to. In my view, we have not repeated those mistakes this time
repeated those mistakes this time round. We have learnt a lot from
round. We have learnt a lot from Pugh previous events. The most
Pugh previous events. The most difficult situation with Omicron is
difficult situation with Omicron is how to balance the needs to allow
how to balance the needs to allow families and very close friends to
families and very close friends to see people in care, particularly in
see peopla in rare, particularty in elderty rare, to
see people in care, particularly in elderly care, to reduce the risk of
elderty rare, to reduce the risk of the
elderly care, to reduce the risk of the infectious infection getting an
the infectious infection getting an in particular before people had a
in particular before people had a booster and their immune system
booster and their immune system responding. It is a trade—off. We do
responding. It is a trade-off. We do not want
responding. It is a trade—off. We do not want people over the Christmas
not want peopla over the Christmas period
not want people over the Christmas period being left alone but we do
period being left alone but we do not want outbreaks we can avoid and
not want outbreaks we ran avoid and we are
not want outbreaks we can avoid and we are navigating a route between
we are navigating a route between those two clear needs. That is the
those two dear needs. That is the most
those two clear needs. That is the most difficult decision at this
most difficult decision at this point in time. Talking about
point in time. Talking about capacity, I do not know how you are
capacity, I do not know how you are aware of the workforce crisis, but
aware of the workforce crisis, but using... Relies on staff being
using... Relies on staff being avoided as personal assistance to
avoided as personal assistance to take on the care. The current
take on the rare. The current situation
take on the care. The current situation is being described as the
situation is being described as the biggest recruitment crisis and
biggest recmitment crisis and social
biggest recruitment crisis and social care that anyone can
social care that anyone can remember. Not only that, care
remember. Not only that, rare providers are
remember. Not only that, care providers are reporting that
providers are reporting that government funding allocated for the
government funding allocated for the recruitment crisis is not making its
recmitment crisis is not making its “Y
recmitment crisis is not making its way past [oral
recruitment crisis is not making its way past local authorities to them.
way past [oral authorities to them. Take any
way past local authorities to them. Take any temperature on that and it
Take any temperature on that and it is very difficult. Do you think the
is very difficult. Do you think the limited capacity and workforce
limited capacity and workforce issues will limit how many patients
issues will limit how many patients ran
issues will limit how many patients can leave hospital beds and go into
ran leave hospital beds and go into the
can leave hospital beds and go into the community and do we need to
the community and do we need to think about what measures need to be
think about what measures need to be taken to deal with that if it is the
taken to deal with that if it is the use
taken to deal with that if it is the case because it seems to me that
rase because it seems to me that this week,
case because it seems to me that this week, that is the case. I have
this week, that is the rase. I have to be
this week, that is the case. I have to be careful. My
this week, that is the case. I have to be careful. Myjob is to answer
to be careful. Myjob is to answer questions that only a doctor can
questions that only a doctor ran answer,
questions that only a doctor can answer, that is not a doctor
answer, that is not a doctor question. I will give an answer as
question. I will give an answer as it is important to manage the
it is important to manage the situation. There is a very serious
situation. There is a very serious issue with recruitment and social
issue with recmitment and social rare, that is
issue with recruitment and social care, that is widely accepted. The
care, that is widely accepted. The difficulties with the social care
difficulties with the social rare system are
difficulties with the social care system are long—standing, over many
system are long-standing, over many 79575-
system are long-standing, over many years, this goes
system are long—standing, over many years, this goes back over several
years, this goes back over several administrations, this is not a
administrations, this is not a problem for now, it is a long—term
problem for now, it is a long-term issue.
problem for now, it is a long—term issue. There have been several
issue. There have been several reasons, serious attempts to look at
reasons, serious attempts to look at what we can do to improve the
what we ran do to improve the situation
what we can do to improve the situation and social care. I am not
situation and social rare. I am not the right person
situation and social care. I am not the right person to give review on
the right person to give review on that, but
the right person to give review on that, butl
the right person to give review on that, but I am acknowledging the
that, but I am acknowladging the question is a
that, but I am acknowledging the question is a sensible question, but
question is a sensible question, but I am not the right to answer it. You
I am not the right to answer it. You will know this week there has been a
will know this week there has been a debate about the introduction of
debate about the introduction of plan B measures. Many people voted,
plan B measures. Many people voted, myself included, based on data and
myself included, based on data and insights and predictions given by
insights and predictions given by yourself and other colleagues. Can I
yourself and other colleagues. (“an I ask you a few
yourself and other colleagues. Can I ask you a few questions on some of
ask you a few questions on some of that data and some of the questions
that data and some of the questions I have heard since that time. One is
I have heard since that time. One is if you could share the positive
if you could share the positive rases
if you could share the positive cases and the trend is becoming more
rases and the trend is becoming more public? On
cases and the trend is becoming more public? On positive test versus test
public? On positive test versus test reported, this is a UK issue. We put
reported, this is a UK issue. We put the statistics under regular regular
the statistis under regular regular basis, the
the statistics under regular regular basis, the number of tests positive.
basis, the number of tests positive. One testing channel versus on—site
One testing channel versus on-site testing versus
One testing channel versus on—site testing versus adult social care and
testing versus adult social rare and lateral
testing versus adult social care and lateral flow. We can see there is a
lateral ﬂow. We ran see there is a big variation in
lateral flow. We can see there is a big variation in those. Walk and
big variation in those. Walk and testing has highest test positivity
testing has highest test positivity because these people are
because these people are symptomatic. Adult social care has
symptomatic. Adult social rare has low positivity
symptomatic. Adult social care has low positivity because we are
low positivity because we are testing people who are well
testing peopla who are well regularty
testing people who are well regularly and repeatedly to avoid
regularly and repeatedly to avoid infection is coming in. That data is
infection is coming in. That data is on a weekly basis and forms part of
on a weekly basis and forms part of the traditional NHS Test and Trace
the traditional NHS Test and Trace statistics. We report the number of
statistic. We report the number of test
statistics. We report the number of test performed on a daily basis on
test performed on a daily basis on the coronavirus
One of the comments I have heard it One of the comments I have heard it is because we are now addressing
is because we are now addressing children age to age five, the
children age to age five, the chances of having a higher rate of
chances of having a higher rate of infections is going to go up because
infections is going to go up because a sample data is higher. Is that a
a sampla data is higher. Is that a fair thing to say
a sample data is higher. Is that a fair thing to say or is it skewing
fair thing to say or is it skewing the data? We release on our weekly
the data? We release on our weekly report age testing rate and also
report age testing rate and also other Liberty rates by children of
other Liberty rates by children of all age groups. We have always
all age groups. We have always tested young children who have had
tested young children who have had symptomatic disease. The only change
symptomatic disease. The only change in the advice that has come out this
in the advice that has come out this week is a daily testing if you are
week is a daily testing if you are in contact will go down to children
in contact will go down to children as young as five to reduce
as young as five to reduce transmissions in schools. In terms
transmissions in schools. In terms of... One of the other comments I
of... One of the other comments I have heard is that people are
have heard is that people are concerned that we are prioritising
concerned that we are prioritising Covid—19 over other things,
Covid-19 over other things, especially
Covid—19 over other things, especially with the Omicron variant.
especially with the Omicron variant. Covid-19
especially with the Omicron variant. Covid—19 over cancer, Covid—19 over
Covid-19 over cancer, Covid-19 over other
Covid—19 over cancer, Covid—19 over other serious issues. What would you
other serious issues. what would you say to that? I
other serious issues. What would you say to that? I think this is
say to that? I think this is sometimes said by people who have no
sometimes said by people who have no understanding of help at all but I
understanding of help at all but I don’t think it is serious. When they
don’t think it is serious. when they say it, it is
don’t think it is serious. When they say it, it is usually because they
say it, it is usually because they want to make a political point. The
want to make a political point. The reality is, if you ask any doctor
reality is, if you ask any doctor any part of the system they will say
any part of the system they will say this, what is threatening our
this, what is threatening our ability to do cancer, all these
ability to do cancer, all these things is the fact that so much of
things is the fact that so much of the NHS effort, so many beds are
the NHS effort, so many beds are having to be put over to Covid—19
having to be put over to Covid-19 and we
having to be put over to Covid—19 and we are having to work in a less
and we are having to work in a less efficient way because Covid—19 is
efficient way because Covid-19 is air. The
efficient way because Covid—19 is air. The finding a way to manage it
air. The finding a way to manage it which minimises the impact is
which minimises the impact is essential to what we’re trying to
essential to what we’re trying to and I completely agree there are
and I completely agree there are multiple other things in addition to
multiple other things in addition to Covid-19,
multiple other things in addition to Covid—19, but when we have big waves
Covid-19, but when we have big waves as we have
Covid—19, but when we have big waves as we have now, we can do huge
as we have now, we ran do huge damage
as we have now, we can do huge damage elsewhere. It is a complete
damage elsewhere. It is a complete inversion of reality. We have not
inversion of reality. We have not had the lock downs, the whole system
had the lock downs, the whole system would have been in deep trouble and
would have been in deep trouble and the impact on things like heart
the impact on things like heart attacks and strokes must still come
attacks and strokes must still come forward for would have been even
forward for would have been even worse than it was. I want to make it
worse than it was. I want to make it absolutely dear
worse than it was. I want to make it absolutely clear that is an
absolutely clear that is an inversion of reality. Last question.
inversion of reality. Last question. I know one of the concerns is about
I know one of the concerns is about Omicron and the impact on children.
Omicron and the impact on children. Have you got any more evidence about
Have you got any more evidence about what impact they could be that is
what impact they could be that is different from the Delta variant?
different from the Delta variant? That is important. Initially, some
That is important. Initially, some of the South African data did imply
of the South African data did imply that there might be a slight
that there might be a slight increase in the number of children
increase in the number of children getting it compared to previous
getting it compared to previous ways. Still nothing like many of the
ways. Still nothing like many of the other infections. As data has gone
other infections. As data has gone on in South Africa and, for what it
on in South Africa and, for what it is worth, in the UK, we not that
is worth, in the UK, we not that develop. So
is worth, in the UK, we not that develop. Sol
is worth, in the UK, we not that develop. So I see at the moment my
develop. So I see at the moment my view is that it is too early to be
view is that it is too earty to be sure but I
view is that it is too early to be sure but I don’t think anything is
sure but I don’t think anything is saying we should change our advice
saying we should change our advice in terms of relative risks for
in terms of relative risks for children. The total number of people
children. The total number of people infected will go up, so a lot of
infected will go up, so a lot of children will get it and a very
children will get it and a very small number, hopefully, we’ll get
small number, hopefully, we’ll get into trouble because of it. It is
into troubla because of it. It is not a
into trouble because of it. It is not a trivial disease but we still
not a trivial disease but we still stick to the view it is much milder
stick to the view it is much milder in children than in older adults.
in children than in older adults. I’ve got two topics. One is pregnant
I’ve got two topic. One is pregnant women
I’ve got two topics. One is pregnant women and new variants. I will get
women and new variants. I will get started. In August only 22.2% of
started. In August only 22.296 of pregnant
started. In August only 22.2% of pregnant women were vaccinated, yet
pregnant women were vaccinated, yet one in six of the most critically
one in six of the most critically ill patients are unvaccinated
ill patients are unvaccinated pregnant women. What should the
pregnant women. what should the government
pregnant women. What should the government he doing to increase the
government he doing to increase the take-up and
government he doing to increase the take—up and what it mistake to... On
take-up and what it mistake to... On the first one, I
take—up and what it mistake to... On the first one, I completely agree
the first one, I completely agree and the uptake of vaccination in
and the uptake of vaccination in pregnant women is depressingly low.
pregnant women is depressingly low. As you say, significant numbers of
As you say, significant numbers of women come to serious harm. Almost
women come to serious harm. Almost all of the women in hospital where
all of the women in hospital where in I see you with this are people
in I see you with this are peopla who have
in I see you with this are people who have not been vaccinated. So
who have not been vaccinated. So vaccination protects pregnant women.
vaccination protects pregnant women. We really should have made that
We really should have made that point even clearer earlier on. It is
point even dearer eartier on. It is a medical
point even clearer earlier on. It is a medical profession point. People
a medical profession point. People like me have said it, obstetricians
like me have said it, obstetricians have said it. I’ve said it several
have said it. I’ve said it several times publicly. I have heard... We
times publicly. I have heard... We have all tried to fade very
have all tried to fade very strongly. There are a lot of myths.
strongly. There are a lot of myths. We need to say that it is not true
We need to say that it is not tme there are
We need to say that it is not true there are increased risks with this
there are increased risks with this vaccine but it is true that Covid—19
vaccine but it is tme that Covid-19 and pregnancy
vaccine but it is true that Covid—19 and pregnancy is a dangerous
and pregnancy is a dangerous combination we should encourage
combination we should encourage everyone who is pregnant to get
everyone who is pregnant to get vaccinated because that helps
vaccinated because that helps protect them and that in the long
protect them and that in the long mn
protect them and that in the long nm is in
protect them and that in the long run is in the interest of the baby
nm is in the interest of the baby and their
run is in the interest of the baby and their future.
run is in the interest of the baby and theirfuture. So
run is in the interest of the baby and theirfuture. Sol
run is in the interest of the baby and their future. So I absolutely
and their future. So I absolutely agree it is a serious problem and
agree it is a serious problem and everybody should be doing it. In
everybody should be doing it. In terms of change of emphasis, I think
terms of change of emphasis, I think they are looking at this and I
they are looking at this and I hope they will give an answer on
they will give an answer on that really soon. Thank you it is quite
really soon. Thank you it is quite shocking given the statistics on
shocking given the statistis on what you
shocking given the statistics on what you have just said about the
what you have just said about the importance of women getting
importance of women getting vaccinated, pregnant women, that
vaccinated, pregnant women, that they had a prioritised pregnant
they had a prioritised pregnant women sooner. I
they had a prioritised pregnant women sooner. Ijust
they had a prioritised pregnant women sooner. I just wanted
they had a prioritised pregnant women sooner. Ijust wanted to break
women sooner. Ijust wanted to break down a little bit further, the 22%
down a little bit further, the 2296 is shockingly
down a little bit further, the 22% is shockingly low and even lower
is shockingly low and even lower when you look at ethnicity. Is there
when you look at ethnicity. Is there any plans to prioritise an education
any plans to prioritise an education programme and what is going to be
programme and what is going to be done to increase at low
done to increase at low vaccination rate for pregnant women as a whole?
rate for pregnant women as a whole? Are there any plans in the pipeline?
Are there any plans in the pipeline? There is a really strong
There is a really strong communications push. I have seen a
communications push. I have seen a lot of activity on this. There are
lot of activity on this. There are two things intersecting on this.
two things intersecting on this. There is a strong communications
There is a strong communications push to make sure that we are much
push to make sure that we are much more focused in making sure we get
more focused in making sure we get over off messages on vaccination
over off messages on vaccination through to people from every
through to peopla from every community
through to people from every community in the UK, including
community in the UK, including ethnic minority communities, and
ethnic minority communities, and that is essential. It is getting
that is essential. It is getting better overall, but it is nowhere
better overall, but it is nowhere near as good as it should be. There
near as good as it should be. There is a separate thing and pregnancy.
is a separate thing and pregnancy. within
is a separate thing and pregnancy. Within that, there is a separate
within that, there is a separate thing on
Within that, there is a separate thing on pregnancy in ethnic
thing on pregnancy in ethnic minority groups. I know individual
minority groups. I know individual practitioners as well as particular
practitioners as well as particular places where there are high
places where there are high concentrations of an ethnic minority
concentrations of an ethnic minority EWUPS
concentrations of an ethnic minority groups are doing everything they can
groups are doing everything they ran to get this
groups are doing everything they can to get this message home that
to get this message home that vaccination in pregnancy is really
vaccination in pregnancy is really important, that the safety of mum
important, that the safety of mum and for the long—term safety and
and for the long—term safety and benefits of baby as well. With the
benefits of baby as well. with the spread of
benefits of baby as well. With the spread of Omicron, do you think
spread of Omicron, do you think pregnant women should be better
pregnant women should be better supported to work from home all
supported to work from home all stay-at-home
supported to work from home all stay—at—home and financially
stay-at-home and financially supported
stay—at—home and financially supported if they cannot work from
supported if they cannot work from home? I think I will revert back to
home? I think I will revert back to a point I made earlier, that is not
a point I made eartier, that is not a medical
a point I made earlier, that is not a medical question that I have
a medical question that I have particular expertise to say, except
particular expertise to say, except the general point that I want
the general point that I want pregnant women to be supported
pregnant women to be supported medically very strongly, and the
medically very strongly, and the most important thing is vaccination.
most important thing is vaccination. I will move on to new variants. It
I will move on to new variants. It is time to move on from focusing on
is time to move on from focusing on just our national vaccine statistics
just our national vaccine statistis and
just our national vaccine statistics and more towards a global
and more towards a global vaccination rates, regarding the
vaccination rates, regarding the slowing spread of new variants. I
slowing spread of new variants. I think I very strongly believe and I
think I very strongly believe and I am very confident that everybody,
am very confident that everybody, both my fellow panellists and the
both my fellow panellists and the committee believes, that we should
committee believes, that we should be maximising the number of
be maximising the number of vaccinations available in lower
vaccinations available in lower income countries. That is a
income countries. That is a humanitarian need, a need as fellow
humanitarian need, a need as fellow global citizens and it is in our
global citizens and it is in our self—interest as well because it is
self-interest as well because it is a problem for
self—interest as well because it is a problem for everybody. There is
a problem for everybody. There is absolutely nothing to be lost and
absolutely nothing to be lost and everything to be gained. Let me put
everything to be gained. Let me put a boat on that. The biggest but is
a boat on that. The biggest but is that in Africa and parts of Asia
that in Africa and parts of Asia where I worked in my early career,
where I worked in my earty career, there are good
where I worked in my early career, there are good vaccination system is
there are good vaccination system is vaccinating children under five
there are good vaccination system is vaccinating children underfive but
vaccinating children under five but there is
vaccinating children underfive but there is not a system designed for
there is not a system designed for vaccinating older adults who are
vaccinating older adults who are really the biggest priority in the
really the biggest priority in the world. And that is something that we
world. And that is something that we can’t just say,
world. And that is something that we can’tjust say, here is a crate of
can’t just say, here is a crate of vaccines
can’tjust say, here is a crate of vaccines come off you go, we have to
vaccines come off you go, we have to look at the delivery system. We need
look at the delivery system. We need to see this as a whole system
to see this as a whola system problam,
to see this as a whole system problem, not
to see this as a whole system problem, notjust of a product
problam, not just of a product problem. But
problem, notjust of a product problem. But I do basically agree
problem. But I do basically agree with what you are saying. I don’t
with what you are saying. I don’t think that’s controversial. I think
think that’s controversial. I think everybody would agree. A couple of
everybody would agree. A couple of context setting questions. What are
context setting questions. what are the
context setting questions. What are the current R value. The overall R
the current R value. The overall R value reported last week is between
value reported last week is between one and 1.2. However, it should be
one and 1.2. However, it should be noticed that there are two current
noticed that there are two current variants, Delta which is relatively
variants, Delta which is relatively stable, and Omicron which is
stable, and Omicron which is increasing very rapidly. And with a
increasing very rapidly. And with a doubUng
increasing very rapidly. And with a doubling time of every two days for
doubling time of every two days for Omicron is estimated to be much
Omicron is estimated to be much higher. Very broad estimates between
higher. Very broad estimates between three and five at the moment. What
three and five at the moment. what is
three and five at the moment. What is absolute risk to those vaccinated
is absolute risk to those vaccinated and unvaccinated of the Delta
and unvaccinated of the Delta variant? What do you mean? What is a
variant? what do you mean? what is a risk of mortality
variant? What do you mean? What is a risk of mortality for those who have
risk of mortality for those who have Delta versus... The vaccinated risk
Delta versus... The vaccinated risk of Delta is reduces that risk of
of Delta is reduces that risk of death by 1990 95%. The absolute
death by1990 9596. The absolute risk. If you
death by 1990 95%. The absolute risk. If you are under the age of A0
risk. If you are under the age of 40 it is extremely
risk. If you are under the age of A0 it is extremely low. Lesson one in
it is extremely low. Lesson one in 10,000. 50 the risk varies with age
10,000. So the risk varies with age and
10,000. 50 the risk varies with age and vaccine is the key to reducing
and vaccine is the key to reducing risk. Very important to get
risk. Very important to get vaccinated. Do we know the relative
vaccinated. Do we know the relative risk of Omicron with regards to
risk of Omicron with regards to vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
vaccinated and unvaccinated peopla. Not for
vaccinated and unvaccinated people. Not for severity of mortality. We do
Not for severity of mortality. We do know that the vaccine effectiveness
know that the vaccine effectiveness is lower for Omicron than it is for
is lower for Omicron than it is for Delta stop after two doses of five
Delta stop after two doses of five to vaccine, for example, at eight
to vaccine, for example, at eight weeks, more than eight weeks I take
weeks, more than eight weeks I take your vaccine effectiveness is about
your vaccine effectiveness is about 401:
your vaccine effectiveness is about 40% and once you’ve got boosters,
4096 and once you’ve got boosters, that goes up to
40% and once you’ve got boosters, that goes up to about 75% for
that goes up to about 75% for Omicron. Really helpful to get the
Omicron. Really helpful to get the context and why their boosters are
context and why their boosters are so important. You talked at the
so important. You talked at the start in the very first pandemic
start in the very first pandemic about how the whole plan is a
about how the whola plan is a population
about how the whole plan is a population risk reduction. Washing
population risk reduction. Washing your hands is easy to implement.
your hands is easy to implement. Mask wearing a cynic stubble. Do you
Mask wearing a cynic stubble. Do you have a strategy on each of those
have a strategy on each of those implementations regarding how much
implamentations regarding how much risk it
implementations regarding how much risk it reduces? Do we know hand
risk it reduces? Do we know hand washing reduces by, say, 10%, mask
washing reduces by, say, 1096, mask wearing 596? No
washing reduces by, say, 10%, mask wearing 5%? No and the problem is
wearing 596? No and the problem is there are
wearing 5%? No and the problem is there are lots of numbers bandied
there are lots of numbers bandied about. The problem is what you have
about. The problem is what you have is different combinations of things
is different combinations of things you ran do,
is different combinations of things you can do, each one interact
you ran do, each one interact differently
you can do, each one interact differently with the others. If you
differently with the others. If you just take it in isolation, you would
just take it in isolation, you would never say randomise one group to
never say randomise one group to have a face mask, another group...
have a face mask, another group... What
have a face mask, another group... what you would
have a face mask, another group... What you would say in reality is due
what you would say in reality is due to the
What you would say in reality is due to the whole lot because they build
to the whole lot because they build on each other. Hand washing is about
on each other. Hand washing is about things you might pick up by touching
things you might pick up by touching because someone is coughed on a
because someone is coughed on a table. Where is opening windows is
tabla. where is opening windows is particularty
table. Where is opening windows is particularly important for anything
particularty important for anything that is
particularly important for anything that is aerosol. What we would all
that is aerosol. what we would all say is all of
that is aerosol. What we would all say is all of these are more impact
say is all of these are more impact of things incrementally, but if you
of things incrementally, but if you put them all together, much larger.
put them all together, much larger. But do all of them because they help
But do all of them because they help to protect you against different
to protect you against different elements of the risk which
elements of the risk which surrounding you. Aerosols, etc. You
surrounding you. Aerosols, etc. You are beating me to wait, because I
are beating me to wait, because I know it is for the ministers and the
know it is for the ministers and the Prime Minister to decide what to do,
Prime Minister to decide what to do, but how is a data presented over
but how is a data presented over which combination you put in place?
which combination you put in place? For example, we could have chosen to
For example, we could have chosen to have the rule of six return, we
have the ml; of six return, we could
have the rule of six return, we could have gone into tears again, we
could have gone into tears again, we could have actually closed clubs of
could have actually dosed clubs of pubs. How
could have actually closed clubs of pubs. How was it decided which
pubs. How was it decided which constellation comes together? I
constellation comes together? I think, in a sense, I will simplify
think, in a sense, I will simplify something very complicated for
something very complicated for ministers, but the first layer is
ministers, but the first layer is what ran
ministers, but the first layer is what can we do that have no obvious
what ran we do that have no obvious downside
what can we do that have no obvious downside socially and economically.
downside socially and economically. Saying wash your hands, put on a
Saying wash your hands, put on a facemask, open the windows has no
facemask, open the windows has no downsides. Can we get through this
downsides. (“an we get through this just with
downsides. Can we get through this just with those? Then there are some
just with those? Then there are some things which have a bit more impact
things which have a bit more impact socially and economically and we
socially and economically and we have to take a view on that. The
have to take a view on that. The next level up is clearly things like
next level up is clearly things like advising working from home as the
advising working from home as the government has done. It is not in
government has done. It is not in law but it is in guidance. And
law but it is in guidance. And things like you must wear a facemask
things like you must wear a facemask rather than we would really like you
rather than we would really like you too. And then obviously you go up a
too. And then obviously you go up a ladder of intervention, each step up
ladder of intervention, each step up the ladder adds some protection but
the ladder adds some protection but as you go up the impact on society
as you go up the impact on society and the economy gets greater. The
and the economy gets greater. The difficult decision for ministers is
difficult decision for ministers is how far up that letter should they
how far up that letter should they decide to go. And that is the way I
decide to go. And that is the way I would... Now we have the context
would... Now we have the context white vaccines are so important, the
white vaccines are so important, the “Y
white vaccines are so important, the way in which you can deal with it
way in which you ran deal with it for the general
way in which you can deal with it for the general population. One of
for the general population. One of the biggest problems facing us in
the biggest problems facing us in the future is a fact that there are
the future is a fact that there are about 10% of the population
about 1096 of the population who currently
about 10% of the population who currently unvaccinated in the
currently unvaccinated in the current first vaccine rate is about
current first vaccine rate is about 20,000, 22,000 over a seven day
20,000, 22,000 over a seven day average. So we
20,000, 22,000 over a seven day average. 50 we have a problem in
average. So we have a problem in society. How do
average. 50 we have a problem in society. How do we deal with the 10%
society. How do we deal with the 1096 or 596 or
society. How do we deal with the 10% or 5% or whatever it turns out to be
or 596 or whatever it turns out to be a peopla who
or 5% or whatever it turns out to be a people who won’t get vaccinated,
a people who won’t get vaccinated, given all the contacts you given to
given all the contacts you given to all the other questions and now we
all the other questions and now we know about the importance of the
know about the importance of the vaccine. But for those five or 10%,
vaccine. But for those five or 1096, medically
vaccine. But for those five or 10%, medically what is your response of
medically what is your response of how we can deal with them? What are
how we ran deal with them? what are the options he
how we can deal with them? What are the options he would present in
the options he would present in front of government? I think there
front of government? I think there is a very small number of people and
is a very small number of peopla and very
is a very small number of people and very noisy, but very small, who have
very noisy, but very small, who have weird conspiracy theories who say
weird conspiracy theories who say not to get vaccinated. Except where
not to get vaccinated. Except where they work where there are a lot of
they work where there are a lot of vulnerable people, the view of
vulnerable people, the view of government is fine, you have to
government is fine, you have to accept that. But the 10%, a large
accept that. But the 1096, a large proportion
accept that. But the 10%, a large proportionjust
accept that. But the 10%, a large proportion just haven’t got round to
proportion just haven’t got round to it. And that is the people you are
it. And that is the peopla you are addressing.
it. And that is the people you are addressing. We have to make sure it
addressing. We have to make sure it is culturally relevant as well. Not
is culturally relevant as well. Not just ethnically, but every bit in
just ethnically, but every bit in society feel we are talking directly
society feel we are talking directly to them in a comfortable way and
to them in a comfortable way and trusting of. They want to note that
trusting of. They want to note that the disease is a big enough threat
the disease is a big enough threat it is worth doing anything at all.
it is worth doing anything at all. Secondly, they want to know that the
Secondly, they want to know that the vaccines actually work and on both
vaccines actually work and on both of those we have incredibly good
of those we have incredibly good evidence. We know this is a big
evidence. We know this is a big threat and we’d know that vaccines
threat and we’d know that vaccines do work. The third thing is they
do work. The third thing is they would want to know that the
would want to know that the side—effects out within,
side—effects out within, proportionate to the benefit that
proportionate to the benefit that the vaccine is giving them. That
the vaccine is giving them. That when we have to keep on coming up on
when we have to keep on coming up on the Sarah huge numbers of myths out
the Sarah huge numbers of myths out there. These are not people who are
there. These are not people who are anti-waxes,
there. These are not people who are anti—waxes, but the people who
anti-waxes, but the people who believe
anti—waxes, but the people who believe them, they have read
believe them, they have read something on the internet and they
something on the internet and they are worried and they need serious
are worried and they need serious information put it in. We need to
information put it in. We need to make it convenient. It makes a big
make it convenient. It makes a big difference. I
make it convenient. It makes a big difference. Ifound it very
make it convenient. It makes a big difference. I found it very striking
difference. I found it very striking when I was last there, on the wards,
when I was last there, on the wards, that the people who had not
that the peopla who had not vaccines,
that the people who had not vaccines, an awful lot of them said
vaccines, an awful lot of them said I haven’t got round to it yet. It
I haven’t got round to it yet. It wasn’t that they weren’t believed
wasn’t that they weren’t believed all sorts of nonsense. But the great
all sorts of nonsense. But the great majority was, I haven’t got round to
majority was, I haven’t got round to it yet. And it is a combination of
it yet. And it is a combination of making sure are corrected politely
making sure are corrected politely and scientifically addressed and
and scientifically addressed and make it convenient, and I hope this
make it convenient, and I hope this huge booster campaign also gives
huge booster campaign also gives people an opportunity to come back
peopla an opportunity to come back and get their
people an opportunity to come back and get their vaccine and now is a
and get their vaccine and now is a really good time to get my first
really good time to get my first second vaccine. My final question
second vaccine. My final question is, one thing we have agreed is to
is, one thing we have agreed is to suspend a 15 minute wait post
suspend a 15 minute wait post fighter vaccine for business. Are
fighter vaccine for business. Are there any other things you are
there any other things you are looking at, given how important it
looking at, given how important it is to be convenient? What is a
is to be convenient? what is a government
is to be convenient? What is a government doing practically from
government doing practically from the opposition that may well make a
the opposition that may well make a difference to making the booster
difference to making the booster programme as successful as possible?
programme as successful as possibla? You have
programme as successful as possible? You have touched on one of the key
You have touched on one of the key thing is that which is that by
thing is that which is that by suspending the 15 minute wait, we
suspending the 15 minute wait, we ran get an
suspending the 15 minute wait, we can get an awful lot more patience
ran get an awful lot more patience to any given
can get an awful lot more patience to any given clinic. That applies
to any given clinic. That applies not just of the very
to any given clinic. That applies notjust of the very large vaccine
not just of the very large vaccine centres, but
notjust of the very large vaccine centres, but also I had the
centres, but also I had the privilege of working some community
privilage of working some community pharmacies
privilege of working some community pharmacies and it makes a real
pharmacies and it makes a real difference there because there is
difference there because there is only a limited number of places
only a limited number of places where people can sit to wait. Not on
where peopla ran sit to wait. Not on the operational
where people can sit to wait. Not on the operational side, but there are
the operational side, but there are two key things. The first is opening
two key things. The first is opening extra very large booster centres. I
extra very large booster centres. I know Wembley will be open this
know Wembley will be open this weekend and Chelsea Stadium. Those
weekend and Chelsea Stadium. Those will help to get numbers up to
will help to get numbers up to get through. But next, and this is quite
through. But next, and this is quite important for the point that could
important for the point that could Chris whitty
important for the point that could Chris Whitty was making, much
Chris whitty was making, much smaller
Chris Whitty was making, much smaller convenient centres, places
smaller convenient centres, places and people trust. I work with a GP
and peopla tmst. I work with a GP in west
and people trust. I work with a GP in west London who opened a vaccine
in west London who opened a vaccine centre in a community centre as part
centre in a community centre as part of a mosque,
centre in a community centre as part ofa mosque, going
centre in a community centre as part of a mosque, going to places that
of a mosque, going to places that peopla trust
of a mosque, going to places that people trust and seen people who are
peopla trust and seen peopla who are community
people trust and seen people who are community leaders being part of the
community leaders being part of the planning of the vaccine programme at
planning of the vaccine programme at their community but also it helps to
their community but also it helps to increase the number of slots and the
increase the number of slots and the ability of people to be able to get
ability of peopla to be able to get to a
ability of people to be able to get to a centre that feels relevant to
to a centre that feels relevant to them. Professor
to a centre that feels relevant to them. Professorwhitty, I
to a centre that feels relevant to them. Professorwhitty, Iwant
to a centre that feels relevant to them. Professor Whitty, I want to go
them. Professor whitty, I want to go into some
them. Professor Whitty, I want to go into some more detail about the link
into some more detail about the link between case numbers and
between case numbers and hospitalisations. Obviously, with
hospitalisations. Obviously, with the vaccines we are broken that link
the vaccines we are broken that link to a large extent to cases and
to a large extent to cases and hospitalisations, so can you take a
hospitalisations, so ran you take a three way you
hospitalisations, so can you take a three way you think we are in terms
three way you think we are in terms of the percentage of
of the percentage of hospitalisations we expect from
hospitalisations we expect from Omicron and how that differs from
Omicron and how that differs from Delta? The very short version of
Delta? The very short version of that is that we don’t yet know,
that is that we don’t yet know, unfortunately. And I’m going to make
unfortunately. And I’m going to make an assumption which I think is safe
an assumption which I think is safe now that naturally Omicron is not
now that naturally Omicron is not more dangerous than Delta. It may be
more dangerous than Delta. It may be milder, it may be the same, we don’t
milder, it may be the same, we don’t know. This is before vaccination. If
know. This is before vaccination. If we compare where we were, let’s say
we compare where we were, let’s say with the last big wave, not the
with the last big wave, not the Delta but the one before that, the
Delta but the one before that, the infection hospitalisation rate of
infection hospitalisation rate of peopla 65
infection hospitalisation rate of people 65 or over, for that way
peopla 65 or over, for that way prior to the
people 65 or over, for that way prior to the vaccination programme
prior to the vaccination programme was about 22%. 22% of older people
was about 2296. 2296 of older peopla who got
was about 22%. 22% of older people who got infected but end up in
who got infected but and up in hospital.
who got infected but end up in hospital. After two doses and a big
hospital. After two doses and a big vaccination programme, that drops to
vaccination programme, that drops to 611.
vaccination programme, that drops to 696. So
vaccination programme, that drops to 6%. So 6% of people who were
6%. So 6% of people who were infected ended up in hospital over
infected ended up in hospital over 65. Much lower in younger people, to
65. Much lower in younger peopla, to be clear.
65. Much lower in younger people, to be clear. The question with Omicron
be clear. The question with Omicron is is it intrinsically milder? I
is is it intrinsically milder? I don’t think there is clear evidence
don’t think there is clear evidence that says it is at this point in
that says it is at this point in time. There are reports that lower
time. There are reports that lower hospitalisations in South Africa in
hospitalisations in South Africa in the last wait, but I’m not sure. It
the last wait, but I’m not sure. It may be, but we don’t know. And the
may be, but we don’t know. And the second question is, after you have
second question is, after you have had two doses of a vaccine and then
had two doses of a vaccine and then three doses with a booster, at what
three doses with a booster, at what percentage does it reduce its
percentage does it reduce its severity compared to what it would
severity compared to what it would have been? And if that is good as
have been? And if that is good as Delta? It is unlikely it will be
Delta? It is unlikely it will be better than Delta because it is less
better than Delta because it is less well matched, but if it is as good
well matched, but if it is as good as Delta, RSS and reduction in that
as Delta, RSS and reduction in that severity? And that it is a key
severity? And that it is a key question with what is going to
question with what is going to happen for the health service over
happen for the health service over the next period. 50 I think it is
the next period. So I think it is really critical
the next period. 50 I think it is really critical that we wait for
really critical that we wait for those data before we jump into Saint
those data before wejump into Saint this is
those data before we jump into Saint this is what is going to happen, but
this is what is going to happen, but the worst that would happen would be
the worst that would happen would be where we were back in the alpha wave
where we were back in the alpha wave eartier
where we were back in the alpha wave earlier this
where we were back in the alpha wave eartier this year.
where we were back in the alpha wave earlier this year. And I think the
eartier this year. And I think the top end of
earlier this year. And I think the top end of expectations would
top end of expectations would probably be for two vaccines to be
probably be for two vaccines to be where we are with a 6% for Delta,
where we are with a 696 for Delta, but it is
where we are with a 6% for Delta, but it is possible that with a boost
but it is possibla that with a boost we are
but it is possible that with a boost we are better off with Omicron than
we are better off with Omicron than we are with two vaccines with Delta
we are with two vaccines with Delta for severe disease. It is possible.
for severe disease. It is possible. But we honestly don’t know. The
But we honestly don’t know. The range of possibilities is really
range of possibilities is really quite wide and that is why it is
quite wide and that is why it is very difficult to make definitive
very difficult to make definitive views about where the NHS is going
views about where the NHS is going in the next four weeks. In this we
in the next four weeks. In this we have a significant change in terms
have a significant change in terms of hospitalisation rates, with a
of hospitalisation rates, with a type of numbers we are talking about
type of numbers we are talking about here with Omicron infections, we are
here with Omicron infections, we are looking at some very serious
looking at some very serious hospital admissions.
looking at some very serious hospitaladmissions. Is
looking at some very serious hospital admissions. Is it fair to
hospital admissions. Is it fair to say? Yes, I
hospital admissions. Is it fair to say? Yes, Ithink
hospital admissions. Is it fair to say? Yes, I think unless things...
say? Yes, I think unless things... The things we know about, most
The things we know about, most of them so far have not fallen our way.
them so far have not fallen our way. Lots of antibody changes, at least
Lots of antibody changes, at least one of the drugs we have lost. We
one of the drugs we have lost. We know that it was less effective on
know that it was less effective on infection. But some critical things
infection. But some critical things we don’t know, severity, we don’t
we don’t know, severity, we don’t know for sure. And on the effects of
know for sure. And on the effects of booster vaccines. We don’t know. If
booster vaccines. We don’t know. If they all fall our way, the numbers
they all fall our way, the numbers will be less concerning. If they
will be lass concerning. If they don’t, and
will be less concerning. If they don’t, and so far we have not been
don’t, and so far we have not been lucky in Covid-19,
don’t, and so far we have not been lucky in Covid—19, so
don’t, and so far we have not been lucky in Covid—19, sol
don’t, and so far we have not been lucky in Covid—19, so I think
lucky in Covid-19, so I think planning on
lucky in Covid—19, so I think planning on the basis they will, the
planning on the basis they will, the numbers out in hospital over a short
numbers out in hospital over a short period could be very high indeed.
period could be very high indeed. The big issue here is that they will
The big issue here is that they will all come at a very concentrated
all come at a very concentrated time. It is back to the original set
time. It is back to the original set of questions. The same number spread
of questions. The same number spread over three months might be something
over three months might be something which is much easier to the NHS to
which is much easier to the NHS to handle than the numbers we mighty of
handle than the numbers we mighty of a very short period of time. So that
a very short period of time. So that is a very big issue and if I can add
is a very big issue and if I ran add an
is a very big issue and if I can add an additional point, people have to
an additional point, peopla have to realise
an additional point, people have to realise that this will also be
realise that this will also be happening at a time when a very
happening at a time when a very significant number of staff will be
significant number of staff will be off ill, isolating caring. So you
off ill, isolating raring. So you will
off ill, isolating caring. So you will have a reduction in and
will have a reduction in and increasing demand in the health
increasing demand in the health service over a very short time
service over a very short time period and that is really the reason
period and that is really the reason we are taking this extremely
we are taking this extremely seriously. In terms of hospital
seriously. In terms of hospital acquired infections, which we know
acquired infections, which we know has been significant throughout the
has been significant throughout the process of this disease, what more
process of this disease, what more ran we do
process of this disease, what more can we do on that front? Because it
ran we do on that front? Because it is obviously
can we do on that front? Because it is obviously even more what seems to
is obviously even more what seems to be, even more infectious and
be, even more infectious and previous ways? We have a problem. We
previous ways? We have a problem. We have learnt a lot and I think
have learnt a lot and I think the control is much better than it was.
control is much better than it was. But two things are going to go
But two things are going to go against us. This is more infectious
against us. This is more infectious than previous ones. It seems to have
than previous ones. It seems to have an extraordinary intrinsic ability
an extraordinary intrinsic ability to infect and that will make it
to infect and that will make it harder. And the mainstays of our
harder. And the mainstays of our approach was vaccination.
approach was vaccination. Vaccination will probably reduce
Vaccination will probably reduce transmission, but it is not going to
transmission, but it is not going to take it right down to where it would
take it right down to where it would have been with booster vaccination
have been with booster vaccination against Delta. 50 I think we will do
against Delta. So I think we will do everything we
against Delta. 50 I think we will do everything we can in the
everything we ran in the health service
everything we can in the health service but I think we can’t claim
service but I think we can’t claim we will get away Scott free, even
we will get away Scott free, even with really good, rigorous
with really good, rigorous approaches, there will be hospital
approaches, there will be hospital outbreaks and other health and
outbreaks and other health and social outbreaks. We will do
social outbreaks. We will do everything we can to minimise him
everything we ran to minimise him but I don’t
everything we can to minimise him but I don’t want to set people up to
but I don’t want to set peopla up to fail by saying
but I don’t want to set people up to fail by saying we won’t, because
fail by saying we won’t, because we will because of these two factors.
will because of these two factors. Thank you. Professor Whitty,
will because of these two factors. Thank you. Professorwhitty, if
will because of these two factors. Thank you. Professor Whitty, if we
Thank you. Professor whitty, if we reﬂect on
Thank you. Professor Whitty, if we reflect on the last 20 months we
reﬂect on the last 20 months we have
reflect on the last 20 months we have taken different approaches,
have taken different approaches, understandably, to trying to
understandably, to trying to suppress the spread of the virus. We
suppress the spread of the vims. We have had very
suppress the spread of the virus. We have had very significant lock
have had very significant lock downs, regional
have had very significant lock downs, regionaltears, detailed
downs, regional tears, detailad specific
downs, regionaltears, detailed specific restrictions. In the last
specific restrictions. In the last ten days a
specific restrictions. In the last ten days 3 Prime Minister has urged
ten days a Prime Minister has urged people to get
ten days 3 Prime Minister has urged people to get boosted and we seek
people to get boosted and we seek use around the block. You have said
use around the block. You have said you have repeated it today that
you have repeated it today that people should prioritise their
peopla should prioritise their social
people should prioritise their social contact and we know that they
social contact and we know that they are already doing that. People are
are already doing that. People are withdrawing from some events. Have
withdrawing from some events. Have we reached and are we in a phase in
we reached and are we in a phase in which broad advice rather than
which broad advice rather than detailed, because you put it should
detailed, because you put it should do this, shouldn’t do that,
do this, shouldn’t do that, restrictions on people, is that
restrictions on peopla, is that where
restrictions on people, is that where we are? Is that the right way
where we are? Is that the right way to be thinking about this now? Is
to be thinking about this now? Is where we are now, but if we we were
where we are now, but if we we were in a situation where it looked as if
in a situation where it looked as if the boosters were not going to be as
the boosters were not going to be as effective against the disease and
effective against the disease and transmission and we were facing the
transmission and we were facing the kind of situation that we were
kind of situation that we were talking about in the last exchange,
talking about in the last exchange, then ministers are clearly going to
then ministers are dearty going to have to
then ministers are clearly going to have to consider what else needs to
have to consider what else needs to be done, and I will go back to this
be done, and I will go back to this concept, the ladder of intervention.
concept, the ladder of intervention. How far you go up that, the further
How far you go up that, the further you go
How far you go up that, the further you 9° “P
How far you go up that, the further you go up the more damage you will
you go up the more damage you will do in other areas. And ministers
do in other areas. And ministers have to balance this. But balancing
have to balance this. But balancing those, the bigger the threat, the
those, the bigger the threat, the further up you probably will have
further up you probably will have to go. So what we are is ministers make
go. So what we are is ministers make a decision what we know at the
a decision what we know at the moment. If the information comes in
moment. If the information comes in and it is reassuring, that will tend
and it is reassuring, that will tend to one direction and if it comes in
to one direction and if it comes in and is not reassuring, that will
and is not reassuring, that will tempt to another. And that it is
tempt to another. And that it is very much the way the Prime Minister
very much the way the Prime Minister and ministers are looking at this.
Let us consider the optimistic side of
Let us consider the optimistic side of this, we get through Omicron
of this, we get through Omicron quicker than we might have thought
quicker than we might have thought and the spike comes down quickly.
and the spike comes down quickly. What would trigger the exit from the
what would trigger the exit from the current
What would trigger the exit from the current set of restrictions on the
current set of restrictions on the advice you and others are giving? I
advice you and others are giving? I think we have seen before and most
think we have seen before and most recently in the summer of this year,
recently in the summer of this year, a very dear
recently in the summer of this year, a very clear de—escalation of
a very dear de-esralation of advice even though
a very clear de—escalation of advice even though there was still some
even though there was still some residual risk, we accepted that and
residual risk, we accepted that and some people criticise that. But that
some peopla criticise that. But that was the
some people criticise that. But that was the decision of ministers and
was the decision of ministers and was perfectly acceptable as logic
was perfectly acceptable as logic made that a reasonable thing to do.
made that a reasonabla thing to do. So
made that a reasonable thing to do. So ministers are always in a
So ministers are always in a position where they can go up and
position where they ran go up and down as
position where they can go up and down as the facts change. That very
down as the facts change. That very much is the way of the approach
much is the way of the approach ministers have sensibly taken. As we
ministers have sensibly taken. As we go on, I
ministers have sensibly taken. As we go on, lam
ministers have sensibly taken. As we go on, I am cautious about making
go on, I am cautious about making policy on the basis that everything
policy on the basis that everything might go right. That is not a
might go right. That is not a sensible basis on which to make
sensible basis on which to make decisions. We have to look at a
decisions. We have to look at a range of possibilities rather than
range of possibilities rather than assuming everything will fall RA.
assuming everything will fall RA. That is not the implication... We
That is not the implication... We will be back to Professor Chris
will be back to Professor Chris witty in just
will be back to Professor Chris Witty in just a moment but it has
witty injust a moment but it has been
Witty in just a moment but it has been reported that the Queen has
been reported that the Queen has cancelled her traditional
cancelled her traditional pre—Christmas family month which was
pre-Christmas family month which was due to
pre—Christmas family month which was due to take place next week. It is
due to take place next week. It is understood the decision was made as
understood the decision was made as a precaution, suggesting it could
a precaution, suggesting it could put too many people’s Christmas
put too many people’s Christmas arrangements at risk if that lunch
arrangements at risk if that lunch went ahead so very much in line with
went ahead so very much in line with the falls
went ahead so very much in line with the calls were hearing from the
the calls were hearing from the Prime Minister to socialise
Prime Minister to socialise carefully this Christmas and with
carefully this Christmas and with Professor Chris Witty who we heard
Professor Chris Witty who we heard moments
Professor Chris witty who we heard moments ago,
Professor Chris Witty who we heard moments ago, England’s Chief Medical
moments ago, England’s Chief Medical Officer saying we should prioritise
Officer saying we should prioritise which social events we attend. 50
which social events we attend. So the Queen
which social events we attend. 50 the Queen choosing to cancel her
the Queen choosing to cancel her traditional pre—Christmas family
traditional pre-Christmas family lunch
traditional pre—Christmas family lunch next week. Let us return to
lunch next week. Let us return to the Commons Health Select Committee
the Commons Health Select Committee where Professor Chris Witty is
where Professor Chris witty is answering
where Professor Chris Witty is answering questions about the spread
answering questions about the spread of Omicron.
There is a longer exit, the situation where it is not an Omicron
situation where it is not an Omicron specific vaccine based on what the
specific vaccine based on what the manufacturers say and that is the
manufacturers say and that is the exit strategy. But I think there are
exit strategy. But I think there are so many unknowns at the moment I am
so many unknowns at the moment I am very confident as you implied there
very confident as you implied there will be an exit strategy when it
will be an exit strategy when it will be on how quickly we reach it
will be on how quickly we reach it depends on a lot of factors we
depends on a lot of factors we currently don’t now fundamentally is
currently don’t now fundamentally is where we are at the moment in time.
where we are at the moment in time. will you have the
where we are at the moment in time. Will you have the agility to
Will you have the agility to de—escalate if the results of the
de-esralate if the results of the various
de—escalate if the results of the various factors that you mentioned
various factors that you mentioned going the right direction? Will you
going the right direction? will you be able
going the right direction? Will you be able to intervene and stand down
be able to intervene and stand down your advice to minimise social
your advice to minimise social contacts for example to advise that
contacts for example to advise that the plan B restrictions should be
the plan B restrictions should he stood down before the time that they
stood down before the time that they expire at the end of
stood down before the time that they expire at the end ofJanuary? Are
expire at the end of january? Are you set up to
expire at the end ofJanuary? Are you set up to do that? Well, to be
you set up to do that? Well, to be really clear, you know this but I
really clear, you know this but I want to be clear of the record,
want to be clear of the record, decisions on anything that involves
decisions on anything that involves those decisions are up to ministers,
those decisions are up to ministers, not to me. I will give advice, Sage
not to me. I will give advice, Sage will give advice formally and we
will give advice formally and we give data, ministers take decisions.
give data, ministers take decisions. In terms of my own advice, if I put
In terms of my own advice, if I put more stringent advice to the general
more stringent advice to the general pub“:
more stringent advice to the general public because of Omicron, we have
public because of Omicron, we have less stringent advice before Omicron
less stringent advice before Omicron arrived. The public one as to keep
arrived. The public one as to keep them safe and they want us not to at
them safe and they want us not to at the same time over regulate to
the same time over regulate to appoint where things are getting
appoint where things are getting back to more normal situation. Of
back to more normal situation. Of course we will turn up the dial and
course we will turn up the dial and turn it down as necessary and there
turn it down as necessary and there are people in government rightly
are peopla in government rightly arguing for
are people in government rightly arguing for the very strong economic
arguing for the very strong economic implications for doing anything more
implications for doing anything more than we need to do and it is always
than we need to do and it is always about balance, all the way through
about balance, all the way through this, all about balance in terms of
this, all about balance in terms of advice on social directions. You are
advice on social directions. You are giving advice directly to the public
giving advice directly to the public and I don’t criticise that, yet
and I don’t criticise that, yet interested in your views and respect
interested in your views and respect your views on
interested in your views and respect your views onjudgment on
interested in your views and respect your views on judgment on this. You
your views on judgment on this. You have Sage advice people to
have Sage advice people to prioritise their social contacts.
prioritise their social contacts. This is advice you’re giving
This is advice you’re giving directly but generally in the past,
directly but generally in the past, he made the point to my committee
he made the point to my committee that you advise on the medical
that you advise on the medical aspects and then ministers have to
aspects and then ministers have to wait in the balance the consequences
wait in the balance the consequences for society, for the economy and
for society, for the economy and come up with recommendations that
come up with recommendations that brings medical advice bringing the
brings medical advice bringing the consequences further together. If
consequences further together. If you’re giving that advice direct to
you’re giving that advice direct to the public then that process is not
the public then that process is not taking place, is it? Therefore how
taking place, is it? Therefore how do you ensure it is not one—sided
do you ensure it is not one-sided advice, will you
do you ensure it is not one—sided advice, will you have the agility to
advice, will you have the agility to adjust your advice that is out there
adjust your advice that is out there if as we hope eventually it will be
if as we hope eventually it will be appropriate to do so? I am extremely
appropriate to do so? I am extremely dear
appropriate to do so? I am extremely clear on what I think the role of an
clear on what I think the rola of an adviser is, an
clear on what I think the role of an adviser is, an independent adviser,
adviser is, an independent adviser, and what I consider the paramount
and what I consider the paramount rola of
and what I consider the paramount role of ministers. But from the very
role of ministers. But from the very beginning, since the 18505, chief
beginning, since the 18505, chief medical officers have always given
medical officers have always given advice to the general public but
advice to the general public but ministers reserved to themselves
ministers reserved to themselves anything to do with the law and
anything to do with the law and balancing against the economy. This
balancing against the economy. This is advice any Chief Medical Officer
is advice any Chief Medical Officer would have given and I do not think
would have given and I do not think any minister thinks I am treading on
any minister thinks I am treading on their dose on this one, this is my
their dose on this one, this is my job but I also consider questions
job but I also consider questions about things like further measures,
about things like further measures, those are very much the Minister’s
those are very much the Minister’s so it is drawing the line between
so it is drawing the line between those two, the expectations between
those two, the expectations between medical officers and medical
medical officers and medical advisers, they can talk as a doctor
advisers, they can talk as a doctor independently and give advice as
independently and give advice as long as they do not stray into the
long as they do not stray into the job which is specifically for
job which is specifically for ministers. Very final question from
ministers. Very final question from me about that advice you have been
me about that advice you have been giving in the last day on the issue
giving in the last day on the issue of with it. Isn’t the fundamental
of with it. Isn’t the fundamental problem that people personally feel
problem that people personally feel safer now if they have had two or
safer now if they have had two or three jobs but the
safer now if they have had two or threejobs but the NHS is actually
three jobs but the NHS is actually more at
threejobs but the NHS is actually more at risk because of the nature
more at risk because of the nature of Omicron and that we have for
of Omicron and that we have for million or so unvaccinated? How do
million or so unvaccinated? How do you persuade people who have had
you persuade people who have had three
you persuade peopla who have had three jobs
you persuade people who have had three jobs to be
you persuade people who have had threejobs to be more cautious? —— 4
three jobs to be more cautious? -- 4 million. I
threejobs to be more cautious? —— 4 million. I started the whole
million. I started the whole pandemic with high confidence in the
pandemic with high confidence in the ability to see risk and make
ability to see risk and make sensible political
ability to see risk and make sensible politicaljudgments and
sensible political judgments and that
sensible politicaljudgments and that has only strengthened over time
that has only strengthened over time so actually my experience has been
so actually my experience has been all the way through and what people
all the way through and what peopla do
all the way through and what people do demonstrate this in the polling
do demonstrate this in the polling demonstrates this, people take these
demonstrates this, people take these things very seriously. They accept
things very seriously. They accept if they have had three doses and a
if they have had three doses and a booster they are at lower risk but
booster they are at lower risk but people will still take sensible
people will still take sensible precautions and I am very confident
precautions and I am very confident in the ability of people to say for
in the ability of peopla to say for the
in the ability of people to say for the benefit of everyone around me,
the benefit of everyone around me, the old people I come into contact
the old peopla I come into contact with, I
the old peopla I come into contact with, Iwill
the old people I come into contact with, I will be more cautious over a
with, I will be more cautious over a period. These numbers are clearly
period. These numbers are dearty going up very
period. These numbers are clearly going up very very fast. In answer
going up very very fast. In answer to both of your questions, it would
to both of your questions, it would be very odd to reduce that advice
be very odd to reduce that advice when numbers are spiralling up, the
when numbers are spiralling up, the time to consider reducing is when
time to consider reducing is when numbers are consistently coming
numbers are consistently coming down. If people look at the data and
down. If peopla look at the data and think I
down. If people look at the data and think I want to reduce the risk
think I want to reduce the risk me to my family and myself and I will
to my family and myself and I will take sensible precautions at this
take sensible precautions at this point in time. Thank you, Professor
point in time. Thank you, Professor whitty and
point in time. Thank you, Professor Whitty and doctors, you have been
whitty and doctors, you have been very generous
Whitty and doctors, you have been very generous with your time. We
very generous with your time. We wish all a safe and happy Christmas.
wish all a safe and happy Christmas. Thank you very much indeed. Point of
Thank you very much indeed. Point of order. Thank you very much. Jeremy
order. Thank you very much. jeremy Hunt, the chair
order. Thank you very much. Jeremy Hunt, the chair of the select
Hunt, the chair of the select committee wrapping things up. We
committee wrapping things up. We have been hearing Professor Chris
have been hearing Professor Chris whitty
have been hearing Professor Chris Whitty giving evidence to MP5 since
whitty giving evidence to MP5 since half past ten
Whitty giving evidence to MP5 since half past ten this morning about the
half past ten this morning about the spread of Omicron. At a news
spread of Omicron. At a news conference at Downing Street
conference at Downing Street yesterday he urged people to be
yesterday he urged people to be cautious about socialising before
cautious about socialising before Christmas. Professor Whitty said the
Christmas. Professor whitty said the UK
Christmas. Professor Whitty said the UK could surpass the peak of people
UK could surpass the peak of people admitted to hospital. He told the
admitted to hospital. He told the committee it is possible because it
committee it is possible because it is going to be very concentrated,
is going to be very concentrated, even if it is milder because it is
even if it is milder because it is concentrated over a short period of
concentrated over a short period of time. Asked about socialising, he
time. Asked about socialising, he said it was sensible to cut down on
said it was sensible to cut down on social events that might be less
social events that might be lass important
social events that might be less important to you. He underlined the
important to you. He undertined the importance of
important to you. He underlined the importance of getting a booster
important to you. He underlined the importance of getting a boosterjab
importance of getting a booster jab and
importance of getting a boosterjab and warned that even if the boosters
and warned that even if the boosters do hold a lot of people will fall
do hold a lot of peopla will fall ill
do hold a lot of people will fall ill simultaneously. The doubling
ill simultaneously. The doubling rate will slow down for two reasons,
rate will slow down for two reasons, the first is people are taking
the first is people are taking sensible precautions, it is clear
sensible precautions, it is clear they are taking sensible precautions
they are taking sensible precautions and that will help slow the double
and that will help slow the double rate down. The point we were making
rate down. The point we were making about prioritising busy
about prioritising busy interactions, the government advice
interactions, the government advice about working from home, they are
about working from home, they are all designed to slow this down, to
all designed to slow this down, to buy this time to get this through
buy this time to get this through the system. A second point, the
the system. A second point, the number of people already infected
number of people already infected and have immunity either
number of people already infected and have immunity eitherfrom
and have immunity either from posting or
and have immunity eitherfrom posting orfrom Omicron itself will
posting or from Omicron itself will mean
posting orfrom Omicron itself will mean that the group of people it can
mean that the group of peopla it ran no
mean that the group of people it ran no infect
mean that the group of people it can no infect is getting smaller and
no infect is getting smaller and that will also slow down until the
that will also slow down until the point at reaches its peak.
Susan Hopkins is an adviser.
The release numbers that were released yesterday are 15 but we are
released yesterday are 15 but we are constantly working on data numbers
constantly working on data numbers to release that and we will release
to release that and we will release more numbers this afternoon. The
more numbers this afternoon. The real numbers will be bigger than
real numbers will be bigger than that, just to be clear. To give us
that, just to be clear. To give us as members of the public and idea of
as members of the public and idea of timescale, do you expect to have
timescale, do you expect to have reliable data before Christmas, in a
reliable data before Christmas, in a week or it will it be January before
week or it will it be january before we really
week or it will it be January before we really know the answer to that
we really know the answer to that question? I think the earliest we
question? I think the eartiest we will
question? I think the earliest we will have reliable data is the week
will have reliable data is the week between Christmas and New Year and
between Christmas and New Year and probably early January.
between Christmas and New Year and probably earlyJanuary. Doctor
between Christmas and New Year and probably early January. Doctor Susan
probably eartyjanuary. Doctor Susan Hopkins.
probably early January. Doctor Susan Hopkins. Earlier in the House of
Hopkins. Eadier in the House of Commons,
Hopkins. Earlier in the House of Commons, John Glen gave this
Commons, john Glen gave this response to
Commons, John Glen gave this response to the situation for the
response to the situation for the hospitality sector in the UK amid a
hospitality sector in the UK amid a rise in coronavirus cases. Last year
rise in coronavirus cases. Last year when we put in place the bounce back
when we put in place the bounce back loans, it was the Shadow Chancellor
loans, it was the Shadow Chancellor at the time who specifically engaged
at the time who specifically engaged constructively with the Chancellor
constructively with the Chancellor to agree the basis for those loans.
to agree the basis for those loans. We have continued to work
We have continued to work constructively throughout on a range
constructively throughout on a range of interventions for multiple
of interventions for multiple sectors. We put in a package of
sectors. We put in a package of measures at the budget offering
measures at the budget offering additional support and just
additional support and just yesterday the Covid additional
yesterday the Covid additional relief fund provides an additional
relief fund provides an additional £1.5 billion those that are in the
£1.5 billion those that are in the sunplv
£1.5 billion those that are in the supply chain to deal with some of
supply chain to deal with some of the additional challenges. But of
the additional challanges. But of course
the additional challenges. But of course the government recognises the
course the government recognises the additional pressures that these
additional pressures that these measures and this strength the virus
measures and this strength the virus brings. Of course we will be
brings. Of course we will be engaging carefully and listen
engaging carefully and listen carefully to those business
carefully to those business representatives this afternoon.
representatives this afternoon. France is introducing tight
France is introducing tight restrictions to travellers to the
restrictions to travellers to the UK. Hugh Schofield reports from
UK. Hugh Schofield reports from Paris. There will be much tighter
Paris. There will be much tighter restrictions from midnight Friday
restrictions from midnight Friday into Saturday. They cover two
into Saturday. They cover two things, restrictions on who can come
things, restrictions on who ran come into France
things, restrictions on who can come into France and there is a long list
into France and there is a long list which we have seen before of what
which we have seen before of what constitutes nonessential travel and
constitutes nonessential travel and essential travel. Basically,
constitutes nonessential travel and essentialtravel. Basically, if
essential travel. Basically, if you’re
essentialtravel. Basically, if you’re coming just for fun to see
you’re coming just for fun to see the sights, you cannot. Not for work
the sights, you cannot. Not for work either unless it is very compelling.
either unless it is very compelling. If you are a national, you can come,
If you are a national, you ran come, if you are resident
If you are a national, you can come, if you are resident in France, you
if you are resident in France, you ran come
if you are resident in France, you can come but you will have to prove
ran come but you will have to prove all of this
can come but you will have to prove all of this with the authorities.
all of this with the authorities. You have to register on a website
You have to register on a website before you come over so that is one
before you come over so that is one side. The other side as testing has
side. The other side as testing has been ramped up, you will have to
been ramped up, you will have to have a test done within 21 hours or
have a test done within 21 hours or lass than
have a test done within 21 hours or less than 21 hours before you come.
loss than 21 hours before you come. That ran be
less than 21 hours before you come. That can be a lateral flow test or a
That ran be a lateral ﬂow test or a PCR test
That can be a lateral flow test or a PCR test and when you come you have
PCR test and when you come you have to self—isolate at an address you
to self-isolate at an address you give to the
to self—isolate at an address you give to the authorities on this
give to the authorities on this website you can test yourself after
website you ran test yourself after 48
website you can test yourself after 48 hours and if you are negative
48 hours and if you are negative than you’re
48 hours and if you are negative then you’re free to move about.
then you’re free to move about. Otherwise she would have to stay in
Otherwise she would have to stay in isolation for several days. It looks
isolation for several days. It looks like the French will be strict about
like the French will be strict about enforcing quarantine this time. In
enforcing quarantine this time. In the past they have often said it is
the past they have often said it is voluntary quarantine, implying they
voluntary quarantine, implying they will not check up on you but it
will not check up on you but it looks like they will check up on
looks like they will check up on this one so it is a mirror on what
this one so it is a mirror on what is happening in Britain. If you
is happening in Britain. If you come to Britain from France it is
to Britain from France it is similar, you have to isolate for 48
similar, you have to isolate for 48 hours, test yourself. So they are
hours, test yourself. So they are ramping up on the restrictions. Hugh
ramping up on the restrictions. Hugh in Paris.
Five children have died and five others are injured after falling
from a bouncy castle that was blown more than 30 feet into the air
in Australia.
Police said two girls and two boys died at the scene
and another died in hospital later, with five others in a critical
condition following the incident, which took place during
an end—of—year party in Devonport, in Tasmania.
The Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, said
it was "heart breaking".
The events that have occurred today in Devonport, in Tasmania,
are just shattering.
They are just unthinkably heartbreaking.
And young children, on a fun day out together with their families and it
Five children have died and five others are injured after falling
And young children, on a fun day out together with their families and it
turns to such horrific tragedy.
At this time of year.
Itjust breaks your heart.
Our correspondent Shyma Khalil is in Sydney.
She has more on the investigation that will now follow
Really, questions are being asked about how this happened exactly,
what was anchoring that bouncy castle to the ground?
Why it was lifted as high as it had?
Also, the weather conditions of that day.
We haven’t heard that they were extraordinary conditions of
dangerous conditions.
They were fine until that gust of wind lifted the
bouncy castle in the air.
We also heard from the Tasmanian authorities
say that with that happening, the focus is going to be on the
families, of course, of those children, on the school community
and on the first responders who were first at the scene and have seen
this tragedy happen in that primary school.
European Union leaders are holding their last summit
of the year in Brussels.
Coronavirus and energy prices are on the agenda.
But, proceedings are likely to be dominated by the increasing fear
that Russia may be preparing to invade Ukraine , something
which Russia has denied.
The president of Lithuania has said the EU has to do "everything"
to prevent a possible Russian invasion of Ukraine.
I think we have to do everything that is in our hands
to prevent the worst scenario, which, and unfortunately
we cannot exclude.
This scenario is possible.
Military intervention into the territory of Ukraine.
I think we have enough tools in order to stop Russia
from its aggressive behaviour.
First of all, we have to talk about sectorial and also economic
sanctions which are possible.
m:
We have been hearing Professor Chris whitty answer
We have been hearing Professor Chris Whitty answer questions from the
Whitty answer questions from the Commons health and social care this
Commons health and social rare this morning about
Commons health and social care this morning about the spread of Omicron
morning about the spread of Omicron and of course the government has
and of course the government has chosen to introduce some
chosen to introduce some restrictions again.
BorisJohnson denied he was imposing
a lockdown by stealth.
Speaking to broadcasters, the Prime Minister said
the situation was "very different" from last year.
BorisJohnson denied he was imposing
What we are saying and we are all
what we are saying and we are all saying the
What we are saying and we are all saying the same thing is that
saying the same thing is that Omicron are spreading very fast and
Omicron are spreading very fast and we have got to be very cautious and
we have got to be very cautious and that is why we are implementing plan
that is why we are implamenting plan B.
that is why we are implamenting plan B, but also
that is why we are implementing plan B, but also making sure that we get
B, but also making sure that we get everybody boosted as fast as we
everybody boosted as fast as we possibly can and that is what is
possibly ran and that is what is going on
possibly can and that is what is going on here at this incredible
going on here at this incredible vaccinate centre in Ramsgate. What
vaccinate centre in Ramsgate. what Chris whitty
vaccinate centre in Ramsgate. What Chris Whitty and dire saying, what
Chris whitty and dire saying, what we are
Chris Whitty and dire saying, what we are all saying, we don’t want to
we are all saying, we don’t want to make your choices for you about your
make your choices for you about your social life. We are not closing
social life. We are not dosing things but
social life. We are not closing things but we are saying people
things but we are saying peopla should
things but we are saying people should be cautious and they should
should be cautious and they should think about their activities in the
think about their activities in the mn-up to
think about their activities in the run—up to Christmas. Nobody wants to
mn-up to Christmas. Nobody wants to get Omicron and
run—up to Christmas. Nobody wants to get Omicron and be unwell and be
get Omicron and be unwell and be forced to isolate but the fastest
forced to isolate but the fastest route back to normality is for
route back to normality is for everybody to get boosted now. Have
everybody to get boosted now. Have you cancelled any events in the last
you ancellad any events in the last few days? I
you cancelled any events in the last few days? I will be working ﬂat out
few days? I will be working ﬂat out as you ran
few days? I will be working ﬂat out as you can imagine but what we are
as you ran imagine but what we are saying is we are
as you can imagine but what we are saying is we are not closing things
saying is we are not dosing things down, we
saying is we are not closing things down, we are not asking people to
down, we are not asking peopla to cancel things.
down, we are not asking people to cancel things. What we are saying is
cancel things. what we are saying is that peopla
cancel things. What we are saying is that people will understandably not
that peopla will understandably not want
that people will understandably not want to catch Covid in the next few
want to catch Covid in the next few days or ever. The sensible thing to
days or ever. The sensible thing to do is get boosted now and exercise
do is get boosted now and exercise caution, that is all we are saying.
caution, that is all we are saying. You have to understand some people
You have to understand some peopla will be
You have to understand some people will be stressed about Christmas
will be stressed about Christmas gatherings, hospitality are
gatherings, hospitality are complaining about mass
complaining about mass cancellations, is this lockdown by
cancellations, is this lockdown by stealth? No, because what we are
stealth? No, because what we are seeing as this is very different
seeing as this is very different from last year, we have is the
from last year, we have is the additional protection of the
additional protection of the vaccines and the ability to test so
vaccines and the ability to test so if you want to do something, you
if you want to do something, you want to go to an event or a party
wanttogotoan eventora party then the
want to go to an event or a party then the sensible thing to do as if
then the sensible thing to do as if that is a priority, the sensible
that is a priority, the sensible thing to do is get a test to make
thing to do is get a test to make sure you are being cautious but
sure you are being cautious but we are not saying we want to cancel
are not saying we want to cancel stuff. We are not looking stuff down
stuff. We are not looking stuff down and the fastest route back to
and the fastest route back to normality is get boosted. Yesterday
normality is get boosted. Yesterday we saw the highest ever number of
we saw the highest ever number of Covid tests yet we still have
Covid tests yet we still have minimal restrictions in place, what
minimal restrictions in place, what has to happen for you to integrate
has to happen for you to integrate further restrictions? We are doing
further restrictions? We are doing two things at once, we are
two things at once, we are implementing plan B which has some
implamenting plan B which has some sensible
implementing plan B which has some sensible restrictions, it is
sensible restrictions, it is balanced and proportionate and it
balanced and proportionate and it reflects the balance of risk and
reﬂects the balance of risk and uncertainty
reflects the balance of risk and uncertainty that we currently have
uncertainty that we currently have about Omicron but we are adding to
about Omicron but we are adding to that this incredibly fast booster
that this incredibly fast booster roll—out. Here in Ramsgate, just in
roll-out. Here in Ramsgate, just in the centre, they
roll—out. Here in Ramsgate, just in the centre, they have gone up four
the centre, they have gone up four times in the number of vaccines they
times in the number of vaccines they are delivering every day, they have
are delivering every day, they have delivered just over 1000, almost
delivered just over 1000, almost 4000 a day. That is incredible,
4000 a day. That is incredible, you’re thing up and down the
you’re thing up and down the country, you’re seeing people
country, you’re seeing people understanding the importance the
understanding the importance the protection can give you and they are
protection ran give you and they are coming forward
protection can give you and they are coming forward to get boosted
coming forward to get boosted knives. Can you see you will be
knives. (“an you see you will be taking the
knives. Can you see you will be taking the same approach if your own
taking the same approach if your own party is not on—site? I will do all
party is not on-site? I will do all I have to to
party is not on—site? I will do all I have to to protect the public,
I have to to protect the public, that is always clear. We have talked
that is always clear. We have talked to our site and advisers and we are
to our site and advisers and we are in a very difficult position as
in a very difficult position as regards to the vaccination programme
regards to the vaccination programme from where we were last year and
from where we were last year and what we are saying to people as
what we are saying to people as there is a lot of Omicron around, he
there is a lot of Omicron around, be careful, exercise caution if you
careful, exercise caution if you want to avoid isolation and getting
want to avoid isolation and getting on well over Christmas. Implement
on well over Christmas. Implement plan B but get boosted now as the
plan B but get boosted now as the fastest route back to normality
fastest route back to normality because the booster does give you an
because the booster does give you an excellent level of protection and
excellent level of protection and the plan is to offer everybody in
the plan is to offer everybody in the country who is eligible booster
the country who is eligibla booster by
the country who is eligible booster by the end of the year and the speed
by the end of the year and the speed at which this is happening here in
at which this is happening here in Ramsgate is absolutely amazing and I
Ramsgate is absolutely amazing and I really pay tribute to all the
really pay tribute to all the volunteers, the doctors, everybody
volunteers, the doctors, everybody here. It is an amazing spirit and
here. It is an amazing spirit and energy that they are showing. Just a
energy that they are showing. just a couple of
energy that they are showing. Just a couple of regional questions. There
couple of regional questions. There we go. Britain’s oldest brewery
we go. Britain’s oldest brewery broths has said the hospitality
broths has said the hospitality sector is a zombie economy, because
sector is a zombie economy, because of current government advice, what
of current government advice, what financial support will be offering?
financial support will be offering? We have kept businesses going with
We have kept businesses going with more than 412 in pounds worth of
more than 412 in pounds worth of support and we will continue to
support and we will continue to support business with the Covid like
support business with the Covid like recovery loan, with business rate
recovery loan, with business rate reductions. With VAT reductions. The
reductions. with VAT reductions. The best thing we
reductions. With VAT reductions. The best thing we can do is make sure
best thing we ran do is make sure we get back to
best thing we can do is make sure we get back to normality as fast as
get back to normality as fast as possibla by
get back to normality as fast as possible by getting boosted now but
possibla by getting boosted now but they are
possible by getting boosted now but they are asking for more support.
they are asking for more support. The best thing, we are offering a
The best thing, we are offering a package, we already have measures in
package, we already have measures in place supporting businesses through
place supporting businesses through business rate relief, through VAT
business rate relief, through VAT reductions, the loans I have
reductions, the loans I have described, all that is there but
described, all that is there but what we are also saying is we want
what we are also saying is we want to keep businesses going, keep them
to keep businesses going, keep them open as we have done for a long time
open as we have done for a long time now through the vaccination
now through the vaccination programme. The best way to get back
programme. The best way to get back to normality is to get boosted now.
to normality is to get boosted now. You will have seen the news of
You will have seen the news of France banning UK visitors from
France banning UK visitors from Saturday, not a good look suggesting
Saturday, not a good look suggesting we had unsafe right now. Lots of
we had unsafe right now. Lots of families now unable to travel and
families now unabla to travel and see
families now unable to travel and see their loved ones for Christmas.
see their loved ones for Christmas. You said Christmas would be vastly
You said Christmas would be vastly different share, it does not look
different share, it does not look like that now? I effectively
like that now? I effectively disagree with you because we have
disagree with you because we have got a situation now which is totally
got a situation now which is totally different. We have got the economy
different. We have got the economy open. We have businesses open, or we
open. We have businesses open, or we are saying to people as exercise
are saying to people as exercise caution, think about all the steps
caution, think about all the steps you ran take
caution, think about all the steps you can take to minimise your own
you ran take to minimise your own risk. And get
you can take to minimise your own risk. And get boosted now. The Prime
risk. And get boosted now. The Prime Minister speaking a short time ago
Minister speaking a short time ago in Ramsgate.
It’s little more than a week until Christmas —
and the usual excitement is mounting.
Many children have sent their lists to Santa.
And the grown ups are shopping for that perfect present.
Let’s hope they are anyway.
Covid has obviously had an impact — but there is one place
where the festive spirit can never be extinguished — the BBC’s
Tim Allman explains.
# It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas
# Everywhere you go...#
In this part of Finland it really is Christmas every day.
This place in Lapland calls itself the official
home town of Santa Claus and he really is honestly, truly the real
thing.
Notjust a man in a fake beard.
Father Christmas, hoping this year of all years, he can bring some
joy to the world.
I have been hearing worrying news around the
globe about the well—being and coping of children and young people.
Now it’s time to turn these worries into
plenty of goodwill.
Visitor numbers obviously took a big hit in the last
two years as the pandemic took hold, Santa’s business representative says
people are coming back but they have to take precautions.
TRANSLATION: The guests are required to have Corona passports when they
arrive in Finland.
We ask all our guests to show their Corona passport
at the reception desk and after that, they
are free to take part in
all the activities.
But, of course, the most important people here are
the children.
Do you like Santa?
Te gusta Santa Claus?
Si!
In a few days’ time, after the dry run, Father Christmas
will be back on his travels and a much
bigger sleigh.
His ambition, he says, to make this Christmas a
happy and unforgettable one.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Matt Taylor.
Hello there.
I hope you like the colour grey because it is going to
be the dominant sky colour as we go through the next
few days across the UK.
Lots of cloud in place, stubbornly remaining all the way
into the weekend for most.
It will be largely dry although over the
next few hours we continue to see a bit of rain
and driule across the
North West of Scotland, particularly Lewis, Sutherland,
Orkney and Shetland.
Where we saw the frost this morning and the sunshine, well, that
continues for some, Eastern Scotland and Eastern counties of England.
For some, where you started with sunshine, the cloud amounts will
build.
Reasonably bright too compared with yesterday across some
parts of West Cornwall as well.
A mild day for all.
Temperatures still in double figures.
Into this evening and overnight, the cloud is going to
barely shift for most.
Maybe a few breaks in the English Channel,
eastern Scotland, north—east England and it’s here where you are most
likely to see the return of the touch of frost
into the morning, one or two pockets of mist or fog.
Most will have a mild start to Friday morning.
But Friday, high pressure is in charge, and just notice as we
go through into the weekend, the high pressure remains in charge.
Essentially a story of what you have got, you will largely keep.
Plenty of cloud in place for Friday making for
a rather dull day.
Best of the breaks down through the English
Channel, Channel Islands particularly, maybe parts of
Cornwall.
Also north—east of Scotland and some in north—east
England could see the sunshine come through.
After a chilly start, it may be a little bit
cooler than we will see
through today.
Elsewhere, temperatures, nine to 11 Celsius.
A touch above where we should be for the time of year.
You’ll notice this weekend, as well as sticking with
the cloud, a largely dry story, things will turn that little bit
cooler.
A cloudy day for most again on Saturday, the best of the
sunshine will be towards the far South West, also across the north
East of Scotland, particularly over the hills.
It might even be warmer in the Grampians than it will be
at lower level sites.
Temperature starting to drop away a little bit
and they will drop further as we go into Sunday.
More of a breeze on that eastern coast, 3 lot more cloud
in place.
Not a huge amount of sunshine, best of which probably
across Orkney and Shetland later in the day and more of us in single
figure temperatures.
But it does turn colder as we head into
Christmas week.
An interesting week ahead.
If you are looking for something white for your Christmas
run—up, the cold air mayjust bring one or two wintry showers in eastern
parts.
But we could see a fightback of mild air from the Atlantic, and
where those two clash, it depends where it is,
you could see a mixture of rain, sleet and snow.
Of course, we’ll keep you updated.
This is BBC News.
The headlines...
The country’s Chief Medical Officer says the UK could surpass previous
records of people admitted to hospital with Covid—19.
What we shouldn’t assume is that if we got the same number
going in the front door, that necessarily translates
into the same numbers in hospital in an ICU at some point
in the new year.
It will be the new year before we have reliable data on the spread
of the Omicron variant, according to a leading
health official.
With the earliest that we will have reliable data is the week between
reliable data is the week between Christmas and New Year and probably
Christmas and New Year and probably earty january.
Christmas and New Year and probably early January.
The Queen has cancelled her traditional pre—Christmas
family party next week.
It is understood the decision was a precaution, in case it put too
many people’s Christmas arrangements at risk.
UK tourists are to be banned from France —
from Saturday only French citizens or Brits who live there will be
allowed to enter the country.
But this time hauliers are exempt.
As the virus continues to spread — business groups ask
for more government help as customers cancel bookings.
And can you see it?
Well, this is a brand new picture of a polar bear cub has been born
at at the Highland Wildlife Park in Scotland.
England’s Chief Medical Officer has warned that the previous maximum
daily number of people admitted to hospital — 4,500,
seen inJanuary — could be exceeded.
Speaking to a committee of MPs, Chris Whitty also said that Omicron
could peak quite quickly, and that there is still a debate
about whether Omicron could could inflict a milder version
of coronavirus.
We’ll hear more from Chris Whitty in a moment,
but let’s take a look at today’s developments.
The Queen has cancelled her traditional pre—Christmas
family lunch next week.
It is understood the decision was a precaution with a source
suggesting it could put too many people’s Christmas arrangements
at risk if it went ahead.
France puts new restrictions on UK travellers,
effectively banning tourists.
Business leaders have called for support for struggling firms
as Omicron’s spread hits consumer confidence.
Cases of Omicron have been doubling every two to three days.
Addressing the health Committee, Professor Whitty explained
how the numbers will start decreasing.
The doubling rate will slow down for two reasons.
The first is that people are taking sensible precautions.
It’s very clear they are taking very sensible precautions, and that
itself will help to slow the doubling rate down.
And the points we were making about prioritising
the interactions that matter most to you, the man’s advice
of working from home, they are all
designed to help slow this down particularly at the beginning.
To buy us time to get through the boosting.
And then at a certain point the number of people who have
already been infected and have got immunity,
either from the boosting orfrom Omicron itself will mean
that the group of people it can now infect is getting smaller, and that
will also slow it down, and at a certain point
that reaches a peak.
Professor Chris Whitty. We will be
Professor Chris whitty. We will be hearing more
Professor Chris Whitty. We will be hearing more from him very shortly.
The Bank of England is due to announce its latest
decision on interest rates.
With inflation soaring to its highest level in a decade,
it had been widely expected to raise rates from their historic
low of 0.1%.
That historic low has been there for quite some time, Andy. Rates went
quite some time, Andy. Rates went down to back in March 2009 and they
down to back in March 2009 and they state that those emergency levels.
state that those emergency levels. They wrote a little bit before the
They wrote a little bit before the pandemic and then they drop to a new
pandemic and then they drop to a new record low of 0.1%. Although it has
record low of 0.196. Although it has been
record low of 0.1%. Although it has been expected that the Bank of
been expected that the Bank of England would raise interest rates
England would raise interest rates at some point soon, it wasn’t
at some point soon, it wasn’t expected at this meeting. In the
expected at this meeting. In the city they were giving odds of about
city they were giving odds of about four to one against the Bank
four to one against the Bank of England raising interest rates, but
England raising interest rates, but we have just had this news they are
we have just had this news they are going ahead to raise them to not
going ahead to raise them to not .25%
going ahead to raise them to not 2596 as
going ahead to raise them to not .25% as of today. And that is a
2596 as of today. And that is a surprise and it
.25% as of today. And that is a surprise and it is a response to
surprise and it is a response to upward inflationary pressure that
upward inﬂationary pressure that has
upward inflationary pressure that has been building. We had the
has been building. We had the highest consumer prices index rising
highest consumer prices index rising ten years that was reported this
ten years that was reported this week and we know that this
week and we know that this inflationary pressure coming down
inﬂationary pressure coming down the line
inflationary pressure coming down the line from global increases,
the line from global increases, commodity prices, owing to the
commodity prices, owing to the reopening of the global economy this
reopening of the global economy this year, there has been lots of demand,
year, there has been lots of demand, lots of activity and supply of
lots of activity and supply of things like petrol has been keeping
things like petrol has been keeping up. That is why you have got a
up. That is why you have got a record petrol price. One point 45.8
record petrol price. One point 45.8 p. It has to look at what it thinks
p. It has to look at what it thinks it is going to happen to inflation
it is going to happen to inﬂation in the
it is going to happen to inflation in the next two years and it is
in the next two years and it is making a judgment whether to turn
making a judgment whether to turn rates back to something more like
rates back to something more like normal, which before the financial
normal, which before the financial crisis was round about three or 4%.
crisis was round about three or 496. This move today
crisis was round about three or 4%. This move today was unexpected. Most
This move today was unexpected. Most in the city expected the Bank of
in the city expected the Bank of England to wait until next year,
England to wait until next year, perhaps February or March before
perhaps February or March before they started raising interest rates
they started raising interest rates because we still don’t know how the
because we still don’t know how the Omicron variant has affected the
Omicron variant has affected the labour market, the economy, and it
labour market, the economy, and it seems like the economy at the same
seems like the economy at the same time as we are getting inflation is
time as we are getting inﬂation is slowing
time as we are getting inflation is slowing down. In the seven they
slowing down. In the seven they called
slowing down. In the seven they ﬁlled it
slowing down. In the seven they called it stagﬂation. That,
called it stagﬂation. That, combined with the inflation we have
combined with the inﬂation we have right now
combined with the inflation we have right now make some people think
right now make some peopla think that the
right now make some people think that the Bank of England would wait.
that the Bank of England would wait. But dearty
that the Bank of England would wait. But clearly they have decided today
But dearty they have decided today that they
But clearly they have decided today that they should not wait. How much
that they should not wait. How much alarm will this cause generally, not
alarm will this cause generally, not just for businesses but for general
just for businesses but for general members of the public, people with
members of the public, people with mortgages, credit card debt? It is
mortgages, credit card debt? It is interesting you say that. There is a
interesting you say that. There is a bit of a myth that goes around about
bit of a myth that goes around about how interest rate rises are for
how interest rate rises are for people with mortgages. In fact, a
peopla with mortgages. In fact, a third of
people with mortgages. In fact, a third of the population don’t own
third of the population don’t own their own home, they rent. And
their own home, they rent. And another third, although they own
another third, although they own their own home don’t have a
their own home don’t have a mortgage. It is mostly older people
mortgage. It is mostly older peopla who paid off
mortgage. It is mostly older people who paid off their mortgages long
who paid off their mortgages long ago. The remaining third, less than
ago. The remaining third, lass than a quarter have
ago. The remaining third, less than a quarter have variable rate
a quarter have variable rate mortgages. So
a quarter have variable rate mortgages. 50 overall it is less
mortgages. So overall it is loss than
mortgages. 50 overall it is less than 10% of the
mortgages. So overall it is less than 10% of the population who are
than 1096 of the population who are exposed to an
than 10% of the population who are exposed to an interest rate rise
exposed to an interest rate rise right now. Those people are
right now. Those people are unfortunate and are particularly
unfortunate and are particularly unfortunate if they took out a huge
unfortunate if they took out a huge mortgage recently to pay these very
mortgage recently to pay these very inflated house prices that kept on
inﬂated house prices that kept on rising, even
inflated house prices that kept on rising, even through the pandemic.
rising, even through the pandemic. So it will affect some people badly
So it will affect some peopla badly but
So it will affect some people badly but think on the other side about
but think on the other side about the people who have had savings
the peopla who have had savings where
the people who have had savings where the interest rates are less
where the interest rates are less than inflation, so they have been
than inﬂation, so they have been drinking in
than inflation, so they have been drinking in real terms for most of
drinking in real terms for most of the last 13 years. A surprise, not
the last 13 years. A surprise, not expected just yet. We will have more
expected just yet. We will have more on that throughout the day. Thank
on that throughout the day. Thank you.
Our health correspondent Nick is here. It is spreading fast, but so
here. It is spreading fast, but so little is really known about this.
little is really known about this. They don’t know what they are
They don’t know what they are dealing with.
That’s right, Chris Whitty is kept
That’s right, Chris whitty is kept stressing
That’s right, Chris Whitty is kept stressing that. If you look at their
stressing that. If you look at their modelling of hospital admissions
modelling of hospital admissions they show that the peak from the
they show that the peak from the Omicron wave could be approaching
Omicron wave could be approaching double what was seen previously, the
double what was seen previously, the 4500 figure,
double what was seen previously, the A500 figure, but it also could be
4500 figure, but it also could be half
A500 figure, but it also could be half that level. In the show set
half that level. In the show set there is a large uncertainty about
there is a large uncertainty about what will happen. We have heard
what will happen. We have heard suggestions that the Omicron variant
suggestions that the Omicron variant may be causing more milder illness,
may be causing more milder illness, and there is logic in that in terms
and there is logic in that in terms of reinfection saw infections
of reinfection saw infections postvaccination are likely to be
postvaccination are likely to be milder. But we know cases are going
milder. But we know cases are going “P
milder. But we know cases are going up and they are going up quickly. So
up and they are going up quickly. So that is why there is that
that is why there is that uncertainty and those admissions
uncertainty and those admissions will make a big difference. Another
will make a big difference. Another important point he made is that
important point he made is that admissions this time round are very
admissions this time round are very different to last winter. The
different to last winter. The vaccination, and improvement in
vaccination, and improvement in treatment means patients who are
treatment means patients who are admitted spend less time in
admitted spend less time in hospital. 50 the overall numbers in
hospital. So the overall numbers in hospital could be very different,
hospital could be very different, even with the same level of
even with the same level of admissions. If Omicron turns out to
admissions. If Omicron turns out to be very infectious and there are a
be very infectious and there are a lot of people who are catching it,
lot of peopla who are catching it, even if
lot of people who are catching it, even if the symptoms are mild, by
even if the symptoms are mild, by virtue of the fact that so many
virtue of the fact that so many peopla
virtue of the fact that so many people might get it,
people might get it, then hospitalisations would rise, is at
hospitalisations would rise, is at thinking? Indeed. Sate the Omicron
thinking? Indeed. Sate the Omicron variant is causing half the rate of
variant is causing half the rate of serious illness. For every 100
serious illness. For every 100 infections, half of them end up
infections, half of them end up seriously ill. But they increase
seriously ill. But they increase fourfold, you have double the number
fourfold, you have double the number of admissions, so that is why a fast
of admissions, so that is why a fast spreading variant, even if it is
spreading variant, even if it is milder, is still the problem.
milder, is still the problem. Clearly, and this was appointed
Clearty, and this was appointed professor,
Clearly, and this was appointed professor, Chris Whitty made this
professor, Chris whitty made this morning, it is
professor, Chris Whitty made this morning, it is about trying to
morning, it is about trying to balance that harms between more
balance that harms between more restrictions and the hands of the
restrictions and the hands of the virus could cause. And he described
virus could cause. And he described it
virus could rause. And he described it as
virus could cause. And he described it as approaching a hairpin bend. We
it as approaching a hairpin bend. We were accelerating away from the
were accelerating away from the Delta variant and suddenly we were
Delta variant and suddenly we were confronted with this sharp bend. And
confronted with this sharp bend. And we don’t know what the threat is on
we don’t know what the threat is on the other side. So we have to slow
the other side. So we have to slow down and that is why he talks about
down and that is why he talks about prioritising their contact in the
prioritising their contact in the [ad
prioritising their contact in the lead up to Christmas. Just slow
lead up to Christmas. just slow down, take
lead up to Christmas. Just slow down, take stock and as we get
down, take stock and as we get closer to the bend we will be able
closer to the bend we will be able to see what is round the other side.
to see what is round the other side. And this is where he talks about
And this is where he talks about finding out about how much serious
finding out about how much serious illness will be caused, and when we
illness will be caused, and when we know that we can adjust to that. We
know that we ran adjust to that. We will be
know that we can adjust to that. We will be able to accelerate away
will be able to accelerate away again. Thank you very much.
The Queen has cancelled her traditional pre
Christmas family lunch.
It’s understood the decision is a precaution with a source
suggesting it could put too many people’s Christmas arrangements
at risk if it went ahead.
Let’s speak to our Royal Correspondent, Nicholas Witchell.
Everyone always twitches when the Queen cancel something. Yes, but no
Queen cancel something. Yes, but no great surprise I would have to say.
great surprise I would have to say. I think this decision was
I think this decision was inevitable. It is important to
inevitable. It is important to stress that this is their Christmas
stress that this is their Christmas lunch for the extended family that
lunch for the extended family that the Queen would normally have at
the Queen would normally have at Buckingham Palace, this year it
Buckingham Palace, this year it would have been at Windsor Castle
would have been at Windsor (“35th earty
would have been at Windsor Castle earty next
would have been at Windsor Castle early next week. This is the
early next week. This is the extended family which includes all
extended family which includes all the cousins, the Klosters and the
the cousins, the Klosters and the Kent and the others who don’t get
Kent and the others who don’t get invited up to Sandringham. So for
invited up to Sandringham. So for them, for the extended family, and
them, for the extended family, and normally 40
them, for the extended family, and normally A0 people would normally
normally 40 peopla would normally attend
normally A0 people would normally attend this, that is at the event
attend this, that is at the event that has been cancelled. It is
that has been cancelled. It is described by Buckingham Palace as a
described by Buckingham Palace as a precautionary measure. It is found
precautionary measure. It is found to be putting too many people plasma
to be putting too many people plasma Christmas is at risk if it went
Christmas is at risk if it went ahead. I think there is a feeling
ahead. I think there is a feeling that it is the right thing to do for
that it is the right thing to do for all concerned and the Queen will be
all concerned and the Queen will be wanting to be seen to be setting an
wanting to be seen to be setting an example. Goodness knows how many
example. Goodness knows how many different households would have been
different households would have been coming together for this lunch for
coming together for this lunch for the extended royal family.
coming together for this lunch for the extended royalfamily. There
coming together for this lunch for the extended royal family. There are
the extended royal family. There are quite a few of them. But it is
quite a few of them. But it is important to say that at the time of
important to say that at the time of writing, the arrangements for the
writing, the arrangements for the immediate family to go to
immediate family to go to Sandringham for their Christmas
Sandringham for their Christmas there, those are still in place. But
there, those are still in place. But clearly the Queen and her advisers
dearty the Queen and her advisers will be
clearly the Queen and her advisers will be watching the situation
will be watching the situation closely. Thank you very much. Let’s
closely. Thank you very much. Let’s talk further about the spread of
talk further about the spread of Omicron.
Joining me now is Athony Costello, Professor of Global Health
at University College London and a member of Independent SAGE.
Good to see you. How fast do you believe Omicron is spreading? We
believe Omicron is spreading? We used to talk a lot about the art
used to talk a lot about the art rate with other variants, the
rate with other variants, the reproduction rate. Well, it is
reproduction rate. Well, it is exploding. We only really knew about
exploding. We only really knew about this three weeks ago and it is
this three weeks ago and it is already catching up with Delta in
already catching up with Delta in this country. And the art value is
this country. And the art value is various reports, but all seem to
various reports, but all seem to have it at four or above. It is
have it at four or above. It is doubUng
have it at four or above. It is doubling every two days right now
doubling every two days right now and so there are only ten days, nine
and so there are only ten days, nine days to Christmas. There could be
days to Christmas. There could be four or five doubling is over the
four or five doubling is over the next ten days which is incredibly
next ten days which is incredibly fast. The UK Health Security Agency
fast. The UK Health Security Agency said it is three times more
said it is three times more transmissible within households than
transmissible within households than Delta and five times more likely to
Delta and five times more likely to re-infect
Delta and five times more likely to re—infect people than Delta. We know
re-infect peopla than Delta. We know from
re—infect people than Delta. We know from three studies published a
from three studies published a couple of days ago that waning
couple of days ago that waning immunity means that after a second
immunity means that after a second dose, particularly in elderly
dose, particularty in elderty peopla,
dose, particularly in elderly people, the immunity wears off after
peopla, the immunity wears off after about six
people, the immunity wears off after about six months or declines very
about six months or declines very sharply. So, as Chris Whitty said
sharply. So, as Chris whitty said yesterday,
sharply. So, as Chris Whitty said yesterday, everything we know about
yesterday, everything we know about this virus is bad. The remaining
this virus is bad. The remaining uncertainty is, is it milder and
uncertainty is, is it milder and what would be the impact on
what would be the impact on hospitalisations and deaths? 50 we
hospitalisations and deaths? So we need to
hospitalisations and deaths? 50 we need to watch hospital figures
need to watch hospital figures incredibly carefully over the next
incredibly carefully over the next seven to ten days to see exactly
seven to ten days to see exactly what is happening. It is a very
what is happening. It is a very interesting point that Professor
interesting point that Professor Chris Whitty was making, encouraging
Chris whitty was making, encouraging pregnant
Chris Whitty was making, encouraging pregnant women to get vaccinated and
pregnant women to get vaccinated and us to prioritise our social events
us to prioritise our social events that we attend. We will talk more
# Vincero... #
Pavarotti became the global rock star.
I would like to dedicate to Lady Diana.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE
Luciano was the one and only.
Pavarotti — 3 Ron Howard film.
When did you last feel like this?
The moment that made you jump around like that?
The highs, the lows.
Who’s your number one?
BBC Sports Personality of the Year...
It’s Thursday, it’s 12:15 and we’re live in Westminster.
With me today: Conservative MP Andrew Bowie,
the Shadow Attorney General Emily Thornberry, the Guardian’s North
of England editor Helen Pidd and the Editor of Reaction and Times
columnist Iain Martin.
Today: is Plan B and the booster campaign
enough to deal with Omicron?
There are several things we don’t know.
But all of the things that we do know are.
The hospitality industry is hit by cancellations.
Should the government offerfinancial support?
It’s still radio silence from the Chancellor.
We’ll also be asking how we can start to live with Covid.
Also today...
We have put an end to the victimisation of people
who are not criminals.
As Malta becomes the first EU country to
legalise cannabis.
We speak to the Conservative MP who says now is the time
to change Britain’s drugs laws.
just as we have come on air, I can
just as we have come on air, I ran bring you the
just as we have come on air, I can bring you the breaking news that the
bring you the breaking news that the Bank of England has raised interest
Bank of England has raised interest rates for the first time in three
rates for the first time in three years
rates for the first time in three 7955 “P
rates for the first time in three years up to 0.25%. That follows
years up to 0.2596. That follows yesterdays
years up to 0.25%. That follows yesterday’s inflation figures, which
yesterdays inﬂation figures, which surged to
yesterday’s inflation figures, which surged to 25.1%. Let’s open the
surged to 25.196. Let’s open the programme
surged to 25.1%. Let’s open the programme with a question about
programme with a question about whether that is the right response
whether that is the right response from the Bank of England, Andrew?
from the Bank of England, Andrew? Hi. I
from the Bank of England, Andrew? Hi. Ithink it is
from the Bank of England, Andrew? Hi. I think it is the right
Hi. I think it is the right response. It is a proportionate and
response. It is a proportionate and measured response. We need to do
measured response. We need to do something to try to tackle this
something to try to tackle this increase in inflation, the highest
increase in inﬂation, the highest since
increase in inflation, the highest since 2011. I think it is sensible.
since 2011. I think it is sensible. What
since 2011. I think it is sensible. what we
since 2011. I think it is sensible. What we don’t want to see is raising
what we don’t want to see is raising inﬂation
What we don’t want to see is raising inflation rates, rising interest
inﬂation rates, rising interest rates, go
inflation rates, rising interest rates, go even higher. The bank and
rates, go even higher. The bank and on the right thing. Have they done
on the right thing. Have they done the right thing, Emily, or have they
the right thing, Emily, or have they gone far enough? What we need to
gone far enough? What we need to understand is whether it is the sort
understand is whether it is the sort of inflation we had after the Second
of inﬂation we had after the Second World
of inflation we had after the Second World War when the economy started
World War when the economy started again. Is this inflation caused by
again. Is this inﬂation caused by Covid,
again. Is this inflation caused by Covid, difficulties in the supply
Covid, difficulties in the supply chain? Is it temporary, is it more
chain? Is it temporary, is it more endemic than it was? It is likely to
endemic than it was? It is likely to be global. It is something we need
be global. It is something we need to work across the world. As the
to work across the world. As the Bank of England done the right
Bank of England done the right thing? Probably. The rate is not
thing? Probably. The rate is not very high. If we want to tackle it
very high. If we want to tackle it we have to work internationally and
we have to work internationally and understand the nature of inflation.
understand the nature of inﬂation. I know
understand the nature of inflation. I know that Iain has a view that it
I know that Iain has a view that it is neither of the two things I have
is neither of the two things I have suggested, it is something else
suggested, it is something else again. We need to have a better
again. We need to have a better understanding than we do at the
understanding than we do at the moment. We haven’t talked about it
moment. We haven’t talked about it for years because it has not been an
for years because it has not been an issue? --.
for years because it has not been an issue? ——. Helen? I
for years because it has not been an issue? ——. Helen? Iwould be lying
issue? --. Helen? Iwould be lying if
issue? --. Helen? Iwould be lying in
issue? --. Helen? Iwould be lying if I said I
issue? ——. Helen? Iwould be lying if I said I understood the minutiae
if I said I understood the minutiae of fiscal policy. We are facing a
of fiscal policy. We are facing a cost of living crisis in the UK. I
cost of living crisis in the UK. I had an e—mail yesterday to say my
had an e-mail yesterday to say my gas is going up
had an e—mail yesterday to say my gas is going up to £200 a month. I
gas is going up to £200 a month. I will defer to bigger brains. Iain?
gas is going up to £200 a month. I will deferto bigger brains. Iain? I
will defer to bigger brains. Iain? I am not
will deferto bigger brains. Iain? I am not sure about that! The
am not sure about that! The authorities are in a difficult
authorities are in a difficult position because they don’t quite
position because they don’t quite know what is causing this inflation.
know what is causing this inﬂation. It is broadly
know what is causing this inflation. It is broadly the right move. But
It is broadly the right move. But their concern was, if there is
their concern was, if there is interest rates, even by a small
interest rates, even by a small amount, you then hit the recovery,
amount, you then hit the recovery, which is already stalling. If you
which is already stalling. If you look at Wall Street, there are some
look at Wall Street, there are some big brains they’re betting on a
big brains therre betting on a burst
big brains they’re betting on a burst of inflation this year or next
burst of inﬂation this year or next year, and then
burst of inflation this year or next year, and then shop deflation if the
year, and then shop deﬂation if the recovery
year, and then shop deflation if the recovery stalls. It is a difficult
recovery stalls. It is a difficult all to
recovery stalls. It is a difficult call to make. There were some cells
all to make. There were some falls for it to happen
call to make. There were some cells for it to happen last time around
for it to happen last time around the Bank of England made their
the Bank of England made their decision. They postponed it. Perhaps
decision. They postponed it. Perhaps people thought they wouldn’t do it
peopla thought they wouldn’t do it today
people thought they wouldn’t do it today because of Omicron. Are you
today because of Omicron. Are you surprised? No, I
today because of Omicron. Are you surprised? No, Ithought
today because of Omicron. Are you surprised? No, I thought they had to
surprised? No, I thought they had to do something. Overnight, the
do something. Overnight, the warnings have come out of the US,
warnings have come out of the US, the Fed is predicting three or
warnings have come out of the US, the Fed is predicting three orfour
the Fed is predicting three or four increases
the Fed is predicting three orfour increases in the US next year. So
increases in the US next year. So essentially, the consensus view
essentially, the consensus view among central bankers and amongst
among central bankers and amongst authorities is that they have
authorities is that they have underestimated the scale of this.
underestimated the scale of this. They are going to have to move
They are going to have to move quickly. This is
They are going to have to move quickly. This isjust the
They are going to have to move quickly. This is just the start.
They are going to have to move quickly. This isjust the start. In
quickly. This is just the start. In historical
quickly. This isjust the start. In historical context, it is still very
historical context, it is still very low. We have a

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 16/12/2021, BBC2 England, 135 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BE9F3D7?bcast=135851984 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)