This is BBC News.
These are the latest headlines in the UK
and around the world.
As ten million people receive their first Covid jab across the UK,
a trial is launched to look at the impact of having
different vaccines for the first and second dose.
It will hopefully maintain the UK at the forefront of research
into Covid vaccines.
We are very proud of our track record, obviously,
on the vaccine task force and the deployment programme.
This is another part of the armoury.
With pressure growing to ease lockdown restrictions in the UK,
a scientist advising the government says things could be more or less
back to normal for the summer.
What do you think about the restrictions where you are?
If you’d like to get in touch about that or any of our stories
you can contact us on twitter @annita—mcveigh or #BBCYourQuestions
The US State Department calls for "serious consequences" for China
after a BBC report alleging women were systemically raped
and tortured in Uighur camps.
But China calls it ‘lies and disinformation’.
The UK and EU agree to work intensively to sort out problems
with post-Brexit trade in Northern Ireland.
Myanmar’s military blocks Facebook
after protests continue to spread against Monday’s military coup.
And coming up this hour:
Tennis officials say the Australian Open will start
as planned on Monday,
despite hundreds of players and staff being forced to isolate
again in Melbourne.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK
or around the world.
A new trial has launched here in the UK to look at the impact
of giving people different coronavirus vaccines
for their first and second doses.
The mix—and—match approach could provide more flexibility
in the event of any supply problems.
Scientists say it’s possible that having different vaccines might even
provide better protection than having the same one twice.
It comes as the UK yesterday passed the milestone of giving 10 million
people their first jabs.
Dominic Hughes reports.
With more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs
across the UK, the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
But could mixing doses of the Oxford—AstraZeneca
and the Pfizer—BionTech vaccines offer the body even more
chances to develop defences against the virus?
That’s what’s behind a new trial being unveiled today.
The study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have
yet had the vaccine.
All will be aged 50 or over, part of the group to be vaccinated
in the next priority wave.
The trial will run initially at eight sites across England.
What we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well
people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose
with one Covid vaccine, the second with another.
And the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility
into the UK immunisation schedule for Covid vaccines,
and even globally.
It makes it much easier to administer these vaccines
if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose
the same as the first dose.
That also brings resilience into the immunisation schedule.
If there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines,
then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with
the other vaccine as an alternative.
Researchers believe there are good reasons to think it may work.
For example, exactly this process was used in the fight against Ebola.
Introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme
could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies,
and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have
yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
The first results should be known by the early summer.
Dominic Hughes, BBC News.
Let’s pick up on this with our chief
political correpondent Adam Fleming at Westminster.
m:
We saw the grass at the press conference
We saw the grass at the press conference yesterday in that the
conference yesterday in that the number of vaccinations is shooting
number of vaccinations is shooting “P
number of vaccinations is shooting up rapidly, the number of cases is
up rapidly, the number of rases is falling rapidly
up rapidly, the number of cases is falling rapidly and the number of
falling rapidly and the number of hospitalisations and deaths is
hospitalisations and deaths is slowing down and following but not
slowing down and following but not as rapidly as the other indicators.
as rapidly as the other indicators. Some Conservative MPs will be
Some Conservative MPs will be looking at this and asking if we can
looking at this and asking if we ran go faster with
looking at this and asking if we can go faster with lifting the lockdown
go faster with lifting the lockdown in England. Good schools open
in England. Good schools open eartier
in England. Good schools open earlier than the 8th of March? The
eartier than the 8th of March? The government is
earlier than the 8th of March? The government is sticking to its
government is sticking to its approach which it describes as
approach which it describes as cautious rather than a slow and that
cautious rather than a slow and that is, look at the data on the 15th of
is, look at the data on the 15th of Fehmary,
is, look at the data on the 15th of February, published a plan on the
Febmary, published a plan on the week of
February, published a plan on the week of the 22nd and the schools on
week of the 22nd and the schools on the eighth.
The Prime Minister has made it very clear that,
on the 22nd of February, there will be a road map for how
we intend to reopen the economy, beginning with schools on
the 8th of March and then gradually the rest of the economy.
You have to set yourself targets.
And you hope everything goes well.
Scientists seem very cautious at the moment and Chris Whitty said there
moment and Chris whitty said there are hints
moment and Chris Whitty said there are hints in the data that the
are hints in the data that the vaccination programme are starting
vaccination programme are starting to work and effect the progress of
to work and effect the progress of the virus in the over 805 but they
the virus in the over 805 but they are only hints and he has not
are only hints and he has not convinced and it will be two weeks
convinced and it will be two weeks before that happens. In the
before that happens. In the scientific community some people are
scientific community some peoplc are starting to talk
scientific community some people are starting to talk about how bright
starting to talk about how bright the future might be fairly soon.
the future might be fairty soon. This is
the future might be fairly soon. This is the professor from
This is the professor from University College London on the
University College London on the committee which advises the
committee which advises the government on new respiratory
government on new respiratory vimses.
Once the most vulnerable people, and particularly those over 50
and those with chronic illnesses, are vaccinated, then, yes,
I think we can see a significant return to normality.
And that, you know, in addition to the fact that coronavirus
is a seasonal disease, I think will make a big difference
and allow us to open up.
And I think what we will see is a phased opening up
as the vaccination levels increase.
And then we will be more or less back to normal
for the summer, I would imagine.
Another part of this complex equation of opening up is stopping
equation of opening up is stopping peopla
equation of opening up is stopping people potentially bringing their
peopla potentially bringing their vims
people potentially bringing their virus in in the first place. We have
virus in in the first place. We have been looking at hotel quarantine
been looking at hotel quarantine over the last two weeks. What is the
over the last two weeks. what is the government
over the last two weeks. What is the government saying? It is getting
government saying? It is getting confusing, the Prime Minister said
confusing, the Prime Minister said Matt Hancock, they help secretary
Matt Hancock, they help secretary would make a statement today. We
would make a statement today. We were then told that the Prime
were then told that the Prime Minister had misspoke in and that
Minister had misspoke in and that was not the intention. If you look
was not the intention. If you look back at the recordings of
back at the recordings of Parliamentary proceedings last week,
Partiamentary proceedings last week, the
Parliamentary proceedings last week, the Home Secretary said Matt Hancock
the Home Secretary said Matt Hancock would be making a statement this
would be making a statement this week. There was an expectation and
week. There was an expectation and government that something would
government that something would happen and something has not
happen and something has not happened yet. The chief executive of
happened yet. The chief executive of the Best Western hotels group was on
the Best Western hotels group was on the radio this morning and he is
the radio this morning and he is frustrated because he says his hotel
fmstrated because he says his hotel chain has
frustrated because he says his hotel chain has a plan ready to go to
chain has a plan ready to go to implement the quarantine for
implement the quarantine for returning travellers but he has had
returning travellers but he has had very little engagement from the
very little engagement from the government. I think we are going to
government. I think we are going to have to wait and see although they
have to wait and see although they have pointed out to me it is a big
have pointed out to me it is a big logistical challenge and sometimes
logistical challenge and sometimes Whitehall takes a little while to
Whitehall takes a little while to get its head around big logistical
get its head around big logistical challanges.
The United States has condemned China after BBC reports
of allegations of systematic rape and torture of women
in so—called re—education camps for the Uighur Muslim minority.
The state department says it is "deeply disturbed" by what it
called "the atrocities" outlined in the report broadcast
on this channel. And its demanding
a powerful response —
urging that China’s actions, which it says "shock the conscience,
be met with serious consequences."A group
of Republican senators has joined human rights groups in calling
on the International Olympic Committee to move next year’s Winter
games out of China — but the Biden adminstration says it
won’t stop US athletes attending.
But the Chinese Foreign Ministry has dismissed the BBC
report as ‘lies and disinformation’.
This from the ministry’s weekly press conference.
TRANSLATION: There is no so—called systemic sexual assault
and abuse against women.
China is a country ruled by law.
Our constitution guarantees and protect human rights
and it is embodied in our legal system and the government’s work.
The education and training centres strictly abide by constitutional
laws to guarantee the students’ basic rights and forbids
any insult or abuse.
Matthew Hill is the reporter who did the BBC story.
He says the piece was thoroughly researched.
We spent a long time, over a year, really,
looking at this in greater detail.
We’ve spoken to several women outside of Xinjiang,
intensively interrogated them to make sure what they are
telling us is credible.
And we have also, you know, we have done a lot
of checking of our sources on this one.
And so, yeah, it has had a big reaction internationally.
IPAC, the International Parliamentary Alliance On China
produced a statement saying that 50 leading politicians around
the world, from 19 different countries, had all signed a letter,
a joint statement of concern of genocide on the back of the report.
Including Senator Menendez, chair of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee in the USA, and also Australia,
they have done a statement.
Marise Payne the Australian Foreign Minister, has made a statement
where she is calling on China to allow international observers,
including the UN Commission of Human Rights, to be allowed
access, and get access to the country of the back of this.
m:
We will have more on this story where an urgent question is going to
where an urgent question is going to be asked in the House of Commons
be asked in the House of Commons about Uighur women in camps.
The UK and EU have said they will work hard to resolve
These checks were agreed as part of the Brexit trade deal. Talks last
the Brexit trade deal. Talks last night described as constructive are
night described as constructive are continuing between the governments
continuing between the governments after border controls were stopped
after border controls were stopped this week. Our Europe
correspondent explains. It was a joint statement and a virtual
joint statement and a virtual meeting that A0 minutes last night,
meeting that 40 minutes last night, the Deputy
meeting that A0 minutes last night, the Deputy Minister for Northern
the Deputy Minister for Northern Ireland and the First Minister from
Ireland and the First Minister from the DUP, and ultimately, it is a
the DUP, and ultimately, it is a history of last week’s trouble with
history of last week’s troubla with the
history of last week’s trouble with the catastrophe in which it has
the catastrophe in which it has admitted by the EU intended to
admitted by the EU intended to trigger Article 15 to suspend its
trigger Article 15 to suspend its usual application meaning there
usual application meaning there could be a border between Ireland
could be a border between Ireland and Northern Ireland with the
and Northern Ireland with the vaccine checks happening there. They
vaccine checks happening there. They had stopped that, but a letter
had stopped that, but a letter yesterday morning published by
yesterday morning published by Michael Gove was sent to the EU
Michael Gove was sent to the EU saying after that problem, we have
saying after that problem, we have seen threats to EU Northern Irish
seen threats to EU Northern Irish staff at the board, staff being
staff at the board, staff being suspended from work since Tuesday,
suspended from work since Tuesday, still off work at the moment, those
still off work at the moment, those checks not in place on certain
checks not in place on certain foodstuffs, we need some resolution.
foodstuffs, we need some resolution. There is a grace period for certain
There is a grace period for certain products, supermarket products, meat
products, supermarket products, meat and
products, supermarket products, meet and medicines, we need to continue
and medicines, we need to continue this scenario up until 2022. It was
this scenario up until 2022. It was a 40
this scenario up until 2022. It was 3 A0 minute meeting, the end result
a 40 minute meeting, the end result was it
3 A0 minute meeting, the end result was it would be a constructive way
was it would be a constructive way of finding solutions, the ego will
of finding solutions, the ego will come to Northern Ireland next week.
come to Northern Ireland next week. The EU will continue to impose fully
The EU will continue to impose fully these checks and the UK are still
these checks and the UK are still pushing for a grace period to
pushing for a grace period to extend it. In the last few minutes we have
it. In the last few minutes we have had BBC radio Ulster, the Foreign
had BBC radio Ulster, the Foreign Minister
had BBC radio Ulster, the Foreign Ministerfor Ireland and he said
Minister for Ireland and he said that
Ministerfor Ireland and he said that the idea of the grace period
that the idea of the grace period now, we will look to put in place
now, we will look to put in place and possibla
now, we will look to put in place and possible to extend some of the
and possible to extend some of the grace period, I think it is under
grace period, I think it is under consideration but nothing dramatic
consideration but nothing dramatic in terms of protocol. Perhaps some
in terms of protocol. Perhaps some very small room for manoeuvre but
very small room for manoeuvre but the EU wants assurances now for the
the EU wants assurances now for the staff to go back to work at the
staff to go back to work at the port safely.
Let’s talk to Stephen Kelly, chief executive of Manufacturing
Northern Ireland, a trade body that has been helping business
adjust to the new trading arrangements.
ﬂ
I spoke to Glyn Roberts a while ago
I spoke to Glyn Roberts a whila ago and I was
I spoke to Glyn Roberts a while ago and I was asking him, we talk about
and I was asking him, we talk about jargon like article 16, what does it
jargon like artida 16, what does it actually mean
jargon like article 16, what does it actually mean on a practical level?
actually mean on a practical lavel? How is
actually mean on a practical level? How is the situation affecting on a
How is the situation affecting on a practical level the people you
practical level the people you represent? There is no doubt that
represent? There is no doubt that january was an
represent? There is no doubt that January was an incredibly difficult
january was an incredibly difficult month,
January was an incredibly difficult month, the business community did
month, the business community did warn in the absence of detail,
warn in the absence of detail, people did not have the time to get
people did not have the time to get ready. That is what we experienced
ready. That is what we experienced on the 1st of January. It was a bit
on the 1st of january. It was a bit like the
on the 1st of January. It was a bit like the scene from
on the lst of January. It was a bit like the scene from Wallace and
like the scene from Wallace and Gromit when Gromit lays down the
Gromit when Gromit lays down the track in front of the train avert
track in front of the train avert disaster. Businesses were working in
disaster. Businesses were working in credibly hard to keep going in the
credibly hard to keep going in the midst of the turmoil that was the
midst of the turmoil that was the beginning of this year. On top of
beginning of this year. On top of that, the Covid—19 pandemic
that, the Covid-19 pandemic affecting us
that, the Covid—19 pandemic affecting us all. Yes, we know that
affecting us all. Yes, we know that scene. In the meantime, if you can’t
scene. In the meantime, if you can’t get items you normally get from
get items you normally get from Great Britain because of the
Great Britain because of the situation, where are you getting
situation, where are you getting them from? One of the benefits of
them from? One of the benefits of the protocol is that business and
the protocol is that business and Northern Ireland can continue to
Northern Ireland ran continue to trade
Northern Ireland can continue to trade with the EU. There are more
trade with the EU. There are more restrictions and customs and tariffs
restrictions and customs and tariffs on mles
restrictions and customs and tariffs on rules of origin, but many
on rules of origin, but many manufacturing businesses have
manufacturing businesses have re—orientated how they are supplied.
re-orientated how they are supplied. Our
re—orientated how they are supplied. Our membership in the last few days,
Our membership in the last few days, 25% of businesses have said they
2596 of businesses have said they have
25% of businesses have said they have worked out a way to get the
have worked out a way to get the products they would normally have
products they would normally have got to make the things that they
got to make the things that they make, shipping them from continental
make, shipping them from continental Europe through southern Irish ports
Europe through southern Irish ports are using transit systems to transit
are using transit systems to transit across the UK, across Great Britain
across the UK, across Great Britain back into Northern Ireland. One
back into Northern Ireland. One benefit of the protocol in terms of
benefit of the protocol in terms of our European trade, that shouldn’t
our European trade, that shouldn’t change at all. At the moment,
change at all. At the moment, businesses in Great Britain are
businesses in Great Britain are losing out because of the situation.
losing out because of the situation. They would normally, before the
They would normally, before the deal, have been supplying the farms
deal, have been supplying the farms that you represent and now they
that you represent and now they are not? They are not to. This is a
not? They are not to. This is a sovereign choice of the UK
sovereign choice of the UK Government to make this decision.
Government to make this decision. The island of Britain was a centre
The island of Britain was a centre of distribution for this as well.
of distribution for this as well. Sadly, that has been hindered in
Sadly, that has been hindered in significant ways that the government
significant ways that the government has decided it wishes to be out of
has decided it wishes to be out of the single market, the customs
the single market, the customs union, with that comes cost and
union, with that comes cost and complaxity
union, with that comes cost and complexity and businesses will find
complexity and businesses will find the least resistance in terms of
the least resistance in terms of trade. People are moving to
trade. People are moving to different supply modes. From your
different supply modes. From your perspective, what is the answer to
perspective, what is the answer to this conundrum? We are hearing about
this conundmm? We are hearing about grace grace
this conundrum? We are hearing about grace grace period being extended.
grace grace period being extended. That doesn’t really solve anything
That doesn’t really solve anything in the immediate future, does it? It
in the immediate future, does it? It buys time in terms of trying to find
buys time in terms of trying to find alternative and workable solutions.
alternative and workable solutions. There is no doubt that there are
There is no doubt that there are significant frictions on the Irish
significant frictions on the Irish Sea between Great Britain and
Sea between Great Britain and Northern Ireland. They are painful
Northern Ireland. They are painful for businesses trying to adjust.
for businesses trying to adjust. They have had no time to do that and
They have had no time to do that and it will take considerable time to
it will take considerabla time to make
it will take considerable time to make those adjustments. The reality
make those adjustments. The reality is the protocol is not going away,
is the protocol is not going away, it is an international treaty that
it is an international treaty that the UK has signed alongside the
the UK has signed alongside the European Union and has legal
European Union and has legal obligations. Both parties need to
obligations. Both parties need to demonstrate that they want to make
demonstrate that they want to make the protocol work. The UK Government
the protocol work. The UK Government is trying its best, working hard
is trying its best, working hard with us as a business community, the
with us as a business community, the European Union has to do more. Thank
European Union has to do more. Thank you very much.
The headlines on BBC News:
F.
Is 10 million people received the
Is10 million people received the jab across the
Is 10 million people received the jab across the UK, look at a
jab across the UK, look at a different dosage. The US state
different dosage. The US state department looks part serious
department looks part serious consequences for China after women
consequences for China after women 55V
consequences for China after women say they were raped and tortured in
say they were raped and tortured in Uighur ramps.
say they were raped and tortured in Uighur camps. The UK and EU agreed
Uighur ramps. The UK and EU agreed to work
Uighur camps. The UK and EU agreed to work intensively to sort out
to work intensively to sort out problams
to work intensively to sort out problems with post—Brexit trade in
problems with post—Brexit trade in Northern Ireland.
Days after staging a coup, Myanamar’s military leaders
have blocked Facebook, the main source of internet access
for people in the country.
Officials say it was shutdown to boost stability.
The UN Secretary—General, Antonio Guterres, has pledged
to mobilise international pressure to ensure, as he put
it, that the military coup in Myanmarfails.
There’s been no word on the whereabouts of the country’s
de factor leader Aung San Suu Kyi
and President Win Myint since Monday.
For a second day protesters banged pots and sounded car horns
in the country’s largest city.
Our reporter Nye—in Chan Aye filed this report from Yangon.
This is where people are showing their frustration
and anger against the military coup that has taken place on Monday.
This is the second night in a row people in Yangon have been
banging pots and pans, honking their car horns,
in protest against the military coup that took place on Monday.
Essentially, what people here are saying is that they don’t
want to live or work under the military any more.
SINGING.
TRANSLATION: We only respect our elected President, no one else.
If the President wanted the military to take over,
then we would have accepted that.
But this coup is not fair, so we are expressing our
feelings in a peaceful way.
We are the voice of the little people.
TRANSLATION: I witnessed the coups in 1962 and 1988.
We know all about what happens under military takeovers,
so we have to do this.
If we take to the streets, they will shoot us dead.
Under these circumstances, I support this kind of protest.
We want the elected leaders back.
TRANSLATION: People don’t accept the coup.
That’s why we want to drive them out, by doing this.
SINGING.
On the other hand, the military is taking total
control of the country.
The military have installed an ii—memberjunta, which they say
will rule under the year—long state of emergency.
The people of Yangon have come out here tonight again,
in larger numbers than yesterday, to say they want their vote
on voice to be heard.
Our correspondent Jonathan Head is in Bangkok
in neighbouring Thailand.
I think everyday people are trying to find other ways in which they can
show their opposition to this coup.
You have to remember that the reason people are so angry,
apart from the depressing prospect of being thrown back to military
governments that have chronically failed the country in the past,
is that they have just had an election in which there
was a surprisingly large turnout, during the Covid pandemic,
and voted overwhelmingly again for Aung San even though her party
has been a power for five years.
They gave her another term in office.
This week, Parliament was supposed to be sitting to formalise
that new term of office.
The new MPs were supposed to sit.
That has been stopped by the coup.
In fact, some of the MP5 that were detained initially have now
started to come together, and they are trying to form a kind
of informal Parliament away from the Parliament building,
to try to establish a kind of alternative,
legitimate government.
So, this kind of tussle are still going on.
We are hearing very little from the military
government themselves.
They have mostly acted in the capital, Naypyida.
They are still holding Aung San Suu Kyi herself and her ally,
the President, in custody.
And they have charged them with what seemed like it,
frankly, absurd charges.
She is charged with having illegal walkie—talkies in her house,
used by her security guards.
But it looks like they are going to try and get
a criminal charge against her, because that would disqualify her
from running for office.
Remember, the military is talking about, eventually,
holding another election once they have got through this year long
period of emergency rule.
Everyone is sitting and waiting to see whether they can find ways
to oppose the military safely without getting shot.
We are seeing small protests today, they have been
chased away by police.
And waiting to see what the military says about how they are going
to handle the power they have now given themselves.
Is there any more word on how Aung San Suu Kyi is?
Because the UN, for example, saying they are concerned
about her well—being 7
Well, we understand she has been remanded in custody for two weeks
on these rather bizarre charges.
Before she will be formally charged, we are not sure how long it
will take to bring her to trial.
We have heard that she is in good health and there is nothing
particularly wrong with her.
She is a 75—year—old woman.
I imagine, probably knowing her, that the biggest problem
is how angry she must feel about what has happened.
But the concern, I think, is much more for the future,
particularly of Myanmar itself.
This is a country whose economy has been badly hit already by Covid.
There is a lot of extreme poverty there.
What the military has done is bound to have a very negative
effect on that economy.
That can make people angry enough in the future to come out
and challenge the military.
And everybody should remember from them a’s
history that in the past, when it has happened,
the military has not hesitated to shoot people.
In Russia, officials have charged Lyubov Sobol,
an ally of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, with breaching
COVID—19 restrictions by calling on people to join a nationwide
protest last month, that’s according to her lawyer.
The case against Sobol is part of a police crackdown on Navalny’s
allies after they staged nationwide rallies to protest his imprisonment.
There are big problems for organisers
of the Australian Open tennis.
Up to 600 players, officials and support staff, have been forced
to go into isolation after a worker at one of the event’s
quarantine hotels, tested positive for coronavirus.
The tournament starts on Monday, and Tennis Australia says it’ll
go ahead as planned.
Another few days of the main event on Monday that we are told by
on Monday that we are told by officials is going to go ahead as it
officials is going to go ahead as it stands. I am
officials is going to go ahead as it stands. lam here
officials is going to go ahead as it stands. I am here in Melbourne Park
stands. I am here in Melbourne Park and normally things would be much
and normally things would be much busier, it is pretty empty here
busier, it is pretty empty here right now. We were expecting some
right now. We were expecting some high profile names, some top names
high profila names, some top names of
high profile names, some top names of the sport, to be playing, to be
of the sport, to be playing, to be on apart some warm up events. It has
on apart some warm up events. It has all been cancelled. This was a
all been cancelled. This was a chance for some practice especially
chance for some practice especially needed for the players who were
needed for the players who were holed up in quarantine last month
holed up in quarantine last month when Covid—19 cases were recorded on
when Covid-19 cases were recorded on their
when Covid-19 rases were recorded on their aeroplanes.
when Covid—19 cases were recorded on theiraeroplanes. None
when Covid—19 cases were recorded on their aeroplanes. None of that is
their aeroplanes. None of that is happening today. Another big blow to
happening today. Another big blow to the Australian open, much to the
the Australian open, much to the frustration of the players and
fmstration of the players and organisers
frustration of the players and organisers and the people of
organisers and the people of Melbourne who are really excited
Melbourne who are really excited that this is happening. This city
that this is happening. This city has seen one of the longest and
has seen one of the longest and harshest lockdown is and they are
harshest lockdown is and they are looking forward to coming back to
looking forward to coming back to life. The 500 to 600 players and
life. The 500 to 600 players and officials and coaches have to come
officials and coaches have to come back with negative test before they
back with negative test before they ran
back with negative test before they can return to the competition. We
ran return to the competition. We are expecting
can return to the competition. We are expecting those results to come
are expecting those results to come in later today within the next few
in later today within the next few hours. As tennis Australia being
hours. As tennis Australia being optimistic saying things will go
optimistic saying things will go ahead from Monday as planned? From a
ahead from Monday as planned? From a player perspective they are right to
player perspective they are right to be confident in the sense that the
be confident in the sense that the will not have been directly in
will not have been directly in contact with the players because
contact with the players herause they were
contact with the players because they were quarantining in their
they were quarantining in their rooms, they are rightly confident
rooms, they are rightly confident that there should not be too many
that there should not be too many transmissions, however, the bigger
transmissions, however, the bigger concern is the wider community
concern is the wider community transmission, they are a few days
transmission, they are a few days behind the worker at the hotel
behind the worker at the hotel who had a taste on the 29th of January
had a taste on the 29th of january and
had a taste on the 29th of January and there is positive test came up
and there is positive test came up on the 2nd of February. There are a
on the 2nd of February. There are a few days when he could have created
few days when he could have created a spike within the community in
a spike within the community in theory or something. If the state
theory or something. If the state was forced into lockdown, that would
was forced into lockdown, that would put serious pressure on the
put serious pressure on the tournament. In terms of player
tournament. In terms of player transmission, they are tentatively
transmission, they are tentatively confident there won’t be too many
confident there won’t be too many problems. The organisers are
problems. The organisers are expecting tens of thousands of
expecting tens of thousands of spectators that they are hoping to
spectators that they are hoping to host. Could there be an impact
host. Could there be an impact there? Where are the spectators
there? where are the spectators coming from?
there? Where are the spectators coming from? Our date from the state
coming from? Our date from the state are right across Australia? I think
are right across Australia? I think they are coming from the state. That
they are coming from the state. That is one of the things to be watched
is one of the things to be watched out for at the minute. It will
out for at the minute. It will depend on the number of cases, how
depend on the number of cases, how many people are allowed an, at the
many peopla are allowed an, at the minute,
many people are allowed an, at the minute, they are planning to go full
minute, they are planning to go full steam ahead. They were looking at
steam ahead. They were looking at around 30,000 a day. I’d be
around 30,000 a day. I’d be surprised if they are aware that
surprised if they are aware that many in the end now but the next few
many in the end now but the next few days I going to be important to see
days I going to be important to see the capacity crowds are allowed an.
the capacity crowds are allowed an. Australia is then a better position
Australia is then a better position with regards to coronavirus than
with regards to coronavirus than many other parts of the world, to
many other parts of the world, to get a major tournament under way and
get a major tournament under way and to see it through to a conclusion
to see it through to a conclusion would be an achievement in this time
would be an achievement in this time a pandemic. It been a massive
a pandemic. It been a massive operation, charter
a pandemic. It been a massive operation, charterﬂights
a pandemic. It been a massive operation, charter flights to
a pandemic. It been a massive operation, charterﬂights to bring
operation, charter ﬂights to bring in more
operation, charterﬂights to bring in more than 1000 people into the
in more than 1000 peopla into the country,
in more than 1000 people into the country, arranged a separate visa
country, arranged a separate visa list to other Australians who want
list to other Australians who want to come back, put them into a
to come back, put them into a quarantine, some of them are allowed
quarantine, some of them are allowed to practice every day and those
to practice every day and those who were unfortunate to be on flights
were unfortunate to be on ﬂights there
were unfortunate to be on flights there where there were positive
there where there were positive tests have not been allowed to
tests have not been allowed to practice and have been shoved into a
practice and have been shoved into a hard quarantine. It is a massive
hard quarantine. It is a massive operation and the idea of it being
operation and the idea of it being cancelled, they have spent a lot of
cancelled, they have spent a lot of money, paid for
cancelled, they have spent a lot of money, paid forﬂights
cancelled, they have spent a lot of money, paid for flights and
money, paid for flights and accommodation, it has been a really,
accommodation, it has been a really, really expensive operation for the
really expensive operation for the country. I hope for their sake does
country. I hope for their sake does happen and they are confident at the
happen and they are confident at the minute that it will but it is a
minute that it will but it is a changing situation and you can never
changing situation and you ran never say anything
changing situation and you can never say anything with certainty whether
say anything with certainty whether the virus. Thank you very much.
the vims. Thank you very much. Let’s hope
the virus. Thank you very much. Let’s hope everything goes smoothly
Let’s hope everything goes smoothly come Monday. Some breaking news, the
come Monday. Some breaking news, the regulator Ofcom is revoking or has
regulator Ofcom is revoking or has revoked the licence of CGT N, China
revoked the licence of CGT N, China global television network. They are
global telavision network. They are saying that
global television network. They are saying that after a study, they have
saying that after a study, they have concluded that the licence was
concluded that the licence was wrongfully hailed by star China
wrongfully hailed by star China media Limited. CGT N has a right of
media Limited. CGT N has a right of response and a right to question
response and a right to question this mling but
response and a right to question this ruling but Ofcom has revoked
this mling but Ofcom has revoked the
this ruling but Ofcom has revoked the license of the satellite channel
the license of the satellite channel saying the licence was wrongfully
saying the licence was wrongfully heard by star China media Limited.
heard bystar China media Limited. That is all
heard by star China media Limited. That is all we have at the moment on
That is all we have at the moment on the piece of breaking news.
Take a look at these images of the white cliffs of Dover.
This footage, captured by a local fisherman,
shows chunks of the famous chalk—lined cliffs crumbling
and falling into the English Channel.
Dave Waterfield said he heard a loud crack and then started filming.
Seconds later the ground at the top started to buckle,
before an entire section gave way.
A study carried out in 2016 found the cliffs are retreating
by up to 12 inches a year because of coastal erosion.
Some of Scotland’s mountain ski centres are having their best
winter conditions in years but frustratingly for boarders
and skiiers remain closed due to lockdown restrictions.
This is Cairngorm Mountain in the Scottish Highlands,
as you can see, with plenty of high quality snow on its slopes.
Glencoe Mountain said it was experiencing the best
conditions it had ever seen for the time of year following weeks
of frequent snowfalls and freezing temperatures,
with more wintry weather expected this weekend.
However, ski centres, like the vast majority
of businesses, remain closed in line with restrictions.
The headlines... As 10 million peopla
The headlines... As 10 million people receive their first Covid jab
people receive their first Covid jab across the UK, trailers launched a
across the UK, trailers hunched a look at
across the UK, trailers launched a look at the impact of having
look at the impact of having different vaccines for the first and
different vaccines for the first and second dose. It will hopefully
second dose. It will hopefully maintain the UK at the forefront of
maintain the UK at the forefront of research into Covid vaccines. We are
research into Covid vaccines. We are very proud of our track record, as
very proud of our track record, as you know, on the vaccine task force,
you know, on the vaccine task force, and the deployment programme. This
and the deployment programme. This is another part of the armoury. With
is another part of the armoury. with pressure
is another part of the armoury. With pressure growing to ease lockdown
pressure growing to ease lockdown restrictions in the UK, a scientist
restrictions in the UK, a scientist advising the Government says things
advising the Government says things could be more or less back to normal
could be more or lass back to normal for the
could be more or less back to normal for the summer. The US State
for the summer. The US State Department calls for serious
Department calls for serious consequences for China after a BBC
consequences for China after a BBC report alleging women were
report alleging women were systematically raped and tortured in
systematically raped and tortured in Uigher ramps,
systematically raped and tortured in Uigher camps, but China because it
Uigher ramps, but China because it lies and
Uigher camps, but China because it lies and disinformation. The UK and
lies and disinformation. The UK and EU agree to work intensively to sort
EU agree to work intensively to sort out problems with post—Brexit
out problams with post-Brexit trading
out problems with post—Brexit trading Northern Ireland. The
trading Northern Ireland. The Myanmar military box Facebook after
Myanmar military box Facebook after protests continue to spread against
protests continue to spread against Mondays
protests continue to spread against Monday’s military coup.
Boris
BorisJohnson has praised what he described as the colossal effort to
described as the colossal effort to vaccinate 10 million people. This
vaccinate 10 million people. This milestone means the UK looks likely
milestone means the UK looks likely to reach the government target of
to reach the government target of protecting 15 million of the most
protecting 15 million of the most vulnerable people by the middle of
vulnerable people by the middle of this month.
How feeling? Excited, please we are on with the show. Thank you. The
on with the show. Thank you. The process is simple and quick. First,
process is simple and quick. First, everybody is checked in. Then a
everybody is checked in. Then a short wait, just a few minutes.
short wait, just a few minutes. Today is my first day of working as
Today is my first day of working as a nurse. I have rejoined the nursing
a nurse. I have rejoined the nursing register. Imogen, who will give
a nurse. I have rejoined the nursing register. Imogen, who will giveJohn
register. Imogen, who will give john his vaccine,
register. Imogen, who will giveJohn his vaccine, left nursing five years
his vaccine, left nursing five years ago to start a family. But she is
ago to start a family. But she is back. I thought it was a very
back. I thought it was a very exciting opportunity and I wanted to
exciting opportunity and I wanted to play a part in it. Fantastic, a step
play a part in it. Fantastic, a step in the right
play a part in it. Fantastic, 3 step in the right direction. Thank you.
in the right direction. Thank you. MY
in the right direction. Thank you. My wife is being done tomorrow. I
My wife is being done tomorrow. I have just been reading a WhatsApp
have just been reading a whatsApp message
have just been reading a WhatsApp message from a brother—in—law in
message from a brother-in-law in South Africa,
message from a brother—in—law in South Africa, who is in hospital
South Africa, who is in hospital there with it. With Covid. And he is
there with it. with Covid. And he is not well at
there with it. With Covid. And he is not well at all. So, yeah, you know,
not well at all. So, yeah, you know, it’s touching everybody in some way.
it’s touching everybody in some way. Next in line, another
it’s touching everybody in some way. Next in line, anotherJohn who is
Next in line, another john who is being looked
Next in line, anotherJohn who is being looked after by his neighbour,
being looked after by his neighbour, Deborah. John’s wife is in a care
Deborah. john’s wife is in a rare home and
Deborah. John’s wife is in a care home and he has not been able to see
home and he has not been able to see her. It has been a bad year
home and he has not been able to see her. It has been a bad yearfor
her. It has been a bad year for everybody,
her. It has been a bad yearfor everybody, regardless of who you
everybody, regardless of who you are. Everybody has suffered in some
are. Everybody has suffered in some “Y
are. Everybody has suffered in some way or another. Hard not seeing your
way or another. Hard not seeing your wife? Very difficult. And this is
wife? Very difficult. And this is for all people in care homes and
for all peopla in rare homes and hospitals, it’s
for all people in care homes and hospitals, it’s very difficult.
hospitals, it’s very difficult. Deborah was here a few days ago with
Deborah was here a few days ago with her husband, who have a heart
her husband, who have a heart transplant three years ago. It has
transplant three years ago. It has been a very worrying time. We have
been a very worrying time. We have been shielding since last March. I
been shielding since last March. I brought in for his vaccination on
brought in for his vaccination on Saturday. It was thrilling. Pulling
Saturday. It was thrilling. Pulling away from that report to go to the
away from that report to go to the House of Commons, where we are
House of Commons, where we are seeing Nigel Adams, the Minister
House of Commons, where we are seeing Nigel Adams, the Ministerfor
seeing Nigel Adams, the Minister for Asia,
seeing Nigel Adams, the Ministerfor Asia, answering an urgent question
Asia, answering an urgent question on the treatment of Uigher women.
on the treatment of Uigher women. The BBC report that my honourable
The BBC report that my honourable friend refers to is chilling. It
friend refers to is chilling. It includes deeply distressing
includes deeply distressing testimony of the rape, torture and
testimony of the rape, torture and dehumanisation of Uigher women in
dehumanisation of Uigher women in Xinjiang detention centres. It is a
Xinjiang detention centres. It is a further body of evidence of the
further body of evidence of the human rights violations perpetrated
human rights violations perpetrated against Uigher minorities in the of
against Uigher minorities in the of the scale and severity of these
the scale and severity of these revelations is far reaching. It
revelations is far reaching. It paints a truly harrowing picture. If
paints a tmly harrowing picture. If China
paints a truly harrowing picture. If China wishes to dispute this
China wishes to dispute this evidence, it must allow unfettered
evidence, it must allow unfettered access to the region for the UN High
access to the region for the UN High Commissioner
access to the region for the UN High Commissionerfor human
access to the region for the UN High Commissioner for human rights,
access to the region for the UN High Commissionerfor human rights, or
Commissioner for human rights, or another
Commissionerfor human rights, or another independent fact—finding
another independent fact-finding body. This
another independent fact—finding body. This government is committed
body. This government is committed to robust action on Xinjiang, which
to robust action on Xinjiang, which is why the Foreign Secretary
is why the Foreign Secretary announced a series of targeted
announced a series of targeted measures to ensure that British
measures to ensure that British organisations are not complicit in
organisations are not complicit in or profiting from human rights
or profiting from human rights violations in the region. This
violations in the region. This includes a review of export controls
includes a review of export controls as they apply to Xinjiang, the
as they apply to Xinjiang, the introduction of financial penalties
introduction of financial penalties for businesses that do not comply
for businesses that do not comply with the modern slavery act, and
with the modern slavery act, and support for UK Government bodies to
support for UK Government bodies to exclude suppliers complicit in
exclude suppliers complicit in forced labour. It represents to
forced labour. It represents to China that there is a
China that there is a representational and economic cost
representational and economic cost to its policies in Xinjiang. It is
to its policies in Xinjiang. It is why the UK has played and will
why the UK has played and will continue to play a leading role in
continue to play a leading rola in building
continue to play a leading role in building international pressure on
building international pressure on China to change course. In October
China to change course. In October 2019 and june
China to change course. In October 2019 and June 2020, the UK led the
2019 and june 2020, the UK lad the first two joint
2019 and June 2020, the UK led the first two joint statements on
first two joint statements on Xinjiang at the UN. 38 countries
Xinjiang at the UN. 38 countries joined the UK in a statement at the
joined the UK in a statement at the UN Third Committee on October 2020.
UN Third Committee on October 2020. This diplomatic action is vitally
This diplomatic action is vitally important. More countries than ever
important. More countries than ever are speaking out about Xinjiang.
are speaking out about Xinjiang. China has already been forced to
China has already been forced to change its narrative about the
change its narrative about the ramps, and
change its narrative about the camps, and its denial of these
camps, and its denial of these violations is increasingly hard to
violations is increasingly hard to sustain. The Foreign Secretary has
sustain. The Foreign Secretary has made clear the extent of our concern
made clear the extent of our concern directly to his counterpart, the
directly to his counterpart, the Foreign Minister, and I have raised
Foreign Minister, and I have raised the issue with the Chinese
the issue with the Chinese ambassador, the former Chinese
ambassador, the former Chinese ambassador in London. On forced
ambassador in London. On forced birth control, we have used our
birth control, we have used our statement to draw attention to this
statement to draw attention to this deeply concerning issue. I have
deeply concerning issue. I have assured the house that I will
assured the house that I will continue to work with international
continue to work with international partners, including with the new US
partners, including with the new US administration and through our G7
administration and through our G7 presidency, to hold trainer account
presidency, to hold trainer account for its actions. We have repeatedly
for its actions. We have repeatedly called for those to be released to
called for those to be released to have been arbitrarily detained. I am
have been arbitrarily detained. I am sure the honourable members will
sure the honourable members will join me in reiterating that call. I
join me in reiterating that fall. I thank the
join me in reiterating that call. I thank the Minister
join me in reiterating that call. I thank the Ministerfor
join me in reiterating that call. I thank the Minister for his powerful
thank the Minister for his powerful statement. Yesterday, the BBC
statement. Yesterday, the BBC broadcast harrowing footage of
broadcast harrowing footage of orchestrated abuse against Uigher
orchestrated abuse against Uigher women on an unprecedented scale.
women on an unprecedented stale. They had an
women on an unprecedented scale. They had an electric stick, and it
They had an electric stick, and it was pushed inside my genital tract,
was pushed inside my genital tract, torturing me with electric shocks.
torturing me with electric shocks. That is the testimony of Person
That is the testimony of Person alpha-macro.
That is the testimony of Person alpha—macro. They did whatever their
alpha-macro. They did whatever their evil minds
alpha—macro. They did whatever their evil minds could think of, they were
evil minds could think of, they were barbarians. I
evil minds could think of, they were barbarians. Ifelt I had died. I was
barbarians. Ifeltl had died. Iwas dead, she
barbarians. Ifelt I had died. I was dead, she said. Then there were the
dead, she said. Then there were the gang rapes, by the police, in front
gang rapes, by the police, in front of other ramp
gang rapes, by the police, in front of other camp detainees, as a form
of other ramp detainees, as a form of
of other camp detainees, as a form of re—education, seeking out those
of re-eduration, seeking out those who look
of re—education, seeking out those who look to push them even further.
who look to push them even further. The horrifying stories add to the
The horrifying stories add to the huge and worrying body of evidence,
huge and worrying body of evidence, detailing evidence of atrocities
detailing evidence of atrocities perpetrated in Xinjiang, which may
perpetrated in Xinjiang, which may even be genocidal. This has led to
even be genocidal. This has led to the Board Of Deputies Of British
the Board Of Deputies Of British jews
the Board Of Deputies Of British Jews comparing the Holocaust. But
jaws comparing the Holocaust. But nothing is
Jews comparing the Holocaust. But nothing is being presented to the
nothing is being presented to the European Court of
nothing is being presented to the European Court ofJustice. How is
European Court of justice. How is the
European Court ofJustice. How is the Minister going to get the court
the Minister going to get the court judgment it needs to act, when all
judgment it needs to act, when all international routes are paralysed
international routes are paralysed by China. We cannot be bystanders to
by China. We cannot be bystanders to the deliberate attempt to
the deliberate attempt to exterminate a group of people. Not
exterminate a group of people. Not again. Well the Minister make a
again. Well the Minister make a promise today that no further
promise today that no further deepening of any ties of any kind,
deepening of any ties of any kind, deepening of any ties of any kind
deepening of any ties of any kind will take place with China until a
will take place with China until a full judicial
will take place with China until a fulljudicial inquiry has
fulljudicial inquiry has investigated these crimes? And will
investigated these crimes? And will the Minister commit to meet with a
the Minister commit to meet with a Uigher survivor, a brave woman
Uigher survivor, a brave woman risking her safety to save her
risking her safety to save her family and her people. Finally, the
family and her people. Finally, the United Kingdom cannot stand by and
United Kingdom cannot stand by and do
United Kingdom rannot stand by and do nothing
United Kingdom cannot stand by and do nothing about the extermination
do nothing about the extermination of the Uigher. Mass rapes, scalping
of the Uigher. Mass rapes, sralping and for
of the Uigher. Mass rapes, scalping and for sterilisations. We can act
and for sterilisations. We ran act and we
and for sterilisations. We can act and we must act.
Thank you. Can I thank her
Thank you. Can I thank herfor her
Thank you. (“an I thank her for her powerful
Thank you. Can I thank herfor her powerful questions on her speech. I
powerful questions on her speech. I know how important this is to her. I
know how important this is to her. I would reiterate we have announced a
would reiterate we have announced a series of measures, the Foreign
series of measures, the Foreign Secretary, the 12th of January,
series of measures, the Foreign Secretary, the 12th ofJanuary, in
Secretary, the 12th of january, in terms of
Secretary, the 12th ofJanuary, in terms of the human rights situation
terms of the human rights situation in Xinjiang. This will help ensure
in Xinjiang. This will help ensure that UK businesses are not complicit
that UK businesses are not complicit in human rights violations. We are
in human rights violations. We are leading international efforts to
leading international efforts to hold China to account. Of course, I
hold China to account. Of course, I will meet with the Uigher lady that
will meet with the Uigher lady that the honourable friend refers to. I
the honourable friend refers to. I will be delighted too. But it is
will be delighted too. But it is important that we continue to work
important that we continue to work on this incredibly crucial issue
on this incredibly crucial issue with, alongside our international
with, alongside our international partners, pulling together alongside
partners, pulling together alongside Germany, 38 other countries to make
Germany, 38 other countries to make the statement that we did late last
the statement that we did late last year. We will work with the new US
year. We will work with the new US administration under President
administration under President Biden. Can I thank her again for
Biden. (“an I thank her again for bringing this
Biden. Can I thank her again for bringing this incredibly powerful
bringing this incredibly powerful testimony to the house. Anybody that
testimony to the house. Anybody that has seen the report that the BBC,
has seen the report that the BBC, and I congratulate the BBC on this
and I congratulate the BBC on this report, anybody who has seen that
report, anybody who has seen that rannot help
report, anybody who has seen that cannot help but be moved and
cannot help but be moved and distressed by what are clearly evil
distressed by what are dearty evil acts.
distressed by what are clearly evil acts. Stephen Kinnock, Fifa minutes
acts. Stephen Kinnock, Fifa minutes was to knock The Chinese
was to knock The Chinese government’s brutal campaign of
government’s bmtal campaign of oppression
government’s brutal campaign of oppression in Xinjiang is a scar on
oppression in Xinjiang is a star on the
oppression in Xinjiang is a scar on the conscience of the world and the
the conscience of the world and the labour Party
the conscience of the world and the Labour Party stands shoulder to
Labour Party stands shoulder to shoulder with the Uigher people. We
shoulder with the Uigher people. We already know about the forced labour
already know about the forced labour ramps.
already know about the forced labour camps. Yesterday we heard utterly
camps. Yesterday we heard utterly heartbreaking testimonies from
heartbreaking testimonies from Uigher women who have been
Uigher women who have been systematically raped, sexually
systematically raped, sexually abused and tortured. It follows Le
abused and tortured. It follows Le Sommer’s harrowing accounts from
Sommer’s harrowing accounts from Uigher women
Sommer’s harrowing accounts from Uigher women who were victims of
Uigher women who were victims of forced to sterilisation and forced
forced to sterilisation and forced IUD insert station. The Chinese
IUD insert station. The Chinese government statistics show that
government statistics show that pregnancies fell by a third, meaning
pregnancies fell by a third, meaning that it may meet the definition of
that it may meet the definition of genocide. Last month, the Foreign
genocide. Last month, the Foreign Secretary rightly condemned the
Secretary rightly condemned the events in Xinjiang is barbarism that
events in Xinjiang is barbarism that we hoped was lost to another era.
we hoped was lost to another era. Surely the time for tangible action
Surely the time for tangible action has now come? First, where on earth
has now come? First, where on earth are the Magnitsky sanctions that way
are the Magnitsky sanctions that way on these benches on the cross the
on these benches on the cross the house had been calling for since
house had been falling for since last june?
house had been calling for since lastJune? The Foreign Secretary
last june? The Foreign Secretary said the
lastJune? The Foreign Secretary said the body of evidence is large
said the body of evidence is large and growing, and we know the names
and growing, and we know the names of the senior Chinese officials
of the senior Chinese officials responsible for these atrocities.
responsible for these atrocities. The US sanctioned them last summer.
The US sanctioned them last summer. who in
The US sanctioned them last summer. Who in committee is holding this up?
who in committee is holding this up? 20% of
Who in committee is holding this up? 20% of the well’s cotton comes from
2096 of the Hell’s cotton comes from Xinjiang.
2096 of the well’s cotton comes from Xinjiang. We
20% of the well’s cotton comes from Xinjiang. We welcome the steps the
Xinjiang. We welcome the steps the UK cover and has state are taken to
UK cover and has state are taken to prevent UK businesses from being
prevent UK businesses from being complicit in forced labour. But they
complicit in forced labour. But they didn’t do enough. They must be
didn’t do enough. They must be accountable, not
didn’t do enough. They must be accountable, notjust transparent.
accountabla, not just transparent. will he bring
accountable, notjust transparent. Will he bring forward legislation
will he bring forward lagislation that brings
Will he bring forward legislation that brings mandatory due diligence?
that brings mandatory due diligence? Next Tuesday, when the trade bill
Next Tuesday, when the trade bill returns, this house has a chance to
returns, this house has a chance to send a united message to the world
send a united message to the world that genocide can never be met with
that genocide ran never be met with indifference,
that genocide can never be met with indifference, impunity or inaction.
indifference, impunity or inaction. This should not be a partisan issue.
This should not be a partisan issue. Given it is a long—standing
Given it is a long—standing government commitment that courts,
government commitment that courts, not the Government, must rule on
not the Government, must mle on genocide, will
not the Government, must rule on genocide, will he
not the Government, must rule on genocide, will hejoin
not the Government, must rule on genocide, will he join with us and
genocide, will he join with us and colleagues across the house to give
colleagues across the house to give UK courts the power is to determine
UK courts the power is to determine genocide, and therefore prevent the
genocide, and therefore prevent the UK from ever doing trade deals with
UK from ever doing trade deals with genocidal states? Thank you, Mr
genocidal states? Thank you, Mr Speaker. I thank the honourable
Speaker. I thank the honourable gentleman for these questions. He
gentleman for these questions. He raises a number of issues. He
raises a number of issues. He mentioned the US announcement
mentioned the US announcement regarding genocide. It is worth
regarding genocide. It is worth pointing out that the US has a
pointing out that the US has a different process for determining
different process for determining genocide that is not linked to a
genocide that is not linked to a court decision. With regards to the
court decision. with regards to the issue of
court decision. With regards to the issue of sanctions, we have had
issue of sanctions, we have had targeted measures in response to
targeted measures in response to this. On
targeted measures in response to this. OnJanuary
targeted measures in response to this. On January the 12th,
targeted measures in response to this. OnJanuary the 12th, the
this. On january the 12th, the Foreign
this. OnJanuary the 12th, the Foreign Secretary announced a series
Foreign Secretary announced a series of actions, robust actions, to
of actions, robust actions, to ensure that no companies will be
ensure that no companies will be profiting from forced labour. And we
profiting from forced labour. And we will target in a forensic way those
will target in a forensic way those companies that are doing so, whether
companies that are doing so, whether deliberately or otherwise. Of
deliberately or otherwise. Of course, we are carefully considering
course, we are carefully considering any further designations under our
any further designations under our global human rights regime, with all
global human rights regime, with all evidence on... Nigel Adams,
evidence on... Nigel Adams, responding to the urgent question
responding to the urgent question about the treatment of Uigher women
about the treatment of Uigher women in ramps. That
about the treatment of Uigher women in camps. That follows a BBC report
in ramps. That follows a BBC report alleging that
in camps. That follows a BBC report alleging that women were raped and
alleging that women were raped and tortured in these camps. Nigel
tortured in these ramps. Nigel Adams,
tortured in these camps. Nigel Adams, saying the Government was
Adams, saying the Government was committed to taking robust action.
committed to taking robust action. He said China’s denial of these
He said China’s denial of these allegations is increasingly hard to
allegations is increasingly hard to sustain. Nusrat Ghani, responding,
sustain. Nusrat Ghani, responding, said that we could not be bystanders
said that we could not be bystanders to this. That continues in the House
to this. That continues in the House of Commons.
One of the world’s leading climate scientists says BorisJohnson risks
humiliation if he allows a new coal mine to begin operating
at Whitehaven in Cumbria.
DrJames Hansen, whose testimony in the US Congress in 1988 helped
raise awareness of global warming, has urged the Prime Minister to step
in — and halt production.
BorisJohnson has the opportunity to change the whole climate story.
He could be the knight in shining armour who puts the world
on a different pathway.
All he has to do is follow the science.
A Downing Street spokeswoman said the government was a world
leader in Climate Policy, but would not be changing
its decision on the coal mine.
Our Environment Analyst is Roger Harrabin is here.
When Doctor
When DoctorJames Hansen say
when Doctorjames Hansen say something
When DoctorJames Hansen say something like this, I think most
something like this, I think most peopla will
something like this, I think most people will sit up and listen. But
peopla will sit up and listen. But as we
people will sit up and listen. But as we have just heard, the
as we have just heard, the Government, the UK Government, says
Government, the UK Government, says it is not changing its policy with
it is not changing its policy with regards to this coalmine. Tell us
regards to this coalmine. Tell us more about the background? 0K,
regards to this coalmine. Tell us more about the background? OK, the
more about the background? OK, the background is that a firm put in for
background is that a firm put in for permission to dig a coalmine off the
permission to dig a coalmine off the coast of Cumbria. That application
coast of Cumbria. That application went to Cumbria County Council, the
went to Cumbria County Council, the County Council has said they could
County Council has said they could not find good grounds for opposing
not find good grounds for opposing it. So they passed it. Now, that
it. So they passed it. Now, that point, the Government could have
point, the Government could have stepped in, the community secretary
stepped in, the community secretary Robert jenrick
stepped in, the community secretary RobertJenrick could have called in
Robert jenrick could have rallad in that
RobertJenrick could have called in that decision and overruled it. He
that decision and overruled it. He chose not to. He said the County
chose not to. He said the County Council was the appropriate level of
Council was the appropriate level of government for the decision to be
government for the decision to be made at. That caused an outcry with
made at. That caused an outcry with Greenpeace saying, well, let’s hope
Greenpeace saying, well, let’s hope that the Chinese provinces don’t
that the Chinese provinces don’t take this attitude, otherwise the
take this attitude, otherwise the world is toast. Since then, the row
world is toast. Since then, the row has rumbled on. Now Doctor Hansen
has rumbled on. Now Doctor Hansen has got involved. As you say, he is
has got involved. As you say, he is not a trivial figure. He knows
has got involved. As you say, he is not a trivial figure. He knowsJoe
not a trivial figure. He knows joe Biden, he
not a trivial figure. He knowsjoe Biden, he knows
not a trivial figure. He knowsjoe Biden, he knowsjoe Biden’s climate
Biden, he knows joe Biden’s climate envoy john
Biden, he knowsjoe Biden’s climate envoyjohn Kerry.
Biden, he knowsjoe Biden’s climate envoyJohn Kerry. He is a powerful
envoy john Kerry. He is a powerful character
envoyjohn Kerry. He is a powerful character and
envoyJohn Kerry. He is a powerful character and he has copied the
character and he has copied the letter that he sent to Boris
letter that he sent to Boris johnson.
letter that he sent to Boris Johnson. He has copied that to
letter that he sent to Boris Johnson. He has copied that toJohn
johnson. He has copied that to john Kerry. He is
Johnson. He has copied that toJohn Kerry. He is trying to stir up as
Kerry. He is trying to stir up as much embarrassment as possible. Do
much embarrassment as possible. Do you think the Government in the UK
you think the Government in the UK is going to have to do more to say
is going to have to do more to say we have got these green credentials,
we have got these green credentials, we are a leading government when it
we are a leading government when it comes to going green, and yet we are
comes to going green, and yet we are allowing this coalmine to open and
allowing this coalmine to open and operate? There is some disagreement
operate? There is some disagreement within government itself over this?
within government itself over this? There is indeed. MPs have
There is indeed. MPs have repeatedly, over the past several
repeatedly, over the past several 79575-
repeatedly, over the past several years, complained that the
years, complained that the Government is very good at talking
Government is very good at talking green, and much less get up actually
green, and much less get up actually delivering policies. People are
delivering policies. People are concerned about this one because of
concerned about this one because of its impact on the international
its impact on the international stage. So,
its impact on the international stage. 50, the UK, with Boris
stage. So, the UK, with Boris johnson in
stage. 50, the UK, with Boris Johnson in charge, is going to be
johnson in charge, is going to be leading a
Johnson in charge, is going to be leading a global climate conference
leading a global climate conference in November, a climate summit, which
in November, a climate summit, which is a really big deal in climate
is a really big deal in climate terms. It has also set up an
terms. It has also set up an organisation that it calls Powering
organisation that it rails Powering Past Coal,
organisation that it calls Powering Past Coal, so people do not burn
Past Coal, so peopla do not burn coal in power
Past Coal, so people do not burn coal in power stations. The fact
coal in power stations. The fact that it is permitting a coalmine on
that it is permitting a coalmine on its own territory is proving
its own territory is proving extremely controversial. You
extremely controversial. You mentioned Downing Street. They say
mentioned Downing Street. They say off the record that the issue is
off the record that the issue is that this is not an organisation
that this is not an organisation that is trying to dig for coal to
that is trying to dig for coal to fuel power stations, it is
fuel power stations, it is an organisation digging for coking coal
organisation digging for coking coal for the steel industry. The
for the steel industry. The Committee on Climate Change says
Committee on (limate Change says this
Committee on Climate Change says this does not wash, because
this does not wash, because permission has been given for the
permission has been given for the mind to continue producing right up
mind to continue producing right up to the middle of the century,
to the middle of the century, whereas we need to have stopped
whereas we need to have stopped burning coking coal to make steel by
burning coking coal to make steel by 2035. They are saying the permission
2035. They are saying the permission should not have been given. But it
should not have been given. But it looks like Downing Street are
looks like Downing Street are bathening
looks like Downing Street are battening down hatches and are
bathening down hatches and are willing to
battening down hatches and are willing to have a row on this one. I
willing to have a row on this one. I must say, just from an analytical
must say, just from an analytical point of view, it could cause quite
point of view, it could cause quite a lot of international stress, for a
a lot of international stress, for a relatively small number of
a lot of international stress, for a relatively small number ofjobs.
relatively small number ofjobs. It’s interesting why the decision
It’s interesting why the decision has been made. It will be
has been made. It will be interesting to watch that one in the
interesting to watch that one in the context of what you have been
context of what you have been saying. Thank you very much.
The number of people in critical
The number of peopla in critical rare
The number of people in critical care beds has started to fall, but
rare beds has started to fall, but around
care beds has started to fall, but around one in ten major hospital
around one in ten major hospital trusts in England had no spare adult
tmsts in England had no spare adult critical
trusts in England had no spare adult critical care beds last week,
critical care beds last week, according to the latest figures from
according to the latest figures from NHS England. A total of 15 out of
NHS England. A total of 15 out of 140 acute trusts reported 100%
140 acute trusts reported 10096 occupancy
140 acute trusts reported 100% occupancy of all open beds each day
occupancy of all open beds each day from january
occupancy of all open beds each day from January the 25th to the 31st.
from january the 25th to the 31st. Here to
from January the 25th to the 31st. Here to talk about what the figures
Here to talk about what the figures mean for front line staff is Mike
mean for front line staff is Mike Adams, director
mean for front line staff is Mike Adams, directorfor England
mean for front line staff is Mike Adams, director for England at the
Adams, director for England at the Royal College of Nursing. Thank you
Royal College of Nursing. Thank you very much for
Royal College of Nursing. Thank you very much forjoining us. I want to
very much for joining us. I want to get you first of
very much forjoining us. I want to get you first of all to explain what
get you first of all to explain what those figures mean. We are being
those figures mean. We are being told a number of people in critical
told a number of peopla in critical rare beds
told a number of people in critical care beds in England is starting to
rare beds in England is starting to fall. But
care beds in England is starting to fall. But we’re told that one in ten
fall. But we’re told that one in ten hospitals had no spare critical care
hospitals had no spare critiral rare beds?
hospitals had no spare critical care beds? What is important to
beds? What is important to understand in a position around
understand in a position around critiral
understand in a position around critical care bed capacity at the
critical care bed capacity at the moment is that the amount of beds
moment is that the amount of beds that we have available has
that we have available has dramatically been increased over
dramatically been increased over this wave of the pandemic. So while
this wave of the pandemic. So while there might be some drop in the
there might be some drop in the number of beds right now, this is
number of beds right now, this is coming from a point where some
coming from a point where some trusts have increased their ICU
trusts have increased their ICU capacity by 200%. So any dropping of
capacity by 20096. So any dropping of the
capacity by 200%. So any dropping of the useful ICU beds now is very much
the useful ICU beds now is very much an earty sign that
the useful ICU beds now is very much an early sign that things are
an earty sign that things are moving in the
an early sign that things are moving in the direction. It is not a change
in the direction. It is not a change in pressure on front line staff at
in pressure on front line staff at this moment in time who are working
this moment in time who are working through the most incredibly trying
through the most incredibly trying conditions. Mikey, tell us what that
conditions. Mikey, tell us what that actually means for front line staff
actually means for front line staff in terms of the hours they are
in terms of the hours they are working, the number of patients they
working, the number of patients they are looking after, compared to the
are looking after, compared to the numbers they would normally be
numbers they would normally be looking after? What are the ratios
looking after? what are the ratios lie? We
looking after? What are the ratios lie? We are seeing lots of reports
lie? We are seeing lots of reports of staff staying on for hours after
of staff staying on for hours after their shift has ended to ensure that
their shift has ended to ensure that people are properly looked after. I
peopla are property looked after. I think
people are properly looked after. I think the word is exhaustion. Most
think the word is exhaustion. Most of the front line staff will be
of the front line staff will be reporting right now. It is,
reporting right now. It is, obviously, we talk a lot about ICU
obviously, we talk a lot about ICU areas and there have been changes to
areas and there have been changes to staffing levels there that, in
staffing levels there that, in normal circumstances, we would not
normal circumstances, we would not want to see. Specialist trained ICU
want to see. Specialist trained ICU nurses are looking after more than
nurses are looking after more than 121 patients, with support from
121 patients, with support from other staff. That is not what is
other staff. That is not what is happening in normal circumstances.
happening in normal circumstances. We do need to get back to that.
We do need to get back to that. There is pressure all across the
There is pressure all across the system, not
There is pressure all across the system, notjust ICU. It is general
system, notjust ICU. It is general practice nurses, community district
practice nurses, community district nurses, all under pressure from
nurses, all under pressure from staffing levels, all under pressure
staffing levels, all under pressure from having to be spread more
from having to be spread more thinly, as there was more sickness
thinly, as there was more sickness levels as people are ill with Covid
levels as peopla are ill with Covid and
levels as people are ill with Covid and have to isolate. But also as
and have to isolate. But also as services are not available, as in
services are not availabla, as in normal
services are not available, as in normal times, that puts more
normal times, that puts more pressure on other services to
pressure on other services to compensate. So, it is hugely
compensate. So, it is hugely pressurised at the moment. There is
pressurised at the moment. There is no doubt that at some point staff
no doubt that at some point staff across all professions, but from a
across all professions, but from a nursing perspective, staff are going
nursing perspective, staff are going to need a rest. They leave has been
to need a rest. They leave has been cancelled, as you say, many staff
cancelled, as you say, many staff are doing wildly over the normal
are doing wildly over the normal hours. This will have a long—term
hours. This will have a long-term toll on the
hours. This will have a long—term toll on the people we have to look
toll on the peopla we have to look after.
toll on the people we have to look after. We have often talked about
after. We have often talked about what can be done in the medium and
what ran be done in the medium and longer term to
what can be done in the medium and longer term to improve things for
longer term to improve things for client staff. In the short term, the
client staff. In the short term, the only thing that will make a
only thing that will make a difference for front line staff is
difference for front line staff is people sticking to the rules and not
peopla sticking to the mles and not getting ill or
people sticking to the rules and not getting ill or not passing on this
getting ill or not passing on this virus to other people, who then get
virus to other peopla, who then get ill and end up in
virus to other people, who then get ill and end up in hospital? Yeah,
ill and end up in hospital? Yeah, absolutely. Probably my words do
absolutely. Probably my words do little to actually convey the
little to actually convey the pressure that people are under and
pressure that people are under and the conditions people are working
the conditions peopla are working under right
the conditions people are working under right now. I don’t know if I
under right now. I don’t know if I do it justice,
under right now. I don’t know if I do itjustice, what you see and what
do it justice, what you see and what we talk to
do itjustice, what you see and what we talk to members about, what
we talk to members about, what friends and family of mine who are
friends and family of mine who are in nursing staff convey. At the way
in nursing staff convey. At the way to get through this in the short
to get through this in the short term is to get the spread of the
term is to get the spread of the virus down, so that there are less
virus down, so that there are lass peopla
virus down, so that there are less people becoming ill. We do have some
people becoming ill. We do have some great progress on the vaccination
great progress on the vaccination programme, which again is a huge
programme, which again is a huge effort from staff within health
effort from staff within health services. But everyone still needs
services. But everyone still needs to keep doing their bit by making
to keep doing their bit by making sure this virus does not spread
sure this virus does not spread again. You say you don’t know if you
again. You say you don’t know if you ran do justice to
again. You say you don’t know if you can do justice to convey that
ran do justice to convey that message to
can do justice to convey that message to the general public about
message to the general public about what they need to do. What is the
what they need to do. what is the key thing that
what they need to do. What is the key thing that people need to do to
key thing that people need to do to help the front line staff, nurses,
help the front line staff, nurses, doctors, everybody who is working in
doctors, everybody who is working in hospital settings, really.
doctors, everybody who is working in hospitalsettings, really. One of
hospital settings, really. One of the
hospitalsettings, really. One of the main things that keeps emerging
the main things that keeps emerging at the moment is any kind of doubt
at the moment is any kind of doubt that this is really happening.
that this is really happening. People really need to challenge
People really need to challenge that. This is a very real experience
that. This is a very real experience for nursing staff. They are having
for nursing staff. They are having to deal with circumstances, the
to deal with circumstances, the amount of people they are saying to
amount of peopla they are saying to the end
amount of people they are saying to the end of their lives is beyond
the end of their lives is beyond what people would reasonably expect
what people would reasonably expect when they come into nursing. Please
when they come into nursing. Please do believe when you see nurses in
do believe when you see nurses in the press talking about their
the press talking about their experiences, please believe them and
experiences, please believe them and please believe that you can have an
please believe that you ran have an impact on their
please believe that you can have an impact on their experience by making
impact on their experience by making sure that this virus does not
sure that this virus does not spread. You are watching BBC News.
Joanna Gosling will be here next to
joanna Gosling will be here next to take you
Joanna Gosling will be here next to take you through to one o’clock.
take you through to one o’clock. Before that, a look at the weather
Before that, a look at the weather with Carol.
Hello again.
Over the next few days, particularly into the weekend,
we are looking at where it’s been mild turning much colder,
for some of us a drop of 13 degrees or so.
And we will see further snow coming further south than it has
gone through this week.
Today, though, we’ve got some cloud, rain and sleet at levels with some
snow mostly on the hills, but coming down to lower levels
in parts of northern Scotland during the day and also gusty winds
blowing that snow.
At the same time, we’ve got some heavy, potentially thundery
showers moving north, but in between,
a lot of dry weather.
Those showers move towards north north—east England through this
evening and overnight, there is a risk of localised
flooding from them and at the same time, you can see how the rain
and snow pushes north across Scotland, the rain curling
into Northern Ireland with a few showers in the west.
Cold in the south but colder in the north.
From midnight tonight until 6pm on Saturday,
the Met Office has an amber weather warning in force in parts
of Scotland for a heavy snow.
That means increased likelihood of impact due
to the severity of the weather.
We could have as much as ten to 15 centimetres,
that is roughly six inches of fresh snow at lower levels,
double that above 150 metres.
So you can see how it is moving across parts of the Highlands,
Grampians, up to Caithness and Sutherland.
Some more showers coming in across the west and gusty winds
coming in to north—east England where we’ll have some
rain and eastern Scotland, but still relatively mild
across Southern areas.
As we head into the weekend, our low pressure moves further east
and south and that has an impact on the weather, you can see
some snow on that chart.
So on Saturday, further snow coming in across Scotland
and Northern England, blowing in the wind,
for the rest of England we are looking at outbreaks of rain,
some of that affecting Northern Ireland at times,
these are our temperatures, going down where it
has been so mild.
As we head into Sunday, that cold air eventually moves
across the whole of the UK, this is when we will see the big
drop in temperatures, down to maybe 2 degrees
in the London area and there is a potential for some snow
across southern parts of England and also Wales.
Don’t take this as gospel, the position of this snow
could change but this is what we think at the moment
and, again, blowing, and with temperatures like this,
and the wind, it will feel bitter.
This is BBC News.
The headlines at 11
i [C
10 million people are vaccinated in
10 million peopla are vaccinated in the UK. A
10 million people are vaccinated in the UK. A new trial is looked at
the UK. A new trial is looked at having different vaccines for
having different vaccines for different doses. This will hopefully
different doses. This will hopefully mean the UK is at the forefront of
mean the UK is at the forefront of research in to vaccines. This is
research in to vaccines. This is another part of the armoury. With
another part of the armoury. with pressure
another part of the armoury. With pressure growing to ease lockdown
pressure growing to ease lockdown restrictions, 3 Sage member suggests
restrictions, a Sage member suggests things could be
restrictions, 3 Sage member suggests things could be more or less back to
things could be more or lass back to normal for
things could be more or less back to normal for the
things could be more or less back to normalfor the summer.
things could be more or less back to normal for the summer. The
things could be more or less back to normalfor the summer. The UK
things could be more or less back to normal for the summer. The UK and
normal for the summer. The UK and the EU agreed to work intensively to
the EU agreed to work intensively to sort out problems with post—Brexit
sort out problams with post-Brexit trading
sort out problems with post—Brexit trading Northern Ireland. The US and
trading Northern Ireland. The US and UK has condemned China after a
UK has condemned China after a report alleging that women were
report alleging that women were systematically raped and tortured in
systematically raped and tortured in Uighur ramps.
systematically raped and tortured in Uighur camps. China calls this lies
Uighur ramps. China calls this lies and
Uighur camps. China calls this lies and disinformation. They did
and disinformation. They did whatever they wanted and they didn’t
whatever they wanted and they didn’t spare any part of my body.
Tennis officials say the Australian Open will start
as planned on Monday, despite hundreds of players
and staff being forced to isolate again in Melbourne.
And coming up in the next hour.
The scheme that helps young children in care
reconnect with family members
A new trial has launched here in the UK to look at the impact
of giving people different coronavirus vaccines
for their first and second doses.
The mix—and—match approach could provide more flexibility
in the event of any supply problems.
Scientists say it’s possible that having different vaccines might even
provide better protection than having the same one twice.
It comes as the UK yesterday passed the milestone of giving 10 million
people their first jabs.
Dominic Hughes reports.
With more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs
across the UK, the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
But could mixing doses of the Oxford—AstraZeneca
and the Pfizer—BioNTech vaccines offer the body even
more chances to develop defences against the virus?
That’s what’s behind a new trial being unveiled today.
The study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have
yet had the vaccine.
All will be aged 50 or over, part of the group to be vaccinated
in the next priority wave.
The trial will run initially at eight sites across England.
What we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well
people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose
with one Covid vaccine, the second with another.
And the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility
into the UK immunisation schedule for Covid vaccines,
and even globally.
It makes it much easier to administer these vaccines
if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose
the same as the first dose.
That also brings resilience into the immunisation schedule.
If there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines,
then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with
the other vaccine as an alternative.
Researchers believe there are good reasons to think it may work.
For example, exactly this process was used in the fight against Ebola.
Introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme
could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies,
and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have
yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
The first results should be known by the early summer.
Dominic Hughes, BBC News.
Our political correpondent Nick Eardley is at Westminster.
Not Nick Eardley is at Westminster. for the first time, 1
Not Nick Eardley is at Westminster. for the first time, 1
rumblings
Not for the first time, there are rumblings of politicians and
rumblings of politicians and scientists being at odds over what
scientists being at odds over what the next steps are. What are you
the next steps are. what are you hearing at
the next steps are. What are you hearing at Westminster? You’re
hearing at Westminster? You’re absolutely right. There’s a ways
absolutely right. There’s a ways been tension between some of the
been tension between some of the scientists who are saying this needs
scientists who are saying this needs to be a slow process coming out of
to be a slow process coming out of lockdown, and some of Boris
lockdown, and some of Boris johnson’s
lockdown, and some of Boris Johnson’s own party who were
johnson’s own party who were knocking on
Johnson’s own party who were knocking on his door regularly
knocking on his door regularty saying, we
knocking on his door regularly saying, we need to get out of
saying, we need to get out of lockdown. As soon as possible. We
lockdown. As soon as possible. We had that yesterday from the
had that yesterday from the coronavirus research group saying
coronavirus research group saying that
coronavims research group saying that England
coronavirus research group saying that England should try and resume
that England should try and resume schools earlier than the target date
schools eartier than the target date of March,
schools earlier than the target date of March, following the example of
of March, following the example of Scotland, where some schools are
Scotland, where some schools are going back on the 22nd of February.
going back on the 22nd of February. So Boris
going back on the 22nd of February. 50 BorisJohnson is going to see
So Boris johnson is going to see some
So BorisJohnson is going to see some more pressure in the next few
some more pressure in the next few weeks to spell out how he is going
weeks to spell out how he is going to get things back to normal, given
to get things back to normal, given that the vaccine roll—out seems to
that the vaccine roll-out seems to be going
that the vaccine roll—out seems to be going extremely well, given that
be going extremely well, given that those graphs we see from Downing
those graphs we see from Downing Street, a number of cases are going
Street, a number of cases are going down pretty quickly, even if the
down pretty quickly, even if the number of hospitalisations are going
number of hospitalisations are going down a lot slower. We heard from the
down a lot slower. We heard from the vaccines minister this morning and
vaccines minister this morning and he was asked about this about the
he was asked about this about the pressure to set out how England will
pressure to set out how England will be unlocked.
The Prime Minister has made it very clear that,
on the 22nd of February, there will be a road map for how
we intend to reopen the economy, beginning with schools on the 8th
of March and then gradually the rest of the economy.
You have to set yourself targets.
And you hope everything goes well.
The government isn’t moving away at the moment from the timetable of
the moment from the timetable of giving details of what things are
giving details of what things are going to look like towards the end
going to look like towards the end of February. But this is the tension
of February. But this is the tension we have had the whole time, isn’t
we have had the whole time, isn’t it? Wanting to keep the virus under
it? Wanting to keep the virus under control, which is Boris
it? Wanting to keep the virus under control, which is BorisJohnson’s
control, which is Boris johnson’s priority and I
control, which is BorisJohnson’s priority and I think is actually
priority and I think is actually something that is really high in the
something that is really high in the minds of people at number ten just
minds of peopla at number ten just now
minds of people at number ten just now because they don’t want to
now because they don’t want to unlock and then have to go into
unlock and then have to go into lockdown again like resort
unlock and then have to go into lockdown again like resortjust
lockdown again like resortjust before Christmas, but at the same
before Christmas, but at the same time, feeling that political heat
time, feeling that political heat from those who are saying, we need
from those who are saying, we need to get schools back and start the
to get schools back and start the economy moving again. We got the
economy moving again. We got the understanding that quarantine hotels
understanding that quarantine hotels is going to be something considered
is going to be something considered in the UK quite some time ago now
in the UK quite some time ago now and we are yet to understand what
and we are yet to understand what the protocols are. We set out a set
the protocols are. We set out a set of protocols, we’ve shared that
of protocols, we’ve shared that information of suggested protocols
information of suggested protocols and we’ve offered our support and we
and we’ve offered our support and we are yet to hear anything. That was
are yet to hear anything. That was the boss of great Western hotels
the boss of great Western hotels talking about something very
talking about something very different, he was talking about the
different, he was talking about the quarantine plans, one of the areas
quarantine plans, one of the areas where the government is also feeling
where the government is also feeling pressure, because we heard a couple
pressure, because we heard a couple of weeks ago that quarantining in
of weeks ago that quarantining in hotels is going to come in four
hotels is going to come in four peopla
hotels is going to come in four people arriving in England from the
peopla arriving in England from the most
people arriving in England from the most at—risk countries. We don’t
most at-risk countries. We don’t know
most at—risk countries. We don’t know what that is going to look like
know what that is going to look like vet.
know what that is going to look like yet, the logistics are still being
yet, the logistic are still being figured out,
yet, the logistics are still being figured out, we had the Prime
figured out, we had the Prime Minister suggested yesterday that we
Minister suggested yesterday that we would get details today, we are not
would get details today, we are not getting those details today and that
getting those details today and that dip
getting those details today and that clip was just a sense of some of the
clip was just a sense of some of the frustration we are hearing from the
fmstration we are hearing from the hotels
frustration we are hearing from the hotels industry, that they are
hotels industry, that they are trying to put forward some ideas and
trying to put forward some ideas and they are not getting anything back
they are not getting anything back from the government at the moment,
from the government at the moment, so that’s another area where the
so that’s another area where the government is feeling the heat.
government is feeling the heat. Thank you very much.
I am joined now by Professor Andrew Hayward, he’s Director of the UCL
Institute of Epidemiology and a member of Sage.
Welcome. Thank you very much. You have said that the UK could be more
have said that the UK could be more or lass
have said that the UK could be more or less back to normal by the
or lass back to normal by the summer.
or less back to normal by the summer. Tell us what you envisage by
summer. Tell us what you envisage by that. Well, I
summer. Tell us what you envisage by that. Well, Ithink
summer. Tell us what you envisage by that. Well, I think what we need to
that. Well, I think what we need to bear in mind is that at the moment,
bear in mind is that at the moment, we are still in a very fragile
we are still in a very fragile position. Despite the fact that
position. Despite the fact that rates are coming down, we still have
rates are coming down, we still have very high levels of disease and
very high levels of disease and amongst the highest levels in the
amongst the highest levels in the world of both disease and deaths. It
world of both disease and deaths. It is too earty to
world of both disease and deaths. It is too early to be unlocking yet and
is too earty to be unlocking yet and what we
is too early to be unlocking yet and what we are essentially needing to
what we are essentially needing to do is to time that with the
do is to time that with the vaccination programme which
vaccination programme which fortunately is going very well. I
fortunately is going very well. I think obviously, as more people get
think obviously, as more peopla get vaccinated,
think obviously, as more people get vaccinated, there is more pressure
vaccinated, there is more pressure to unlock, but what we need to bear
to unlock, but what we need to bear in mind is that whilst we vaccinate
in mind is that whilst we vaccinate delay limit had vaccinated a high
delay limit had vaccinated a high proportion of the very most
proportion of the very most vulnerable groups, really there are
vulnerable groups, really there are still plenty of people who remain
still plenty of people who remain vulnerable to being hospitalised,
vulnerable to being hospitalised, developing severe disease and ending
developing severe disease and ending “P
developing severe disease and ending up in ITU. So we do have to take
up in ITU. So we do have to take that cautiously, but as those groups
that cautiously, but as those groups start to be vaccinated, and as the
start to be vaccinated, and as the natural seasonality of coronavirus
natural seasonality of coronavirus kicks in, then I think we will be in
kicks in, then I think we will be in a very different landscape towards
a very different landscape towards the end of spring and summer. 50,
the end of spring and summer. So, just jog through
the end of spring and summer. 50, justjog through the timeframe that
just jog through the timeframe that you envisage
justjog through the timeframe that you envisage with that. Because just
you envisage with that. Because just looking at the figures, 10 million
looking at the figures, 10 million peoplo have
looking at the figures, 10 million people have been vaccinated so far,
people have been vaccinated so far, looking at the group of nine due to
looking at the group of nine due to be vaccinated, the 505 and over and
be vaccinated, the 505 and over and the vulnerable, that is a total
the vulnerabla, that is a total EWUP
the vulnerabla, that is a total group of 32
the vulnerable, that is a total group of 32 million. 50 going by the
group of 32 million. So going by the pace of
group of 32 million. 50 going by the pace of vaccination so far, that
pace of vaccination so far, that would take is to the end of April.
would take is to the end of April. But that’s not taking into account
But that’s not taking into account those who would need to have the
those who would need to have the second vaccination. Which would
second vaccination. which would presumably
second vaccination. Which would presumably add in another month also
presumably add in another month also to that timeframe. That would then
to that timeframe. That would then be the end of May. Is that what you
be the end of May. Is that what you would say is actually the time you
would say is actually the time you are looking at? I’m envisaging what
are looking at? I’m envisaging what you are likely to see, this is just
you are likely to see, this is just me talking, I’m not talking on
me talking, I’m not talking on behalf of Sage. I would envisage, as
behalf of Sage. I would envisage, as the vaccination rates... Then we
the vaccination rates... Then we will be able to ease restrictions
will be able to ease restrictions over time,
will be able to ease restrictions overtime, it
will be able to ease restrictions over time, it won’t be a case of,
over time, it won’t be a use of, it’s suddenly
over time, it won’t be a case of, it’s suddenly 0K to go back to
it’s suddenly 0K to go back to normal, it will be phased. And so,
normal, it will be phased. And so, what would unlock first? Obviously,
what would unlock first? Obviously, what with got in the schedule
what with got in the schedule Thursday schools on the 8th of March
Thursday schools on the 8th of March but that’s yet to be confirmed. I
but that’s yet to be confirmed. I think it will be schools that will
think it will be schools that will be first and it’s likely to be
be first and it’s likely to be primary schools before secondary
primary schools before secondary schools. Certainly, what we can see
schools. Certainly, what we ran see is that primary
schools. Certainly, what we can see is that primary schools are less of
is that primary schools are lass of a
is that primary schools are loss of a concern
is that primary schools are less of a concern in terms of community
a concern in terms of community transmission, so secondary schools
transmission, so secondary schools we tend to see, when rates start
we tend to see, when rates start increase in secondary school
increase in secondary school children, they move up the age
children, they move up the age EWUPS
children, they move up the age groups and of course it takes time
groups and of course it takes time for them to move up the age groups
for them to move up the age groups and during that time is whilst we
and during that time is whilst we are vaccinating towards those people
are vaccinating towards those peopla who are
are vaccinating towards those people who are still vulnerable. And when
who are still vulnerable. And when you talk about life looking back to
you talk about life looking back to normal by the summer, deeming
normal by the summer, deeming everything with that, like the
everything with that, like the prospect of foreign travel over the
prospect of foreign travel over the summer holidays, nor is it going to
summer holidays, nor is it going to look a bit more like what is
look a bit more like what is happening in Australia and New
happening in Australia and New Zealand, where it is life pretty
Zealand, where it is life pretty much back to normal, but the minutes
much back to normal, but the minutes there is any use,
much back to normal, but the minutes there is any case, it’s stamped on
there is any case, it’s stamped on very firmly on the board is,
very firmly on the board is, effectively, remain shut? Well, we
effectively, remain shut? Well, we are still going to need to be
are still going to need to be careful about travel, particularly
careful about travel, particularty with
careful about travel, particularly with the epidemic being very
with the epidemic being very different in different parts of the
different in different parts of the world and new variants arising in
world and new variants arising in different parts of the world, so
different parts of the world, so that is one area that will be
that is one area that will be affected. And I think it’s difficult
affected. And I think it’s difficult to say, for example, whether mass
to say, for example, whether mass gatherings and those sorts of things
gatherings and those sorts of things would be a good idea at this time. I
would be a good idea at this time. I think we do need to play that bit by
think we do need to play that bit by ear. And see how the epidemiological
ear. And see how the epidemiological situation plays out. So, when we
situation plays out. So, when we talk about life looking back to
talk about life looking back to normal by the summer, it’s not
normal by the summer, it’s not potentially what people are going to
potentially what people are going to envisage. To think it’s important to
envisage. To think it’s important to be very careful on the language
be very careful on the language around this because obviously,
around this because obviously, peopla will
around this because obviously, people will have expectations and
people will have expectations and hopes and we are in very difficult
hopes and we are in very difficult times when people are vulnerable and
times when people are vulnerable and need to know, want to know what lies
need to know, want to know what lies ahead it’s difficult to balance the
ahead it’s difficult to balance the language. I think we do well to
language. I think we do well to signify that there is some light at
signify that there is some light at the end of the tunnel here. And
the end of the tunnel here. And obviously we’re not talking about
obviously we’re not talking about lockdown measures and intensive
lockdown measures and intensive restrictions being something that is
restrictions being something that is going to be needed long—term, I
going to be needed long-term, I think
going to be needed long—term, I think there is a certain amount of
think there is a certain amount of uncertainty about next winter in
uncertainty about next winter in terms of understanding how long
terms of understanding how long immunity will last and of course
immunity will last and of course there is always new variants to
there is always new variants to throw into the picture. 50 I don’t
throw into the picture. So I don’t think we
throw into the picture. 50 I don’t think we can be completely confident
think we ran be completely confident about
think we can be completely confident about anything, but I think the
about anything, but I think the summer in particular should be a
summer in particular should be a time when things will be much
time when things will be much easier. Professor, thank you.
The Irish Foreign Minister, Simon Coveney, says the EU
is considering whether to extend grace periods for checks on goods
entering Northern Ireland from Great Britain,
that were agreed as part of the Brexit trade deal.
Talks, described last night as constructive,
are continuing between the EU and the UK governments after border
controls were stopped this week.
I spoke to our Europe correspondent, Gavin Lee, a little earlier
and he explained where both sides were in the talks at
the start of this morning.
As a joint statement, vertigo, from Michael Gove,
from the EU side, the vice President, and in addition to that
meeting virtual meeting that lasted A0 minutes last night
with the Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland from Sinn Fein
and the First Ministerfrom the DUP, and ultimately, The potted history
of this, after last week’s trouble with the catastrophe,
which is admitted by the EU that it intended to trigger Article 15
of the Northern Ireland protocol, basically suspending its usual
application and meaning there could be a border
between Ireland and Northern Ireland, with the vaccine
checks happening there.
They stopped that, but a letter yesterday morning, published
by Michael Gove, sent to the EU, said, actually, after that problem,
they have seen threats to Northern Ireland,
EU staff at the ports, those staff something suspended
for the moment, so those checks are not in place
on certain food stuffs.
And we need some resolution here.
There is a grace period for certain products,
Supermarket products, chilled meats, parcels, medicines,
things like that, other pets, we need to continue this scenario up
until the end of 2022, so there is 3 A0 minute meeting,
the end result was this will be a constructive way of finding
solutions, it means Maros Sefcovic estimates will come
to Northern Ireland next week, different implications in brief,
essentially, the EU is saying it will continue to impose fully these
checks and the UK still pushing for a grace period to extend it.
I should say this, the last two minutes, we have had Simon Coveney,
on BBC Radio Ulster, he is the Foreign Minister
for Ireland, and also a significant EU official in the past,
who said, "The idea of the grace period now,
we will look to put in place, if it is possible, to extend some
of the grace periods, I think that is under consideration,
but nothing drastic here in terms of the Protocol."
Stephen Kelly is the chief executive of Manufacturing Northern Ireland,
a trade body that has been helping business adjust to the new
trading arrangements.
Earlier he explained what the situation meant
on a practical level for the business community.
There was no doubt that January was
There was no doubt that january was a difficult
There was no doubt that January was a difficult month. The business
a difficult month. The business community here did one for some time
community here did one for some time that in the absence of detail,
that in the absence of detail, people just didn’t have the time to
people just didn’t have the time to get ready and that’s what we
get ready and that’s what we experienced come the 1st of January.
experienced come the 1st of january. In many
experienced come the 1st of January. In many respects, it was a bit like
In many respects, it was a bit like that scene from Wallace and Gromit,
that scene from Wallace and Gromit, where he is laying tracks down in
where he is laying tracks down in front of the train to avoid
front of the train to avoid disaster. Businesses were working
disaster. Businesses were working hard to keep going in the midst of
hard to keep going in the midst of the turmoil that was the beginning
the turmoil that was the beginning of this year and on top of that, the
of this year and on top of that, the Covid pandemic which is affected at
Covid pandemic which is affected at all.
Covid pandemic which is affected at all.
The Headlines on BBC News.
ﬂ
I tried is not to look at the impact of having a different vaccine for
of having a different vaccine for the first and second dose.
the first and second dose. Scientists from the sage advisory
Scientists from the sage advisory committee say things could be more
committee say things could be more or lass
committee say things could be more or less back to normal
committee say things could be more or less back to normalfor the
or lass back to normal for the summer.
or less back to normalfor the summer. The UK and the EU agreed to
summer. The UK and the EU agreed to work intensively to sort out
work intensively to sort out problams
work intensively to sort out problems with post—Brexit to trade
problams with post-Brexit to trade in
problems with post—Brexit to trade in Northern Ireland.
The United States has condemned China after BBC reports
of allegations of systematic rape and torture of women
in so—called re—education camps for the Uighur Muslim minority.
The state department says it is "deeply disturbed" by what it
called "the atrocities" outlined in the report broadcast
on this channel.
And its demanding a powerful response —
urging that China’s actions, which it says "shock the conscience,
be met with serious consequences."
A group
The report has been described as chilling. The BBC spoke with a woman
chilling. The BBC spoke with a woman who was held at one of the camps in
who was held at one of the ramps in Xinjiang region.
who was held at one of the camps in Xinjiang region. She said she was
Xinjiang region. She said she was held in a cell with 13 other women
held in a cell with 13 other women in the ramps
held in a cell with 13 other women in the camps seen in the satellite
in the ramps seen in the satellite images. She
in the camps seen in the satellite images. She said three men visited
images. She said three men visited the cell.
They did whatever evil they could think of and didn’t spare any part
think of and didn’t spare any part of my body. To the extent that it
of my body. To the extent that it was disgusting to look at. They
was disgusting to look at. They didn’t just
was disgusting to look at. They didn’tjust rape. They were
didn’tjust rape. They were barbaric. They had bitten all over
barbaric. They had bitten all over my body.
The BBC also heard from another inmate who now lives in Istanbul. I
inmate who now lives in Istanbul. I worked six months as a cleaning
worked six months as a cleaning worker for the
worked six months as a cleaning workerfor the women. Chinese men
worker for the women. Chinese men would pay
workerfor the women. Chinese men would pay money to have their pick
would pay money to have their pick of the pretty young inmates. My
would pay money to have their pick of the pretty young inmates. Myjob
of the pretty young inmates. My job is to
of the pretty young inmates. Myjob is to remove their clothes
is to remove their clothes completely and then handcuff them on
completely and then handcuff them on their beds so they can’t move. The
their beds so they can’t move. The Chinese Foreign Ministry has
Chinese Foreign Ministry has dismissed the report as lies and
dismissed the report as lies and disinformation. There is no systemic
disinformation. There is no systemic sexual assault and abuse against
sexual assault and abuse against women. Our Constitution guarantees
women. Our Constitution guarantees and protect human rights and it is
and protect human rights and it is valid in our legal system and to
valid in our legal system and to which governments work.
valid in our legal system and to which governments work.
which governments work. Constitutional laws to guarantee
Constitutional laws to guarantee rights and forbid any insult nor
rights and forbid any insult nor abuse. Sneaking in the Commons in
abuse. Sneaking in the Commons in the last hour, Nigel Adams told the
the last hour, Nigel Adams told the UK was putting international
UK was putting international pressure on China to change course.
pressure on China to change course. I acknowledge the strength of
I acknowledge the strength of feeling by honourable members right
feeling by honourable members right across this house and the BBC report
across this house and the BBC report that my honourable friend refers to
that my honourable friend refers to is chilling. It includes deeply
is chilling. It includes deeply distressing testimony of the rape,
distressing testimony of the rape, torture and dehumanisation of Uighur
torture and dehumanisation of Uighur women in Xinjiang region dimension
women in Xinjiang region dimension centres. Gross human rights
centres. Gross human rights violations being perpetrated against
violations being perpetrated against Uighur Muslims and other minorities
Uighur Muslims and other minorities in Xinjiang region. The evidence of
in Xinjiang region. The evidence of the stale
in Xinjiang region. The evidence of the scale and the severity of these
the scale and the severity of these violations is now far—reaching. It
violations is now far-reaching. It paints a tmly
violations is now far—reaching. It paints a truly harrowing picture. If
paints a tmly harrowing picture. If China
paints a truly harrowing picture. If China wishes to dispute this
China wishes to dispute this evidence, they must allow unfettered
evidence, they must allow unfettered access for... Law another
access for... Law another fact-finding
access for... Law another fact—finding body.
Let’s speak to the reporter who did the BBC story, Matthew Hill.
m:
We spent a long time, over a year, looking at this in great detail. We
looking at this in great detail. We spoke to several women outside of
spoke to several women outside of Xinjiang region. We forensically
Xinjiang region. We forensically interrogated them to make sure what
interrogated them to make sure what they were telling us is credible.
they were telling us is credible. We’ve also done a lot of checking of
We’ve also done a lot of checking of our sources on this one, and so it
our sources on this one, and so it has had a big reaction
has had a big reaction internationally. The international
internationally. The international parliamentary alliance in China
partiamentary alliance in China produced a
parliamentary alliance in China produced a statement saying 50
produced a statement saying 50 leading politicians around the world
leading politicians around the world from 19 different countries had all
from 19 different countries had all signed a letter, joint statement of
signed a letter, joint statement of concern of genocide. There has been,
concern of genocide. There has been, including the chair of the Senate
including the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in the
Foreign Relations Committee in the USA and also in Australia, they’ve
USA and also in Australia, therve released
USA and also in Australia, they’ve released a statement, they’ve done a
released a statement, they’ve done a statement where they are calling on
statement where they are falling on China to
statement where they are calling on China to allow... Including the UN
China to allow... Including the UN commission for human rights to be
commission for human rights to be allowed access to the country off
allowed access to the country off the back of this.
Days after staging a coup, Myanamar’s military leaders
have blocked Facebook, the main source of internet access
for people in the country.
Officials say it was shutdown to boost stability.
The UN Secretary—General, Antonio Guterres, has pledged
to mobilise international pressure to ensure, as he put
it, that the military coup in Myanmarfails.
There’s been no word on the whereabouts of the country’s
de factor leader Aung San Suu Kyi, and President Win Myint
since Monday.
For a second day, protesters banged pots
and sounded car horns in the country’s largest city.
Our reporter Nye—in Chan Aye filed this report from Yangon.
This is where people are showing their frustration
and anger against the military coup that has taken place on Monday.
This is the second night in a row people in Yangon have been
banging pots and pans, honking their car horns,
in protest against the military coup that took place on Monday.
Essentially, what people here are saying is that they don’t
want to live or work under the military any more.
SINGING.
TRANSLATION: We only respect our elected President, no one else.
If the President wanted the military to take over,
then we would have accepted that.
But this coup is not fair, so we are expressing our
feelings in a peaceful way.
We are the voice of the little people.
TRANSLATION: I witnessed the coups in 1962 and 1988.
We know all about what happens under military takeovers,
so we have to do this.
If we take to the streets, they will shoot us dead.
Under these circumstances, I support this kind of protest.
We want the elected leaders back.
TRANSLATION: People don’t accept the coup.
That’s why we want to drive them out, by doing this.
SINGING.
On the other hand, the military is taking total
control of the country.
The military have installed an ii—memberjunta, which they say
will rule under the year—long state of emergency.
The people of Yangon have come out here tonight again,
in larger numbers than yesterday, to say they want their vote
and voice to be heard.
Our correspondentJonathan Head is in Bangkok in neighbouring Thailand.
He told us why blocking Facebook was such a big step.
You have to remember, even just ten years ago,
in Myanmar there was virtually no telecommunications at all.
Nope we had mobile phones, there was no internet for most Bumese.
And when mobile phones arrived, as Myanmar opened up,
the phone companies were offering data packages.
Facebook offered its platform without the use of data.
And almost everyone in Myanmar latched on to that and used Facebook
as a kind of default browser to access everything.
Now, there have been problems with that, serious problems
with misinformation, hate speech whipping up ethnic
tension in the last few years.
But it is how everybody accesses information.
This ban that the military has imposed is apparently
only for four days.
I think they realise that you simply cannot shut down something
so essential for a very long period.
Indeed, the military itself is still using Facebook,
although its senior officers have been banned from its platforms.
So, they are trying to, at this stage, it looks
like they are very nervous in the early days of the coup
about young people in particular, or others organising
through social media.
some form of resistance of opposition.
And they hope that by shutting down the main platform,
they can slow that down.
But, of course, the more tech savvy urban Burmese
will find ways round it.
They are using VPNs, there is a big move over to Twitter,
which hadn’t been used much until now.
I think even the generals will understand that trying to put
a plug in the whole of social media doesn’t last very long.
Tennis officials have insisted the Australian Open
will begin next week, despite more than five hundred
players and support staff being forced to self—isolate.
They were forced to take the action after a security guard at the hotel
in which they were quarantined, tested positive for Covid.
We can speak to the former British number one and current
tennis pundit, Annabel Croft.
Thanks for
Thanks forjoining us. Are you
Thanks for joining us. Are you feeling
Thanks forjoining us. Are you feeling positive that it will go
feeling positive that it will go ahead on Monday? Well, I’ve been
ahead on Monday? Well, I’ve been listening to the statements of
listening to the statements of tennis Australia, and they sound
tennis Australia, and they sound pretty positive. I think there’s a
pretty positive. I think there’s a lot of protocols in place. This is
lot of protocols in place. This is extra precaution. I
lot of protocols in place. This is extra precaution. Ithink
lot of protocols in place. This is extra precaution. I think they have
extra precaution. I think they have to test all of these and staff and
to test all of these and staff and entourage in the hope that one of
entourage in the hope that one of them tests positive. Even if 12 of
them tests positive. Even if 12 of them do test positive overnight,
them do test positive overnight, they will probably have something in
they will probably have something in place to make those players isolate,
place to make those players isolate, they male may not... And they can
they male may not... And they ran still go ahead
they male may not... And they can still go ahead with the open, but
still go ahead with the open, but one things for sure, you wouldn’t
one things for sure, you wouldn’t want to be in the shoes of Tennis
want to be in the shoes of Tennis Australia now, because they are
Australia now, because they are jussﬂns
Australia now, because they are juggling quite a lot the moment.
juggling quite a lot the moment. What
juggling quite a lot the moment. what you
juggling quite a lot the moment. What you think of the weights been
What you think of the weights been handled so far on the way the have
handled so far on the way the have responded? Well, you know, I
handled so far on the way the have responded? Well, you know, Ithink
responded? Well, you know, Ithink at first when the players all went
at first when the players all went down there and everybody was in the
down there and everybody was in the press about a few players
press about a few players complaining, it didn’t go down very
complaining, it didn’t go down very well with the Australian public
well with the Australian public because of course they’ve all been
because of course therve all been in
because of course they’ve all been in lockdown for quite some time and
in lockdown for quite some time and then being let out, they certainly
then being let out, they certainly don’t want these players who were
don’t want these players who were they would consider to be on their
they would consider to be on their own little bubble coming in trying
own little bubbla coming in trying to
own little bubble coming in trying to make money playing tennis when
to make money playing tennis when the health of their nation in their
the health of their nation in their country was at stake. So I think
country was at stake. So I think what’s happened is that a lot of
what’s happened is that a lot of players... Tennis Australia fail at
players... Tennis Australia fail at la Lotto
players... Tennis Australia fail at La Lotto lot of players have been
La Lotto lot of players have been remarkable now, the statement
remarkable now, the statement therve
remarkable now, the statement they’ve made, they feel that they
therve made, they feel that they have got it,
they’ve made, they feel that they have got it, it’s a much bigger
have got it, it’s a much bigger problam,
have got it, it’s a much bigger problem, though no the tournament is
problem, though no the tournament is quite small in comparison to
quite small in comparison to everything, so all the protocols are
everything, so all the protocols are in place, everyday could have
in place, everyday could have possibly been doing, working very
possibly been doing, working very closely with the Victorian
closely with the Victorian government and health officials,
government and health officials, with a tournament wouldn’t go ahead
with a tournament wouldn’t go ahead without all of that in place. If you
without all of that in place. If you do get this tournament played and
do get this tournament played and the players are able to make money,
the players are able to make money, the fans are able to watch some
the fans are able to watch some tennis, then that some ticks on the
tennis, then that some ticks on the right direction, isn’t it? I think
right direction, isn’t it? Ithink everybody
right direction, isn’t it? I think everybody has put it in perspective
everybody has put it in perspective as to what it is, it a bit of a
as to what it is, it a bit of a crisis going on globally. Not a
crisis going on globally. Not a great way to prepare for a
great way to prepare for a tournament, though. How have they
tournament, though. How have they managed to do that in lockdown?
managed to do that in lockdown? Well, that’s a really good question.
Well, that’s a really good question. without
Well, that’s a really good question. Without wanting to sound... It’s
without wanting to sound... It’s difficult
Without wanting to sound... It’s difficult for anybody who has to
difficult for anybody who has to isolate in one room, have your meals
isolate in one room, have your meals delivered to the door and for
delivered to the door and for athletes who are free—spirited, they
athletes who are free-spirited, they are used
athletes who are free—spirited, they are used to their routines, their
are used to their routines, their schedules, they usually very
schedules, they usually very superstitious, so they want
superstitious, so they want everything to be how they wanted in
everything to be how they wanted in preparation so that their minds can
preparation so that their minds ran be in the right
preparation so that their minds can be in the right place to be able to
be in the right place to be able to play competitive tennis and of
play competitive tennis and of course you have this situation where
course you have this situation where some of the tour were allowed out
some of the tour were allowed out for five hours a
some of the tour were allowed out forfive hours a day
some of the tour were allowed out for five hours a day to practice and
for five hours a day to practice and prepare and the rest who arrived on
prepare and the rest who arrived on planes where somebody had tested
planes where somebody had tested positive on those planes, suddenly
positive on those planes, suddenly they were locked down for M days
they were locked down for 14 days with no
they were locked down for M days with no access to get outside and
with no access to get outside and even hits tennis balls. 50 they were
even hits tennis balls. So they were resorting to
even hits tennis balls. 50 they were resorting to hitting balls across
resorting to hitting balls across the wall, doing the fitness
the wall, doing the fitness routines, running up and down in
routines, mnning up and down in their room
routines, running up and down in their room and doing five kilometres
their room and doing five kilometres in a short space, so it’s been very
in a short space, so it’s been very difficult, but
in a short space, so it’s been very difficult, butl
in a short space, so it’s been very difficult, but I think they’ve all
difficult, but I think therve all accepted
difficult, but I think they’ve all accepted now that to put it in
accepted now that to put it in perspective, if they are able to
perspective, if they are able to play the tournament, then great, but
play the tournament, then great, but you are going to have a situation
you are going to have a situation where some of the players are much
where some of the players are much better prepared than others and I
better prepared than others and I think what it will come down to is a
think what it will come down to is a Psychology-
think what it will come down to is a psychology. How do you get over the
psychology. How do you get over the fact that your preparation isn’t
fact that your preparation isn’t perfect, it’s got to be about how
perfect, it’s got to be about how your attitude is to the adversity
your attitude is to the adversity that everyone is facing and it’s not
that everyone is facing and it’s not easy for anyone. And that’s a really
easy for anyone. And that’s a really fascinating aspect of it, isn’t it?
fascinating aspect of it, isn’t it? Because when you say the players now
Because when you say the players now have it in perspective, you can’t
have it in perspective, you can’t have a mental shift so quickly, I
have a mental shift so quickly, I wouldn’t think, when basically,
wouldn’t think, when basically, tennis, of any sportsperson, that
tennis, of any sportsperson, that their lives and you talk about the
their lives and you talk about the routines... It’s going to be an
routines... It’s going to be an interesting one to watch, isn’t it?
interesting one to watch, isn’t it? Yes, it really is. I think tennis is
Yes, it really is. I think tennis is all about your character and your
all about your character and your strength of character and adversity,
strength of character and adversity, you have to ride the crest of waves
you have to ride the crest of waves of pressure and you can’t get a more
of pressure and you can’t get a more pressurised situation. This is the
pressurised situation. This is the first Grand Slam of the year. This
first Grand Slam of the year. This is the first big event, before
is the first big event, before normally we have the French Open,
normally we have the French Open, Wimbledon and the US open. In tennis
Wimbledon and the US open. In tennis terms, we have the big Grand Slams
terms, we have the big Grand Slams and this is the start of the year.
and this is the start of the year. So it’s a big event, it holds a lot
So it’s a big event, it holds a lot of weight in history, it holds the
of weight in history, it holds the prize money, there is a lot attached
prize money, there is a lot attached to it, so they all want to play well
to it, so they all want to play well in these Grand Slam events are
in these Grand Slam events are normally, you would have perfect
normally, you would have perfect preparation so that you peek at the
preparation so that you peek at the right time in a Grand Slam. But of
right time in a Grand Slam. But of course, it’s been anything but
course, it’s been anything but perfect operation because as I said,
perfect operation because as I said, certain characters will cope without
certain characters will cope without adversity better than others. The
adversity better than others. The highly emotional players might, you
highly emotional players might, you know, lose it a little bit mentally.
know, lose it a little bit mentally. Roger Federer isn’t going to be
Roger Federer isn’t going to be there, but we are used to say of
there, but we are used to say of him, he’s so relaxed about any
him, he’s so relaxed about any scenario, you can imagine that he
scenario, you ran imagine that he would
scenario, you can imagine that he would have coped well with this
would have coped well with this scenario, but he won’t be there.
scenario, but he won’t be there. will have
scenario, but he won’t be there. Will have to watch and see. Thanks
will have to watch and see. Thanks so much.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
Hello again.
Where it has been so mild of late, it is going to turn much colder,
particularly so by Sunday and more of us will see some snow.
Today, there is a snow in the forecast and in the hills
of the North Pennines, in Scotland, at times in Scotland,
that will be down at lower levels, but generally speaking,
maybe some sleet.
the North at lower levels is going to be rain,
maybe some sleet.
Meanwhile in the south, we have a band of heavy showers,
potentially thundery, moving across England and Wales, in
in between something drier and brighter.
Eventually, this band arrives across north—east
England and a band of rain, sleet and snow continues to migrate
northwards across the northern half of the country.
It will be cold up there, with a risk of some ice
to untreated surfaces and some fast, not as cold
as we push further south.
From midnight tonight, until 6PM on Saturday,
the Met office has an amber weather warning for heavy snow
across parts of Scotland.
We could have as much is between 10—15 centimetres,
that is roughly six inches, at lower levels, and double that
above 150 metres, so take care.
hello, you’re watching BBC news. I will
hello, you’re watching BBC news. I will headline set as a people
will headline set as a people receive their first Covid—19 jab
receive their first Covid-19 jab across
receive their first Covid—19 jab across the UK, China is lighter to
across the UK, China is lighter to look at the impact of having
look at the impact of having different vaccines for the first and
different vaccines for the first and second dose. It well, hopefully
second dose. It well, hopefully maintain the UK in the forefront of
maintain the UK in the forefront of research into Covid—19 vaccines, we
research into Covid-19 vaccines, we are very proud of
research into Covid—19 vaccines, we are very proud of our track record,
are very proud of our track record, obviously, I’m vaccines parcels, and
obviously, I’m vaccines parcels, and others in a deployment programme,
others in a deployment programme, but this is another part of the
but this is another part of the armoury. With pressure growing to
armoury. with pressure growing to ease
armoury. With pressure growing to ease lockdown restrictions, the
ease lockdown restrictions, the scientist on the sage advisory
scientist on the sage advisory commission says that things could be
commission says that things could be more or less back to normal
commission says that things could be more or less back to normalfor the
more or lass back to normal for the summer.
more or less back to normalfor the summer. The UK and the EU have
summer. The UK and the EU have agreed to work intensively to sort
agreed to work intensively to sort out problems with post Brexits trade
out problams with post Brexits trade in
out problems with post Brexits trade in Northern Ireland. The US and the
in Northern Ireland. The US and the UK condemn China after a BBC report
UK condemn China after a BBC report alleging women were systemically
alleging women were systemically raped and tortured in Uighur camps.
raped and tortured in Uighur ramps. China
raped and tortured in Uighur camps. China calls it lies and
China calls it lies and disinformation.
China calls it lies and disinformation. Time fro full spots
disinformation. Time fro full spots ran up and we can get the full
ran up and we can get the full violators. Hello there. That makes
violators. Hello there. That makes for a full round—up. The cross
for a full round-up. The cross question
for a full round—up. The cross question marks over at the Austrian
question marks over at the Austrian open, the man in charge, though,
open, the man in charge, though, 5575
open, the man in charge, though, says he is absolutely confident that
says he is absolutely confident that the tournament will go ahead. That
the tournament will go ahead. That is despite the latest problems
is despite the latest problems caused by the pandemic. More than
caused by the pandemic. More than 500 people connected to the
500 people connected to the tournament are in self isolation,
tournament are in self isolation, after a number of tough to
after a number of tough to quarantine at a hotel and tested
quarantine at a hotel and tested positive there.
i MC
160 players are amongst those isolating.
m:
We fully expect will be negative. And hopefully can play like we
And hopefully ran play like we planned
And hopefully can play like we planned was that if we had to go
planned was that if we had to go through this again, we were at those
through this again, we were at those we will do so. We have another three
we will do so. We have another three and have weeks of tests, lots of
and have weeks of tests, lots of sunplv
and have weeks of tests, lots of supply and we fully expect to keep
supply and we fully expect to keep on schedule want to get past that.
Wimbledon meanwhile is "likely to look very different
this year" according to the All England
Club.
Organisers say they remain committed to staging
the Championships this year and — although a reduced capacity
is the most likely option — they haven’t ruled out
having full stadia.
The tournament is scheduled to start at the end ofJune.
Liverpool have now lost back—to—back games at Anfield,
after previously going 68 games unbeaten at home in the Premier
League.
The champions lost 1—0 to Brighton,
who were impressive on the night and fully deserved the win.
Steven Alzatey, with the only goal of the game.
Brighton are now unbeaten in four league matches.
Liverpool meanwhile are seven points off leaders Manchester City.
They’ve played a game more, and the two sides meet on Sunday.
The solution is always the players, the information that the players
the information that the players have and at the moment, they have to
have and at the moment, they have to have the physical condition to do
have the physical condition to do it. Now
have the physical condition to do it. Nowl
have the physical condition to do it. Now I say, is a tough time
it. Now I say, is a tough time anyway, but they did it really well.
anyway, but they did it really well. Three years ago, six days ago, that
Three years ago, six days ago, that is fine. For the night, it
is fine. For the night, it was not enough. We have now one more day
enough. We have now one more day until city come and visit they are
until city come and visit they are ﬂying. So we
until city come and visit they are flying. So we have these in time,
ﬂying. So we have these in time, that’s
flying. So we have these in time, that’s how it is.
So as Liverpool struggle, Manchester City look unstoppable.
They won their 13th game in a row by beating Burnley 2—0.
Gabrieljesus opened the scoring at Turf Moor,
before Raheem Sterling added a second.
There were wins too last night for Leicester,
Everton and West Ham.
Ian Wright says he’s ‘tired’ and ‘disappointed’
after a teenager who sent him racist abuse avoided a criminal
conviction.
The former Arsenal and England striker,
who’s now a BBC pundit, was sent the messages on social
media by 18—year—old Patrick O’Brien from Ireland, who sent them
after losing a match on the FIFA computer game.
He was given probation, with the judge saying he saw nothing
to gain from a criminal conviction.
However, Wright says that sends the wrong message.
Meanwhile, Southampton say their teenage midfielder
Alex Jankervitch, has been racially abused on social media.
He was sent off early on in their 9—0 defeat
to Manchester United.
The club say they’ve passed the messages to the police.
Zak Crawley’s been ruled out of the first two tests against India
after injuring himself in what’s been called a ‘freak’ accident.
The opener slipped on a marble floor during practice yesterday
and has sprained his wrist.
It’s expected he’ll be replaced in the battling line up by either
Ollie Pope or Dan Lawrence.
Meanwhile, former captain Michael Vaughan says
current incumbentJoe Root will end his career as England’s
greatest player in history.
The first Test in Chennai will be Root’s 100th,
and he’s keen to make sure he remembers the occasion
for the right reasons.
ii
It will be a very special day, a special game, but there is business
special game, but there is business to do, there are things that are
to do, there are things that are more important and again, that is
more important and again, that is enough to read a good start. That
enough to read a good start. That will be my full focus when we walk
will be my full focus when we walk out to play.
will be my full focus when we walk out to play. On Friday, and I
out to play. On Friday, and I will sure I will look out on it very
will sure I will look out on it very funny, but once the game starts,
funny, but once the game starts, it will be about scoring big brands and
will be about scoring big brands and leading the team on.
That’s all the sport for now.
Government sources have confirmed a bill will be introduced to finalise
bill will be introduced to finalise to leave for officeholders. It would
to leave for officeholders. It would allow them to take six months
allow them to take six months maternity leave on full pay. Until
maternity leave on full pay. Until now, arrangements have been agrees
now, arrangements have been agrees on an informal
basis at the discretion of the Prime Minister. I’m
basis at the discretion of the Prime Minister. I’mjoined by
basis at the discretion of the Prime Minister. I’m joined by Deputy
Minister. I’mjoined by Deputy political
Minister. I’m joined by Deputy political editor young. It was
political editor young. It was effectively not going to be allowed
effectively not going to be allowed to be allowed but I believe, less
to be allowed but I believe, less the always change. This is quite
the always change. This is quite surprising in a way, this goes to
surprising in a way, this goes to the way that Cabinet ministers are
the way that Cabinet ministers are employed. They are appointed by the
employed. They are appointed by the Prime Minister, so they do not come
Prime Minister, so they do not come under the normal employment law.
under the normal employment law. That is not to say that women who
That is not to say that women who have been ministers in the past
have been ministers in the past have been denied maternity leave, but is
been denied maternity leave, but is not the use,
been denied maternity leave, but is not the case, they have been allowed
not the use, they have been allowed to take it, but
not the case, they have been allowed to take it, but as I say, it has
to take it, but as I say, it has been on an informal basis and
been on an informal basis and really, it is up to the Prime
really, it is up to the Prime Minister. The issue of Isabella
Minister. The issue of Isabella Braverman, she is the Attorney
Braverman, she is the Attorney General, but is different, she is a
General, but is different, she is a law officer, although she also does
law officer, although she also does attend cabinet. In her case, because
attend cabinet. In her use, because of her particular
attend cabinet. In her case, because of her particular responsibilities,
of her particular responsibilities, they cannot just
of her particular responsibilities, they cannotjust be delegated to
they cannot just be delegated to somebody
they cannotjust be delegated to somebody else for six months or
somebody else for six months or however long she wants to go on to
however long she wants to go on to maternity leave. The government has
maternity leave. The government has decided to formalise the whole
decided to formalise the whole thing, not
decided to formalise the whole thing, notjust for ministers, but
thing, not just for ministers, but for those
thing, notjust for ministers, but for those who have particular
thing, notjust for ministers, but for those who have particularjobs
for those who have particularjobs in the opposition. The Leader of the
in the opposition. The Leader of the Opposition, for example, and there
Opposition, for example, and there are other posts in the opposition,
are other posts in the opposition, where you would also be allowed to
where you would also be allowed to benefit from this. I think it does
benefit from this. I think it does show, really, how rare it is for a
show, really, how rare it is for a Cabinet minister to be someone
Cabinet minister to be someone who is having a baby. And for so we let
is having a baby. And for so we let Bradman it does mean that she can
Bradman it does mean that she ran keep a job and
Bradman it does mean that she can keep a job and have her maternity
keep a job and have her maternity leave and she will be paid in full
leave and she will be paid in full pay for HP
leave and she will be paid in full pay for up to six months. It does
pay for up to six months. It does shine a light, on
pay for up to six months. It does shine alight, on equality and how
shine a light, on equality and how things work
shine alight, on equality and how things work there. Is it likely to
things work there. Is it likely to [ad to
things work there. Is it likely to lead to other aspects. I think it is
lead to other aspects. I think it is a sign, that very few women still
a sign, that very few women still have been in the cabinets, I think
have been in the cabinets, I think it has shown that really it has
it has shown that really it has taken quite a time for the House of
taken quite a time for the House of Commons to change. There has been
Commons to change. There has been a lot of campaigning over the year,
lot of campaigning over the year, Harriet Harman, a very senior Labour
Harriet Harman, a very senior labour figure of course,
Harriet Harman, a very senior Labour figure of course, pursuing a lot of
figure of course, pursuing a lot of this, but it is interesting that it
this, but it is interesting that it was only January 2019 that the
was only January 2019 that the introduced proxy votes for women MPs
introduced proxy votes for women MPs who are on maternity leave. All of
who are on maternity leave. All of that is quite recent. 50 I think it
that is quite recent. So I think it does
that is quite recent. 50 I think it does show that it can take time to
does show that it ran take time to catch up with
does show that it can take time to catch up with the rest of the world.
catch up with the rest of the world. I think it is worth remembering that
I think it is worth remembering that particularty
I think it is worth remembering that particularly cabinet ministers,
particularty cabinet ministers, their
particularly cabinet ministers, their careers are not the same as
their careers are not the same as other people, because they can be,
other people, because they ran be, let’s face it,
other people, because they can be, let’s face it, in a reshuffle,
let’s face it, in a reshufﬂa, sacked
let’s face it, in a reshuffle, sacked over nights, they are not
sacked over nights, they are not subject to the same kind of
subject to the same kind of employment laws that the rest of us
employment laws that the rest of us are. But I think on the issue of
are. But I think on the issue of maternity leave, they clearly want
maternity leave, they dearty want to make
maternity leave, they clearly want to make this a more formal process
to make this a more formal process and I think it would allow them for
and I think it would allow them for someone to step in as Attorney
someone to step in as Attorney General, that’s a placement process,
General, that’s a placement process, becomes a lot easier. Especially if
becomes a lot easier. Especially if it is all formalised in law, so that
it is all formalised in law, so that will go through the House of
will go through the House of Commons, they hope, and has of
Commons, they hope, and has of Lords, in one day next Thursday.
Lords, in one day next Thursday. just a quick
Lords, in one day next Thursday. Just a quick thought, then does it
just a quick thought, then does it affords
Just a quick thought, then does it affords greater protection if they
affords greater protection if they had a baby? Because they could then
had a baby? Because they could then just go in and reshuffle immediately
just go in and reshufﬂa immediately after or during
just go in and reshuffle immediately after or during it that there was a
after or during it that there was a reshuffle? That is a good question.
reshufﬂe? That is a good question. I think
reshuffle? That is a good question. I think politically, for a
reshuffle? That is a good question. I think politically, for 3 Prime
I think politically, for 3 Prime Minister to sack a woman
I think politically, for 3 Prime Minister to sack a women while she
Minister to sack a woman whila she was on
Minister to sack a women while she was on maternity leave, probably it
was on maternity leave, probably it would not be a good look, so I don’t
would not be a good look, so I don’t think that would happen anyway, but
think that would happen anyway, but it could well mean that they are
it could well mean that they are afforded some protection. Thank you.
afforded some protection. Thank you. Boris johnson
afforded some protection. Thank you. BorisJohnson has praised what he
BorisJohnson has praised what he’s described as the "colossal" effort
to vaccinate 10 million people.
This milestone means the UK looks likely to reach the government’s
target of protecting 15 million of the most vulnerable people
by the middle of this month.
Our reporter Graham Satchell sent this report from
Epsom Racecourse in Surrey, one of the vaccination hubs.
How are you feeling about today?
Fine.
Excited, pleased that we are all on with the show.
Thank you.
The process is simple and quick.
First, everyone is checked in.
Then, a short wait, just a few minutes.
Today is my first day of working as a nurse here.
I’ve rejoined the nursing register.
Imogen, who will give John his vaccine, left nursing five
years ago to start a family.
But she’s back.
I thought it was an exciting opportunity.
I wanted to, sort of, play a part in it.
Fantastic.
Yeah.
It’s a step in the right direction.
Thank you.
My wife is being done tomorrow.
I’ve just been reading a WhatsApp message from my brother—in—law
in South Africa who is in hospital there with it.
With Covid.
And he’s not well at all.
Oh, dear.
So, yeah, you know.
It’s touching everybody in somewhere.
Next in line, another John who is being looked
after by his neighbour, Deborah.
John’s wife is in a care home and he hasn’t been able to see her.
Well, it’s been a bad year.
For everybody.
Regardless of who you are.
Everybody has suffered in somewhere another.
Hard not seeing your wife.
It’s very difficult.
Very difficult not to see her.
And this is for all people who have people in care homes.
Very difficult.
Debra was here just a few days ago with her husband who had heart
transplant three years ago.
It’s been a very worrying time.
We have been shielding, really, since last March.
I brought him to his vaccination on Saturday and it was brilliant.
It really was thrilling.
Exciting, so, yeah.
It’s a relief?
It’s emotional. Very emotional.
They vaccinate around 70 people an hour here.
On average, between 700 and 900 every day.
On average, between 700 and 900 every day.
The headlines on BBC News...
is
isa
isa10
is a 10 million people receive a Covid-19
is a 10 million people receive a Covid—19 vaccine across the UK,
Covid-19 vaccine across the UK, China is
Covid—19 vaccine across the UK, China is lodged to have a look at
China is lodged to have a look at the different impacts for the doses
the different impacts for the doses of the first and second. The
of the first and second. The pressure is going to ease lockdown
pressure is going to ease lockdown restrictions, the site is an estate
restrictions, the site is an estate advisory could make things do make
advisory could make things do make 55V
advisory could make things do make say things could be back to normal
say things could be back to normal for the summer. You UK and the EU
for the summer. You UK and the EU agreed to stop work intensively to
agreed to stop work intensively to work out prospective trade in
work out prospective trade in Northern Ireland. —— post—Brexit.
Here is at
Here is at which to. He has hopes that the plan is to step in and hop
that the plan is to step in and hop production. Boris
that the plan is to step in and hop production. BorisJohnson has
production. Boris johnson has amenity.
production. BorisJohnson has amenity. You can change the whole
amenity. You ran change the whole climate story.
amenity. You can change the whole climate story. He could be the
climate story. He could be the knight in shining armour. He puts
knight in shining armour. He puts the world on a different pathway.
the world on a different pathway. All he has to do is follow the
All he has to do is follow the signs. A Downing Street spokesman
signs. A Downing Street spokesman said that it was eight leading in
said that it was eight leading in the policy. Our analysis gave us the
the policy. Our analysis gave us the back end this. The backline is that
back end this. The backline is that putting in a
back end this. The backline is that putting in 3 Coco crack cocaine, and
putting in a Coco crack cocaine, and off the
putting in 3 Coco crack cocaine, and off the coast of Cambrai, that
putting in a Coco crack cocaine, and off the coast of Cambrai, that acts
off the coast of Gmbrai, that acts like
off the coast of Gmhrai, that acts like the
off the coast of Cambrai, that acts like the application went to the
like the application went to the county council and the county
county council and the county council said they could not find
council said they could not find good grounds for opposing it, as
good grounds for opposing it, as they passed it. At that point, the
they passed it. At that point, the government could have stepped in.
government could have stepped in. The committee secretary could have
The committee secretary could have rallad in
The committee secretary could have called in that decision and
called in that decision and overruled it, but he chose not to.
overruled it, but he chose not to. He said that the county council was
He said that the county council was the appropriate level of government
the appropriate level of government for the decision to be made out.
for the decision to be made out. That caused an outcry cry and green
That caused an outcry cry and green peas, saying, well, let’s hope the
peas, saying, well, let’s hope the Chinese provinces don’t take this
Chinese provinces don’t take this attitude otherwise you what is
attitude otherwise you what is toast. Anyway, since then, the world
toast. Anyway, since then, the world -- make the
toast. Anyway, since then, the world —— make the row has rumbled on, and
-- make the row has rumbled on, and she is not a
—— make the row has rumbled on, and she is not a trivial
—— make the row has rumbled on, and she is not a trivialfigure, he
she is not a trivial figure, he knows dry by
she is not a trivialfigure, he knows dry by then, he knows his
knows dry by then, he knows his climate, his envoy, John Kerry, he
climate, his envoy, john Kerry, he is a powerful
climate, his envoy, John Kerry, he is a powerful character and he has
is a powerful character and he has copied his letter, that he sent to
copied his letter, that he sent to Boris
copied his letter, that he sent to Borisjohnson, he has copied that to
Boris johnson, he has copied that to john Kerry and
Borisjohnson, he has copied that to John Kerry and he is trying to stare
john Kerry and he is trying to stare “P
john Kerry and he is trying to stare up as much
John Kerry and he is trying to stare up as much embarrassment as
up as much embarrassment as possible. In the UK, there are many
possible. In the UK, there are many families, the biggest struggle
families, the biggest struggle duﬂng
families, the biggest struggle during the pandemic has been a big
during the pandemic has been a big impact on personal finances.
during the pandemic has been a big impact on personalfinances. The
impact on personal finances. The government
impact on personalfinances. The government has boosted the amount of
government has boosted the amount of Universal Credit available, but with
Universal Credit availabla, but with this
Universal Credit available, but with this extra support due to come to an
this extra support due to come to an end, many are worried about what it
end, many are worried about what it will mean for them. Our political
will mean for them. Our political respondent Alex Forsyth has more.
respondent Alex Forsyth has more. Lepers might
respondent Alex Forsyth has more. Lepers mightjust double—check, so
Lepers mightjust double-check, so we need
Lepers mightjust double—check, so we need to see what you do for
we need to see what you do for your poem. -- C. jess is
we need to see what you do for your poem. —— C. Jess is embroiled in the
poem. -- C. jess is embroiled in the home schooling
poem. —— C. Jess is embroiled in the home schooling struggle. She is a
home schooling stmggle. She is a singla
home schooling struggle. She is a single mother to Oliver, and money
single mother to Oliver, and money has been tied but through the
has been tied but through the pandemic, she says it has been
pandemic, she says it has been worse. Being at home has pushed up
worse. Being at home has pushed up the bells and without a car,
the bells and without a far, shopping
the bells and without a car, shopping locally can be pricey. Get
shopping [orally ran be pricey. Get mad
shopping locally can be pricey. Get mad although our cupboards are full,
mad although our cupboards are full, our fridge is a
mad although our cupboards are full, ourfridge is a bit
mad although our cupboards are full, our fridge is a bit empty,
mad although our cupboards are full, ourfridge is a bit empty, and this
our fridge is a bit empty, and this is the
ourfridge is a bit empty, and this is the week when we don’t really
is the week when we don’t really have much faster. —— we don’t really
have much faster. -- we don’t really have much
have much faster. —— we don’t really have much fresh stuff. It is bill
have much fresh stuff. It is bill week. She works in a supermarket but
week. She works in a supermarket but also relies on supermarket it back
also relies on supermarket it back Universal Credit. The government put
Universal Credit. The government put “P
Universal Credit. The government put Up by
Universal Credit. The government put up by £20 a week at the start of the
up by £20 a week at the start of the pandemic to help those like
up by £20 a week at the start of the pandemic to help those likeJess
pandemic to help those like jess who has had
pandemic to help those likeJess who has had to make some tough choices.
has had to make some tough choices. I had to scrape together food from
I had to scrape together food from the tens. I have had to go to the
the tens. I have had to go to the Food Bank, we always make sure
Food Bank, we always make sure Oliver has everything he needs. I
Oliver has everything he needs. I would go without. There have been
would go without. There have been times when I’ve had to struggle, I
times when I’ve had to stmggle, I had to phone
times when I’ve had to struggle, I had to phone up the utility
had to phone up the utility bills and ask if I could set up a payment
and ask if I could set up a payment plan to pay off the month spell. It
plan to pay off the month spell. It has been a big part of mine and
has been a big part of mine and Oliver’s... Out and playing half
Oliver’s... Out and playing half hockey has been a big lifeline for
hockey has been a big lifeline for the two of them, and with support
the two of them, and with support from a charity, she has worked hard
from a charity, she has worked hard to support her finances. The X
to support her finances. The X Universal Credit has helped, and she
Universal Credit has helped, and she is hopeful that things will get
is hopeful that things will get easier. The one thing I have always
easier. The one thing I have always been worried about is if I’m doing
been worried about is if I’m doing the right thing for him. Hopefully,
the right thing for him. Hopefully, he learns the value of hard work. We
he learns the value of hard work. We will get there eventually, I think.
will get there eventually, I think. There has been a heavy economic
There has been a heavy economic price to this pandemic. It is
price to this pandemic. It is obvious in any high street. The
obvious in any high street. The government has put billions into
government has put billions into supporting businesses and
supporting businesses and individuals. It says that it is
individuals. It says that it is committed to helping the lowest paid
committed to helping the lowest paid families. It points to the increases
families. It points to the increases in welfare and grants for things
in welfare and grants for things like boot food and bills. It is
like boot food and bills. It is being urged to make a decision on
being urged to make a decision on the extra income many of those has
the extra income many of those has mn come
the extra income many of those has run come to
the extra income many of those has mn come to rely
the extra income many of those has run come to rely on. The government
mn come to rely on. The government is under
run come to rely on. The government is under some pressure to keep the
is under some pressure to keep the increased rate of Universal Credit,
increased rate of Universal Credit, but if it does, that means a pretty
but if it does, that means a pretty big bill for the Treasury. About £6
big bill for the Treasury. About £6 billion. At the moment, the
billion. At the moment, the Chancellor’s working out his budget,
Chancellor’s working out his budget, and the government says part of that
and the government says part of that process is looking at the state of
process is looking at the state of the pandemic and the state of public
the pandemic and the state of public finances and also working out the
finances and also working out the best way to support people. My
best way to support people. My children will never know that I
children will never know that I stmggle.
children will never know that I struggle. My children will never
stmggle. My children will never know
struggle. My children will never know that I worry. Because I will
know that I worry. Because I will always be daddy for them. For
always be daddy for them. For Anthony, the extra £20 a week has
Anthony, the extra £20 a week has been a lifeline. He is a single dad
been a lifeline. He is a single dad of two, including 23—year—old
of two, including 23—year—old Florence was that he said any drop
Florence was that he said any drop in income that would be a real
in income that would be a real stmggle. As a
in income that would be a real struggle. As a household, if we were
stmggle. As a household, if we were to have
struggle. As a household, if we were to have the hits like that, we are
to have the hits like that, we are going to have to be constantly at
going to have to be constantly at the Food bank and we are going to
the Food bank and we are going to have to ask for assistance for
have to ask for assistance for bills, but it is difficult for
bills, but it is difficult for everybody at the moment. We have to
everybody at the moment. We have to make do. Universal Credit makes us
make do. Universal Credit makes us just make do. The government has yet
just make do. The government has yet to decide whether to keep the
to decide whether to keep the increased rates. There is no
increased rates. There is no escaping the impact of this pandemic
escaping the impact of this pandemic on public and personal
escaping the impact of this pandemic on public and personalfinances.
on public and personal finances. Anthony has
on public and personalfinances. Anthony has had support from the
Anthony has had support from the Christians against poverty charity,
Christians against poverty charity, which he says has been invaluable.
which he says has been invaluable. There are places out there.
There are places out there. But sometimes you do not know you can
sometimes you do not know you ran reach out
sometimes you do not know you can reach out to those places because
reach out to those places because you are embarrassed because you are
you are embarrassed because you are exhausted. And I will have to say,
exhausted. And I will have to say, do it, because it is the best thing
do it, because it is the best thing I did. The only way we can move
I did. The only way we ran move forwards is
I did. The only way we can move forwards is moving forward together.
There is high praise for a scheme that helps
There’s high praise for a scheme that helps young children in care
reconnect with family members.
‘Lifelong Links’ aims to help vulnerable children and young people
build and maintain support networks that many take for granted.
Young people who grow up in care are still more likely to do poorly
at school and to end up in prison.
This scheme is trying to counter that.
Lifelong Links was set up by the Family Rights Group,
whose chief executive, Cathy Ashley, joins me now.
welcome, thank you for
welcome, thank you forjoining us.
welcome, thank you for joining us. Pleasure.
welcome, thank you forjoining us. Pleasure. So can you just expend a
Pleasure. So ran you just expend a bit more
Pleasure. So can you just expend a bit more about how this actually
bit more about how this actually works? How it works is that an
works? How it works is that an independent coordinator who we
independent coordinator who we train, well work with the young
train, well work with the young person to identify all the people
person to identify all the peopla who
person to identify all the people who could be important in their
who could be important in their lives. They could include extended
lives. They could include extended family, some they may have met, some
family, some they may have met, some they may never have met, but it also
they may never have met, but it also includes other people who may care
includes other peopla who may rare about them,
includes other people who may care about them, but as a result of the
about them, but as a result of the rare system,
about them, but as a result of the care system, they may have ended up
rare system, they may have ended up moving away or
care system, they may have ended up moving away or breaking those
moving away or breaking those relationships. For example, a child
relationships. For example, a child may have been at school in an area
may have been at school in an area and have schoolmates and their
and have schoolmates and their parents may have looked out for that
parents may have looked out for that child’s, but as a result of going
child’s, but as a result of going into rare,
child’s, but as a result of going into care, they may have ended up
into rare, they may have ended up having to leave
into care, they may have ended up having to leave the school, they may
having to leave the school, they may have ended up no longer living with
have ended up no longer living with their brothers and sisters. What
their brothers and sisters. what this charity
their brothers and sisters. What this charity does is try and
this charity does is try and reconnect those positive
reconnect those positive relationships in that child’s life.
relationships in that child’s life. If I understand it correct then, it
If I understand it correct then, it is effectively empowering the child
is effectively empowering the child to say, tell us about the people who
to say, tell us about the peopla who you have felt a
to say, tell us about the people who you have felt a connection with
you have felt a connection with your past, or the ones that you feel like
past, or the ones that you feel like you would like to develop that
you would like to develop that connection with, or get in touch
connection with, or get in touch with you --
connection with, or get in touch with you —— make they will get in
with you -- make they will get in touch with you
with you —— make they will get in touch with you and try to form a
touch with you and try to form a bond, a more
touch with you and try to form a bond, 3 more durable bond, that
bond, a more durable bond, that right? Yes, it is
bond, 3 more durable bond, that right? Yes, it is about creating a
right? Yes, it is about creating a lasting support network for the
lasting support network for the child. Not
lasting support network for the child. Notjust whilst
lasting support network for the child. Not just whilst they are
lasting support network for the child. Notjust whilst they are in
child. Not just whilst they are in the rare
child. Notjust whilst they are in the care system, but throughout
the rare system, but throughout their
the care system, but throughout their lives. We all need people who
their lives. We all need people who we know love and care about is, that
we know love and rare about is, that we ran turn to,
we know love and care about is, that we can turn to, or that we have had
we ran turn to, or that we have had to all for
we can turn to, or that we have had to call for emotional things,
to all for emotional things, and that is
to call for emotional things, and that is what lifelong links aims to
that is what lifelong links aims to do. It is proving very effective.
do. It is proving very effective. There is one child, for example, who
There is one child, for example, who did not know about their
did not know about their grandparents and yet his
grandparents and yet his grandparents, ran at the ice cream,
grandparents, ran at the ice cream, and the child remembered having them
and the child remembered having them being bought but presence, being in
being bought but presence, being in the cupboard, waiting for them, when
the cupboard, waiting for them, when they were able to reconnect. That
they were able to reconnect. That grandparents did not know how to
grandparents did not know how to contact the grandchild once the
contact the grandchild once the grandchild was in care and
grandchild was in care and meanwhile, no one talked to the
meanwhile, no one talked to the child about their grandparents who
child about their grandparents who they loved and cared about. It is
they loved and cared about. It is heartbreaking, isn’t it? To think
heartbreaking, isn’t it? To think about, what must be going out on it
about, what must be going out on it back on in a child for my cat, when
back on in a child for my rat, when they have been
back on in a child for my cat, when they have been abandoned, but is
they have been abandoned, but is just through circumstance. How
just through circumstance. How important is it to reverse that for
important is it to reverse that for a child? Really important. Part of
a child? Really important. Part of the aim of the charity is not only
the aim of the charity is not only to recreate the network for that
to recreate the network for that child, but also to encourage local
child, but also to encourage local authorities to think about ways in
authorities to think about ways in which those relationships are not
which those relationships are not broken in the first place. If a
broken in the first place. If a child does need to go into the care
child does need to go into the rare system, to
child does need to go into the care system, to look at how they can
system, to look at how they ran create
system, to look at how they can create those and maintain those
create those and maintain those bonds as much as possible, and it is
bonds as much as possible, and it is really important as I say, for all
really important as I say, for all of us, but it is particularly
of us, but it is particularty important
of us, but it is particularly important for children in care. It
important for children in rare. It is one of
important for children in care. It is one of the reasons why, often,
is one of the reasons why, often, particularty
is one of the reasons why, often, particularly when they leave the
particularty when they leave the rare
particularly when they leave the care system, they do feel so
care system, they do feel so isolated. 50 alone, and white that
isolated. So alone, and white that could be
isolated. 50 alone, and white that could be as bad for some children in
could be as bad for some children in the rare system.
could be as bad for some children in the care system. There it always
the rare system. There it always work
the care system. There it always work out? From what you have said,
work out? From what you have said, I’m trying to work out that it
I’m trying to work out that it sounds like you might be contacted
sounds like you might be contacted by the coordinated team at
by the coordinated team at coordinator on behalf of the child,
coordinator on behalf of the child, who is in that person as an
who is in that person as an important figure in their life,
important figure in their life, whether it is the parent of a friend
whether it is the parent of a friend of the teacher or whatever, and it
of the teacher or whatever, and it might not be expecting to get
might not be expecting to get that all.
might not be expecting to get that call. And also, on the family side
all. And also, on the family side of things, is
call. And also, on the family side of things, is there a risk of
of things, is there a risk of petting a child back into a
petting a child back into a situation that could cause problems
situation that could cause problams -- of putting a
situation that could cause problems —— of putting a child at a situation
-- of putting a child at a situation that could
—— of putting a child at a situation that could cause the problem
that could cause the problem that meant it went into care in the first
meant it went into rare in the first place? Many
meant it went into care in the first place? Many children will trying ——
place? Many children will trying -- like many
place? Many children will trying —— like many children in care will end
like many children in rare will end “P
like many children in rare will end up trying to
like many children in care will end up trying to find family members by
up trying to find family members by themselves without support, without
themselves without support, without being taken through all the
being taken through all the potential risks and potential
potential risks and potential protections and the way that it is
protections and the way that it is done is not in keeping with a
done is not in keeping with a positive way for the kids. What is
positive way for the kids. what is positive
positive way for the kids. What is positive about our charity is that
positive about our charity is that it is planned out, there is thought
it is planned out, there is thought through, that the child’s foster
through, that the child’s foster rarer, or
through, that the child’s foster carer, or perhaps in a children’s
rarer, or perhaps in a children’s home, there
carer, or perhaps in a children’s home, there parent there is involved
home, there parent there is involved in the process. As well as a social
in the process. As well as a social worker, said that there are people,
worker, said that there are people, who the child may be at risk from
who the child may be at risk from colour it is finding a way of
colour it is finding a way of ensuring that the child understands
ensuring that the child understands that risk. It is also enabling the
that risk. It is also enabling the child is to know, the young person,
child is to know, the young person, to know who could be a positive
to know who could be a positive support for them in their lives, but
support for them in their lives, but also who could maybe he
support for them in their lives, but also who could maybe be negative,
also who could maybe be negative, who to stay away from, or ways that
who to stay away from, or ways that they ran have
who to stay away from, or ways that they can have contacts in a safe
they ran have contacts in a safe manner.
they can have contacts in a safe manner. Often, children in care
manner. Often, children in rare will do this anyway.
manner. Often, children in care will do this anyway. But secretly. And it
do this anyway. But secretly. And it is treated as something that is to
is treated as something that is to be ashamed of, as opposed to what we
be ashamed of, as opposed to what we are saying with lifelong licks, and
are saying with lifelong licks, and what should be said, we all need
what should be said, we all need those relationships out in the open,
those relationships out in the open, celebrated, and to do it any really
celebrated, and to do it any really positive manner. It will only happen
positive manner. It will only happen if the wants to. The child will be
if the wants to. The child will be doing at their pace and they will
doing at their pace and they will only meet family members or friends
only meet family members or friends who they wish to. Thank you. Thank
who they wish to. Thank you. Thank 7°“-
who they wish to. Thank you. Thank you, so much. For talking is through
you, so much. For talking is through that. Right, let’s get the weather.
Hello again.
Over the next few days, particularly into the weekend,
we are looking at where it’s been mild turning much colder,
for some of us a drop of 13 degrees or so.
MY
My rest was ice and snow. There is some snow in the hills of the North
some snow in the hills of the North Pennines and in Scotland.
Meanwhile in the south, we have a band of heavy showers,
potentially thundery, moving across England and Wales,
in between something drier and brighter.
Eventually, this band arrives across north—east
England and a band of rain, sleet and snow continues to migrate
northwards across the northern half of the country.
It will be cold up there, with a risk of some ice to untreated
surfaces and some fast, not as cold as we push
further south.
From midnight tonight, until 6PM on Saturday,
the Met Office has an amber weather warning for heavy snow
across parts of Scotland.
We could have as much is between 10—15 centimetres,
that is roughly six inches, at lower levels, and double that
above 150 metres, so take care.
will have to watch and see. Thanks so much.
This is BBC News.
The headlines.
is 10 million people receive their first dose of the vaccine across the
first dose of the vaccine across the UK, trial has launched a look at the
UK, trial has hunched a look at the impact of
UK, trial has launched a look at the impact of having different vaccines
impact of having different vaccines for the first and second dose. It
for the first and second dose. It will hopefully make the UK at the
will hopefully make the UK at the forefront of research into Covid
forefront of research into Covid vaccines. We are very proud of our
vaccines. We are very proud of our track records on the vaccines task
track records on the vaccines task Force and of course, the deployment
Force and of course, the deployment programme. This is another part of
programme. This is another part of the armoury.
Scientist on the sage advisory committee suggest things could be
committee suggest things could be back to normal by the summer. The US
back to normal by the summer. The US and the UK condemn China after a BBC
and the UK condemn China after a BBC report alleges women were
report alleges women were systematically raped and tortured in
systematically raped and tortured in Uighur ramps.
systematically raped and tortured in Uighur camps. They did whatever evil
Uighur ramps. They did whatever evil their mind
Uighur camps. They did whatever evil their mind thinks and they didn’t
their mind thinks and they didn’t spare any part of my body. The UK
spare any part of my body. The UK and EU agreed to work intensively to
and EU agreed to work intensively to sort out problems with post Brexits
sort out problams with post Brexits trading
sort out problems with post Brexits trading Northern Ireland. Tennis
trading Northern Ireland. Tennis officials say the Australian open
officials say the Australian open will start as planned on Monday,
will start as planned on Monday, despite hundreds of players and
despite hundreds of players and staff being forced to isolate in
staff being forced to isolate in Melbourne.
Any trial has launched in the UK to
Any trial has hunched in the UK to look at
Any trial has launched in the UK to look at the impact of giving people
look at the impact of giving people different coronavirus vaccines for
different coronavirus vaccines for their first and second doses. The
their first and second doses. The mix—and—match approach could provide
mix-and-match approach could provide ﬂights ability in
mix—and—match approach could provide flights ability in the event of any
ﬂights ability in the event of any sunplv
flights ability in the event of any supply problems. Scientists say it
supply problams. Scientists say it is possibla
supply problems. Scientists say it is possible that having different
is possible that having different vaccines may provide better
vaccines may provide better protection than having the same one
protection than having the same one twice. It comes as the UK yesterday
twice. It comes as the UK yesterday passed the milestone of giving 10
passed the milestone of giving 10 million people their first
million people their first injections. Dominic Hughes reports.
With more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs
across the UK, the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
But could mixing doses of the Oxford—AstraZeneca
and the Pfizer—BionTech vaccines offer the body even more
chances to develop defences against the virus?
That’s what’s behind a new trial being unveiled today.
The study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have
yet had the vaccine.
All will be aged 50 or over, part of the group to be vaccinated
in the next priority wave.
The trial will run initially at eight sites across England.
What we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well
people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose
with one Covid vaccine, the second with another.
And the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility
into the UK immunisation schedule for Covid vaccines,
and even globally.
It makes it much easier to administer these vaccines
if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose
the same as the first dose.
That also brings resilience into the immunisation schedule.
If there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines,
then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with
the other vaccine as an alternative.
Researchers believe there are good reasons to think it may work.
For example, exactly this process was used in the fight against Ebola.
Introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme
could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies,
and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have
yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
The first results should be known by the early summer.
Dominic Hughes, BBC News.
Professor Andrew Hayward, 3 member
Professor Andrew Hayward, a member of Sage said that as more people are
of Sage said that as more peopla are vaccinated,
of Sage said that as more people are vaccinated, there will be some form
vaccinated, there will be some form of normality by the summer. What we
of normality by the summer. what we need to
of normality by the summer. What we need to bear in mind is that at the
need to bear in mind is that at the moment, we are still in a very
moment, we are still in a very fragile position. Despite the fact
fragile position. Despite the fact that rates are coming down, we still
that rates are coming down, we still have very high levels of disease,
have very high levels of disease, amongst the highest levels in the
amongst the highest levels in the world of both disease and deaths. 50
world of both disease and deaths. So it is... And
world of both disease and deaths. 50 it is... And what we are potentially
it is... And what we are potentially needing to do is to time that with
needing to do is to time that with the vaccination programme which,
the vaccination programme which, fortunately, is going very well. I
fortunately, is going very well. I think obviously as more people get
think obviously as more peopla get vaccinated,
think obviously as more people get vaccinated, there is more pressure
vaccinated, there is more pressure to unlock, but what we need to bear
to unlock, but what we need to bear in mind is that whilst we vaccinated
in mind is that whilst we vaccinated a high proportion of the very most
a high proportion of the very most vulnerable groups, really, there’s
vulnerable groups, really, there’s still plenty of people remain
still plenty of people remain vulnerable to being hospitalised,
vulnerable to being hospitalised, developing severe disease and ending
developing severe disease and ending “P
developing severe disease and ending up in ITU from this disease and if
up in ITU from this disease and if we release now, things will be bad.
we release now, things will be bad. So we do have to take that
So we do have to take that cautiously. But as those groups
cautiously. But as those groups start to be vaccinated, and as the
start to be vaccinated, and as the natural seasonality of coronavirus
natural seasonality of coronavirus kicks in, then I think we will be in
kicks in, then I think we will be in a very different landscape towards
a very different landscape towards the end of spring and summer.
Lets go to our political correspondent at Westminster. How in
correspondent at Westminster. How in tune other scientists and the
tune other scientists and the politicians about this time frame?
politicians about this time frame? Well, I think we got a pretty clear
Well, I think we got a pretty clear signal from
Well, I think we got a pretty clear signalfrom the Prime Minister last
signal from the Prime Minister last night at the
signalfrom the Prime Minister last night at the press conference that
night at the press conference that he is pretty onside with the
he is pretty onside with the scientists at the moment. He was
scientists at the moment. He was pretty cautious in the way he was
pretty cautious in the way he was talking about unlocking, pretty
talking about unlocking, pretty cautious in talking about those
cautious in talking about those signs of optimism we’ve seen with
signs of optimism we’ve seen with reducing the number of cases, going
reducing the number of cases, going down quite rapidly, the slightly
down quite rapidly, the slightly slower reduction in the number of
slower reduction in the number of hospitalisations and deaths as well.
hospitalisations and deaths as well. But there are some and there have
But there are some and there have been for some time, those MPs who
been for some time, those MPs who are prepared to knock on Boris
are prepared to knock on Boris johnson’s
are prepared to knock on Boris Johnson’s door as much as possible
johnson’s door as much as possibla and say to him,
Johnson’s door as much as possible and say to him, you need to think
and say to him, you need to think about the plan for getting the
about the plan for getting the economy moving again and for
economy moving again and for unlocking. The plan in government is
unlocking. The plan in government is still to wait a few more weeks to
still to wait a few more weeks to see how the data is then, but if you
see how the data is then, but if you add into the mix the fact that the
add into the mix the fact that the vaccination programme seems to be
vaccination programme seems to be going so well, I think that only
going so well, I think that only adds to some of the evidence that
adds to some of the evidence that some Tory MPs will draw on to argue
some Tory MPs will draw on to argue that lockdown needs to be listed as
that lockdown needs to be listed as soon as possible. It’s a point that
soon as possible. It’s a point that was put to the vaccine minister this
was put to the vaccine minister this morning. The Prime Minister has made
morning. The Prime Minister has made it very dear
morning. The Prime Minister has made it very clear that on the 22nd of
it very clear that on the 22nd of Febmary,
it very clear that on the 22nd of February, they will be a road map
Febmary, they will be a road map for how
February, they will be a road map for how we intend to reopen the
for how we intend to reopen the economy, beginning with schools on
economy, beginning with schools on the 8th of March and then gradually
the 8th of March and then gradually the rest of the economy. You have to
the rest of the economy. You have to set yourself targets and you hope
set yourself targets and you hope everything goes well. Also,
everything goes well. Also, questions about what is actually the
questions about what is actually the plan with hotel quarantine. The boss
plan with hotel quarantine. The boss of one hotel chain saying, they have
of one hotel chain saying, they have not been given any advice at all. I
not been given any advice at all. I feel like we’ve spoken about hotel
feel like we’ve spoken about hotel quarantine for weeks if not months
quarantine for weeks if not months now and that’s because the
now and that’s because the government has kind of been moving
government has kind of been moving slowly towards this policy of
slowly towards this policy of forcing some people coming back from
forcing some peopla coming back from the highest risk
forcing some people coming back from the highest risk countries to
the highest risk countries to quarantine in specified hotels. The
quarantine in specified hotels. The main reason is that they want to
main reason is that they want to stop the new variants of the virus
stop the new variants of the virus that we’ve been hearing about in
that we’ve been hearing about in South Africa and Brazil, for
South Africa and Brazil, for example, to stop them coming into
example, to stop them coming into the country where possible. A couple
the country where possible. A couple of weeks ago, there were hints this
of weeks ago, there were hints this was going to happen, it was
was going to happen, it was announced it was going to happen,
announced it was going to happen, but we still don’t know exactly what
but we still don’t know exactly what is actually going to happen. We
is actually going to happen. We thought we were going to get that
thought we were going to get that detail this week, we are now not and
detail this week, we are now not and it looks like it will be next week
it looks like it will be next week before we get the specifics about
before we get the specific about what
before we get the specifics about what this is going to look like. So
what this is going to look like. So industry are quite frankly baffled
industry are quite frankly bafﬂad that
industry are quite frankly baffled that it’s taken so long. We heard
that it’s taken so long. We heard this morning from the boss of the
this morning from the boss of the Best Western hotels about some of
Best Western hotels about some of the conversations he has been having
the conversations he has been having with the government. We got the
with the government. We got the understanding that quarantine hotels
understanding that quarantine hotels were something that was going to be
were something that was going to be considered in the UK quite some time
considered in the UK quite some time ago now and we are yet to understand
ago now and we are yet to understand exactly what the protocols are
exactly what the protocols are required of the hotels, so we’re
required of the hotels, so we’re going to set out a set of protocols,
going to set out a set of protocols, with share that information of
with share that information of suggested protocols and with offer
suggested protocols and with offer our support and we are yet to hear
our support and we are yet to hear anything. So, the government say we
anything. So, the government say we are going to get an update on that
are going to get an update on that in the next few days. But it’s one
in the next few days. But it’s one of these issues that has just
of these issues that has just dragged on and on and on and there
dragged on and on and on and there are many in the political world
are many in the political world saying, why has it taken so long?
saying, why has it taken so long? It’s hard, operationally it’s hard,
It’s hard, operationally it’s hard, but many people should have been
but many peopla should have been brought in
but many people should have been brought in earlier and others think
brought in eartier and others think that it
brought in earlier and others think that it should go a lot further.
that it should go a lot further. Remember, Scotland is saying that
Remember, Scotland is saying that anyone who arrives in Scotland will
anyone who arrives in Scotland will be forced to quarantine in a
be forced to quarantine in a government mandated hotel, which is
government mandated hotel, which is a lot further than the UK Government
a lot further than the UK Government is going. Thank you, Nick. The
is going. Thank you, Nick. The vaccines minister is going to be
vaccines minister is going to be making a statement in the comments
making a statement in the comments in the next half an hour about the
in the next half an hour about the vaccine roll—out and we will bring
vaccine roll-out and we will bring that to you
vaccine roll—out and we will bring that to you live just as soon as it
that to you live just as soon as it starts. We are also going to be
starts. We are also going to be hearing from Scotland as well, so
hearing from Scotland as well, so both of those live events running up
both of those live events mnning up on the
both of those live events running up on the BBC News channel. There’s
on the BBC News channel. There’s been international condemnation of
been international condemnation of China the BBC reported alleged
China the BBC reported alleged systematic rape and torture of women
systematic rape and torture of women in so—called re—education camps for
in so-ralled re-eduration ramps for the Uighur
in so—called re—education camps for the Uighur Muslim minority.
in so—called re—education camps for the Uighur Muslim minority.
the Uighur Muslim minority. Atrocities outlined in the report
Atrocities outlined in the report broadcast it on BBC News. It is
broadcast it on BBC News. It is demanding a powerful response,
demanding a powerful response, urging China’s actions be met with
urging China’s actions be met with serious consequences. In the
serious consequences. In the Commons, the Foreign Office minister
Commons, the Foreign Office minister describes the BBC report is chilling
describes the BBC report is chilling and called upon China to allow
and called upon China to allow unfettered access to refute the
unfettered access to refute the allegations. The BBC spoke with a
allagations. The BBC spoke with a woman
allegations. The BBC spoke with a woman who was held at one of the
woman who was held at one of the ramps in
woman who was held at one of the camps in Xinjiang region. She said
ramps in Xinjiang region. She said she was
camps in Xinjiang region. She said she was held in a cell with 13 other
she was held in a cell with 13 other women in the camp seen any satellite
women in the ramp seen any satellite images. She
women in the camp seen any satellite images. She said that three men
images. She said that three men visited the cell after midnight.
visited the cell after midnight. They did whatever evil their minds
They did whatever evil their minds could think of. And they didn’t
could think of. And they didn’t spare any part of my body. Biting it
spare any part of my body. Biting it to the extent that it was disgusting
to the extent that it was disgusting to look at. They didn’t
to the extent that it was disgusting to look at. They didn’tjust rape.
to look at. They didn’t just rape. They were
to look at. They didn’tjust rape. They were barbaric. They had bitten
They were barbaric. They had bitten all over my body. And, the BBC is
all over my body. And, the BBC is heard from a former inmate from the
heard from a former inmate from the ramp who let our
heard from a former inmate from the camp who let our lives in Istanbul.
ramp who let our lives in Istanbul. She said
camp who let our lives in Istanbul. She said she was employed at the
She said she was employed at the ramp and
She said she was employed at the camp and was forced to be complicit
ramp and was forced to be complicit in the rape of
camp and was forced to be complicit in the rape of the women. I worked
in the rape of the women. I worked six months as a cleaning worker for
six months as a cleaning worker for the women. Chinese men would pay
the women. Chinese men would pay money to have their pick of the
money to have their pick of the pretty
money to have their pick of the PNﬂY young
money to have their pick of the pretty young inmates. My
money to have their pick of the pretty young inmates. Myjob is to
pretty young inmates. My job is to remove
pretty young inmates. Myjob is to remove their clothes completely and
remove their clothes completely and then handcuff them on their beds so
then handcuff them on their beds so that they cannot move. The Chinese
that they rannot move. The Chinese Foreign
that they cannot move. The Chinese Foreign Ministry has dismissed the
Foreign Ministry has dismissed the report is lies and disinformation.
report is lies and disinformation. There is no systemic and sexual
There is no systemic and sexual abuse against women. China’s
abuse against women. China’s Constitution guarantees and protect
Constitution guarantees and protect human rights and it is embedded in
human rights and it is embedded in our legal system and the
our legal system and the government’s work. The... Is
government’s work. The... Is strictly abide by constitutional
strictly abide by constitutional laws to guarantee the student’s
laws to guarantee the student’s basic rights and forbid any insult
basic rights and forbid any insult abuse. The Foreign Office minister
abuse. The Foreign Office minister told MP5
abuse. The Foreign Office minister told MPs the UK was a leading
told MPs the UK was a leading international pressure on China. I
international pressure on China. I acknowledge the strength of feeling
acknowledge the strength of feeling about the human rights situation in
about the human rights situation in Xinjiang region shared by honourable
Xinjiang region shared by honourable members quite across this house. The
members quite across this house. The BBC reports that my honourable
BBC reports that my honourable friend refers to is chilling. It
friend refers to is chilling. It includes deeply distressing
includes deeply distressing testimony of the rape, torture and
testimony of the rape, torture and dehumanisation of Uighur women in
dehumanisation of Uighur women in Xinjiang region detention centres.
Xinjiang region detention centres. It’s a further compelling addition
It’s a further compelling addition to the gross human rights violations
to the gross human rights violations being perpetrated against Uighur
being perpetrated against Uighur Muslims and other minorities in
Muslims and other minorities in Xinjiang region. The evidence of the
Xinjiang region. The evidence of the stale and
Xinjiang region. The evidence of the scale and severity of these
scale and severity of these violations is now far—reaching. It
violations is now far-reaching. It makes a tmly
violations is now far—reaching. It makes a truly harrowing picture. If
makes a tmly harrowing picture. If China
makes a truly harrowing picture. If China wishes to dispute this
China wishes to dispute this evidence, they must allow unfettered
evidence, they must allow unfettered access to the region that the UN
access to the region that the UN High Commissioner
access to the region that the UN High Commissionerfor
access to the region that the UN High Commissioner for human
access to the region that the UN High Commissionerfor human rights
High Commissioner for human rights ought another
High Commissionerfor human rights ought another fact—finding body.
High Commissionerfor human rights ought anotherfact—finding body. A
ought another fact-finding body. A reporter on
ought anotherfact—finding body. A reporter on the piece says it was
reporter on the piece says it was thoroughly researched. I spoke to
thoroughly researched. I spoke to several women in Istanbul, in
several women in Istanbul, in America, in Holland, in Sweden. And
America, in Holland, in Sweden. And I interview them forensically. A
I interview them forensically. A consistent picture emerges from
consistent picture emerges from their testimony of rape, of hair
their testimony of rape, of hair being shaved off. On one occasion,
being shaved off. On one occasion, 100 women were forced to watch a
100 women were forced to watch a young woman
100 women were forced to watch a young women being gang raped in one
young woman being gang raped in one of these
young women being gang raped in one of these re—education camps and that
of these re-eduration ramps and that they say it was a
of these re—education camps and that they say it was a means of control.
they say it was a means of control. Anyone who looked away, there were
Anyone who looked away, there were repercussions for them.
Anyone who looked away, there were repercussions forthem. Depiction
Anyone who looked away, there were repercussions for them. Depiction of
repercussions for them. Depiction of torture, a very
repercussions for them. Depiction of torture, 3 very specific torture,
torture, a very specific torture, which
torture, 3 very specific torture, which involves an electric rod.
which involves an electric rod. Also, forcible, forcibly having IUDs
Also, forcible, forcibly having IUDs put in, and in some cases, forced
put in, and in some cases, forced sterilisation. So these are very
sterilisation. So these are very serious and the women were in tears.
MUSIC: Get Low by Dillon Francis & DJ Snake
# Get, get, get, get low when the whistle go... #
They’re going to talk about this forever, baby!
This is what an MVP does.
Let’s go!
This is our moment!
Touchdown, Tampa Bay!
The Super Bowl, live from Florida,
Tampa Bay Buccaneers versus Kansas City Chiefs...
Well, Mr President, that’s an act of war.
The incredible inside story...
I didn’t know what he was going to do.
Tmmp looks not orange but red. He ﬂipped.
..of a president who tore up the international rule book.
They will be met with fire and fury.
Trump Takes On The World:
It’s Thursday, it’s 12:15pm, and we’re live in Westminster.
Joining me today,
Conservative MP and chair of the Women and Equalities Committee,
Caroline Nokes MP, Shadow Culture Minister Alison McGovern,
writer and commentator Inaya Folarin Iman,
and professor of black studies at Birmingham City University,
Kehinde Andrews.
Today, the Government say they will force arrivals
from high—risk countries to quarantine in hotels.
But when?
The Prime Minister was saying within days... No, he said it would be
days... No, he said it would be today. My understanding is it was
today. My understanding is it was always going to be in the next few
always going to be in the next few days.
Ten millionjabs here, but are poorer countries
getting their fair share?
ﬂ
I need to be blunt. The world is on the brink of a catastrophe of moral
the brink of a catastrophe of moral failure.
ﬂ
I think it is time we stopped our cringe in embarrassment about our
cringe in embarrassment about our history and we stop this general
history and we stop this general boat of self recrimination and
boat of self recrimination and wetness.
We’ll ask this professor of black studies if he agrees
with the Prime Minister.
m:
We start today’s show with something
We start todars show with something Chris whitty
We start today’s show with something Chris Whitty said at the Downing
Chris whitty said at the Downing Street
Chris Whitty said at the Downing Street briefing, here he is. I think
Street briefing, here he is. Ithink most of my
Street briefing, here he is. I think most of my colleagues think we are
most of my colleagues think we are past their peak. That doesn’t mean
past their peak. That doesn’t mean you ran never
past their peak. That doesn’t mean you can never have another peek, but
you ran never have another peek, but provided that
you can never have another peek, but provided that people continue to
provided that peopla continue to follow
provided that people continue to follow the guidelines, we are not
follow the guidelines, we are not downward slope of hospitalisations
downward slope of hospitalisations and deaths in all four nations, so
and deaths in all four nations, so we think we are past at least they
we think we are past at least they speak. So my opening question to all
speak. So my opening question to all of you, did that feel like a moment?
of you, did that feel like a moment? What
of you, did that feel like a moment? what did you
of you, did that feel like a moment? What did you feel and how did you
what did you feel and how did you react
What did you feel and how did you react when you how to Chris Whitty
react when you how to Chris whitty talk
react when you how to Chris Whitty talk about that? Time to ease
talk about that? Time to ease restrictions or hunker down? I think
restrictions or hunker down? I think that we are all a bit... It is not
that we are all a bit... It is not that we are not looking for moments,
that we are not looking for moments, but we have been through a lot as a
but we have been through a lot as a country, and I think all of us are a
country, and I think all of us are a bit wary for backing good news at
bit wary for backing good news at the moment. I think the bigger
the moment. I think the bigger picture is making sure that the
picture is making sure that the vaccine programme really works, and
vaccine programme really works, and I think that is probably where I
I think that is probably where I feel most helpful, rather than
feel most helpful, rather than focusing on individual moments.
focusing on individual moments. Caroline, what did you think when
Caroline, what did you think when you heard that? I think it is good
you heard that? I think it is good news, but we have to be extremely
news, but we have to be extremely cautious. The
news, but we have to be extremely cautious. The priority has always
cautious. The priority has always been about making sure people are
been about making sure peopla are safe, so
been about making sure peopla are safe, sol
been about making sure people are safe, so I welcome the progress we
safe, so I welcome the progress we are making with the vaccine
are making with the vaccine roll-out,
are making with the vaccine roll—out, 10 million doses so far,
roll-out, 10 million doses so far, and I think
roll—out, 10 million doses so far, and I think it is about making sure
and I think it is about making sure that any plans to reopen the economy
that any plans to reopen the economy are done safely and cautiously. It
are done safely and cautiously. It would be foolhardy, having come this
would be foolhardy, having come this far for so long,
would be foolhardy, having come this farfor so long, to rush into
far for so long, to msh into opening
farfor so long, to rush into opening everything up too quickly.
opening everything up too quickly. Inaya? I would echo what has already
Inaya? I would echo what has already been said whether it was the first
been said whether it was the first or second lockdown, we haven’t had
or second lockdown, we haven’t had many moments of hope, but
many moments of hope, but fundamentally people have sacrificed
fundamentally peopla have sacrificed a lot, and
fundamentally people have sacrificed a lot, and one year later, people
a lot, and one year later, people are very weary of these statements,
are very weary of these statements, and my backing is very much in the
and my backing is very much in the vaccination programme as well, when
vaccination programme as well, when that is maximised we will be able to
that is maximised we will be able to think about opening up the country
think about opening up the country again. Kehinde, how did you react?
again. Kehinde, how did you react? We have heard it before, one year
We have heard it before, one year later we are hearing it again, and
later we are hearing it again, and it is just a
later we are hearing it again, and it isjust a reminder
later we are hearing it again, and it is just a reminder that we have
it is just a reminder that we have to be extremely careful, opening up
to be extremely careful, opening up the economy, people’s individual
the economy, people’s individual freedom to buy coffee is not more
freedom to buy coffee is not more important than saving lives, so
important than saving lives, so hopefully we will not see this quick
hopefully we will not see this quick post to open the economy and we are
post to open the economy and we are sensible about lives. I just want to
sensible about lives. I just want to ask you about this in the Daily
ask you about this in the Daily Telagraph,
ask you about this in the Daily Telegraph, we are showing our view
Telagraph, we are showing our view is
Telegraph, we are showing our view is the headline, Rishi Sunak of
is the headline, Rishi Sunak of concerned scientists are moving
concerned scientists are moving goalposts on lockdown. The Treasury
goalposts on lockdown. The Treasury deny it, but are you concerned about
deny it, but are you concerned about this report? I don think it is the
this report? I don think it is the use,
this report? I don think it is the rase, and I
this report? I don think it is the case, and I don’t think there is any
rase, and I don’t think there is any split between
case, and I don’t think there is any split between Treasury and the rest

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 04/02/2021, BBC2 England, 135 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/17CBEFF6?bcast=133786909 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)