This is BBC News with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
and around the world.
I’m Rebecca Jones.
The roll—out of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab begins
in the UK this morning — the government describes it as
a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
The vaccine means everything to me.
I mean, to my mind, it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal life.
You know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
The NHS already has over half a million doses of the jab,
with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more
significant than the first Pfizer vaccination last month.
Today, when I saw the firstjab in the building behind me
of the AstraZeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment,
another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
Primary schools in most of England reopen this morning,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
Coming up, we’ll be speaking to the Trades Union Congress,
who are calling for all employers to offer furlough to all parents
affected by school closures.
The UK Health Secretary says the tier system is no longer strong
enough to control the spread of the new variant of
coronavirus in England.
In Scotland, the First Minister is expected to announce new Covid—19
restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
President Trump is heard on tape asking an election official
to "find" him enough extra votes to have won the state of Georgia.
Democrats call it a disgrace.
A coroner in Malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure
in the case of the Franco—Irish teenager, Nora Quoirin.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around the world,
and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here
and across the globe.
The first doses of the Oxford—AstraZeneca coronavirus
vaccine have been given to patients in the UK this morning,
at the start of what’s being described as the "biggest
vaccination programme in the history of the NHS".
The NHS has over half a million doses of the vaccines ready to go,
with care home residents and staff, people aged over 80,
and frontline NHS staff being first to receive it.
The Health Secretary says it is a "pivotal moment" in the UK’s
fight against the virus.
The Prime Minister has warned that restrictions in England
are "probably about to get tougher" as concern grows about a new,
fast—spreading variant of the virus.
Labour said coronavirus was "clearly out of control"
and it was "inevitable more schools are going to have to close" as part
of a wider strategy that has "a national lockdown in place
in the next 2A hours".
More on that later.
The first patient to be given the Oxford—AstraZeneca
vaccine this morning at Oxford University Hospital
was 82—year—old Brian Pinker.
He gave this reaction just after he received it.
Well, to be honest, I didn’t feel a thing.
Brilliant, yeah.
The vaccine means everything to me.
I mean, to my mind, it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal life.
You know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
Saturday, first I knew that I was going to be here today, yeah.
Very pleased, yeah, very pleased.
The nurse who administered the firstjab, Sam Foster,
spoke to our Medical Editor, Fergus Walsh, shortly afterwards
and explained what it was like.
It was a huge privilege.
Every single patient that we have vaccinated over the last couple
of weeks has got their own personal story as to the difference it’s
going to make for them so no different in this morning
with our first two patients.
And what about you?
Have you been immunised yet?
I have been immunised, yes.
I was immunised, I’ve been working in the vaccine centre
for a couple of weeks so I have received my vaccine.
So it is obviously all systems go now.
Everybody wants to be immunised as soon as possible.
How quickly can you do this?
I think there is nothing more that the NHS wants to do now
than to get this programme going at real scale.
Across the NHS there are many, many, many peer vaccinators that will now
go out and support staff vaccines, continue with our patient
vaccines and with colleague vaccines across the nation.
So there is nothing more that we want to do than to get this
vaccine programme done at a scale.
Professor Stephen Powis, National Medical Director of NHS
England, says this is a significant moment in the way
out of the pandemic.
Four weeks ago I had the privilege to be in Coventry for the firstjab
of the Pfizer vaccine.
Remember, Maggie Keenan got that firstjab.
That felt like a huge moment in this pandemic and,
to be honest, today, when I saw the first jab
in the building behind me of the AstraZeneca vaccine,
it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way
out of this pandemic.
And the Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, says 530,000 doses
of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution
programme is being accelerated.
It is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon
as it is manufactured, and then goes through
the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important,
and getting it into the NHS and delivered into people’s arms.
In fact, we have been able to accelerate that process
because we now know that you get your protection
after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
That means that, over the first few months of the programme,
we can effectively vaccinate twice as many people as we would have
been able to otherwise.
And obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people
and saving people’s lives and of course getting us out of this
pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
Health Secretary Matt Hancock.
Our Medical Editor, Fergus Walsh, gave his assessment
of today’s roll—out.
I really think it is a game changer because this vaccine doesn’t need
to be transported at —70, it can be stored in a fridge,
transported in a fridge, and that makes it vital not only
for the UK but indeed globally.
Because this is really the first global Covid vaccine.
AstraZeneca has said it will provide 100 million doses to the UK this
year but 3 billion doses worldwide and it will do that at cost.
It is five times cheaper than the Pfizer vaccine.
It really has the potential to make a big impact notjust here in the UK
but across the world.
The first doses were given, there are people queueing
behind me here to come in, health care workers and others
who are in the priority groups.
And just to give you a reminder of those groups, it is people over
50, at the moment we are doing the over 805 but then
there are front line health care workers and people with underlying
health conditions aged 16—64.
A huge number of people, a million so far have received
the Pfizer vaccine but 30 million more — 30 million —
still need to receive just one dose and to do that we have heard the NHS
saying they could do 2 million immunisations a week butjust
to give you a sense of that, even if they managed 2 million
immunisations a week, that would not give everyone one
dose by Easter so it is a huge task.
And of course what could be the bottleneck is getting those
doses to these centres around the country — maybe a thousand
by the end of the week.
The government says there will not be any hold—up
but each batch of doses, whether it’s from Pfizer
or AstraZeneca, needs to be approved and needs to be safety checked.
So I don’t think we should judge this roll—out on the first few days
because initially it is just going to be a few hospitals that
are giving this vaccine just to check that there are no
unexpected side—effects and also to do surveillance
but by the end of the week, 1000 centres around the country
will be giving the vaccine and then we should see this thing
really ramping up.
Our medical editor, Fergus Walsh.
Dr Chris Smith works as a Consultant Virologist
at Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge and presents
the the Naked Scientists podcast.
Hejoins us now.
Good to have you with us. Fergus touched on the differences between
touched on the differences between the two vaccines, the Oxford
the two vaccines, the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine and the fighter
AstraZenera vaccine and the fighter vaccine
AstraZeneca vaccine and the fighter vaccine in terms of how they are
vaccine in terms of how they are stored but can you tell us a bit
stored but ran you tell us a bit more
stored but can you tell us a bit more about the differences between
more about the differences between them? --
more about the differences between them? —— and the Pfizer vaccine. And
them? -- and the Pfizer vaccine. And how efficient they
them? —— and the Pfizer vaccine. And how efficient they are. The Pfizer
how efficient they are. The Pfizer vaccine is a genetic vaccine and
vaccine is a genetic vaccine and have taken the genetic code from the
have taken the genetic code from the virus which it uses when in fact one
virus which it uses when in fact one of our cells to make one specific
of our cells to make one specific part of its outer coat, the S
part of its outer coat, the 5 protein or spite we hear about. That
protein or spite we hear about. That is crucial because that part of the
is crucial because that part of the virus is what it uses to grab hold
virus is what it uses to grab hold of and infect our cells so if you
of and infect our cells so if you provoke an immune response against
provoke an immune response against that, you stop it in its tracks. By
that, you stop it in its tracks. By wrapping up that in an oily bag
wrapping up that in an oily bag which is what Pfizer have done and
which is what Pfizer have done and injecting it into the body, you
injecting it into the body, you basically get ourselves at the sight
basically get ourselves at the sight of the injection to pick up those
of the injection to pick up those particles, unwrap them, read the
particles, unwrap them, read the code as though the coronavirus was
code as though the coronavirus was in those cells for real and make
in those cells for real and make that part of the virus, thereby
that part of the virus, thereby educating the immune response and
educating the immune response and you make white blood cells that can
you make white blood cells that ran recognise
you make white blood cells that can recognise cells that have virus in
recognise cells that have virus in them and by was floating around the
them and by was ﬂoating around the blood
them and by was floating around the blood stream, you make antibodies
blood stream, you make antibodies against it. The Oxford AstraZeneca
against it. The Oxford AstraZenera vaccine
against it. The Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine is a bit different but also
vaccine is a bit different but also quite similar. It is different in
quite similar. It is different in that what they are doing is using a
that what they are doing is using a modified virus to get that same gene
modified virus to get that same gene into the body. They use a chimpanzee
into the body. They use a chimpanzee cold virus called Chadox which has
cold virus rallad Chadox which has been
cold virus called Chadox which has been removed by the removal of
been removed by the removal of crucial genes it needs to run so it
crucial genes it needs to mn so it can’t grow in the
crucial genes it needs to run so it can’t grow in the body but it works
can’t grow in the body but it works a bit like a Trojan horse and they
a bit like a Trojan horse and they put inside that empty virus the gene
put inside that empty virus the gene for the outer coat of the
for the outer coat of the coronavirus. You can grow that in a
coronavirus. You ran grow that in a laboratory and
coronavirus. You can grow that in a laboratory and Pfizer say they can
laboratory and Pfizer say they ran grow at fast
laboratory and Pfizer say they can grow at fast producing one or 2
grow at fast producing one or 2 million doses per week. When
million doses per week. when injected into
million doses per week. When injected into the body, cells at the
injected into the body, cells at the sight of the injection are targeted
sight of the injection are targeted by this virus particle, they pick it
by this virus partida, they pick it “P
by this virus partida, they pick it up and unwrap
by this virus particle, they pick it up and unwrap and all it that is in
up and unwrap and all it that is in there is the coronavirus gene which
there is the coronavirus gene which they then read, they make it and
they then read, they make it and educate the immune system in the
educate the immune system in the same way and you again get a white
same way and you again get a white blood cells capable of recognising
blood cells capable of recognising virally infected cells but also
virally infected cells but also antibodies that can go round in the
antibodies that can go round in the bloodstream and soak up anything
bloodstream and soak up anything that should not be there and
that should not be there and crucially, in both cases, you get
crucially, in both cases, you get memory
crucially, in both rases, you get memory so
crucially, in both cases, you get memory so that if you really
memory so that if you really encounter that threat in the future,
encounter that threat in the future, you ran create
encounter that threat in the future, you can create that immune response
you ran create that immune response from the get go
you can create that immune response from the get go very and quickly.
from the get go very and quickly. That is very interesting because you
That is very interesting because you are saying that although, as you
are saying that although, as you explained, they are different but
explained, they are different but both have this memory but how
both have this memory but how effective are both vaccines against
effective are both vaccines against this new variant of coronavirus
this new variant of coronavirus which we understand or are told
which we understand or are told originated in Kent? And we are also
originated in Kent? And we are also being told it is far more
being told it is far more transmissible? The changes that new
transmissibla? The changes that new variant
transmissible? The changes that new variant carries, there are some 17
variant carries, there are some 17 genetic mutations or spelling errors
genetic mutations or spelling errors in the genome of the virus, and they
in the genome of the virus, and they are peppered across the genetic code
are peppered across the genetic code of the virus but there was a
of the virus but there was a concentration of them in the crucial
concentration of them in the cmcial gene that
concentration of them in the crucial gene that codes that spike protein I
gene that codes that spike protein I was talking about. It will change
was talking about. It will change the outer coat of the pie was a bit
the outer coat of the pie was a bit and we think that probably it is a
and we think that probably it is a natural evolution of the virus to
natural evolution of the virus to become more efficient at spreading
become more efficient at spreading among humans —— outer coat of the
among humans -- outer coat of the vims. We
among humans —— outer coat of the virus. We also think the changes
virus. We also think the changes conferred
vims. We also think the changes conferred by
virus. We also think the changes conferred by those mutations are not
conferred by those mutations are not sufficient to make the spike
sufficient to make the spike different enough that the immune
different enough that the immune response you make when you see the
response you make when you see the virus for real or when you receive
virus for real or when you receive the vaccine will mean the protection
the vaccine will mean the protection that immunity confers will not work
that immunity confers will not work any more. In other words, we don’t
any more. In other words, we don’t think these changes are sufficient
think these changes are sufficient to place this new variant of the
to place this new variant of the virus beyond the realms of the
virus beyond the realms of the protection conferred by vaccination
protection conferred by vaccination that it needs be formally approved
that it needs be formally approved and experiment which are quite easy
and experiment which are quite easy to do are ongoing and we are waiting
to do are ongoing and we are waiting for the data to confirm that is the
for the data to confirm that is the rase but
for the data to confirm that is the case but what I know about how the
use but what I know about how the immune
case but what I know about how the immune system works and this virus
immune system works and this virus works, we don’t think there’s a big
works, we don’t think there’s a big mess at the moment that the new
mess at the moment that the new variant will not be prevented by the
variant will not be prevented by the vaccine. -- a big
variant will not be prevented by the vaccine. —— a big risk. What about
vaccine. -- a big risk. what about the new
vaccine. —— a big risk. What about the new variant discovered in South
the new variant discovered in South Africa because you might be aware
Africa because you might be aware that a key member of the Oxford
that a key member of the Oxford vaccine team, Sir
that a key member of the Oxford vaccine team, SirJohn Bell, has
vaccine team, Sir john Bell, has suggested
vaccine team, SirJohn Bell, has suggested the South African variant
suggested the South African variant could be more likely to evade the
could be more likely to evade the vaccine so what are your thoughts on
vaccine so what are your thoughts on that? It’s very important we study
that? It’s very important we study these things and it’s very early
these things and it’s very earty days. The
these things and it’s very early days. The information about these
days. The information about these variants and how they behave in the
variants and how they behave in the body is quite sketchy and it’s early
body is quite sketchy and it’s earty days so it is
body is quite sketchy and it’s early days so it is important that proper
days so it is important that proper experiments are done, vigorously and
experiments are done, vigorously and scientifically come in order to test
scientifically come in order to test these hypotheses to find out whether
these hypotheses to find out whether they are rooted in fact or
these hypotheses to find out whether they are rooted in fact orjust
these hypotheses to find out whether they are rooted in fact or just a
they are rooted in fact or just a speculation. It is certainly true
speculation. It is certainly tme that
speculation. It is certainly true that when viruses evolve and change
that when vimses evolve and change they ran
that when viruses evolve and change they can change shape and that can
they ran change shape and that ran enable
they can change shape and that can enable them to sidestep the immune
enable them to sidestep the immune response but until we actually test
response but until we actually test this formally and find out to what
this formally and find out to what extent this may or may not be
extent this may or may not be happening, I can’t say. Doctor Chris
happening, I can’t say. Doctor Chris Smith, I know you would if you
Smith, I know you would if you could! Always good to talk to you
could! Always good to talk to you and thank you for your time.
Primary schools in many parts of England have reopened today.
That’s despite teaching unions and some councils asking
the government to keep them closed to limit the spread
of the new variant of Covid—19.
Ministers insist any move to online learning should be a last resort.
Sian Elliott is the Women’s Equality Officer
at the Trades Union Congress.
The TUC are calling for all employers to offer furlough
to all parents affected by school closures.
Welcome to you and thank you for joining us on BBC News. Tell me more
joining us on BBC News. Tell me more about why you think parents should
about why you think parents should be eligibla
about why you think parents should be eligible for the furlough scheme.
be eligible for the furlough scheme. Parents are eligible for the
Parents are eligibla for the furlough
Parents are eligible for the furlough scheme and they have been
furlough scheme and they have been since April conductor
furlough scheme and they have been since April conductorJob Retention
since April conductor job Retention Scheme
since April conductorJob Retention Scheme allows bosses to furlough
Scheme allows bosses to furlough parents who cannot work due to a
parents who cannot work due to a lack of childcare and if your child
lack of childcare and if your child is at home because they cannot go to
is at home because they cannot go to school, even if they are online
school, even if they are online learning, there is still a high
learning, there is still a high amount of care and supervision
amount of rare and supervision needed,
amount of care and supervision needed, particularly for primary
needed, particularty for primary aged
needed, particularly for primary aged children and so we are calling
aged children and so we are falling on all
aged children and so we are calling on all bosses to proactively offer
on all bosses to proactively offer furlough to any working parents are
furlough to any working parents are affected by these school closures
affected by these school closures and remote learning. Some parents
and remote learning. Some parents are eligible for the scheme, I know
are eligible for the scheme, I know you’re talking particularly about
you’re talking particularty about parents
you’re talking particularly about parents who cannot work because
parents who cannot work because their children are not at school. I
their children are not at school. I think 10 million people are on the
think 10 million peopla are on the furlough
think 10 million people are on the furlough scheme at the moment but do
furlough scheme at the moment but do we know how many employees are on
we know how many employees are on that scheme because of childcare
that scheme because of childcare commitments at the moment? We don’t
commitments at the moment? We don’t have that precise figure but we know
have that precise figure but we know that during the last lockdown there
that during the last lockdown there was a high number of particularly
was a high number of particularty working
was a high number of particularly working mums who had to be
working mums who had to be furloughed in order to balance work
furloughed in order to balance work and rare.
furloughed in order to balance work and care. Those that can do that at
and rare. Those that ran do that at home and
and care. Those that can do that at home and perhaps work more flexibly,
home and perhaps work more ﬂaxihly, that might be
home and perhaps work more flexibly, that might be another option, but
that might be another option, but particularty
that might be another option, but particularly those parents on low
particularty those parents on low paid jobs,
particularly those parents on low paid jobs, where only one in ten
paid jobs, where only one in ten jobs ran be
paid jobs, where only one in ten jobs can be done from home, we are
jobs ran be done from home, we are saying those
jobs can be done from home, we are saying those parents need to be
saying those parents need to be furloughed and there will be a vast
furloughed and there will be a vast number of parents affected. In
number of parents affected. In London alone there are 21,000
London alone there are 21,000 primary schools that are closed
primary schools that are closed which will be effecting a huge
which will be effecting a huge number of working families. Some
number of working families. Some employers, as you don’t need me to
employers, as you don’t need me to tell you, are struggling to keep
tell you, are struggling to keep businesses afloat and putting a
businesses afloat and putting a member of staff on furlough is not
member of staff on furlough is not without costs for an employer. They
without costs for an employer. They have to pay pension contributions
have to pay pension contributions for example. It might not be perhaps
for example. It might not be perhaps as a straight you would like?
as a straight you would like? Employers can claim back up to 80%
Employers ran claim back up to 8096 of any wages
Employers can claim back up to 80% of any wages and the cost of not
of any wages and the cost of not furioughing
of any wages and the cost of not furloughing staff, losing staff and
furloughing staff, losing staff and particularly forcing women out of
particularty forcing women out of the
particularly forcing women out of the workplace, we have seen that
the workplace, we have seen that duﬂng
the workplace, we have seen that during the last nine months, it is
during the last nine months, it is overwhelmingly women who have had to
overwhelmingly women who have had to give up work and pay and employers
give up work and pay and employers cannot afford to lose that talented,
cannot afford to lose that talanted, skilled
cannot afford to lose that talented, skilled workforce. They have to work
skillad workforce. They have to work with
skilled workforce. They have to work with their staff to come together
with their staff to come together this is everybody’s issue and
this is everybode issue and problem
this is everybody’s issue and problem and we all have a role to
problem and we all have a rola to play in solving
problem and we all have a role to play in solving it so we can get
play in solving it so we ran get through this
play in solving it so we can get through this latest crisis you say
through this latest crisis you say they ran
through this latest crisis you say they can claim, employers can claim
they ran claim, employers ran claim back
they can claim, employers can claim back 80% but that means they are
back 8096 but that means they are having to
back 80% but that means they are having to make a 20% contribution
having to make a 2096 contribution and I
having to make a 20% contribution and I wonder, would it not be better
and I wonder, would it not be better to have a specific childcare system
to have a specific childcare system for parents rather than use this
for parents rather than use this existing employer — employee
existing employer - employee furlough
existing employer — employee furlough scheme? The government must
furlough scheme? The government must do more to fix our broken parental
do more to fix our broken parental leave system. We know the childcare
leave system. We know the childcare sector has been under huge strain
sector has been under huge strain duﬂng
sector has been under huge strain during this crisis but parents do
during this crisis but parents do not have any right to any periods of
not have any right to any periods of paid leave to deal with emergencies
paid leave to deal with emergencies like a child being sick at school
like a child being sick at school and so as well as the changes around
and so as well as the changes around furlough and as well at a day one
furlough and as well at a day one right to flexible working so you can
right to ﬂaxible working so you ran try to better
right to flexible working so you can try to better balance work and care,
try to better balance work and rare, we are falling
try to better balance work and care, we are calling for big changes to
we are falling for big changes to the parental
we are calling for big changes to the parental leave system. We have
the parental leave system. We have one of the least generous parental
one of the least generous parental leave systems in Europe and we think
leave systems in Europe and we think that urgently needs fixing to put up
that urgently needs fixing to put up ten days of paid parental leave
ten days of paid parental leave would help employers and workers
would help employers and workers balance at this period as well so
balance at this period as well so absolutely we are calling for more
absolutely we are falling for more to be
absolutely we are calling for more to be done. Its not
absolutely we are calling for more to be done. Its notjust about the
to be done. Its not just about the furlough
to be done. Its notjust about the furlough scheme but that is a
furlough scheme but that is a lifeline that parents and employers
lifeline that parents and employers ran use right
lifeline that parents and employers can use right now. Sian Elliott from
ran use right now. Sian Elliott from the TUC,
can use right now. Sian Elliott from the TUC, thank you for
can use right now. Sian Elliott from the TUC, thank you forjoining us.
The Prime Minister is under pressure to impose tougher coronavirus
restrictions across the country, with coronavirus cases
and hospital admissions soaring.
The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, has called for a national lockdown
starting today and this morning the Health Secretary,
Matt Hancock, says the current restrictions are not working.
Our political correspondent Nick Eardley has the latest.
I do think more restrictions are coming in England
and it is a question of what they look like.
A couple of things we know, the government is looking at moving
some of the areas are still in Tier 3, about a fifth of the population
in England, into Tier 4 and that may happen at some point.
There is also the possibility that more schools will be kept closed
over the next few weeks, there is a process whereby local
authorities can apply to central government for that to happen
and we know the government is considering some
of those applications.
We heard from Health Secretary Matt Hancock this morning,
that the tier system that was brought in at the end
of the lockdown in England, at the start of December,
was not strong enough which is why Tier 4 was brought in but it seems
pretty clear that more people are going to end up in that
top tier of restrictions.
This was the Health Secretary.
In some of the Tier 3 areas, cases are rising sharply
so clearly more action, as the Prime Minister said,
is going to be needed.
And it is also about how we all behave.
If the vaccine roll—out is a national effort,
so too is there now a national effort to keep people safe
until that vaccine roll—out works.
Some emphasis on individuals taking the rules 3 bit more seriously
as well and the question many are asking is whether the government
is prepared to go far enough and the Labour Party is saying
at the moment that no, rather than hinting
at new restrictions coming, they should just make the decision
and get on with it so we have heard Keir Starmer saying there should be
a national lockdown starting today.
What is less clear from the Labour Party
is what they want to happen with the schools.
They have said they don’t necessarily want all schools to shut
although they do think that it is inevitable
that some will.
Have a listen to the shadow education minister, Kate Green.
We don’t think schools should close, we want them to remain open,
the right place for children to be if they can is safely in school.
What we do think and indeed what the Prime Minister admitted
yesterday on the Marr programme was that sadly more
closures are inevitable and that is because the government
has not got a grip of the virus and that’s why we are pressing
for the national lockdown.
It seems that more restrictions are coming in some form in England
and it looks like they are coming in Scotland today as well.
The Scottish Cabinet is meeting this morning to discuss what that might
look like but my understanding is we could well see the school year
delayed in Scotland and a much stricter stay at home message
with legal enforcement more akin to what we saw back in March
so the start of the new year is looking like a pretty grim
picture at the moment.
Today marks the first full working day with the UK
outside the European Union.
Negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading
but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders and
customs hold—ups in the early days.
It’s also the first day of trading, so how are the markets reaacting
to the UK having left the EU?
Let’s speak to our business correspondent, Darshini David.
How is it looking? Good morning, I’m pleased to be able to bring you some
pleased to be able to bring you some good news because the FTSE 100 index
good news because the FI’SE100 index of leading
good news because the FTSE 100 index of leading shares in London it’s up
of leading shares in London it’s up by almost 396
of leading shares in London it’s up by almost 3% and at one stage it was
by almost 396 and at one stage it was “P
by almost 396 and at one stage it was Up by
by almost 396 and at one stage it was up by more than
by almost 3% and at one stage it was up by more than 3%. This is not
by almost 3% and at one stage it was up by more than 3%. This is notjust
up by more than 396. This is not just about lining the
up by more than 3%. This is notjust about lining the pockets of those in
about lining the pockets of those in the City because those are the kind
the City because those are the kind of shares that are pension funds,
of shares that are pension funds, investments, good news for
investments, good news for longer—term savings. As well you can
longer-term savings. As well you ran see the
longer—term savings. As well you can see the London market is doing
see the London market is doing substantially better those across
substantially better those across Europe but the mood is one more of
Europe but the mood is one more of relief and hope. Hope because of
relief and hope. Hope because of course all those traders in the City
course all those traders in the City are watching the pictures of the
are watching the pictures of the roll-out
are watching the pictures of the roll—out of the Oxford AstraZeneca
roll-out of the Oxford AstraZenera vaccine
roll—out of the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine and that getting under way
vaccine and that getting under way and relief that we have not seen any
and relief that we have not seen any visible signs of disruption yet from
visible signs of dismption yet from the new
visible signs of disruption yet from the new trading arrangements which
the new trading arrangements which are now in force at crossings
are now in force at crossings between here and the rest of Europe.
between here and the rest of Europe. But on the whole, not a bad day for
But on the whole, not a bad day for the markets and there are reasons
the markets and there are reasons for that. We are also seeing the
for that. We are also seeing the dollar weakening and when that
dollar weakening and when that happens it means that the prophets
happens it means that the prophets of things like energy companies and
of things like energy companies and miners as well tend to be higher
miners as well tend to be higher because commodities are cheaper if
because commodities are cheaper if you are buying them in that currency
you are buying them in that currency so that has pushed up markets across
so that has pushed up markets across the board and it also means, the
the board and it also means, the weaker dollar, that the pound is at
weaker dollar, that the pound is at a level of almost three year high
a level of almost three year high against the dollar which would be
against the dollar which would be great news if you were travelling to
great news if you were travelling to countries like the US but that is
countries like the US but that is not on the radar right now! But
not on the radar right now! But looking at that you might think this
looking at that you might think this is all qualified good news but as
is all qualified good news but as ever, a closer look at what is going
ever, a closer look at what is going on behind the scenes with the FTSE
on behind the scenes with the FTSE 100 and we can see if we can get it
100 and we ran see if we ran get it back up, nothing
100 and we can see if we can get it back up, nothing ever works is you
back up, nothing ever works is you want it too! Over the last year you
want it too! Over the last year you ran see,
want it too! Over the last year you can see, there we go, that in actual
ran see, there we go, that in actual fact the
can see, there we go, that in actual fact the FTSE 100 is substantially
fact the FTSE 100 is substantially down, about 1000 points or even more
down, about 1000 points or even more compared to where we were at the
compared to where we were at the same point last year and there are a
same point last year and there are a couple of reasons for that. Firstly,
couple of reasons for that. Firstly, we don’t quite know as yet whether
we don’t quite know as yet whether or not there is going to be
or not there is going to be dismption
or not there is going to be disruption at the borders because of
dismption at the borders because of course
disruption at the borders because of course we are not seeing the volume
course we are not seeing the volume of traffic we normally do. We don’t
of traffic we normally do. We don’t know exactly how the trading
know exactly how the trading arrangements are bedding down and
arrangements are bedding down and there are still questions, banking
there are still questions, banking stocks are not doing great because
stocks are not doing great because there are questions about the future
there are questions about the future of financial services under the new
of financial services under the new deal. And the biggest question of
deal. And the biggest question of all of course is what is going to
all of course is what is going to happen to our economy because we
happen to our economy because we know as we look down the barrel at
know as we look down the barrel at perhaps further restrictions on
perhaps further restrictions on movement and indeed school closures
movement and indeed school closures as well, that is the kind of
as well, that is the kind of dismption
as well, that is the kind of disruption that weighs very heavily,
dismption that weighs very heavily, we
disruption that weighs very heavily, we know this from looking at last
we know this from looking at last year, on GDP and we are already
year, on GDP and we are already looking at an economy several
looking at an economy several percentage points smaller than a
percentage points smaller than a year ago so how much smaller could
year ago so how much smaller could it get and how long will it take to
it get and how long will it take to recover? The good news we have seen
recover? The good news we have seen today is we have had a survey out in
today is we have had a survey out in the last hour which shows that
the last hour which shows that manufacturing activity in factories
manufacturing activity in factories was at its highest for about three
was at its highest for about three years in December and part of that
years in December and part of that was down to preparations ahead of
was down to preparations ahead of Brexit as manufacturers were
Brexit as manufacturers were concerned about possible disruption.
concerned about possibla disruption. But
concerned about possible disruption. But there are signs of life there
But there are signs of life there and also we saw some figures from
and also we saw some figures from the Bank of England showing that
the Bank of England showing that consumers have been paying down
consumers have been paying down debt, in other words sitting on a
debt, in other words sitting on a more cash because they were not
more rash because they were not spending as
more cash because they were not spending as much soap went
spending as much soap went restricted easing there is hope that
restricted easing there is hope that we could see businesses getting back
we could see businesses getting back to normal soon rather than later.
to normal soon rather than later. But there are still big questions
But there are still big questions over the near term and that is why
over the near term and that is why when you look at the markets as they
when you look at the markets as they stand at the moment, they are a way
stand at the moment, they are a way off where they were a year ago and
off where they were a year ago and relatively speaking, that is an
relatively speaking, that is an underperformance compared to some of
underperformance compared to some of the major markets in Europe and
the major markets in Europe and indeed on Wall Street opened we have
indeed on Wall Street opened we have a long way to go as yet. Thank you
a long way to go as yet. Thank you for the update.
A recording has emerged which appears to show
President Trump putting pressure on a senior Republican official
to overturnjoe Biden’s election victory in Georgia.
The Washington Post says the audio is from an hour—long phone call
with Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger.
The Vice President—elect, Kamala Harris, called it
a "bold abuse of power".
Paul Hawkins reports.
Impeachment, the Russia scandal and catching Covid
in the middle of a pandemic.
The Trump presidency has been a roller—coaster ride.
So, on one level, perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised.
After all, Donald Trump himself said...
Losing is never easy.
Not for me, it’s not.
But on another level, no—one could have foreseen
that the President of the United States would ask
Georgia’s top election official to find the votes that would change
November’s result.
The call lasted an hour, the President angrily making
unsubstantiated claims that ballots had been shredded and voting
machinery removed — claims that were denied by a lawyer
for the state.
With Secretary Raffensperger saying...
The president called him a child.
Condemnation of the call has been swift.
Well, it was, yes, certainly the voice of desperation
and it was a bold, bold—faced, bold abuse of power.
The president’s refusal to accept the result had split his own party
with the former Republican leader of the House of Representatives
saying it was difficult to conceive of a more anti—democratic
and anti—conservative act.
Well, it is tough to be shocked any more by what the President does
but this was truly shocking.
Extraordinary.
To put pressure on a Republican Secretary
of State to find the votes, I mean, that’s awful stuff.
But 11 Republican senators, led by Ted Cruz, are still planning
to challenge the election result when it’s officially
certified on Wednesday.
We live in a world where truth, literally does not matter
any more, evidently.
At least here in the US and the American media
truth does not matter.
It’s all about propaganda from the liberal media
and so the reality is, you go listen to the call,
all the narrative of that is literally a not...
A nonsense call.
Donald Trump is holding an election rally on Monday night in Georgia,
where two Republican—held Senate seats are up for grabs
in Tuesday’s election.
Polling suggests both races are tight, with the outcome
deciding who controls the Upper House of Congress.
But with Donald Trump questioning the voting process in Georgia,
will Republicans still turn out to vote?
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
Lawrence Douglas is a Professor of Law
at Amherst College in Massachusetts.
He says the recording is significant on more than one level.
I think the problem with Trump is less that he is engaging with
violations of federal law, though again,
you could arguably make the
case that he is violating this federal statute that criminalises
intimidating or trying to coerce people into engage in an act of
election fraud.
But I think more generally, it is just this pattern we
have seen throughout his presidency of trampling on norms.
And that of course, it has been going on for
years and he has never really had to pay a political price
for trampling on the soft underbelly of
constitutional democracy.
Maybe we can look at two possible things.
One is, could it have an effect on the
run—off elections we are going to see in Georgia on Tuesday, January
5th?
Maybe that is possible.
At least from my perspective, maybe the silver lining from this is that
first that some Republicans might take his claims of fraud seriously
and think that, well, if the electoral system
is rigged to begin with, why
should I even vote?
And secondly, it’s possible that some more
moderate Republicans and independents will be so appalled by
the president’s blatant interference in the electoral process that they
will cast their ballots for the Democrats so that is
one possible outcome.
Hello, this is BBC News with Rebecca Jones.
The headlines...
The rollout of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab begins
in the UK this morning — The government describes it as
a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
The vaccine means everything to me.
I mean, to my mind, it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal life.
You know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
The NHS already has over half a million doses of the jab,
with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more
significant than the first Pfizer vaccination last month.
Today, when I saw the firstjab in the building behind me
of the AstraZeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment,
another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
Primary schools in most of England re—open this morning,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
The UK health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong
enough to control the spread of the new variant of
coronavirus in England — in Scotland the First Minister
is expected to announce new Covid—19 restrictions
following a sharp rise in cases.
President Trump is heard on tape asking an election official
to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of Georgia.
Democrats call it a disgrace.
A Malaysian coroner has delivered a verdict of misadventure
in the case of More Quoirin, the French—Irish schoolgirl
whose body was found in the jungle in 2019.
The 15—year—old had gone missing from an eco—resort
outside Kuala Lumpur, where she’d been on holiday
with her family.
Howard Johnson reports.
It was from this jungle resort in central Malaysia that Nora went
missing on the morning of August the 4th, 2019.
She’d arrived at the Dusun Resort with her familyjust the day before.
The children and Sebastian were tired because they really
didn’t get much sleep on the plane.
They found the overnight flight quite tiring.
So we had no ambition for the first day beyond just acclimatising.
But around Sam the following morning, father Sebastian
discovered Nora was missing.
The site of where Nora was staying was empty.
I looked around.
Tried to keep my composure for a few seconds.
Immediately after that, run downstairs and start
started searching around.
Mother Meabh said a window in the downstairs kitchen area
that she said she had closed the night before was found open.
The family insisted there was a criminal element to the case
as their daughter had difficulty walking unassisted and had
never wandered off alone.
But the police always maintained it was a missing persons case.
There is the possibility that the missing person had
woken up from sleep.
Maybe she wanted to go to the toilet and was confused
by the sort of house which was new to her and left
the house on her own.
Nora...
During the inquest, the court heard how a massive manhunt was mobilised
to search for the 15—year—old in the thickjungle
surrounding the resort.
Missing person flyers were handed out in nearby communities.
The owner of the Dusun Resort told the inquest the area had never
experienced anything like it.
It has always been a safe place for my family.
We have never had a burglary, and we have never had an intruder
in any of our houses.
Nora’s naked body was eventually found ten days
after she disappeared, close to a stream on a
palm oil plantation.
There was no sign she had been physically assaulted.
Autopsies carried out both in Malaysia and London both
concluded that Nora had died because of a heavily ulcerated upper
intestine caused by extreme stress and lack of food.
This is very unusual.
But there must be something more than the normal, I mean, stress.
This is tremendous.
A senior British pathologist said that scratches on Nora’s torso,
legs and feet were consistent with her moving through
the densejungle.
Today’s verdict of death by misadventure means that
Coroner Maimoonah Aid, believes that on the balance
of probabilities, Nora wandered off alone.
Nora’s parents called for this inquest.
But it’s delivered a verdict that will undoubtedly disappoint them.
Howard Johnson, BBC News.
And a little earlier, Howard Johnson explained how
Nora’s parents had reacted to today’s verdict.
In the last couple of hours we have heard from them,
saying they are utterly disappointed with this verdict.
They were hoping for an open verdict which would have opened the way
potentially for a criminal investigation if evidence
emerged during the case.
They said it was improbable that Nora could have wandered off alone.
They pointed to the open window which they said was,
she was not capable of leaving through the window.
They also said it was impossible she wouldn’t have been
found in thejungle, given that there were hundreds
of search and rescue personnel looking for her and they said More
really did not have the capability to hide, that wasn’t something
she had ever done before.
In fact, she had never wandered off alone, according to the family.
And they also said that sniffer dogs could not pick up on the trace,
so how had it been she had disappeared so quickly and they
could not pick up on the scent?
They also said the evidence throughout the inquest,
had concentrated on her physical abilities, rather than her
personality and in a quote today, they said, "Once again we see that
justice struggles to support the most vulnerable in society,
only engaging with special needs at a surface level and not
at the level that truly reflects children like Nora."
That was our correspondent Howard johnson.
As we’ve been hearing, millions of children should be
going back to school in England today — but most senior school
pupils are learning from home this week and many primaries will also
remain closed to the majority of children.
It’s all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
Graham Satchell has been speaking to some parents in England
about their concerns — and confusion.
Parents across the country with tough decisions to make
as the number of Covid cases continues to rise.
Sean and Aiden live in Cheshire, which hasjust moved into Tier 4,
but their school will be open this week.
For their mental health, it’s the right environment for them.
Obviously, their education is key, but mine are only little —
they’re still, you know, seven and nine, and...
you know, it’s more about the social aspect of it.
But, you know, if it’s for the greater good,
and if keeping them off an extra couple of weeks, an extra few weeks,
would bring the rates down and get it all under control,
then, yeah, I’d be behind that 100%.
In the Midlands, Leo and Lucy’s school is also open —
but their mum isn’t sure they should go.
We are in a situation where we’re saying it’s not safe to go and get
a haircut from someone in full PPE, but we are expecting my sister,
who teaches at a sixth form college in Leicester,
to go and mix with a group of 4,000 students on a daily basis.
And if what is necessary to keep everyone else safe is for me to,
you know, pull myself up by my bootstraps and print off some
worksheets for a few more weeks, I can do that.
This is Amy and her three children in Richmond, in London.
Primary schools are closed in London.
Amy is worried about her children, but needs them to go
to school so she can work.
It’s scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
So on that sense, I don’t particularly want my
children at school.
But to allow me to go to work, to allow me to earn the money
that me and my children need to be able to survive, to pay
the bills, to eat — yes, it is very important.
Leyla Preston’s children are enjoying some fresh
air in the playground.
Cases here in Hertfordshire have been rising fast,
and schools are shut.
We live in a very high—case area — Hertsmere — and we haven’t...
I haven’t heard of one case at my kid’s school,
so I think they’re doing really well in terms of safety.
So in that sense, I think it would probably be betterfor them
to go back to schooljust because they need the socialising,
they need the classroom environment, they need to have something
different, something more in their lives.
In Sussex, Chloe found out late last night her school —
which was due to be open tomorrow — will now be closed
for at least two weeks.
She’s saying to me, "Mum, is it safe for me to go back to school?"
And I’m like, "I don’t know!"
In September, I absolutely felt that it was safe
to go back to school.
All of the information coming through was showing that
transmission rates amongst children was really, really small.
And that felt really safe with the measures
the school had in place.
What’s happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’t new
the case with the new strain.
In north London, Sam was told on Friday that her daughter’s
primary school would stay closed for the time being.
Sam’s family really struggled with home schooling
in the first lockdown.
Oh, gosh, the amount of times Ijust ended the day sobbing
because it was just too much, trying to handle a child
with learning difficulties remotely, a 6—year—old who was unwilling
to learn remotely, on top of my dayjob...
And I think that’s why my response to this one has been so much
stronger than it was the first time — because I fear going back
into that same position that we had earlier in the year.
There are no easy answers here — each family with its own
concerns and worries.
Graham Satchell, BBC News.
Meanwhile, secondary school pupils are still on an extended
Christmas holiday, as senior schools remain closed for an extra two
weeks to allow them time to set up mass testing.
Earlier, I spoke to Val Masson, Headteacher of a school
in East London and Elwyn Boyle, whose daughter attends the school.
We discussed how ready they are for testing once
the students go back.
There is a lot of guidance given through the government about how
to implement the tests.
So we’ve been reading all the documentation.
The tests should arrive today so we’ve been working out
where to run the testing stations and who is actually going to do it.
And where and who, tell me!
Well, we had a bit of a chuckle about the nonporous ﬂooring that
needs to be in place so we’ve got some plastic sheeting to put down
in the hall, and you need at least seven members of staff to oversee
the testing procedure.
It could amount to more if we wanted to try and get it
through more quickly
but seven seems to be the minimum.
Have you got those staff available and what sort
of training will they need?
Yes, you can find staff, in school, staff are generally very flexible
and very supportive, they will do whatever they can
to provide a good service for the students and families.
So I can use nonteaching staff because of course the teachers
will all be teaching, it’s just that they will be teaching remotely
so I think I will be able to find staff in the short term and that may
buy me time to be able to get outside staff in but of course,
that will prove to be difficult in itself,
in that always inviting
people into a school is unusual for the students.
I understand.
Elwyn Boyle, your daughter is a pupil at the school, do you
welcome the testing?
Yes, I do, I agree testing is needed in order to make the school safe
for my daughter to return so, yes, Iagree.
Do you feel in your gut, I suppose, or perhaps it’s not in your gut,
it’s your head or heart, perhaps, that a school is a safe place
for your daughter to be?
That’s a difficult one and in some ways I do feel that a school is safe
because of the communication I’ve had with the school and the systems
that they have put in place and of course my daughter
has not become ill.
But looking at the bigger picture, if there is no testing and students
are allowed to go back to school, then come back and interact
with their families, definitely I would not feel it is safe.
Val Masson, do you think the school will be safe?
Well, the thing is there is no such thing as social distancing
in schools amongst the students.
There is social distancing between adults but not
among the students.
And so, it seems difficult to understand how it can be deemed
as definitely safe — that seems to be factually
incorrect in that the two things aren’t compatible.
No social distancing amongst older children seems to be a problem.
Understood.
Elwyn Boyle, I know you have three children, you’ve also got
a job and certainly, your eldest daughter cannot go back
to school for a couple of weeks.
What kind of challenges is that going to post not only
for her but also for you?
Actually, the other two children who attend primary school are not
going to be going back either so I have three children
at home and my employer, Barking and Dagenham Council,
is very flexible in terms of childcare and letting me work
from home although there are two days I was supposed to be
in the office that I need cover for but as a magistrate,
I have to be in court too so that is difficult.
The difficulty I will face — how do I get childcare
for the entire day when I have to be in court?
Us being told at such short notice is really
distressing so I am scraping, trying to figure out how to get
childcare so I can be in court.
Staying in the UK, Five teenagers are being held
by police in connection with the fatal stabbing
of a 13—year—old boy in Reading yesterday afternoon.
Four boys and a girl — all aged between 13 and 1A —
have all been arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder.
Thames Valley Police is appealing for witnesses.
The headlines on BBC News...
The rollout of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab begins
in the UK this morning — The government describes it as
a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
Primary schools in most of England reopen this morning,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
The UK Health Secretary says the tier system is no longer strong
enough to control the spread of the new variant of
coronavirus in England.
In Scotland, the First Minister is expected to announce new Covid—19
restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
Today marks the first full working day with the UK
outside the European Union.
Negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading
but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders
and customs hold ups in the early days.
Our correspondent SimonJones is in Dover.
What’s happening there, Simon? We’ve
what’s happening there, Simon? We’ve seen a steady
What’s happening there, Simon? We’ve seen a steady stream of lorries
seen a steady stream of lorries arriving this morning, heading into
arriving this morning, heading into the port, wanting to cross the
the port, wanting to cross the Channel to France, heading to Calais
Channel to France, heading to Calais or Dunkirk. Lorries arriving after
or Dunkirk. Lorries arriving after have the right customs declarations
have the right customs declarations and safety certificates otherwise
and safety certificates otherwise they will be turned away, plus also
they will be turned away, plus also the added complication, if they are
the added complication, if they are going to France, they need to have a
going to France, they need to have a negative coronavirus test. 50
going to France, they need to have a negative coronavirus test. So far,
negative coronavirus test. So far, over the past three days, the start
over the past three days, the start of the new year, traffic has been
of the new year, traffic has been light, we had New Year’s Day and
light, we had New Year’s Day and then move into the weekend, but it’s
then move into the weekend, but it’s expected to pick up the day and in
expected to pick up the day and in the coming days. Let’s speak to
the coming days. Let’s speak to someone at the sharp end, Chris from
someone at the sharp end, Chris from DFI’
someone at the sharp end, Chris from DH 5, one of
someone at the sharp end, Chris from DFT 5, one of the very companies
DH 5, one of the very companies mnning from
DFT 5, one of the very companies running from Dover. From your point
mnning from Dover. From your point of view, how
running from Dover. From your point of view, how has it gone? Quite
of view, how has it gone? Quite happy with how it’s gone. Traffic
happy with how it’s gone. Traffic much less than last year, as we
much lass than last year, as we thought it was
much less than last year, as we thought it was going to be, so far,
thought it was going to be, so far, we have kept the roads clear which
we have kept the roads clear which is the important thing. When people
is the important thing. when people were talking
is the important thing. When people were talking about potential chaos
were talking about potential chaos on the roads, traffic
were talking about potential chaos on the roads, trafficjams,
on the roads, traffic jams, stretching
on the roads, trafficjams, stretching back from Mars, was that
stretching back from Mars, was that just doom mongering or are we still
just doom mongering or are we still earty days? I
just doom mongering or are we still early days? I think it’s early days
earty days? I think it’s earty days from the
early days? I think it’s early days from the perspective it’s always a
from the perspective it’s always a quiet time for freight traffic of
quiet time for freight traffic of the year. But we have seen so far is
the year. But we have seen so far is actually freight customers have done
actually freight customers have done very well in working out what they
very well in working out what they need to do in terms of customs
need to do in terms of customs clearance so we are actually very
clearance so we are actually very happy with compliance that we’ve
happy with compliance that we’ve seen on board and at customs. So
seen on board and at customs. So far, good news. How does it work
far, good news. How does it work when a lorry driver goes into the
when a lorry driver goes into the port, what does he have to show you
port, what does he have to show you or piano that they are border ready.
or piano that they are border ready. The first thing they need to do a
The first thing they need to do a show they are Covid ready, they go
show they are Covid ready, they go through the border control panel,
through the border control panel, showing documentation, as far as we
showing documentation, as far as we are concerned as long as they have a
are concerned as long as they have a valid customs clearance document
valid customs clearance document they will be allowed into the port
they will be allowed into the port at what actually happens then, all
at what actually happens then, all of the information is transferred to
of the information is transferred to the customs agency in Calais and
the customs agency in Calais and Dunkirk, we can actually tell the
Dunkirk, we ran actually tell the drivers
Dunkirk, we can actually tell the drivers when they are on board
drivers when they are on board whether they have got the green
whether they have got the green light or an orange light and I am
light or an orange light and I am happy to say at the moment the vast
happy to say at the moment the vast majority of freight drivers have a
majority of freight drivers have a green light to go. Very important
green light to go. Very important for everybody as we know to keep the
for everybody as we know to keep the pores dear,
for everybody as we know to keep the pores clear, here, in Calais and
pores dear, here, in Calais and Dunkirk. Today
pores clear, here, in Calais and Dunkirk. Today is described as the
Dunkirk. Today is described as the first real test of the system but to
first real test of the system but to be fair, from what we’ve seen,
be fair, from what we’ve seen, traffic is still light so when are
traffic is still light so when are you expecting it to build up and
you expecting it to build up and then will be see the real test? I
then will be see the real test? I think over the next week or two we
think over the next week or two we will start to see traffic build—up
will start to see traffic build-up again, I think
will start to see traffic build—up again, I think it’s fair to say
again, I think it’s fair to say after the last couple of Brexit
after the last couple of Brexit build a period that we had, last
build a period that we had, last year, 2019 now, she’d say, we saw a
year, 2019 now, she’d say, we saw a real dip in traffic for a few weeks
real dip in traffic for a few weeks after that so I think that will take
after that so I think that will take time to clear and of course there
time to clear and of course there was a lot of stockpiling by
was a lot of stockpiling by companies in the run—up to New Year
companies in the mn-up to New Year to try and avoid
companies in the run—up to New Year to try and avoid any problems. As
to try and avoid any problams. As you ran see, it’s
to try and avoid any problems. As you can see, it’s going well. We are
you ran see, it’s going well. We are talking about
you can see, it’s going well. We are talking about lorries but obviously,
talking about lorries but obviously, looking ahead to the summer,
looking ahead to the summer, hopefully, the return of the summer
hopefully, the return of the summer holidays, who knows with this
holidays, who knows with this situation? How are you expecting
situation? How are you expecting that to effect tourist passengers? I
that to effect tourist passengers? I think we have a job to do to extend
think we have a job to do to extend a customer is what it is they need
a customer is what it is they need to have in terms of some of the new
to have in terms of some of the new documentation which may come through
documentation which may come through around health insurance or being
around health insurance or being able to drive on the continent but
able to drive on the continent but we are very confident we will have
we are very confident we will have plenty of time to explain exactly
planty of time to explain exactly what
plenty of time to explain exactly what customers need and we are
what customers need and we are really looking forward to bringing
really looking forward to bringing them back on board. We have really
them back on board. We have really missed them over the last few
missed them over the last few months, I’m sure everyone will
months, I’m sure everyone will understand. As soon as we see the
understand. As soon as we see the opportunity to open up travel again,
opportunity to open up travel again, and we are talking with government
and we are talking with government when we can do that safely, we will
when we ran do that safely, we will welcome
when we can do that safely, we will welcome them on board, give them a
welcome them on board, give them a meal, send them on their way. Thank
meal, send them on their way. Thank you for joining us. I
meal, send them on their way. Thank you forjoining us. I can tell you
you for joining us. I ran tell you from a wet
you forjoining us. I can tell you from a wet and windy Dover the idea
from a wet and windy Dover the idea of summer holidays seems a very long
of summer holidays seems a very long time away! Simon, thank you.
"Helen’s Law" finally comes into force in the UK today.
It means convicted killers COULD remain behind bars
if they refuse to say exactly where they put their victim’s body.
The change comes too late for Marie McCourt,
who fought for the law in her daughter’s name.
But she hopes it will spare other families from a similar ordeal.
Marie’s been speaking to Linda Jones — whose daughter Danielle
was murdered in Essex in 2001.
Her body was never found.
Jayne McCubbin reports.
I hope that one day Helen will be found.
I hope that it could happen, but my faith is...
There is the reason.
There is a reason — we’re put on this Earth
for a reason and my reason, I think, is having Helen’s Law.
Marie and Linda’s daughters were both murdered by men
who refused to admit their guilt, who refused to say where their
victims were buried.
For years, Marie fought for Helen’s Law — a law
which would keep her daughter’s killer behind bars
until he confessed.
That law comes into force today.
Having to live day to day like this, it really is hard.
It’s the one thing that disturbs me the most —
that I don’t know where she is.
You know, I walk along and just think, "Did we search
that field properly?"
It’s with you pretty much all the time.
I could have walked past her a million times and not know.
Marie’s daughter, Helen, was killed in 1988 by pub landlord Ian Simms.
He was the first to be convicted using DNA evidence
without the discovery of a body.
But almost a year before the law was enacted, Simms was released.
Since then, does he encroach on your thoughts?
Absolutely, absolutely.
In every way.
Her hope now is that Helen’s Law will force Danielle’s killer
to reveal where he has hidden her body.
Stuart Campbell is due for parole this year —
21 years after Danielle disappeared.
And we’ve brought both mothers together to discuss their hopes.
The parole judges have to obey that law and they have to look into us
a lot more careful than they did in my use.
Hopefully, fingers crossed, we might benefit from this.
Well, I’m sure we will.
And I’m just so sad for you that you didn’t.
But I know...
I know how you feel.
Sorry, I’m getting emotional now.
I know that you’ve done everything you can.
Helen would be proud.
And I’m sure, hopefully, with everything you’ve done
that we will benefit from this.
The law Marie petitioned for won’t mean "no body, no parole" —
which the government say would face legal challenges —
but Helen’s Law does force parole boards to fully consider
an offender’s decision not to disclose information.
I’m sure that, up there somewhere, Helen and Danielle are together
and saying, "This is going to work."
How are you coping?
Because I know...
I know what that stress is like.
I am beginning to get a little bit anxious about the prospect
of the parole hearing starting — yeah, very anxious.
I believe that it’s prayers that have got me to where I am today.
Yeah.
And I will certainly be praying that this man is kept in prison
until he says where he put Danielle’s remains.
Yeah, yeah.
And that is what is so important to us — to have her back.
This month, Marie willjoin an independent forensic expert
to begin afresh search for her daughter’s body,
while Linda prepares for Campbell’s parole hearing.
No, and Ijust hope I can take a little bit
of your strength with me, Marie, cos you’ve got
strength in abundance.
So...
So have you — so have you.
You could move a mountain to get your Danielle.
Thank you.
Both mothers say they will never give up hope...
That’s for me and Helen, as well.
..of one day being able to lay their daughters to rest.
And you stay strong.
Jayne McCubbin, BBC News.
The Indian manufacturer of the Oxford AstraZeneca
coronavirus vaccine says the government is preventing it
from supplying other countries.
The Serum Institute said India wanted to protect
its own people first.
It’s set to be the world’s biggest Covid—19 vaccination programme,
with 300 million people expected to be innoculated byJuly
The Japanese government says it’s considering declaring a state
of emergency to try and halt the spread of coronavirus
in the Tokyo region.
Restaurants and karaoke parlours must now close two hours
earlier than before, and businesses serving alcohol must
close by seven in the evening.
You’re watching BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol Kirkwood.
Hello again.
It’s been a cold start to the day and it’s going to be
a cold day generally.
We still have wintry showers in the forecast, but for many of us,
it’s going to be a dry day with some sunshine, but brisk and gusty winds,
especially with exposure and especially so across parts
of the south and also the east.
Now, high pressure is dominating our weather.
You can see low pressure round the Mediterranean
and in between we’re pulling in this northeasterly wind.
That’s a cold direction.
Plus, we’ve got a weather front draped across the southeast
and the Channel Islands, and that’s producing some rain,
which will be heavy at times across the Channel Islands.
You, too, could hear the rumble of thunder.
So a lot of dry weather, a fair bit of sunshine.
You can see where we’ve got the showers.
Most of them will be of rain, but on the hills we could
see some wintriness.
And if you’re exposed to that wind, it will feel cool.
These are the strength of the gusts of wind
that we are expecting so 30 to 40, maybe 45 miles an hour.
So although we’ve got temperatures of three to six,
which are poor for this time of year, it will feel
colder than that if you’re exposed to the wind.
Through this evening and overnight we hang on to this
rain in the southeast, and the Channel Islands.
We still have some showers coming in across northern
and central parts of the UK, wintry on the hills.
But at times we’ll see some of that get down to lower levels.
And there’s the risk of ice with those low temperatures
and also some frost.
In fact, in the west highlands, temperatures could fall
as low as minus six.
So tomorrow, still a lot of dry weather, still a fair bit
of sunshine, still gusty winds.
And still this rain in the southeast and also into the Channel Islands.
Some of that could be wintry in nature,
particularly on higher ground.
And it’s the same in Scotland and northern England,
some wintry showers, some of those lower levels at times
in the heavier bursts.
But through Tuesday and into Wednesday, high
pressure moves away, allowing this area of low pressure
with its front to come our way.
So basically, that means a lot of dry weather, lighter winds,
still a few showers across some eastern and southern areas.
And then this weather front comes in, bringing in rain and also some
snow across the far north west of Scotland.
These are the temperatures, one to six degrees.
And as that weather front sinks southward during Wednesday
night into Thursday, it will bring some further snow,
but it’s weakening all the time.
And by the time it gets into the southeast, it won’t bring
much more than some sleet or maybe the odd snow flurry.
This is BBC News.
I’m
I’mJoanna
I’m Joanna Gosling.
The headlines at 11:00.
The roll—out of the Oxford—AstraZeneca jab begins
in the UK this morning — The government describes it as
a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
The vaccine means everything to me.
To my mind it’s the only way I’ll get back to a normal way of life.
This virus is terrible, isn’t it?
The NHS already has over 500,000 doses of the jab,
with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more
significant than the first Pfizer vaccination last month.
Today when I saw the first jab in the building behind me of the
AstraZeneca vaccine felt like an even bigger moment,
another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
Primary schools in most of England re—open this morning,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
The Health Secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough
to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus
in England.
In Scotland, the First Minister is expected
to announce new Covid—19 restrictions following
a sharp rise in cases.
President Trump is heard on tape asking an election official
to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of Georgia.
Democrats call it a disgrace.
A coroner in Malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure
in the case of the Franco—Irish teenager, Nora Quoirin.
Hello, good morning.
It’s being described as the start of the
‘biggest vaccination programme in the history of the NHS’,
as the first doses
of the Oxford—AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine have been given
to patients this morning.
82—year—old dialysis patient,
Brian Pinker, has become the first person to be vaccinated
with the new vaccine.
He said he was "so pleased" and "really proud" it’s one
that was invented in Oxford.
The NHS has over 500,000 doses of the vaccine ready to go,
with care home residents and staff, people aged over 80,
and front line NHS staff being the first to receive it.
The Health Secretary says it is a "pivotal moment" in the UK’s
fight against the virus.
SirJohn Bell, Regius Professor of medicine at Oxford,
said he was worried because the South African variant
of the coronavirus is more likely to evade the vaccine
than the new Kent variant.
The Prime Minister has warned restrictions in England
are "probably about to get tougher" as concern grows about a new,
fast—spreading variant of the virus.
Labour said coronavirus was "clearly out of control"
and it was "inevitable more schools are going to have to close" as part
of a wider strategy that has "a national lockdown in place
in the next 2A hours".
Brian Pinker gave this reaction shortly after receiving the first
patient to receive the Oxford—AstraZeneca vaccine.
Well, to be honest, I didn’t feel a thing.
Yeah, brilliant.
The vaccine means everything to me.
To my mind, it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal life.
This virus is terrible, isn’t it?
Saturday the first I knew I was going to be in today.
Pleased, yeah. Very pleased.
The nurse who administered the firstjab, Sam Foster,
spoke to our medical editor Fergus Walsh shortly
afterwards and explained what it was like.
It was a huge privilege.
Every single patient we have vaccinated over
the last couple of weeks
have their own personal story of what difference it is
going to make for them.
It’s no different this morning with our first two patients.
And what about you? Have you been immunised yet?
I have been immunised, yes.
I was immunised, I’ve been working in the vaccine centre
for a couple of weeks so I have received my vaccine.
So it’s obviously all systems go now.
Everybody wants to be immunised as soon as possible.
How quickly can you do this?
I think there is nothing more the NHS wants to do more than get
this programme going at real scale.
Across the NHS and there are many, many peer vaccinators that will now
go out and support staff vaccines, continue with our patient
vaccines and with colleague vaccines across the nation.
So there is nothing more that we want to do then get this
programme rolled out at scale.
Professor Stephen Powis, National Medical Director of NHS
England says this is a significant moment in the way
out of the pandemic.
Four weeks ago I had the privilege to be in Coventry for the firstjab
of the Pfizer vaccine, remember Maggie Keenan
got that first jab.
That felt like a huge moment in this pandemic.
And to be honest, today when I saw the firstjab in the building
behind me of the AstraZeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger
moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
The Health Secretary, Matt Hancock says 530,000 doses
of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution
programme is being accelerated.
It is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon
as it is manufactured, and then goes through
the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important,
and getting it into the NHS and delivered into people’s arms.
In fact, we have been able to accelerate that process
because we now know that you get your protection
after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
That means that, over the first few months of the programme,
we can effectively vaccinate twice as many people as we would have
been able to otherwise.
And obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people
and saving people’s lives and of course getting us out of this
pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
Let’s speak to our Health Correspondent Katharine Da
Costa who’s in Oxford.
ii
It is obviously a very big moment. The question is, how quickly can it
The question is, how quickly ran it be rolled
The question is, how quickly can it be rolled out? It is a huge and
be rolled out? It is a huge and really significant day. All morning
really significant day. All morning there have been people arriving for
there have been people arriving for their vaccinations here. They will
their vaccinations here. They will be a mixture of front line NHS staff
be a mixture offront line NHS staff rare
be a mixture of front line NHS staff care home workers, and people in
rare home workers, and people in their 805
care home workers, and people in their 805 and 905. This is
care home workers, and people in their 805 and 905. This isjust one
their 805 and 905. This is just one of a
their 80s and 90s. This is just one of a small
their 805 and 905. This isjust one of a small number of hospitals that
of a small number of hospitals that will start using the jab from today,
will start using the jab from today, about 1000 vaccination centres
about 1000 vaccination centres should start using it by the end of
should start using it by the end of the week. And as you say, Oxford is
the week. And as you say, Oxford is seen as a real game change in
seen as a real game change in speeding up the vaccination
speeding up the vaccination programme, and that’s because the
programme, and that’s because the vaccine is much more adaptable than
vaccine is much more adaptable than the Pfizer jab. It
vaccine is much more adaptable than the Pfizerjab. It doesn’t need the
the Pfizerjab. It doesn’t need the ultra—cold storage meaning you can
ultra-cold storage meaning you ran get it out to
ultra—cold storage meaning you can get it out to care homes and to
get it out to rare homes and to larger
get it out to care homes and to larger community vaccination centres
larger community vaccination centres like sports stadium, conference
like sports stadium, conference centres, village halls etc. So the
centres, village halls etc. So the priority is to protect the majority
priority is to protect the majority of rare
priority is to protect the majority of care home residents and their
of rare home residents and their carers by the
of care home residents and their carers by the end of this month, and
carers by the end of this month, and the race is on to protect 30 million
the race is on to protect 30 million of the most vulnerable by the
of the most vulnerable by the spring. So
of the most vulnerable by the spring. 50 that will be people over
spring. So that will be peopla over the age of 50,
spring. 50 that will be people over the age of 50, front line NHS
the age of 50, front line NHS workers and care home staff, as well
workers and rare home staff, as well as peopla with
workers and care home staff, as well as people with underlying health
as people with underlying health conditions. The hope is to vaccinate
conditions. The hope is to vaccinate about 2 million people a week. That
about 2 million peopla a week. That is a
about 2 million people a week. That is a huge logistical challenge. But
is a huge logistical challenge. But the pressure really, the sense of
the pressure really, the sense of urgency, is because of this fast
urgency, is because of this fast spreading variant. Although it was
spreading variant. Although it was centralised in London and the
centralised in London and the south—east it has now been seen
south-east it has now been seen spreading
south—east it has now been seen spreading across the rest of the
spreading across the rest of the country. And although there is no
country. And although there is no suggestion that it makes the illness
suggestion that it makes the illness more serious, the fact that more
more serious, the fact that more peopla are
more serious, the fact that more people are getting ill with it means
peopla are getting ill with it means that
people are getting ill with it means that more people are ending up in
that more peopla are ending up in hospital. We
that more people are ending up in hospital. We are hearing stories of
hospital. We are hearing stories of significant pressure on the health
significant pressure on the health service. And so this vaccine is seen
service. And so this vaccine is seen as a way of relieving some of that
as a way of relieving some of that pressure. If you can get it out to
pressure. If you ran get it out to as many of the
pressure. If you can get it out to as many of the most vulnerable as
as many of the most vulnerable as quickly as possible you can relieve
quickly as possible you ran relieve some of
quickly as possible you can relieve some of that pressure and ease the
some of that pressure and ease the problems caused by the pandemic.
problems caused by the pandemic. There are questions now also around
There are questions now also around whether the priority on who gets the
whether the priority on who gets the vaccine first up should be changed,
vaccine first up should be changed, with some suggesting teachers should
with some suggesting teachers should actually be in the first wave too.
actually be in the first wave too. Is there any prospect of there being
Is there any prospect of there being a change on that front?
a change on that front? Well, the body that decides who gets
Well, the body that decides who gets the vaccine first, that’s the JCVI,
the vaccine first, that’s the jCVI, they advise
the vaccine first, that’s the JCVI, they advise the government, they
they advise the government, they have said that because the elderly
have said that because the elderty are
have said that because the elderly are most vulnerable from this virus,
are most vulnerable from this virus, they should get it first. So that’s
they should get it first. So that’s rare
they should get it first. So that’s care home residents and their
rare home residents and their rarers,
rare home residents and their carers, and
care home residents and their carers, and then it’s followed by
carers, and then it’s followed by peopla in
carers, and then it’s followed by people in their 805 and 905, front
peopla in their 805 and 905, front line NHS
people in their 805 and 905, front line NHS workers, and then it comes
line NHS workers, and then it comes down in order of age and that will
down in order of age and that will also include people with underlying
also include peopla with undertying health
also include people with underlying health conditions, then it comes all
health conditions, then it comes all the way down to about nine different
the way down to about nine different priority groups of those over 50,
priority groups of those over 50, that they are hoping to protect by
that they are hoping to protect by the spring. About 30 million people.
the spring. About 30 million peopla. So
the spring. About 30 million people. So teachers,
the spring. About 30 million people. 50 teachers, if they are over 50, if
So teachers, if they are over 50, if I have
50 teachers, if they are over 50, if I have underlying health conditions,
I have undertying health conditions, may be
I have underlying health conditions, may be amongst some of the first to
may be amongst some of the first to get the vaccine but at the moment
get the vaccine but at the moment that’s the priority. Thank you very
that’s the priority. Thank you very much indeed, Katharine Da Costa.
much indeed, Katharine Da Costa. Meanwhile.
The Health Secretary Matt Hancock says he is incredibly worried
about the new variant of the virus identified in South Africa.
SirJohn Bell — Regius Professor of medicine
at University of Oxford — who sits on the government’s
vaccine task force said there was a big question mark
as to whether the current coronavirus vaccines
would work on the new variant.
Professor Lawrence Young is a Virologist and Professor
of Molecular Oncology at Warwick Medical School.
Welcome, thank you for
Welcome, thank you forjoining us.
Welcome, thank you for joining us. Let’s talk
Welcome, thank you forjoining us. Let’s talk about the variant here
Let’s talk about the variant here which is spreading much faster than
which is spreading much faster than the previous variant. Is there any
the previous variant. Is there any question around whether the vaccine
question around whether the vaccine will work against that variant? Well
will work against that variant? Well of course, we don’t know yet, but
of course, we don’t know yet, but everything tells us that the way
everything tells us that the way that the current vaccines work
that the current vaccines work should mean that they will be
should mean that they will be effective against this variant, and
effective against this variant, and as I understand it, Public Health
as I understand it, Public Health England are looking at that in a bit
England are looking at that in a bit more detail, but looking at the
more detail, but looking at the sequence of the variant we can get a
sequence of the variant we ran get a very good due
sequence of the variant we can get a very good clue as to whether or not
very good due as to whether or not current
very good clue as to whether or not current vaccines will work and every
current vaccines will work and every indication is that the current
indication is that the current vaccines that Pfizer, BioNTech and
vaccines that Pfizer, BioNTech and AstraZeneca Oxford vaccines will be
AstraZeneca Oxford vaccines will be effective against this variant in
effective against this variant in the UK. What about the South African
the UK. what about the South African variant
the UK. What about the South African variant because there does not seem
variant because there does not seem to be so much certainty there?
to be so much certainty there? That’s right, that’s a bit more
That’s right, that’s a bit more disturbing, because as people have
disturbing, because as people have heard all the time we are dealing
heard all the time we are dealing with this so—called spike gene which
with this so-ralled spike gene which encodes
with this so—called spike gene which encodes the protein that sticks out
encodes the protein that sticks out of the surface of the virus in the
of the surface of the virus in the spike is important both for the way
spike is important both for the way the virus infects us, but also the
the virus infects us, but also the “Y
the virus infects us, but also the way that our body generates an
way that our body generates an immune response, and it is that
immune response, and it is that spike gene that forms the basis of
spike gene that forms the basis of the vaccine. The worry about the
the vaccine. The worry about the South African variant which has
South African variant which has spread very rapidly to become the
spread very rapidly to become the dominant strain of the virus in
dominant strain of the vims in South
dominant strain of the virus in South Africa is that it contains
South Africa is that it contains more changes, more mutations in the
more changes, more mutations in the spike gene, some of which are likely
spike gene, some of which are likely to affect the body’s immune
to affect the bodrs immune response,
to affect the body’s immune response, therefore there is a bit
response, therefore there is a bit more of a question mark over that
more of a question mark over that particular variant. Lawrence Young,
particular variant. lawrence Young, stay with us, we
particular variant. Lawrence Young, stay with us, we want to keep
stay with us, we want to keep talking to you but we are hearing
talking to you but we are hearing from the Prime Minister who has been
from the Prime Minister who has been speaking so we want to break away
speaking so we want to break away for a moment to hear what the Prime
for a moment to hear what the Prime Minister has been saying.
Minister has been saying. Cases are rocketing, hospital
Cases are rocketing, hospital admissions are rising again, you
admissions are rising again, you have said more restrictions are
have said more restrictions are likely needed, what are you waiting
likely needed, what are you waiting for?
for? I think the crucial thing is to
I think the crucial thing is to recognise that we have a new variant
recognise that we have a new variant that is requiring extra special
that is requiring extra special vigilance and we will do everything
vigilance and we will do everything we ran
vigilance and we will do everything we can to keep the virus under
we ran to keep the virus under control.
we can to keep the virus under control. People should be in no
control. People should be in no doubt that the government will do
doubt that the government will do everything that is necessary. But I
everything that is necessary. But I must stress that at this critical
must stress that at this critical moment it is also vital that people
moment it is also vital that people keep discipline. Huge numbers of
keep discipline. Huge numbers of people are still following the
peopla are still following the guidance.
people are still following the guidance. Some people,
guidance. Some people, understandably, are becoming
understandably, are becoming frustrated, impatient, and they are
frustrated, impatient, and they are not following it in the way that
not following it in the way that they should. The most basic things,
they should. The most basic things, hands, face, space, they really,
hands, face, space, they really, really matter now, particularly with
really matter now, particularty with this new
really matter now, particularly with this new variant. Do you think there
this new variant. Do you think there are more people not following the
are more peopla not following the rules? I
are more people not following the rules? I wouldn’t say that. I think
rules? I wouldn’t say that. I think the public have just been fantastic
the public have just been fantastic in the way that they have tried to
in the way that they have tried to follow the guidance and done their
follow the guidance and done their very best. But I do think obviously
very best. But I do think obviously as months and months go by people’s
as months and months go by people’s patience and understandably begins
patience and understandably begins to wear thin, so what I’m saying to
to wear thin, so what I’m saying to everybody is, look, we have tough,
everybody is, look, we have tough, tough weeks to come now. Clearly, as
tough weeks to come now. Clearty, as you rightly say,
tough weeks to come now. Clearly, as you rightly say, we’ve got the virus
you rightly say, we’ve got the virus really surging. It is vital, in
really surging. It is vital, in addition to the tough tiering that
addition to the tough tiering that we have put in and the further
we have put in and the further measures we may well have to take,
measures we may well have to take, it is vital that everybody now does
it is vital that everybody now does their bit together. On those further
their bit together. On those further measures, this morning the Health
measures, this morning the Health Secretary said the older tier system
Secretary said the older tier system is no longer strong enough, so what
is no longer strong enough, so what further restrictions will be put in
further restrictions will be put in place? I’m going to obviously ask
place? I’m going to obviously ask you to wait and we will be producing
you to wait and we will be producing everything that we think is
everything that we think is necessary to keep people from
necessary to keep people from spreading the virus. If you think
spreading the vims. If you think about it, we
spreading the virus. If you think about it, we have already got a lot
about it, we have already got a lot of the country in Tier 4, some of it
of the country in Tier 4, some of it in Tier 3. What we have been waiting
in Tier 3. what we have been waiting for is to see
in Tier 3. What we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the Tier
for is to see the impact of the Tier for measures on the virus. —— tier
for measures on the vims. -- tier four. It is a bit
for measures on the virus. —— tier four. It is a bit unclear at the
four. It is a bit unclear at the moment, but if you look at the
moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question that we
numbers there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher
are going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing
measures and we will be announcing those in due course. Primary
those in due course. Primary schools, some have stayed closed
schools, some have stayed dosed today
schools, some have stayed closed today despite your assurances that
today despite your assurances that its safe, they are effectively
its safe, they are effectively ignoring you. Are they simply doing
ignoring you. Are they simply doing now what you inevitably tell them to
now what you inevitably tell them to do in the coming days? I think it’s
do in the coming days? I think it’s very important to understand that
very important to understand that back in March one of the things that
hack in March one of the things that I look
back in March one of the things that I look back on with the greatest
I look back on with the greatest misgivings was the closure of
misgivings was the closure of primary schools because it’s so
primary schools because it’s so important for young people to get an
important for young people to get an education. The difference it can
education. The difference it ran make to
education. The difference it can make to their lives being in school
make to their lives being in school or not being at school at that age
or not being at school at that age is very important. That’s why
is very important. That’s why dosing
is very important. That’s why closing primary schools, I think for
dosing primary schools, I think for all of us, is a
closing primary schools, I think for all of us, is a last resort.
all of us, is a last resort. Postponing the opening of primary
Postponing the opening of primary schools is a last resort. That’s why
schools is a last resort. That’s why we are looking at everything else we
we are looking at everything else we ran possibly
we are looking at everything else we can possibly do to avoid that, given
ran possibly do to avoid that, given the social,
can possibly do to avoid that, given the social, the damage, the
the social, the damage, the educational damage that is done.
educational damage that is done. What I would say to teachers is,
what I would say to teachers is, first of all,
What I would say to teachers is, first of all, and to parents, thank
first of all, and to parents, thank you to everybody for the immense
you to everybody for the immense work that you have done to make
work that you have done to make schools safe. And I would stress
schools safe. And I would stress that schools are safe. And as you
that schools are safe. And as you know, the risk to kids is very, very
know, the risk to kids is very, very small. And the risk to teachers, and
small. And the risk to teachers, and obviously we do everything we can to
obviously we do everything we ran to protect
obviously we do everything we can to protect teachers, but the risk to
protect teachers, but the risk to teachers is no greater than it is to
teachers is no greater than it is to anybody else in any other line of
anybody else in any other line of work. I thank them for what they are
work. I thank them for what they are doing. My message would be,
work. I thank them for what they are doing. My message would he, look, we
doing. My message would he, look, we have a surging epidemic. The reasons
have a surging epidemic. The reasons for wanting to keep schools open, I
for wanting to keep schools open, I think, are very powerful. What
think, are very powerful. what you’ve got to
think, are very powerful. What you’ve got to look at is the extent
you’ve got to look at is the extent of the epidemic in the areas where
of the epidemic in the areas where it is really surging and weather,
it is really surging and weather, not because schools are unsafe, but
not because schools are unsafe, but whether you ran
not because schools are unsafe, but whether you can actually do more to
whether you ran actually do more to contain
whether you can actually do more to contain the epidemic by closing
contain the epidemic by closing schools as well. That’s the issue.
schools as well. That’s the issue. Is there a trust issue? You are
Is there a trust issue? You are saying it is safe, the government is
saying it is safe, the government is saying stay open, and they are in
saying stay open, and they are in large numbers across the country
large numbers across the country ignoring you and closing so they
ignoring you and closing so they don’t trust you when you say it is
don’t trust you when you say it is safe. I think that’s not right, I
safe. I think that’s not right, I think schools are safe. Huge numbers
think schools are safe. Huge numbers of schools have opened and I thank
of schools have opened and I thank them for what they are doing. The
them for what they are doing. The issue is not the safety of the
issue is not the safety of the school. It’s very important to get
school. It’s very important to get this across. The issue is the extent
this across. The issue is the extent to which the mingling of kids in
to which the mingling of kids in schools, by putting lots of
schools, by putting lots of households together, causes the
households together, causes the epidemic to spread even faster.
epidemic to spread even faster. Alas, that’s why, in some parts of
Alas, that’s why, in some parts of the country, we have had to ask
the country, we have had to ask primary schools as well to postpone
primary schools as well to postpone their return. I don’t want to do
their return. I don’t want to do that but it is necessary. We will
that but it is necessary. We will keep all measures under review. As
keep all measures under review. As it happens, it looks as though
it happens, it looks as though secondary schools, probably play
secondary schools, probably play more of a role in the spread of the
more of a role in the spread of the epidemic than primary schools, so we
epidemic than primary schools, so we will have to look very hard at what
will have to look very hard at what we do with secondary schools later
we do with secondary schools later in the month. They could close be on
in the month. They could close be on january the 18th,
in the month. They could close be on January the 18th, do you think? I
january the 18th, do you think? I want to
January the 18th, do you think? I we nt to stress to
January the 18th, do you think? I want to stress to everybody the
want to stress to everybody the efforts we are making as a
efforts we are making as a government to try to keep primary
government to try to keep primary schools open. I understand people’s
schools open. I understand people’s apprehensions, and I would just
apprehensions, and I would just respectfully safe to them I think it
respectfully safe to them I think it is wrong to say that schools are
is wrong to say that schools are unsafe. The schools are safe. The
unsafe. The schools are safe. The anxiety we have as a government is
anxiety we have as a government is about the role of schools, or any
about the rola of schools, or any activity, in
about the role of schools, or any activity, in spreading the disease.
activity, in spreading the disease. And that’s why I would really ask
And that’s why I would really ask peopla to
And that’s why I would really ask people to focus now as we roll out
peopla to focus now as we roll out the
people to focus now as we roll out the vaccine on what we can all do to
the vaccine on what we ran all do to stop
the vaccine on what we can all do to stop transmission and what we can
stop transmission and what we ran all do to
stop transmission and what we can all do to follow the guidance. Very
all do to follow the guidance. Very quickly before I ask you about
quickly before I ask you about vaccines, can you see secondary
vaccines, can you see secondary schools closing beyond January the
schools dosing beyond january the 18th?
schools closing beyond January the 18th? We are obviously going to keep
18th? We are obviously going to keep everything under review. Education
everything under review. Education is of huge importance for young
is of huge importance for young peopla. It is
is of huge importance for young people. It is a real loss to them if
peopla. It is a real loss to them if they don’t
people. It is a real loss to them if they don’t get it. That’s why, I
they don’t get it. That’s why, I think, as a society we have done the
think, as a society we have done the right thing to put such emphasis on
right thing to put such emphasis on it and we will look at everything
it and we will look at everything else we can do. Most of the country
else we ran do. Most of the country is already in Tier
else we can do. Most of the country is already in Tier 4. We will look
is already in Tier 4. We will look at everything else we can do to
at everything else we ran do to control
at everything else we can do to control the virus but we will take
control the virus but we will take the necessary decisions to protect
the necessary decisions to protect pub“:
the necessary decisions to protect public health. On vaccines, we have
public health. On vaccines, we have waited nearty a
public health. On vaccines, we have waited nearly a year for this
public health. On vaccines, we have waited nearly a yearfor this moment
waited nearty a year for this moment and planned for
waited nearly a yearfor this moment and planned for this moment for a
and planned for this moment for a year. why
and planned for this moment for a year. Why does the NHS not
year. Why does the NHS not immediately have the capacity to
immediately have the capacity to administer the 2 million doses a
administer the 2 million doses a week you are
administer the 2 million doses 3 week you are calling for? That’s
week you are falling for? That’s completely
week you are calling for? That’s completely untrue, we do have the
completely untrue, we do have the capacity. The issue is to do with
capacity. The issue is to do with the supply of the vaccine. It is not
the supply of the vaccine. It is not so much a manufacturing issue,
so much a manufacturing issue, though that is part of it, it is
though that is part of it, it is also that each batch needs to be
also that each batch needs to be properly approved and quality
properly approved and quality controlled because, it is fantastic
controlled because, it is fantastic news we have a vaccine, we have two
news we have a vaccine, we have two vaccines, several vaccines coming
vaccines, several vaccines coming down the track, and actually I think
down the track, and actually I think it has been amazing that it’s taken
it has been amazing that it’s taken as little as a year to produce this.
as little as a year to produce this. But you’ve got to make sure it’s
But you’ve got to make sure it’s properly approved before it goes
property approved before it goes into
properly approved before it goes into people’s arms and that’s what
into people’s arms and that’s what we are doing. People will be asking,
we are doing. People will be asking, where is the big grand plan to get
where is the big grand plan to get this done, going beyond hospitals,
this done, going beyond hospitals, getting the army involved, getting
getting the army involved, getting as many people as possible to get as
as many peopla as possibla to get as many vaccines
as many people as possible to get as many vaccines out as humanly
many vaccines out as humanly possibla?
many vaccines out as humanly possible? Why is that big grand
possibla? why is that big grand plan, Prime
possible? Why is that big grand plan, Prime Minister? Be in no
plan, Prime Minister? Be in no doubt, this is the biggest vaccine
doubt, this is the biggest vaccine roll-out
doubt, this is the biggest vaccine roll—out in the history of the
roll-out in the history of the country. I
roll—out in the history of the country. I know that your viewers
country. I know that your viewers may be aware that this country has
may be aware that this country has already done well over 1
may be aware that this country has already done well overl million
already done well overl million vaccines, more than the rest of
vaccines, more than the rest of Europe put together. 50 I don’t
Europe put together. So I don’t think
Europe put together. 50 I don’t think we’re being slowed by
think we’re being slowed by international comparisons. But there
international comparisons. But there is a massive ramping up operation
is a massive ramping up operation now going on. You mention the army,
now going on. You mention the army, you mention all sorts of volunteers,
you mention all sorts of volunteers, all that is going to be involved.
all that is going to be involved. But what they call the rate limiting
But what they all the rate limiting factor is
But what they call the rate limiting factor is now not supply of vaccine,
factor is now not supply of vaccine, though we want that to go faster, it
though we want that to go faster, it is getting them properly tested,
is getting them property tested, getting
is getting them properly tested, getting them to the NHS. The rate
getting them to the NHS. The rate limiting factor is not the ability
limiting factor is not the ability to distribute the vaccine, it is not
to distribute the vaccine, it is not the shortage of staff to get it into
the shortage of staff to get it into people’s arms, it is getting it
people’s arms, it is getting it properly tested and out there. That
property tested and out there. That will ramp up in
properly tested and out there. That will ramp up in the weeks ahead.
will ramp up in the weeks ahead. But, as I said yesterday, it’s
But, as I said yesterday, it’s difficult to give exact numbers
difficult to give exact numbers today, except that it will be tens
today, except that it will be tens of millions by the end of March. As
of millions by the end of March. As soon as we have some better numbers
soon as we have some better numbers to give you about the millions of
to give you about the millions of vaccines, and we have already
vaccines, and we have already committed to 2 million a week, as
committed to 2 million a week, as you know, we will give them. When
you know, we will give them. when will we get the
you know, we will give them. When will we get the first 2 million a
will we get the first 2 million a week? When will we hit that first?
week? when will we hit that first? As soon
week? When will we hit that first? As soon as we can give you that data
As soon as we ran give you that data we will.
As soon as we can give you that data we will. Not in the next few weeks?
we will. Not in the next few weeks? May be until February or March? I
May be until February or March? I will not rule that out but we will
will not mla that out but we will give you more
will not rule that out but we will give you more detail across the next
give you more detail across the next few days. Thank you, Prime Minister.
few days. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you.
Thank you. Boris
Thank you. BorisJohnson
Thank you. Boris Johnson covering
Thank you. Boris johnson covering a lot of
Boris johnson covering a lot of ground,
BorisJohnson covering a lot of ground, some of the key points that
ground, some of the key points that emerged from what he was saying, he
emerged from what he was saying, he was saying that there is no question
was saying that there is no question we will have to take tough measures
we will have to take tough measures with the numbers of Covid cases
with the numbers of Covid rases increasing as
with the numbers of Covid cases increasing as they are in this
increasing as they are in this country. There is a government
country. There is a government meeting this morning, so whether
meeting this morning, so whether there will be any sort of official
there will be any sort of official announcement later today, we just
announcement later today, we just have to wait and see whether the
have to wait and see whether the Tier 4, or
have to wait and see whether the Tier4, orsomething
have to wait and see whether the Tier 4, or something even beyond
Tier 4, or something even beyond that, will be expanded
Tier 4, or something even beyond that, will be expended on later. He
that, will be expanded on later. He also spoke about schools in
also spoke about schools in particular, with primary schools
particular, with primary schools opening today. Not all primary
opening today. Not all primary schools, but the Prime Minister they
schools, but the Prime Minister they are saying the ones that are opening
are saying the ones that are opening he believes are absolutely safe to
he believes are absolutely safe to be doing so but he said it does look
be doing so but he said it does look like secondary schools play more of
like secondary schools play more of a rola in
like secondary schools play more of a role in transmission of the virus
a rola in transmission of the virus than primary
a role in transmission of the virus than primary schools, so we will
than primary schools, so we will have to look hard at what we do with
have to look hard at what we do with secondary schools later in the
secondary schools later in the month. Already the date for
month. Already the date for secondary schools to return has been
secondary schools to return has been pushed back for students doing GCSEs
pushed back for students doing 6655 and
pushed back for students doing GCSEs and A—levels back to the 11th, and
and A-levels back to the 11th, and for others
and A—levels back to the 11th, and for others to the 18th. He said that
for others to the 18th. He said that they will be looking at what happens
they will be looking at what happens later in the month. We will be
later in the month. We will be talking to our correspondence in
talking to our correspondence in Westminster in a moment. First,
Westminster in a moment. First, let’s go back to Professor Lawrence
let’s go back to Professor Lawrence Young, at Warwick medical School,
Young, at Warwick medical School, before Boris Johnson
Young, at Warwick medical School, before BorisJohnson came through to
before Boris johnson came through to speak.
speak. Just a touch
speak. just a touch on what was being said
just a touch on what was being said though, we are
Just a touch on what was being said though, we are in a situation where
though, we are in a situation where we have the Oxford vaccine going
we have the Oxford vaccine going into a roll out from today. The
into a roll out from today. The rases are
into a roll out from today. The cases are rising and the Prime
rases are rising and the Prime Minister
cases are rising and the Prime Minister is obviously talking about
Minister is obviously talking about further restrictive measures to curb
further restrictive measures to curb the spread of the virus. How do you
the spread of the vims. How do you see those
the spread of the virus. How do you see those three factors playing out?
see those three factors playing out? What
see those three factors playing out? what do you
see those three factors playing out? What do you think is the solution,
what do you think is the solution, the best
What do you think is the solution, the best answer to where we are
the best answer to where we are right now? I think we have got to
right now? I think we have got to recognise that even though we are
recognise that even though we are dealing with a variant, and possibly
dealing with a variant, and possibly more variants of the virus, they all
more variants of the virus, they all transmit in the same way, they
transmit in the same way, they transmit by people to people
transmit by peopla to peopla contact,
transmit by people to people contact, and therefore it’s really
contact, and therefore it’s really important, as the Prime Minister was
important, as the Prime Minister was stressing, that we restrict
stressing, that we restrict transmission with hands, face and
transmission with hands, face and space, and I think we are having to
space, and I think we are having to face more strict and harsher
face more strict and harsher restrictions, and that’s the only
restrictions, and that’s the only “Y
restrictions, and that’s the only way to dampen down the infection, to
way to dampen down the infection, to protect the NHS, and in so doing
protect the NHS, and in so doing help with the capacity in terms of
help with the capacity in terms of vaccination. I think we have a bit
vaccination. I think we have a bit of a battle at the moment between
of a battle at the moment between infection and injection, and we need
infection and injection, and we need to restrict the number of people
to restrict the number of people getting infected by harsher
getting infected by harsher restrictions and then vaccinate as
restrictions and then vaccinate as many peoplc
restrictions and then vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible.
many peopla as quickly as possible. And on
many people as quickly as possible. And on the decision the government
And on the decision the government has taken to try to vaccinate as
has taken to try to vaccinate as many as quickly as possible, that
many as quickly as possible, that decision to extend the gap between
decision to extend the gap between the first and the second dose from
the first and the second dose from three weeks up to 12 weeks, some are
three weeks up to 12 weeks, some are concerned that that could
concerned that that could effectively leave a window for the
effectively leave a window for the virus to mutate further, because it
virus to mutate further, because it will not be conferring full immunity
will not be conferring full immunity on those who have only had the first
on those who have only had the first dose, what do you think of that? We
dose, what do you think of that? We are in a difficult situation and we
are in a difficult situation and we have to have the need to vaccinate
have to have the need to vaccinate as many people as possible and
as many peopla as possibla and provide
as many people as possible and provide some initial protection up
provide some initial protection up against the need for that full and
against the need for that full and more long—lived protection that
more long-lived protection that comes
more long—lived protection that comes from two doses. Certainly,
comes from two doses. Certainly, everything from an immunological
everything from an immunological perspective suggests there are no
perspective suggests there are no real issues in extending to three
real issues in extending to three weeks to three months and I think
weeks to three months and I think it’s just a
weeks to three months and I think it’sjust a difficult
weeks to three months and I think it’sjust a difficultjudgment
weeks to three months and I think it’s just a difficultjudgment call.
it’s just a difficult judgment all. It is the right
it’s just a difficultjudgment cell. It is the right decision, we need to
It is the right decision, we need to get as many people vaccinated, get
get as many people vaccinated, get some level of protection in the
some level of protection in the community, whilst we try and do our
community, whilst we try and do our best to block the chains of
best to block the chains of transmission by having harsher
transmission by having harsher restrictions. I think it’s a very
restrictions. I think it’s a very difficult balancing act, I have to
difficult balancing act, I have to say, but
difficult balancing act, I have to say, butl
difficult balancing act, I have to say, but I don’t think
say, but I don’t think immunologically there are any
immunologically there are any serious issues in delaying the
serious issues in delaying the second booster vaccine, as long as
second booster vaccine, as long as people are getting that second
people are getting that second vaccine, and that’s what is really
vaccine, and that’s what is really important.
important. Professor Lawrence Young, thank you
Professor Lawrence Young, thank you very much. Let’s go to our political
very much. Let’s go to our political correspondent Ben Wright who was
correspondent Ben Wright who was listening to the Prime Minister
listening to the Prime Minister along with us. The Prime Minister
along with us. The Prime Minister talking about the prospect of more
talking about the prospect of more restrictions. Is it feeling now
talking about the prospect of more restrictions. Is it feeling nowjust
restrictions. Is it feeling now just a question of
restrictions. Is it feeling nowjust a question of when rather than if? I
a question of when rather than if? I think that’s right, whether hours or
think that’s right, whether hours or days, we don’t know at the moment,
days, we don’t know at the moment, but it is clear that further
but it is clear that further restrictions are coming to England
restrictions are coming to England and the Prime Minister again, as he
and the Prime Minister again, as he did yesterday, is putting England on
did yesterday, is putting England on notice that the restrictions across
notice that the restrictions across the country are likely to toughen up
the country are likely to toughen up very soon. He said there were tough,
very soon. He said there were tough, tough weeks to come in the
tough weeks to come in the government would be taking tougher
government would be taking tougher measures and announcing those in due
measures and announcing those in due course. Earlier
measures and announcing those in due course. Earliertoday
measures and announcing those in due course. Earlier today the Health
course. Eadier today the Health Secretary
course. Earlier today the Health Secretary Matt Hancock said that in
Secretary Matt Hancock said that in areas that were currently Tier 3 the
areas that were currently Tier 3 the virus was growing exponentially, as
virus was growing exponentially, as it is in Tier 4 areas. There is huge
it is in Tier 4 areas. There is huge pressure on hospitals, there are
pressure on hospitals, there are more people in wards than there were
more people in wards than there were back at the height of the first wave
back at the height of the first wave in April, so this is obviously a
in April, so this is obviously a pressing crisis right now for the
pressing crisis right now for the government. It is going to have to
government. It is going to have to act and Labour is saying, why wait?
act and labour is saying, why wait? Why
act and labour is saying, why wait? why do they?
act and Labour is saying, why wait? Why do they? Announce a national
Why do they? Announce a national lockdown now. Don’t wait any more,
lockdown now. Don’t wait any more, just level with the public and be
just level with the public and be clear. I think there is going to be
dear. I think there is going to be great pressure
clear. I think there is going to be great pressure on No 10 to do that
great pressure on No10 to do that over the
great pressure on No 10 to do that over the course of today. The
over the course of today. The Minister making clear his
Minister making clear his determination to try to keep schools
determination to try to keep schools open and saying that there is a
open and saying that there is a difference between keeping primary
difference between keeping primary and secondary schools open in terms
and secondary schools open in terms of how much the virus spreads.
of how much the virus spreads. Teachers are saying that they would
Teachers are saying that they would like to be vaccinated in order to
like to be vaccinated in order to have that reassurance to support the
have that reassurance to support the opening of schools. Is there any
opening of schools. Is there any prospect that that may change?
prospect that that may change? Because obviously at the moment
Because obviously at the moment teachers are not in the first wave
teachers are not in the first wave of those being vaccinated. They are
of those being vaccinated. They are not and the teaching unions are
not and the teaching unions are being very vocal in pressuring the
being very vocal in pressuring the government hard on these questions
government hard on these questions at the moment. I thought it was
at the moment. I thought it was interesting too that the Prime
interesting too that the Prime Minister left a very big question
Minister left a very big question mark over the return of secondary
mark over the return of secondary schools on January the 18th, the
schools on january the 18th, the plan is a
schools on January the 18th, the plan is a phased return of secondary
plan is a phased return of secondary schools starting with those year
schools starting with those year EWUPS
schools starting with those year groups taking exams with a full
groups taking exams with a full return by January the 18th. He
return byJanuary the 18th. He acknowledged that there did seem to
acknowledged that there did seem to be more transmission from pupils to
be more transmission from pupils to families at secondary age than
families at secondary age than primary age. There is busily a
primary age. There is busily a patchwork of return of primary
patchwork of return of primary schoolchildren this week depending
schoolchildren this week depending on where you are in the country. But
on where you are in the country. But as labour
on where you are in the country. But as Labour was saying today, it looks
as Labour was saying today, it looks inevitable that further school
inevitable that further school closures are coming, and I think
closures are coming, and I think they are telling the government now
they are telling the government now to just be clear with people that
to just be clear with peopla that that’s
to just be clear with people that that’s probably where we are likely
that’s probably where we are likely to be heading. I thought that was an
to be heading. I thought that was an interesting part in the Prime
interesting part in the Prime Minister’s interview a few minutes
Minister’s interview a few minutes ago. Thank you, Ben. In the last few
ago. Thank you, Ben. In the last few minutes a judge at the Old Bailey
minutes a judge at the Old Bailey has ruled that WikiLeaks founder
has mled that wikiLeaks founder julian
has ruled that WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange cannot be extradited
julian Assange cannot be extradited to the
Julian Assange cannot be extradited to the United States. Our diplomatic
to the United States. Our diplomatic correspondent James Landale is
to the United States. Our diplomatic correspondentJames Landale is here.
correspondent james Landale is here. That is a
correspondentjames Landale is here. That is a dramatic
correspondentJames Landale is here. That is a dramatic ruling, James,
That is a dramatic ruling, james, what was
That is a dramatic ruling, James, what was said? The judge went
what was said? The judge went through in very close detail all of
through in very close detail all of the defence case made by
through in very close detail all of the defence case made byJulian
the defence use made byjulian Stange’s
the defence case made byJulian Stange’s legal team about why in
Stange’s legal team about why in their
Stange’s legal team about why in their view
Stange’s legal team about why in their view he shouldn’t be
their view he shouldn’t be extradited to the United States to
extradited to the United States to face all of these charges related to
face all of these charges related to the release of thousands of military
the release of thousands of military documents almost a decade ago now.
documents almost a decade ago now. As she went through it she said, the
As she went through it she said, the julian Assange
As she went through it she said, the Julian Assange team claimed the
Julian Assange team claimed the Department of
Julian Assange team claimed the Department ofJustice would throw at
Department of justice would throw at him harshly,
Department ofJustice would throw at him harshly, no, I have no evidence
him harshly, no, I have no evidence for that, the
him harshly, no, I have no evidence for that, theJulian Assange teams
for that, the julian Assange teams claimed
for that, theJulian Assange teams claimed that the judges were
claimed that the judges were political and there was no evidence
political and there was no evidence of any more hostility in the Trump
of any more hostility in the Trump administration, and she went through
administration, and she went through the arguments dismissing the defence
the arguments dismissing the defence rase, but
the arguments dismissing the defence case, but then she came to the
use, but then she came to the situation
case, but then she came to the situation of the mental state of
situation of the mental state of julian
situation of the mental state of Julian Suncheon. And on that she
julian Suncheon. And on that she fame
julian Suncheon. And on that she came to
Julian Suncheon. And on that she came to the conclusion. —— Julian
fame to the conclusion. -- julian Assange. If he
came to the conclusion. —— Julian Assange. If he were extradited and
Assange. If he were extradited and taken to an American prison come in
taken to an American prison come in the total isolation he would likely
the total isolation he would likely face, she said, "I’m satisfied that
face, she said, "I’m satisfied that the procedures described by the US
the procedures described by the US will not prevent Mr Assange finding
will not prevent Mr Assange finding a way to commit suicide. By this
a way to commit suicide. By this reason I order his discharge as his
reason I order his discharge as his extradition could cause mental
extradition could cause mental harm." As they are going to be an
harm." As they are going to be an appeal? The American said they are
appeal? The American said they are likely to appeal and they have M
likely to appeal and they have 14 days to do
likely to appeal and they have M days to do so. At the moment this is
days to do so. At the moment this is just a District
days to do so. At the moment this is just a DistrictJudge, it could go
just a District judge, it could go “P
just a District judge, it could go up to the
just a DistrictJudge, it could go up to the High Court and the Supreme
up to the High Court and the Supreme Court. So
up to the High Court and the Supreme Court. 50 there is a
up to the High Court and the Supreme Court. So there is a process to be
Court. So there is a process to be gotten under
Court. 50 there is a process to be gotten under way. The Americans have
gotten under way. The Americans have 14 days in which
gotten under way. The Americans have M days in which to lodge that
14 days in which to lodge that appeal. The
1A days in which to lodge that appeal. The interesting question is
appeal. The interesting question is what happens to
appeal. The interesting question is what happens toJulian a sponge now.
what happens to julian a sponge now. There is a
what happens toJulian a sponge now. There is a question that he be
There is a question that he be bailed. --
There is a question that he be bailed. ——Julian
There is a question that he be bailed. —— Julian Assange.
There is a question that he be bailed. ——Julian Assange. He’s been
bailad. -- julian Assange. He’s been in
bailed. ——Julian Assange. He’s been in detention facing these charges in
in detention facing these charges in Belmarsh prison for the last 21
Belmarsh prison for the last 21 months and before that he spent
months and before that he spent seven years voluntarily held up in
seven years voluntarily held up in the Ecuadorian embassy. This is a
the Ecuadorian embassy. This is a man who has been confined, initially
man who has been confined, initially voluntarily and subsequently by the
voluntarily and subsequently by the state, for a very long period of
state, for a very long period of time. The question now is, will he
time. The question now is, will he get any bail conditions? Will he be
get any bail conditions? will he be allowed
get any bail conditions? Will he be allowed out or not? That’s been
allowed out or not? That’s been decided at the moment. How long
decided at the moment. How long could the process go on for if there
could the process go on for if there are appeals? As you say, this
are appeals? As you say, this involves someone who is
involves someone who is incarcerated. If it comes to an end
incarcerated. If it comes to an end he would be free to go.
You have to be very careful about judging the length of legal
judging the length of legal processes but potentially a long
processes but potentially a long time. This extradition process, to
time. This extradition process, to get to this point, pointy one months
get to this point, pointy one months since he was initially detained, you
since he was initially detained, you know have a substantial appeals
know have a substantial appeals process, has to be granted or not,
process, has to be granted or not, if it is then there is a process to
if it is then there is a process to go through. We are talking months,
go through. We are talking months, maybe years. Thank you very much.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol Kirkwood
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol Kirkwood
Another cold day in prospect, to go to much of this week that is the
to much of this week that is the forecast. Still some rain coming in
forecast. Still some rain coming in across the south—east, into the
across the south-east, into the Channel
across the south—east, into the Channel Islands, that will be
Channel Islands, that will be thundery, some showers coming in
thundery, some showers coming in across eastern Scotland and
across eastern Scotland and north—east England. In the end
north-east England. In the and towards
north—east England. In the end towards the Midlands and Wales to
towards the Midlands and Walas to the
towards the Midlands and Wales to the course of the day. wintry on the
the course of the day. wintry on the hills. Couple that with a gusty,
hills. Coupla that with a gusty, brisk
hills. Couple that with a gusty, brisk and north—easterly wind I
brisk and north-easterty wind I don’t
brisk and north—easterly wind I don’t will feel cold with
don’t will feel cold with temperatures at best 3—6 C. This
temperatures at best 3-6 C. This evening and
temperatures at best 3—6 C. This evening and overnight, hanging on to
evening and overnight, hanging on to the rain in the south—east and
the rain in the south-east and Channel
the rain in the south—east and Channel Islands, further when
Channel Islands, further when teacher was coming in, some of those
teacher was coming in, some of those wintry even at lower levels, it will
wintry even at lower levels, it will be a cold night with the risk of ice
be a cold night with the risk of ice and frost. West Islands, tempt us to
and frost. West Islands, tempt us to between 4; and —6. Tomorrow, showers
between -4 and -6. Tomorrow, showers and a North
between 4; and —6. Tomorrow, showers and a North still wintry, still have
and a North still wintry, still have rain in the south, I don’t Wednesday
rain in the south, I don’t Wednesday some more snow comes in across the
some more snow comes in across the far north—west. —— and on the
far north-west. -- and on the Wednesday.
Hello, this is BBC News.
The Headlines...
The Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, has warned
that the tiered system of Covid restrictions in England is "no
longer strong enough" to control the spread of the virusFurther
longer strong enough" to control the spread of the virusFurther
Been waiting to see the impact of the tier for measures editors
the tier for measures editors unclear at the moment stellar, but
unclear at the moment stellar, but if you look at the numbers there is
if you look at the numbers there is no question we are going to make
no question we are going to make tougher measures.
The roll—out of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab begins
in the UK this morning — The Prime Minister says tens
of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of March.
ii
It means everything to me, to my mind it is the only way of getting
mind it is the only way of getting back to normal life. This virus is
back to normal life. This virus is terrible.
The NHS already has over half a million doses of the jab,
with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more
significant than the first Pfizer vaccination last month.
Today when I saw the first jab in the building behind me, it felt like
the building behind me, it felt like an even bigger moment. Another
an even bigger moment. Another turning point in our way out of this
turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
Primary schools in most
of England re—open,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
President Trump is heard on tape asking an election official
to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of Georgia.
Democrats call it a disgrace.
A coroner in Malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure
in the case of the Franco—Irish teenager, Nora Quoirin.
Sport, and time for a full round—up, from the BBC Sport Centre.
Good morning.
The new World Darts Champion, Gerwyn Price, says he’s so thankful
he won and wouldn’t care if he never took the trophy again.
The Welshman was in incredible form as he raced into a 6—2 lead —
but nerves then got the better of him.
Eventually he managed to hit the winning double at the 12th
time of asking to win by seven sets to three.
He takes home the £500,000 winner’s cheque and also
becomes the new World Number One.
1. II
IfI
If I never when their stroke again, it doesn’t really matter, but
it doesn’t really matter, but there’s time it feels good, but I
there’s time it feels good, but I never put too much pressure on
never put too much pressure on myself until tonight when I was
myself until tonight when I was trying to get that double, but it is
trying to get that doubla, but it is hard to speak,
trying to get that double, but it is hard to speak, but I think I got
hard to speak, but I think I got over the line today and I don’t have
over the line today and I don’t have to chase their trophy any more.
Chelsea have dropped to eighth in the Premier League after losing
3—1 at home to Manchester City, putting the pressure on manager
Frank Lampard.
The three points put City right back in the title race.
They got all their goals in the first half —
including one from England midfielder Phil Foden —
before Kevin De Bruyne rounded off the scoring.
But for Chelsea it’s another bad result, despite the millions
of pounds they spent on players in the summer.
ii
It puts pressure on me or not, regardlass,
It puts pressure on me or not, regardless, one month ago everyone
regardless, one month ago everyone was asked me when I was signing a
was asked me when I was signing a new contract and now people will be
new contract and now peopla will be saying
new contract and now people will be saying different things because in
saying different things because in quick succession of a busy period we
quick succession of a busy period we lost four games in football. So the
lost four games in football. So the pressure
lost four games in football. 50 the pressure remains
lost four games in football. So the pressure remains content in their
pressure remains content in their job, I
pressure remains content in their job, Ido
pressure remains content in their job, I do know that in tough moments
job, I do know that in tough moments that will be there. —— and you know.
Leicester are up to third after a 2—1 win at Newcastle.
James Maddison, with a strike from the edge of the box.
Obviously a big fan of the Darts.
And Youri Tielemans doubled their lead with
this brilliant finish.
Newcastle did pull one back, but Leicester held on.
There wasjust one match in rugby union’s
Premiership after London Irish against Northampton
Saints was postponed.
Leicester Tigers came from behind to beat Bath 36—31
at Welford Road.
Leicester scored three tries after Bath had gone
14—0 up with Harry Wells’ second—half effort
putting them into a lead they never relinquished.
They’re now seventh in the table, Bath are ninth.
Snooker’s Masters event — starting onJanuary the 10th —
has been moved from the Alexandra Palace to Milton Keynes so that
strict Covid—19 regulations can be followed.
The tournament features the world’s top 16 players,
with Stuart Bingham defending the title against the likes
ofJudd Trump, Ronnie O’Sullivan, Neil Robertson, John
Higgins and Mark Selby.
All players will be tested the day before their first match,
and will remain within the bubble as long as they are participating
in the tournament.
Cricket now, and Australia bowler Nathan Lyon says players just
need to "suck it up and get on with it" ahead of potentially
stricter quarantine measures for their fourth test
against India in Brisbane.
The teams play the third match in Sydney this week,
but the fourth and last match in Queensland would see the players
forced to abide by stricter biosecurity protocols.
In my eyes, it is very small sacrifice for us to get out there
sacrifice for us to get out there and play the game that we love and
and play the game that we love and put a lot of smiles on a lot of
put a lot of smilas on a lot of people’s
put a lot of smiles on a lot of people’s faces around the world. In
people’s faces around the world. In my eyes, we just have to suck up and
my eyes, we just have to suck up and get on with it and get out there and
get on with it and get out there and play cricket for our respective
play cricket for our respective countries and make sure that we are
countries and make sure that we are playing a really competitive brand
playing a really competitive brand of cricket.
And finally — you might have seen that fog forced
Oldham’s match against Forest Green to be cancelled at the weekend,
well, it’s lucky they didn’t have to contend with the storms of Portugal.
How the match between Santa Clara
and Benfica even got started — we’ll never know.
After five minutes of splashing around in the puddles,
and the rain showing no sign of stopping — the referee eventually
saw sense and called the game off.
That’s all the sport for now.
I’ll have more for you in the next hour.
Today marks the first full working day with the UK
outside the European Union.
Negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading
but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders
and customs hold—ups in the early days.
It’s also the first day of trading, so how are the markets
reaacting to the UK having left the EU?
Let’s speak to our Business Correspondent, Dharshini David.
What is the picture? This is the
what is the picture? This is the kind of
What is the picture? This is the kind of news we like to bring you.
kind of news we like to bring you. Take a look at what is going on, all
Take a look at what is going on, all the markets in Europe are in the
the markets in Europe are in the green. All on the up, the FTSE 100
green. All on the up, the FI’SE100 “P
green. All on the up, the FI’SE100 Up by
green. All on the up, the FI’SE100 up by almost
green. All on the up, the FTSE 100 up by almost 3%. That is good news,
up by almost 396. That is good news, it means
up by almost 3%. That is good news, it means there is billions being
it means there is billions being wiped on to our pension funds and
wiped on to our pension funds and the like, goodness knows we need to
the like, goodness knows we need to see that happening. It isn’t
the like, goodness knows we need to see that happening. It isn’tjust
see that happening. It isn’t just about
see that happening. It isn’tjust about the new trading arrangements
about the new trading arrangements in place, it is also about the hope
in place, it is also about the hope that investors are getting from
that investors are getting from seeing the roll—out of the Oxford
seeing the roll-out of the Oxford vaccine
seeing the roll—out of the Oxford vaccine from today. They are
vaccine from today. They are watching those pictures like the
watching those pictures like the rest about. We have seen the shares
rest about. We have seen the shares of the company go up by 3% as we
of the company go up by 396 as we speak. There is
of the company go up by 3% as we speak. There is clear water between
speak. There is clear water between the UK and the rest of the markets
the UK and the rest of the markets when it comes to how far we have
when it comes to how far we have risen. Also going on is this relief
risen. Also going on is this relief that as yet we are not seeing any
that as yet we are not seeing any dismption
that as yet we are not seeing any disruption when it comes to their
dismption when it comes to their new trading
disruption when it comes to their new trading arrangements. We have
new trading arrangements. We have also had a survey this morning which
also had a survey this morning which gave us more evidence that
gave us more evidence that manufacturers were really churning
manufacturers were really churning out the goods in December and trying
out the goods in December and trying to ship them ahead of the new
to ship them ahead of the new changes coming into place. That is
changes coming into place. That is one reason why we are seeing very
one reason why we are seeing very light traffic at the Borders at the
light traffic at the Borders at the moment and it will be some time to
moment and it will be some time to before that gets back up to normal
before that gets back up to normal levels and we start to get that real
levels and we start to get that real test of how the new arrangements are
test of how the new arrangements are working. There are signs of caution
working. There are signs of caution behind all that euphoria going on
behind all that euphoria going on with the markets, banking shares for
with the markets, banking shares for example not doing quite so well. One
example not doing quite so well. One reason for that is that we do not go
reason for that is that we do not go as yet exactly what the arrangements
as yet exactly what the arrangements are going to be for financial
are going to be for financial services with the rest of the EU.
services with the rest of the EU. That has to be thrashed out in full.
That has to be thrashed out in full. Taking a closer look at what is
Taking a closer look at what is going on behind the picture, that is
going on behind the picture, that is todars
going on behind the picture, that is today’s figures, then see if we can
todars figures, then see if we ran get it, doesn’t
today’s figures, then see if we can get it, doesn’t want to play ball.
get it, doesn’t want to play ball. If I ran
get it, doesn’t want to play ball. If I can show what is going on a
If I ran show what is going on a year ago,
If I can show what is going on a yearago, remember
If I can show what is going on a yearago, rememberthat? Ahead
If I can show what is going on a year ago, remember that? Ahead of
year ago, remember that? Ahead of those times we had never heard of
those times we had never heard of the word coronavirus most of us, the
the word coronavirus most of us, the FTSE
the word coronavirus most of us, the FI’SE100 a year
the word coronavirus most of us, the FTSE 100 a year ago more than 1000
FI’SE100 a year ago more than 1000 points higher
FTSE 100 a year ago more than 1000 points higher than right now. If the
points higher than right now. If the present also, that is because we
present also, that is because we know economists are warning us that
know economists are warning us that the economy is likely to have become
the economy is likely to have become 10% smaller than at the start of
1096 smaller than at the start of last year, the
10% smaller than at the start of last year, the set a question about
last year, the set a question about further restrictions in the coming
further restrictions in the coming weeks and school closures, day
weeks and school closures, day questions being asked about how soon
questions being asked about how soon the recovery could get under way, it
the recovery could get under way, it looks like there will be more damage
looks like there will be more damage to repair to the economy when that
to repair to the economy when that recovery does come. The good news is
recovery does come. The good news is the Bank of England figures today
the Bank of England figures today show us that consumers are sitting
show us that consumers are sitting on a bigger pile of cash than some
on a bigger pila of rash than some have thought.
on a bigger pile of cash than some have thought. There could be more
have thought. There could be more money to be spent but we do not know
money to be spent but we do not know when those restrictions are going to
when those restrictions are going to be easily, that is why we have this
be easily, that is why we have this backdrop of unease still going on.
A recording has emerged which appears to show
President Trump putting pressure on a senior Republican official
to overturnjoe Biden’s election victory in Georgia.
The Washington Post says the audio is from an hour—long phone call
with Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger.
The Vice President—elect — Kamala Harris — called it
a "bold abuse of power".
Impeachment, the Russia scandal and catching Covid
in the middle of a pandemic.
The Trump presidency has been a roller—coaster ride.
So on one level perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised.
After all, Donald Trump himself said...
Losing is never easy.
Not for me, it’s not.
But on another level, no—one could have foreseen
that the President of the United States would ask
Georgia’s top election official to find enough votes to overturn
November’s result.
The call lasted an hour, a lawyer for the state refuting
the president’s unsubstantiated claim that ballots had
been shredded and voting machinery had been removed.
Condemnation of the call has been swift.
Well, it was, yes, certainly the voice of desperation
and it was a bold, bold—faced, bold abuse of power.
The former Republican Leader of the House of Representatives said... It
House of Representatives said... It is tough to be shocked any more by
is tough to be shocked any more by what the President does, but this
what the President does, but this was tmly
what the President does, but this was truly shocking. Extraordinary,
was tmly shocking. Extraordinary, to put
was truly shocking. Extraordinary, to put pressure on a Republican
to put pressure on a Republican Secretary of State to find the
Secretary of State to find the votes. That is of all staff. ——
votes. That is of all staff. -- awful.
But 11 Republican senators, led by Ted Cruz, are still planning
to challenge the election result when it’s officially
certified on Wednesday.
m:
We live in a world where truth no longer matters, at least here in the
longer matters, at least here in the US and American media. It is all
US and American media. It is all about propaganda from the liberal
about propaganda from the liberal media so the reality is you go and
media so the reality is you go and listen to the call, although
listen to the call, although narrative, it is a nonsense call.
Donald Trump is holding an election rally on Monday night in Georgia,
where two Republican—held Senate seats are up for grabs
in Tuesday’s election.
Polling suggests both races are tight, with the outcome
deciding who controls the Upper House of Congress.
But with Donald Trump questioning the voting process in Georgia,
will Republicans still turn out to vote?
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
A Malaysian coroner has delivered a verdict of misadventure
in the case of More Quoirin, the French—Irish schoolgirl
whose body was found in the jungle in 2019.
The 15—year—old had gone missing from an eco—resort
outside Kuala Lumpur, where she’d been on holiday
with her family.
Howard Johnson reports.
It was from this jungle resort in central Malaysia that Nora went
missing on the morning of August the 4th, 2019.
She’d arrived at the Dusan Resort with her familyjust the day before.
The children and Sebastian were tired because they really
didn’t get much sleep on the plane.
They found the overnight flight quite tiring.
So we had no ambition for the first day beyond just acclimatising.
But around Sam the following morning, father Sebastian
discovered Nora was missing.
The site of where Nora was staying was empty.
I looked around.
Tried to keep my composure for a few seconds.
Immediately after that, run downstairs and start
started searching around.
Mother Meabh said a window in the downstairs kitchen area
that she said she had closed the night before was found open.
The family insisted there was a criminal element to the case
as their daughter had difficulty walking unassisted and had
never wandered off alone.
But the police always maintained it was a missing persons case.
There is the possibility that the missing person had
woken up from sleep.
Maybe she wanted to go to the toilet and was confused
by the sort of house which was new to her and left
the house on her own.
Nora...
During the inquest, the court heard how a massive manhunt was mobilised
to search for the 15—year—old in the thickjungle
surrounding the resort.
Missing person flyers were handed out in nearby communities.
The owner of the Dusan Resort told the inquest the area had never
experienced anything like it.
It has always been a safe place for my family.
We have never had a burglary, and we have never had an intruder
in any of our houses.
Nora’s naked body was eventually found ten days
after she disappeared, close to a stream on a
palm oil plantation.
There was no sign she had been physically assaulted.
Autopsies carried out both in Malaysia and London both
concluded that Nora had died because of a heavily ulcerated upper
intestine caused by extreme stress and lack of food.
This is very unusual.
But there must be something more than the normal, I mean, stress.
This is tremendous.
A senior British pathologist said that scratches on Nora’s torso,
legs and feet were consistent with her moving through
the densejungle.
Today’s verdict of death by misadventure means that
Coroner Maimoonah Aid believes that on the balance
of probabilities, Nora wandered off alone.
Nora’s parents called for this inquest.
But it’s delivered a verdict that will undoubtedly disappoint them.
Howard Johnson, BBC News.
The headlines on BBC News...
The headlines on BBC News...
Further restrictions are expected to control the spread
of coronavirus in both England and Scotland —— in England,
the Prime Minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
The rollout of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab has begun —
The Prime Minister says tens of millions of doses will have been
administered by the end of March.
Primary schools in most of England reopen this morning,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
Millions of children should be going back to school today —
but most senior school pupils are learning from home this week
and many primaries will also remain closed to the majority of children.
It’s all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
Graham Satchell has been speaking to some parents in England
about their concerns and confusion.
Parents across the country with tough decisions to make
as the number of Covid cases continues to rise.
Sean and Aiden live in Cheshire, which hasjust moved into Tier 4,
but their school will be open this week.
For their mental health, it’s the right environment for them.
Obviously, their education is key, but mine are only little —
they’re still, you know, seven and nine, and...
..you know, it’s more about the social aspect of it.
But, you know, if it’s for the greater good,
and if keeping them off an extra couple of weeks, an extra few weeks,
would bring the rates down and get it all under control,
then, yeah, I’d be behind that 100%.
In the Midlands, Leo and Lucy’s school is also open —
but their mum isn’t sure they should go.
We are in a situation where we’re saying it’s not safe to go and get
a haircut from someone in full PPE, but we are expecting my sister,
who teaches at a sixth form college in Leicester,
to go and mix with a group of 4,000 students on a daily basis.
And if what is necessary to keep everyone else safe is for me to,
you know, pull myself up by my bootstraps and print off some
worksheets for a few more weeks, I can do that.
This is Amy and her three children in Richmond, in London.
Primary schools are closed in London.
Amy is worried about her children, but needs them to go
to school so she can work.
It’s scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
So in that sense, I don’t particularly want my
children at school.
But to allow me to go to work, to allow me to earn the money
that me and my children need to be able to survive, to pay
the bills, to eat — yes, it is very important.
Leyla Preston’s children are enjoying some fresh
air in the playground.
Cases here in Hertfordshire have been rising fast,
and schools are shut.
We live in a very high—case area — Hertsmere — and we haven’t...
I haven’t heard of one case at my kid’s school,
so I think they’re doing really well in terms of safety.
So in that sense, I think it would probably be betterfor them
to go back to schooljust because they need the socialising,
they need the classroom environment, they need to have something
different, something more in their lives.
In Sussex, Chloe found out late last night her school —
which was due to be open tomorrow — will now be closed
for at least two weeks.
She’s saying to me, "Mum, is it safe for me to go back to school?"
And I’m like, "I don’t know!"
In September, I absolutely felt that it was safe
to go back to school.
All of the information coming through was showing that
transmission rates amongst children was really, really small.
And that felt really safe with the measures
the school had in place.
What’s happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’t new
the case with the new strain.
In north London, Sam was told on Friday that her daughter’s
primary school would stay closed for the time being.
Sam’s family really struggled with home schooling
in the first lockdown.
Oh, gosh, the amount of times Ijust ended the day sobbing
because it was just too much, trying to handle a child
with learning difficulties remotely, a 6—year—old who was unwilling
to learn remotely, on top of my dayjob...
And I think that’s why my response to this one has been so much
stronger than it was the first time — because I fear going back
into that same position that we had earlier in the year.
There are no easy answers here — each family with its own
concerns and worries.
Graham Satchell, BBC News.
"Helen’s Law" finally comes into force in the UK today.
It means convicted killers COULD remain behind bars
if they refuse to say exactly where they put their victim’s body.
The change comes too late for Marie McCourt,
who fought for the law in her daughter’s name.
But she hopes it will spare other families from a similar ordeal.
Marie’s been speaking to Linda Jones, whose daughter Danielle
was murdered in Essex in 2001.
Her body was never found.
Jayne McCubbin reports.
I hope that one day Helen will be found.
I hope that it could happen, but my faith is...
There is the reason.
There is a reason — we’re put on this earth
for a reason and my reason, I think, is having Helen’s Law.
Marie and Linda’s daughters were both murdered by men
who refused to admit their guilt, who refused to say where their
victims were buried.
For years, Marie fought for Helen’s Law — a law
which would keep her daughter’s killer behind bars
until he confessed.
That law comes into force today.
Having to live day to day like this, it really is hard.
It’s the one thing that disturbs me the most —
that I don’t know where she is.
You know, I walk along and just think, "Did we search
that field properly?"
It’s with you pretty much all the time.
I could have walked past her a million times and not know.
Marie’s daughter, Helen, was killed in 1988 by pub landlord Ian Simms.
He was the first to be convicted using DNA evidence
without the discovery of a body.
But almost a year before the law was enacted, Simms was released.
Since then, does he encroach on your thoughts?
Absolutely, absolutely.
In every way.
Her hope now is that Helen’s Law will force Danielle’s killer
to reveal where he has hidden her body.
Stuart Campbell is due for parole this year —
21 years after Danielle disappeared.
And we’ve brought both mothers together to discuss their hopes.
The parole judges have to obey that law and they have to look into us
a lot more careful than they did in my use.
Hopefully, fingers crossed, we might benefit from this.
Well, I’m sure we will.
And I’m just so sad for you that you didn’t.
But I know...
I know how you feel.
Sorry, I’m getting emotional now.
I know that you’ve done everything you can.
Helen would be proud.
And I’m sure, hopefully, with everything you’ve done
that we will benefit from this.
The law Marie petitioned for won’t mean "no body, no parole" —
which the government say would face legal challenges —
but Helen’s Law does force parole boards to fully consider
an offender’s decision not to disclose information.
I’m sure that, up there somewhere, Helen and Danielle are together
and saying, "This is going to work."
How are you coping?
Because I know...
I know what that stress is like.
I am beginning to get a little bit anxious about the prospect
of the parole hearing starting — yeah, very anxious.
I believe that it’s prayers that have got me to where I am today.
Yeah.
And I will certainly be praying that this man is kept in prison
until he says where he put Danielle’s remains.
Yeah, yeah.
And that is what is so important to us — to have her back.
This month, Marie willjoin an independent forensic expert
to begin afresh search for her daughter’s body,
while Linda prepares for Campbell’s parole hearing.
No, and Ijust hope I can take a little bit
of your strength with me, Marie, cos you’ve got
strength in abundance.
So...
So have you — so have you.
You could move a mountain to get your Danielle.
Thank you.
Both mothers say they will never give up hope...
That’s for me and Helen, as well.
..of one day being able to lay their daughters to rest.
And you stay strong.
Jayne McCubbin, BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather.
Yes been a cold start of the day and it will be cold day generally.
it will be cold day generally. wintry showers in the forecast, for
wintry showers in the forecast, for many it will be dry with sunshine.
many it will be dry with sunshine. Brisk and gusty wind, especially
Brisk and gusty wind, especially with the exposure, and especially so
with the exposure, and especially so across parts of the South and also
across parts of the South and also East. High pressure dominating our
East. High pressure dominating our weather, low pressure around the
weather, low pressure around the Mediterranean. In between pulling in
Mediterranean. In between pulling in north—easterly wind, cold direction,
north-easterty wind, cold direction, plus a weather
north—easterly wind, cold direction, plus a weather front draped across
plus a weather front draped across the Southeast and the Channel
the Southeast and the Channel Islands. That is producing some rain
Islands. That is producing some rain which will be heavy at times across
which will be heavy at times across the Channel Islands, you could hear
the Channel Islands, you could hear the odd rumble of thunder. Dry,
the odd mmhle of thunder. Dry, sunshine,
the odd rumble of thunder. Dry, sunshine, we have the showers here,
sunshine, we have the showers here, most rain, in the hills we could see
most rain, in the hills we could see some wintriness, and if you are
some wintriness, and if you are exposed to the wind it will feel
exposed to the wind it will feel cold. These are the strengths of the
cold. These are the strengths of the wind we are expecting. 30—40, may be
wind we are expecting. 30-40, may be 45 mph.
wind we are expecting. 30—40, may be 45 mph. Temperatures of 3—6, poor
45 mph. Temperatures of 3-6, poor for the time
45 mph. Temperatures of 3—6, poor for the time of year, it will feel
for the time of year, it will feel colder if you are exposed. Through
colder if you are exposed. Through this evening and overnight, rain and
this evening and overnight, rain and the south—east and Channel Islands,
the south-east and Channel Islands, still
the south—east and Channel Islands, still showers coming in across
still showers coming in across northern and central parts wintry in
northern and central parts wintry in the hills but at times we will see a
the hills but at times we will see a get down to lower levels. If risk of
get down to lower levels. If risk of ice with low temperatures, also some
ice with low temperatures, also some frost, in the West Highland
frost, in the West Highland temperatures could fall as low as
temperatures could fall as low as -6. This
temperatures could fall as low as —6. This morning, still a lot of dry
-6. This morning, still a lot of dry weather, if a bit
—6. This morning, still a lot of dry weather, if a bit of sunshine, gusty
weather, if a bit of sunshine, gusty when thes rain, and also in the
when thes rain, and also in the Channel Islands and south—east.
Channel Islands and south-east. wintry in
Channel Islands and south—east. wintry in nature are particularly on
wintry in nature are particularty on higher ground.
wintry in nature are particularly on higher ground. They same in
Wintry in nature are particularly on higher ground. They same in Scotland
higher ground. They same in Scotland and northern England, wintry
and northern England, wintry showers, some at lower levels and
showers, some at lower levels and heavier bursts. Tuesday and
heavier bursts. Tuesday and Wednesday, high—pressure moves away,
Wednesday, high-pressure moves away, allowing this
Wednesday, high—pressure moves away, allowing this area of low pressure
allowing this area of low pressure with its front to come in. That
with its front to come in. That means a lot of dry weather, light
means a lot of dry weather, light wind, still a few showers across
wind, still a few showers across eastern and southern areas, and then
eastern and southern areas, and then this weather front comes in,
this weather front comes in, bringing rain and also some snow
bringing rain and also some snow across the far north—west of
across the far north—west of Scotland. These are the
Scotland. These are the temperatures, 1—6 C, and as the
temperatures, 1-6 C, and as the weather
temperatures, 1—6 C, and as the weather front
temperatures, 1—6 C, and as the weatherfront sink
temperatures, 1—6 C, and as the weather front sink southwards during
weather front sink southwards during Wednesday into Thursday, it will
Wednesday into Thursday, it will bring further snow but it is a
bring further snow but it is a weakening all the time, by the time
weakening all the time, by the time it gets to the south—east it will
it gets to the south-east it will not bring
it gets to the south—east it will not bring much more than some sleet
not bring much more than some sleet or maybe the odd snow flurry.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus
in both England and Scotland.
In England, the Prime Minister has
warned of tough weeks to come.
What we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the Tier
4 measures on the virus.
It is a bit unclear at the moment, but if you look at the numbers
there is no question that we are going to have to take
tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course.
The roll—out of the Oxford—AstraZeneca jab has begun —
The Prime Minister says tens of millions of doses will have been
administered by the end of March.
The vaccine means everything to me.
To my mind it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal way of life.
This virus is terrible, isn’t it?
The NHS already has over 500,000 doses of the jab,
and says today is even more significant than the first Pfizer
vaccination last month.
Today, when I saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the
AstraZeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment,
another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
Primary schools in most of England re—open, but there’s growing concern
over safety and staff shortages.
President Trump is heard on tape asking an election official
to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of Georgia.
Democrats call it a disgrace.
A coroner in Malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure
in the case of the Franco—Irish teenager, Nora Quoirin.
good afternoon.
BorisJohnson has said there is "no question" he will soon
be forced to implement tighter coronavirus restrictions in England.
He warned people should be braced for "tough,
tough" weeks to come.
He’s under pressure to announce the restrictions —
with the Labour leader Keir Starmer calling for a national
lockdown starting today.
This morning the Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the current
restrictions are not working.
Our political correspondent Ben Wrightjoins us now.
F.
Is there any indication as to when we are likely to get any sort of
we are likely to get any sort of announcement? Not yet. All we have
announcement? Not yet. All we have to go on as the Prime Minister’s
to go on as the Prime Minister’s words this morning during a hospital
words this morning during a hospital visit in north London where the
visit in north London where the first doses of the
first doses of the Oxford—AstraZeneca vaccine were
Oxford-AstraZenera vaccine were starting to be
Oxford—AstraZeneca vaccine were starting to be administered, in
starting to be administered, in which he clearly again was putting
which he dearty again was putting England on
which he clearly again was putting England on notice that further
England on notice that further restrictions are coming, and this is
restrictions are coming, and this is what Boris Johnson
restrictions are coming, and this is what BorisJohnson had to say.
If you think about it, we have already got a lot
of the country in Tier 4, some of it in Tier 3.
What we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the Tier 4
measures on the virus.
It is a bit unclear still at the moment,
but if you look at the
numbers there is no question that we are going to have to take
tougher measures and we will be announcing
those in due course.
m:
We wait to see what "In due course" means. The Prime Minister also said
means. The Prime Minister also said the government was studying how
the government was studying how effectively the tier for measures
effectively the tier for measures were working in terms of trying to
were working in terms of trying to contain this particularly new
contain this particularly new virulent form of Covid before
vimlant form of Covid before announcing
virulent form of Covid before announcing what those new measures
announcing what those new measures might be. Remember, three quarters
might be. Remember, three quarters of England are already in the
of England are already in the highest tier, tearful, so is the
highest tier, tearful, so is the government considering tier for plus
government considering tier for plus four parts of England? Is it
four parts of England? Is it considering bringing areas in Tier 3
considering bringing areas in Tier 3 “P
considering bringing areas in Tier 3 up to tearful, effectively another
up to tearful, effectively another national lockdown, we wait and see
national lockdown, we wait and see but they have raised the possibility
but they have raised the possibility that this coming around the corner.
that this coming around the corner. What
that this coming around the corner. what has
that this coming around the corner. What has he said about schools? He
what has he said about schools? He repeated he
What has he said about schools? He repeated he wants to see children at
repeated he wants to see children at school, he thinks that is where they
school, he thinks that is where they should be and the harm done to
should be and the harm done to education is great and I think
education is great and I think peopla
education is great and I think people across the political spectrum
peopla across the political spectrum and to
people across the political spectrum and to work in the education sector
and to work in the education sector understand that. But the
understand that. But the Government’s current plan is to see
Government’s current plan is to see all primary schools and secondary
all primary schools and secondary schools returning from January 18,
schools returning from january18, that’s
schools returning from January 18, that’s the current aim. But during
that’s the current aim. But during his remarks this morning the Prime
his remarks this morning the Prime Minister, I thought,
his remarks this morning the Prime Minister, Ithought, raised
his remarks this morning the Prime Minister, I thought, raised a
his remarks this morning the Prime Minister, Ithought, raised a big
Minister, Ithought, raised a big question mark over that date because
question mark over that date because he accepts that certainly the
he accepts that certainly the secondary schools seem to be a much
secondary schools seem to be a much more liable to transmit the virus
more liable to transmit the virus from children to other families than
from children to other families than primary schools do so this is
primary schools do so this is something that is clearly under
something that is clearly under intense review at the moment and
intense review at the moment and that current January 18 deadline, it
that current january 18 deadline, it looks to me,
that current January 18 deadline, it looks to me, could certainly slip.
looks to me, could certainly slip. There is a meeting today in
There is a meeting today in Westminster as they weigh up all of
Westminster as they weigh up all of these issues. That is correct.
these issues. That is correct. Whitehall is considering this
Whitehall is considering this intensely today because the fact is
intensely today because the fact is that hospitals are now as full as
that hospitals are now as full as they were back in mid April during
they were back in mid April during the height of the first wave and
the height of the first wave and this virus is spreading
this virus is spreading exponentially. So Whitehall is
exponentially. So Whitehall is knuckling down to work out what
knuckling down to work out what restrictions to announce and when.
restrictions to announce and when. The Prime Minister talked again
The Prime Minister talked again about trying to reinforce good
about trying to reinforce good behaviour. Basic hygiene, social
behaviour. Basic hygiene, social distancing, wearing masks, trying to
distancing, wearing masks, trying to double down on that core message,
double down on that core message, and I’m sure we will hear ministers
and I’m sure we will hear ministers repeat that during the course of
repeat that during the course of today. Also there is a meeting of
today. Also there is a meeting of the Scottish Parliament in Holyrood
the Scottish Partiament in Holyrood to
the Scottish Parliament in Holyrood to discuss what the response should
to discuss what the response should be north of the border. That frames
be north of the border. That frames the UK wide action that we are
the UK wide action that we are likely to see in the next day or so.
likely to see in the next day or so. Thank you very much, Ben.
The roll—out of the coronavirus vaccine developed by
Oxford University and AstraZeneca has begun in the UK.
More than 500,000 doses are ready for use from today
and the Health Secretary, Matt Hancock has called it
a "pivotal moment" in the fight against the pandemic.
Brian Pinker, an 82—year—old dialysis patient,
was the first person to receive the jab this morning
at Oxford’s Churchill Hospital.
He said he was so pleased to get it.
Well, to be honest, I didn’t feel a thing.
Yeah, brilliant.
The vaccine means everything to me.
To my mind, it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal life.
This virus is terrible, isn’t it?
Saturday the first I knew I was going to be in today.
Pleased, yeah. Very pleased.
The nurse who administered the first jab, Sam Foster spoke to our medical
editor Fergus Walsh shortly afterwards and explained
what it was like.
It was a huge privilege.
Every single patient we have vaccinated over the last couple
of weeks have their own personal stories of what difference
it is going to make for them.
It’s no different this morning with our first two patients.
And what about you? Have you been immunised yet?
I have been immunised, yes.
I was immunised, I’ve been working in the vaccine centre
for a couple of weeks so I have received my vaccine.
So it’s obviously all systems go now.
Everybody wants to be immunised as soon as possible.
How quickly can you do this?
I think there is nothing more the NHS wants to do more than get
this programme going at real scale.
Across the NHS and there are many, many peer vaccinators that will now
go out and support staff vaccines, continue with our patient
vaccines and with colleague vaccines across the nation.
So there is nothing more that we want to do then get this
programme rolled out at scale.
Professor Stephen Powis, National Medical Director of NHS
England says this is a significant moment in the way
out of the pandemic.
Four weeks ago I had the privilege to be in Coventry for the firstjab
of the Pfizer vaccine, remember Maggie Keenan
got that first jab.
That felt like a huge moment in this pandemic.
And to be honest, today when I saw the firstjab in the building
behind me of the AstraZeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger
moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
The Health Secretary, Matt Hancock says 530,000 doses
of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution
programme is being accelerated.
It is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon
as it is manufactured, and then goes through
the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important,
and getting it into the NHS and delivered into people’s arms.
In fact, we have been able to accelerate that process
because we now know that you get your protection
after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
That means that, over the first few months of the programme,
we can effectively vaccinate twice as many people as we would have
been able to otherwise.
And obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people
and saving people’s lives and of course getting us out of this
pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
REF“:
Matt Hancock.
Let’s speak to our Health Correspondent Katharine Da
Costa who’s in Oxford.
So, we are told it is an even bigger moment than the roll out of the
moment than the roll out of the Pfizer vaccine last month. Tell us
Pfizer vaccine last month. Tell us how quickly it is going to be rolled
how quickly it is going to be rolled out. A really significant moment.
out. A really significant moment. You heard from the first patient
You heard from the first patient Brian Pinker, and the third person
Brian Pinker, and the third person to be vaccinated was Professor
to be vaccinated was Professor Andrew Pollard from Oxford
Andrew Pollard from Oxford University. He was on the team of
University. He was on the team of scientists that helped develop this
scientists that helped develop this vaccine and get it through clinical
vaccine and get it through clinical trials in the last 12 months, and he
trials in the last 12 months, and he said it was a really proud moment
said it was a really proud moment and a triumph for British science.
and a triumph for British science. As to how quickly you can get it
As to how quickly you ran get it out, the
As to how quickly you can get it out, the Churchill Hospital in
out, the Churchill Hospital in Oxford is one of a small number of
Oxford is one of a small number of hospitals starting to use it from
hospitals starting to use it from today so that patients can be
today so that patients can be monitored before. About 1000
monitored before. About 1000 vaccination centres across the UK
vaccination centres across the UK will start using it towards the end
will start using it towards the end of the week. The race is on to
of the week. The race is on to protect 30 million of the most
protect 30 million of the most vulnerable in this country, so
vulnerable in this country, so that’s front line NHS workers, care
that’s front line NHS workers, rare home staff,
that’s front line NHS workers, care home staff, people over the age of
home staff, people over the age of 50.
home staff, people over the age of 50, as well as people with
50, as well as people with underlying health conditions. The
undertying health conditions. The reason why
underlying health conditions. The reason why the Oxford vaccine is
reason why the Oxford vaccine is seen as such a game changer in
seen as such a game changer in helping to speed that up is because
helping to speed that up is because it is much more adaptable than the
it is much more adaptable than the Pfizer vaccine,
it is much more adaptable than the Pfizervaccine, it
it is much more adaptable than the Pfizer vaccine, it can be restored
Pfizer vaccine, it ran be restored in a regular
Pfizer vaccine, it can be restored in a regularfridge
Pfizer vaccine, it can be restored in a regular fridge which makes
Pfizer vaccine, it can be restored in a regularfridge which makes it
in a regular fridge which makes it easier to get
in a regularfridge which makes it easier to get to care homes and
easier to get to rare homes and community
easier to get to care homes and community vaccination centres like
community vaccination centres like sports stadium, conference centres
sports stadium, conference centres and village halls etc. That will
and village halls etc. That will make it much easier to vaccinate as
make it much easier to vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible.
many peopla as quickly as possible. The priority is
many people as quickly as possible. The priority is to protect the
The priority is to protect the majority of people in care homes and
majority of peopla in rare homes and carers by the
majority of people in care homes and carers by the end of this month. We
carers by the end of this month. We know that 500,000 doses have been
know that 500,000 doses have been made available from this week and
made available from this week and the government says that will
the government says that will increase to tens of millions by the
increase to tens of millions by the end of March. The hope is to
end of March. The hope is to vaccinate about 2 million people a
vaccinate about 2 million people a week by the end of January. That’s
week by the end of january. That’s as long as
week by the end of January. That’s as long as supplies allow. There are
as long as supplies allow. There are big logistical challenges because
big logistical challenges because each batch of vaccine, whether
each batch of vaccine, whether Oxford or Pfizer, has to be tested
Oxford or Pfizer, has to be tested for quality standards before it is
for quality standards before it is certified and released for use. So
certified and released for use. So there are challenges ahead. But the
there are challenges ahead. But the sense of urgency is really being
sense of urgency is really being driven by this new variant of the
driven by this new variant of the vims
driven by this new variant of the virus that’s spreading across the
virus that’s spreading across the country now, not
virus that’s spreading across the country now, notjust in London and
country now, not just in London and the
country now, notjust in London and the south—east, but UK wide. That is
the south-east, but UK wide. That is putting real
the south—east, but UK wide. That is putting real pressure on hospitals
putting real pressure on hospitals and we have been hearing reports
and we have been hearing reports that some are now busier than they
that some are now busier than they were at the first peak in the
were at the first peak in the spring. So to
were at the first peak in the spring. Soto ease the pressure you
spring. So to ease the pressure you need to
spring. Soto ease the pressure you need to vaccinate as many people as
need to vaccinate as many people as you ran as
need to vaccinate as many people as you can as quickly as possible and
you can as quickly as possiblc and vaccines
you can as quickly as possible and vaccines are seen as a way out of
vaccines are seen as a way out of this pandemic but we know the next
this pandemic but we know the next few weeks are going to be really
few weeks are going to be really difficult. Thank you very much,
difficult. Thank you very much, Katharine Da Costa.
Katharine Da Costa. I just want to bring you
Katharine Da Costa. Ijust want to bring you a thread on
Ijust want to bring you a thread on Twitter from
Ijust want to bring you a thread on Twitterfrom Jeremy
Ijust want to bring you a thread on Twitter from Jeremy Hunt, the former
Twitter from jeremy Hunt, the former Health
Twitter from Jeremy Hunt, the former Health Secretary and now
Twitter from Jeremy Hunt, the former Health Secretary and new chair of
Health Secretary and now chair of the
Health Secretary and new chair of the Health Select Committee. He has
the Health Select Committee. He has put out a strong thread saying time
put out a strong thread saying time to act, thread on why we need to
to act, thread on why we need to dose
to act, thread on why we need to close schools, borders, and ban all
close schools, borders, and ban all household mixing right away. I’m
household mixing right away. I’m going to mn
household mixing right away. I’m going to run through what he says.
going to mn through what he says. To those
going to run through what he says. To those arguing that winter is
To those arguing that winter is always like this in the NHS you are
always like this in the NHS you are wrong. I
always like this in the NHS you are wrong. Ifaced four
always like this in the NHS you are wrong. I faced four serious winter
wrong. I faced four serious winter crisis as Health Secretary and the
crisis as Health Secretary and the situation now is off the scale,
situation now is off the stale, worse
situation now is off the scale, worse than any of those.
worse than any of those. It is true we often had to cancel
It is tme we often had to cancel elective
It is true we often had to cancel elective care in
It is true we often had to cancel elective care inJanuary
It is true we often had to cancel elective care in January to
It is true we often had to cancel elective care inJanuary to protect
elective rare in january to protect emergency
elective care inJanuary to protect emergency care but that too is under
emergency rare but that too is under severe pressure,
emergency care but that too is under severe pressure, with record trolley
severe pressure, with record trolley waits for the very sickest patients.
waits for the very sickest patients. He says even more worryingly if you
He says even more worryingly if you are heart attack patients appear to
are heart attack patients appear to be presenting in intensive care
be presenting in intensive rare units,
be presenting in intensive care units, perhaps because they are not
units, perhaps because they are not dialling 999 when they need to. Full
dialling 999 when they need to. Full credit to the NHS for keeping cancer
credit to the NHS for keeping cancer services open, but in the first wave
services open, but in the first wave there was still a two thirds drop in
there was still a two thirds drop in fencer
there was still a two thirds drop in cancer appointments. People didn’t
cancer appointments. People didn’t come forward to GPs, or want to go
come forward to GPs, or want to go to hospitals with many potentially
to hospitals with many potentially avoidable cancer deaths. We hoped to
avoidable cancer deaths. We hoped to avoid that this time, but now
avoid that this time, but now looking unlikely. He says the number
looking unlikely. He says the number one lesson is countries that act
one lasson is countries that act earty and
one lesson is countries that act early and decisively save lives and
earty and decisively save lives and get their
early and decisively save lives and get their economies back to normal
get their economies back to normal faster. Wuhan is free of any
faster. Wuhan is free of any restrictions now but the University
restrictions now but the University of Southampton show if they had
of Southampton show if they had locked down one week earlier they
locked down one week eartier they would
locked down one week earlier they would have reduced infections by two
would have reduced infections by two thirds. He says we therefore cannot
thirds. He says we therefore cannot afford to wait. All schools should
afford to wait. All schools should be closed, international travel
be closed, international travel stopped, household mixing limited
stopped, household mixing limited and the tier system reviewed so that
and the tier system reviewed so that the highest tier really does bring
the highest tier really does bring down infection levels, as with the
down infection levels, as with the first lockdown. He says the good
first lockdown. He says the good news is that unlike before these
news is that unlike before these restrictions will be time limited to
restrictions will be time limited to the 12 weeks or so that it will take
the 12 weeks or so that it will take to get the vaccine out to those most
to get the vaccine out to those most vulnerable to Covid, so there is
vulnerable to Covid, so there is light at the end of the tunnel. He
light at the end of the tunnel. He 5575
light at the end of the tunnel. He says I know all of these things will
says I know all of these things will be under consideration with
be under consideration with decisions potentially imminent. My
decisions potentially imminent. My point is in the face of exponential
point is in the face of exponential growth, even waiting an extra day
growth, even waiting an extra day because as many avoidable deaths, so
because as many avoidable deaths, so these plans must now be urgently
these plans must now be urgently accelerated. So
these plans must now be urgently accelerated. 50 strong words from a
accelarated. So strong words from a senior Tory MP,
accelerated. So strong words from a senior Tory MP, former Health
senior Tory MP, former Health Secretary, and now
senior Tory MP, former Health Secretary, and new chair of the
Secretary, and now chair of the Health
Secretary, and new chair of the Health Select Committee. Let’s get
Health Select Committee. Let’s get the thoughts now from Jane Clare
the thoughts now from jane Clare Gerada, GP
the thoughts now from Jane Clare Gerada, GP and former head of the
Gerada, GP and former head of the Royal College of General
Royal College of General Practitioners. Thank you for
Royal College of General Practitioners. Thank you forjoining
Practitioners. Thank you for joining us. Did you
Practitioners. Thank you forjoining us. Did you hear what I was reading
us. Did you hear what I was reading out from Jeremy Hunt? I did and
out from jeremy Hunt? I did and jeremy is of
out from Jeremy Hunt? I did and Jeremy is of course a very
Jeremy is of course a very experienced, longest serving Health
experienced, longest sewing Health Secretary we
experienced, longest serving Health Secretary we have ever had, and
Secretary we have ever had, and makes a lot of sense. I listen and
makes a lot of sense. I listen and take on board what he says. It is
take on board what he says. It is dearty above
take on board what he says. It is clearly above my pay grade to make
dearty above my pay grade to make those
clearly above my pay grade to make those decisions but I think we need
those decisions but I think we need to be alert and cognisant of what he
to be alart and cognisant of what he is saying. It is
to be alert and cognisant of what he is saying. It is not
to be alert and cognisant of what he is saying. It is notjust hospitals
is saying. It is not just hospitals that are busy.
is saying. It is notjust hospitals that are busy. I know there is
that are busy. I know there is always a focus on hospitals because
always a focus on hospitals because they are easy to look at and easy to
they are easy to look at and easy to measure and easy to film, but
measure and easy to film, but general practice is also full. It
general practice is also full. It may not actually be full of Covid
may not actually be full of Covid but it’s full of everybody else. I
but it’s full of everybody else. I did a very long surgery on New
did a very long surgery on New Year’s Eve, and every single person
Year’s Eve, and every single person I had contact with, some of those
I had contact with, some of those face-to-face,
I had contact with, some of those face—to—face, some of those
face-to-face, some of those remotely,
face—to—face, some of those remotely, where a step up in terms
remotely, where a step up in terms of complexity to, say, this time
of complaxity to, say, this time last year. And
of complexity to, say, this time last year. And we are full, not
of complexity to, say, this time last year. And we are full, notjust
last year. And we are full, not just full giving the
last year. And we are full, notjust full giving the Covid vaccines, but
full giving the Covid vaccines, but also keeping the NHS taking a long
also keeping the NHS taking a long as it should be for everybody else.
as it should be for everybody else. Not everybody has Covid. There are
Not everybody has Covid. There are all sorts of people out there with
all sorts of people out there with illnesses that we often see at this
illnesses that we often see at this time of the year and other problems.
time of the year and other problems. We need to be mindful it is not
time of the year and other problems. We need to be mindful it is notjust
We need to be mindful it is not just hospitals we
We need to be mindful it is notjust hospitals we need to protect by
hospitals we need to protect by getting people vaccinated, it is
getting peopla vaccinated, it is also
getting people vaccinated, it is also general practice and community
also general practice and community rare. How long
also general practice and community care. How long can medical services
rare. How long ran medical services tarry on
rare. How long ran medical services carry on like this,
care. How long can medical services carry on like this, and what are
carry on like this, and what are your thoughts and concerns about the
your thoughts and concerns about the casualties of the limitations of the
casualties of the limitations of the health service currently across all
health service currently across all the areas that you talk about and
the areas that you talk about and that jeremy
the areas that you talk about and thatJeremy Hunt mentions they are
that jeremy Hunt mentions they are talking about
thatJeremy Hunt mentions they are talking about patients with heart
talking about patients with heart issues not being able to come
issues not being able to come forward, cancer patients? And also
forward, cancer patients? And also all sorts of other patients. Well,
all sorts of other patients. Well, listen, we might not physically take
listen, we might not physically take a Hippocratic oath but we mentally
a Hippocratic oath but we mentally take a Hippocratic oath, doctors,
take a Hippocratic oath, doctors, nurses and all health professionals
nurses and all health professionals that all serve patients and we all
that all serve patients and we all do our best in these times of crisis
do our best in these times of crisis to continue providing care as we
to continue providing rare as we need to.
to continue providing care as we need to. We will do it despite being
need to. We will do it despite being exhausted, despite many, including
exhausted, despite many, including myself, cancelling annual leave. We
myself, cancelling annual leave. We will continue to do what is best for
will continue to do what is best for our patients. This is, as many
our patients. This is, as many peopla have
our patients. This is, as many people have said, not
our patients. This is, as many people have said, notjust one
people have said, notjust one marathon but a series of marathons,
marathon but a series of marathons, and as your piece rightly said there
and as your piece rightly said there is hope at the end of the tunnel, we
is hope at the end of the tunnel, we have the vaccines. I was part of the
have the vaccines. I was part of the programme that vaccinated the last
programme that vaccinated the last time round just before Christmas and
time round just before Christmas and I wept,
time round just before Christmas and | wept, |
time round just before Christmas and Iwept, Icried
time round just before Christmas and I wept, I cried with joy.
time round just before Christmas and I wept, I cried withjoy. The hope
I wept, I cried with joy. The hope of seeing these
I wept, I cried withjoy. The hope of seeing these very elderly people,
of seeing these very elderty people, who I
of seeing these very elderly people, who I hadn’t seen since March, many
who I hadn’t seen since March, many of them tucked up at home, not
of them tucked up at home, not making any outings, coming with
making any outings, coming with their children, their grandchildren,
their children, their grandchildren, tmsting us to
their children, their grandchildren, trusting us to give them their
trusting us to give them their vaccination, that really gave me
vaccination, that really gave me hope. I’d like to also say that
hope. I’d like to also say that there is hope and light at the end
there is hope and light at the end of the tunnel. But we’ve got
of the tunnel. But we’ve got probably
of the tunnel. But we’ve got probably12—16 weeks of incredibly
probably 12-16 weeks of incredibly hard
probably12—16 weeks of incredibly hard work ahead of us and we
probably 12—16 weeks of incredibly hard work ahead of us and we will
hard work ahead of us and we will all pull together and we will all do
all pull together and we will all do this together. We heard from Boris
this together. We heard from Doris johnson
this together. We heard from Boris Johnson earlier saying the issue
johnson eartier saying the issue with rolling
Johnson earlier saying the issue with rolling out the vaccine as fast
with rolling out the vaccine as fast as possibla is
with rolling out the vaccine as fast as possible is not because there
as possible is not because there isn’t the ability to deliver it, but
isn’t the ability to deliver it, but there are currently restrictions
there are currently restrictions around checking every batch and that
around checking every batch and that is slowing down the process of
is slowing down the process of getting the batches to the front
getting the batches to the front line to then be administered. How do
line to then be administered. How do you see it? Is the infrastructure in
you see it? Is the infrastmclure in place to roll out
you see it? Is the infrastructure in place to roll out the vaccine to the
place to roll out the vaccine to the sort of scale the government is
sort of scale the government is talking about, which is 2 million
talking about, which is 2 million doses per week? Yes and no. We are
doses per week? Yes and no. We are gearing up now and hopefully we can
gearing up now and hopefully we ran do more
gearing up now and hopefully we can do more than 2 million per week. I
do more than 2 million per week. I mean, we know everybody, we have a
mean, we know everybody, we have a registered list on the system. On
registered list on the system. On the computer we have stratified
the computer we have stratified everybody according to their Covid
everybody according to their Covid tier, so at the push of a button we
tier, so at the push of a button we ran contact
tier, so at the push of a button we can contact people, and the further
ran contact peopla, and the further down you get
can contact people, and the further down you get those tiers the easier
down you get those tiers the easier it becomes because the elderly
it becomes because the elderty people
it becomes because the elderly people might not use smartphones,
peopla might not use smartphones, don’t
people might not use smartphones, don’t have e—mails but further down
don’t have e-mails but further down that we
don’t have e—mails but further down that we can use those communication
that we ran use those communication systems. I
that we ran use those communication systems. Idon’t
that we can use those communication systems. I don’t think the
systems. I don’t think the rate—limiting step will be the
rate—limiting step will be the number of vaccines, to be honest. I
number of vaccines, to be honest. I think the rate—limiting step will be
think the rate-limiting step will be the
think the rate—limiting step will be the operation and organisation
the operation and organisation issues, the venues you describe, the
issues, the venues you describe, the staff you describe to administer,
staff you describe to administer, getting the people into the spaces
getting the people into the spaces that they can present their arms.
that they ran present their arms. And again,
that they can present their arms. And again, that’s not in my
And again, that’s not in my territory, GPs are helping with this
territory, GPs are helping with this through so—called federations.
through so-ralled federations. Hopefully
through so—called federations. Hopefully we can really scale this
Hopefully we ran really sale this “P
Hopefully we ran really sale this up and it
Hopefully we can really scale this up and it shouldn’t
Hopefully we can really scale this up and it shouldn’tjust be a 9—5,
up and it shouldn’t just be a 9-5, it should
up and it shouldn’tjust be a 9—5, it should be a 21W, younger people
it should be a 24/7, younger peopla ran come
it should be a 21W, younger people can come at night, why not? And I
ran come at night, why not? And I think, it’s not
can come at night, why not? And I think, it’s not what I’m going to be
think, it’s not what I’m going to be organising but I hope those
organising but I hope those organising, this isn’t
organising but I hope those organising, this isn’tjust a
organising, this isn’t just a daytime
organising, this isn’tjust a daytime activity, for the first time
daytime activity, for the first time I think we need to be providing a
I think we need to be providing a 24/7
I think we need to be providing a 2417 system,
I think we need to be providing a 24/7 system, and if necessary
2417 system, and if necessary provide
24/7 system, and if necessary provide transport to the venues in
provide transport to the venues in order to get massive numbers
order to get massive numbers immunised across the next few weeks.
immunised across the next few weeks. What
immunised across the next few weeks. what is
immunised across the next few weeks. What is the evidence you have seen
what is the evidence you have seen so far
What is the evidence you have seen so far about take up and trust in
so far about take up and trust in the vaccine? Incredibly well. Very
the vaccine? Incredibly well. Very earty on I think
the vaccine? Incredibly well. Very early on I think there was some
earty on I think there was some reticence
early on I think there was some reticence among our black and Asian
reticence among our black and Asian minority groups about coming
minority groups about coming forward. I think a lot of work has
forward. I think a lot of work has been done to gain their trust.
been done to gain their tmst. Looking at
been done to gain their trust. Looking at who is coming, bearing in
Looking at who is coming, bearing in mind the first group with a very
mind the first group with a very elderty,
mind the first group with a very elderly, please forgive me if you
elderty, please forgive me if you are 80 plus,
elderly, please forgive me if you are 80 plus, 90 plus. I
elderly, please forgive me if you are 80 plus, 90 plus. Iwas
are 80 plus, 90 plus. Iwas surprised how willing that group
surprised how willing that group were to come. Because a lot of these
were to come. Because a lot of these people have got coexisting
people have got coexisting illnesses, they have not left their
illnesses, they have not left their home and they were coming. We used
home and they were coming. We used all of our vaccines, every last one
all of our vaccines, every last one of them, 900 and something, in the
of them, 900 and something, in the first group and I’m hoping that will
first group and I’m hoping that will continue with all the other vaccines
continue with all the other vaccines that are coming. Please come and get
that are coming. Please come and get your vaccine if you are called for
your vaccine if you are rallad for it. It is the only
your vaccine if you are called for it. It is the only way out of this
it. It is the only way out of this as far as I can see. Do you have any
as far as I ran see. Do you have any concerns
as far as I can see. Do you have any concerns around extending the gap
concerns around extending the gap between the first and second dose?
between the first and second dose? That is a very interesting question.
That is a very interesting question. The science makes sense. The science
The science makes sense. The science 5575
The science makes sense. The science says that you get your immunity
says that you get your immunity levels after the first dose and it’s
levels after the first dose and it’s the second dose that extends that
the second dose that extends that immunity time period. 50 the science
immunity time period. So the science makes sense,
immunity time period. 50 the science makes sense, certainly, for the
makes sense, certainly, for the AstraZeneca—Oxford vaccine, and also
AstraZenera-Oxford vaccine, and also for the
AstraZeneca—Oxford vaccine, and also for the Pfizer one when you start
for the Pfizer one when you start looking at the actual data. So it
looking at the actual data. So it does
looking at the actual data. 50 it does make sense. It makes sense to
does make sense. It makes sense to vaccinate as many people as possible
vaccinate as many peopla as possibla with the
vaccinate as many people as possible with the first dose and then get
with the first dose and then get peopla in for
with the first dose and then get people in for the second dose within
people in for the second dose within the 12 week window. Doctor Dame
the 12 week window. Doctor Dame Clare Gerada, thank you very much
Clare Gerada, thank you very much for joining us.
Clare Gerada, thank you very much forjoining us. Thank you very much.
for joining us. Thank you very much. HaPPY
for joining us. Thank you very much. Happy New Year.
forjoining us. Thank you very much. Happy New Year. Happy New Year to
Happy New Year. Happy New Year to you as well. Let’s go to Cardiff
you as well. Let’s go to Cardiff where the First Minister Vaughan
where the First Minister Vaughan Gething is giving the first briefing
Gething is giving the first briefing from the Welsh Government of the New
from the Welsh Government of the New Year. It is not the easiest vaccine
Year. It is not the easiest vaccine to use because it has to be stored
to use because it has to be stored at ultralow temperatures and cannot
at ultralow temperatures and cannot be stored easily.
be stored easily. We have been primarily vaccinating
We have been primarily vaccinating front—line health and care staff at
front-line health and rare staff at the 14
front—line health and care staff at the 1A mass vaccination centres set
the 14 mass vaccination centres set “P
the 14 mass vaccination centres set Up by
the 14 mass vaccination centres set up by health
the 1A mass vaccination centres set up by health boards around Wales.
up by health boards around Walas. However,
up by health boards around Wales. However, care home residents and
However, rare home residents and over 805
However, care home residents and over 805 have
However, care home residents and over 80s have also had the Pfizer
over 805 have also had the Pfizer jab over the last few weeks.
jab over the last few weeks. However, the new Oxford—AstraZeneca
However, the new Oxford-AstraZenera vaccine is
However, the new Oxford—AstraZeneca vaccine is a real game change
vaccine is a real game change because it can be stored in a fridge
because it ran be stored in a fridge and is
because it can be stored in a fridge and is much easier to transport. The
and is much easier to transport. The UK Government invested in the
UK Government invested in the research for this vaccine and has
research for this vaccine and has bought 100 million doses for the UK.
bought 100 million doses for the UK. Walas
bought 100 million doses for the UK. Wales will receive our population
Wales will receive our population share. Its approval will help us to
share. Its approval will help us to speed up our vaccination programme
speed up our vaccination programme and nm
speed up our vaccination programme and run more clinics closer to
and nm more dinis closer to people’s
and run more clinics closer to people’s homes. We will also take
people’s homes. We will also take the vaccine into every care home to
the vaccine into every care home to complete the protection of care home
complete the protection of rare home residents
complete the protection of care home residents and staff. We received the
residents and staff. We received the first supply of 22,000 doses of the
first supply of 22,000 doses of the Oxford vaccine, and more will be
Oxford vaccine, and more will be coming. The first Oxford vaccines
coming. The first Oxford vaccines are being given today. Over the next
are being given today. Over the next couple of weeks we will increase the
couple of weeks we will increase the number of mass vaccination centres
number of mass vaccination centres to 22 and more than 60 general
to 22 and more than 60 general practice surgeries will offer the
practice surgeries will offer the Oxford vaccine. Mobile units will
Oxford vaccine. Mobile units will also be set up throughout Wales. We
also be set up throughout Walas. We are training a
also be set up throughout Wales. We are training a range of health care
are training a range of health rare workers
are training a range of health care workers to
are training a range of health rare workers to give
are training a range of health care workers to give the vaccine and we
workers to give the vaccine and we have plans to work with local
have plans to work with local pharmacists, dentists and
pharmacists, dentists and optometrists to provide vaccination
optometrists to provide vaccination clinic.
optometrists to provide vaccination clinics. We will continue to use the
clinic. We will continue to use the Pfizer
clinics. We will continue to use the Pfizer vaccine at the mass
Pfizer vaccine at the mass vaccination centres across Wales and
vaccination centres across Wales and we are working to the priority list
we are working to the priority list agreed by the Joint
we are working to the priority list agreed by theJoint Committee
we are working to the priority list agreed by the Joint Committee for
agreed by the Joint Committee for vaccination
agreed by theJoint Committee for vaccination and immunisation. The
vaccination and immunisation. The rest of the UK is working to the
rest of the UK is working to the same priority list. The immediate
same priority list. The immediate priority is to vaccinate front line
priority is to vaccinate front line health and care staff, care home
health and care staff, care home residents and staff and people over
residents and staff and people over the age of 80. This will help to
the age of 80. This will help to protect our most vulnerable citizens
protect our most vulnerable citizens and help to save the greatest number
and help to save the greatest number of lives. Everyone in these groups
of lives. Everyone in these groups will be invited to come to a clinic
will be invited to come to a clinic for an appointment. Health boards
for an appointment. Health boards and [oral
for an appointment. Health boards and local authorities will be
and [oral authorities will be writing to
and local authorities will be writing to everyone in Wales with
writing to everyone in Wales with more information about the vaccine
more information about the vaccine in the coming days. Everyone will
in the coming days. Everyone will get two doses. The second dose will
get two doses. The second dose will be given up to 12 weeks after the
be given up to 12 weeks after the first dose in line with the latest
first dose in line with the latest advice from not
first dose in line with the latest advice from notjust
first dose in line with the latest advice from not just the JCVI, but
advice from not just the jCVI, but from all
advice from not just the JCVI, but from all four chief
advice from notjust theJCVI, but from all four chief medical officers
from all four chief medical officers from across the UK. These two
from across the UK. These two vaccines offer us a path out of this
vaccines offer us a path out of this pandemic. But it will take a huge
pandemic. But it will take a huge effort and time to vaccinate
effort and time to vaccinate everyone. We are not out of the
everyone. We are not out of the woods yet. We all need to keep on
woods yet. We all need to keep on taking steps to protect ourselves,
taking steps to protect ourselves, our families,
taking steps to protect ourselves, ourfamilies, and each other
taking steps to protect ourselves, ourfamilies, and each otherfor
our families, and each other for some
ourfamilies, and each otherfor some time
our families, and each other for some time yet,
ourfamilies, and each otherfor some time yet, especially while
some time yet, especially while rases
some time yet, especially while cases of coronavirus remain so high.
cases of coronavirus remain so high. That means keeping the number of
That means keeping the number of people we are in close contact with
peopla we are in close contact with to an
people we are in close contact with to an absolute minimum. It means
to an absolute minimum. It means keeping our distance, washing our
keeping our distance, washing our hands, wearing a facemask, and
hands, wearing a facemask, and working from home where ever we can.
working from home where ever we ran. It means keeping
working from home where ever we can. It means keeping ourselves safe and
It means keeping ourselves safe and keeping Wales safe. Thank you very
keeping Wales safe. Thank you very much. I will now take questions from
much. I will now take questions from journalists. As always, the answers
journalists. As always, the answers will be broadcast live on our social
will be broadcast live on our social media channels. STUDIO: Vaughan
media channels. STUDIO: Vaughan Gething with the latest from Wales,
Gething with the latest from Wales, the vaccine being rolled out, and of
the vaccine being rolled out, and of course tough restrictions in place
course tough restrictions in place in Walas
course tough restrictions in place in Wales as we wait to hear whether
in Wales as we wait to hear whether restrictions in England are going to
restrictions in England are going to be expanded.
be expanded. The Prime Minister saying today it
The Prime Minister saying today it is inevitable. Primary schools in
is inevitable. Primary schools in many parts of England have reopened
many parts of England have reopened today despite teaching unions and
today despite teaching unions and some councils asking the government
some councils asking the government to keep them closed to limit the
to keep them closed to limit the spread of the new variant of
spread of the new variant of Covid—19.
Ministers insist any move to online learning should be a last resort.
learning should be a last resort. The Prime Minister sought to
The Prime Minister sought to reassure parents, teachers and
reassure parents, teachers and students that he believes going to
students that he believes going to school is safe. The issue is not the
school is safe. The issue is not the safety of the schools, it is
safety of the schools, it is important to get this across, the
important to get this across, the issue is the extent to which the
issue is the extent to which the mingling of kids in schools by
mingling of kids in schools by putting lots of households together
putting lots of households together causes the epidemic to spread even
causes the epidemic to spread even faster. Alas, that’s why in some
faster. Alas, that’s why in some parts of the country we have had to
parts of the country we have had to ask primary schools as well to
ask primary schools as well to postpone their return. I don’t want
postpone their return. I don’t want to do that but it is necessary. And
to do that but it is necessary. And we will keep all measures under
we will keep all measures under review. As it happens, it looks as
review. As it happens, it looks as though secondary schools probably
though secondary schools probably play more of a role in the spread of
play more of a role in the spread of the epidemic than primary schools.
the epidemic than primary schools. So we
the epidemic than primary schools. 50 we will have to
the epidemic than primary schools. So we will have to look very hard at
So we will have to look very hard at what we do with secondary schools
what we do with secondary schools later in the month. I think it’s
later in the month. I think it’s wrong to say that schools are
wrong to say that schools are unsafe. Schools are safe. The
unsafe. Schools are safe. The anxiety we have as a government is
anxiety we have as a government is about the role of schools, or any
about the rola of schools, or any activity, in
about the role of schools, or any activity, in spreading the disease.
activity, in spreading the disease. And that’s why I would really ask
And that’s why I would really ask peopla to
And that’s why I would really ask people to focus now, as we roll out
peopla to focus now, as we roll out the
people to focus now, as we roll out the vaccine, on what we can all do
the vaccine, on what we ran all do to stop
the vaccine, on what we can all do to stop transmission and what we can
to stop transmission and what we ran all do to
to stop transmission and what we can all do to follow the guidance.
all do to follow the guidance. Boris
all do to follow the guidance. Borisjohnson. The Trades Union
Boris johnson. The Trades Union Congress is
BorisJohnson. The Trades Union Congress is calling for all
Congress is calling for all employers to offer furlough to any
employers to offer furlough to any and all parents affected by school
and all parents affected by school closures. The women’s equality
closures. The women’s equality officer at the TUC Sian Elliott
officer at the TUC Sian Elliott explained a little earlier what
explained a little eartier what parents
explained a little earlier what parents are already entitled to.
Pa rents are
Parents are eligible for the fellow scheme and have been since April.
scheme and have been since April. The job
scheme and have been since April. TheJob Retention Scheme allows
TheJob Retention Scheme allows bosses to furlough parents who
bosses to furlough parents who cannot work due to a lack of
cannot work due to a lack of childcare and if your child is at
childcare and if your child is at home because they can’t go to
home because they can’t go to school, even if they are online
school, even if they are online learning, there is still a high
learning, there is still a high amount of care and supervision
amount of rare and supervision needed,
amount of care and supervision needed, particularly for primary
needed, particularty for primary aged
needed, particularly for primary aged children, and so we are calling
aged children, and so we are falling on all
aged children, and so we are calling on all bosses to proactively offer
on all bosses to proactively offer furlough to any working parents
furlough to any working parents affected by these school closures
affected by these school closures and remote learning. We know that
and remote learning. We know that duﬂng
and remote learning. We know that during the last lockdown there was a
during the last lockdown there was a high number of securely working mums
high number of securely working mums who had to be furloughed in order to
who had to be furloughed in order to balance work and care. To those that
balance work and rare. To those that ran do that
balance work and care. To those that can do that at home and perhaps work
ran do that at home and perhaps work more ﬂaxibly
can do that at home and perhaps work more flexibly that may be another
more ﬂaxibly that may be another option. But
more flexibly that may be another option. But particularly those
option. But particularty those parents in
option. But particularly those parents in low—paid jobs where only
parents in low-paid jobs where only one in ten jobs
parents in low—paid jobs where only one in tenjobs can be done from
one in ten jobs ran be done from home, we are
one in tenjobs can be done from home, we are saying those parents
home, we are saying those parents need to be furloughed and there will
need to be furloughed and there will be a vast number of parents
be a vast number of parents affected. In London alone there are
affected. In London alone there are 21,000 primary schools that are
21,000 primary schools that are closed. That will be effecting a
dosed. That will be effecting a huge
closed. That will be effecting a huge number of working families.
huge number of working families. Let’s catch up with the weather and
Let’s catch up with the weather and join Matt Taylor. I’m going to be
join Matt Taylor. I’m going to be selfish and ask a personal question
selfish and ask a personal question because it is my 50th birthday
because it is my 50th birthday tomorrow and I have been monitoring
tomorrow and I have been monitoring the weather to see if it will be
the weather to see if it will be snowing because the forecast
snowing because the forecast indicates it might be. Is it going
indicates it might be. Is it going to?
As it is your 50th birthday, close your eyes, you can picture whatever
your eyes, you ran picture whatever you want but it is
your eyes, you can picture whatever you want but it is most likely to be
you want but it is most likely to be rain.
Have a happy birthday from all of us at the Weather Centre. Mainly rain
at the Weather Centre. Mainly rain across the south—east of the country
across the south-east of the country as we going to
across the south—east of the country as we going to tomorrow and it is
as we going to tomorrow and it is raining quite heavily across parts
raining quite heavily across parts of south—east England towards the
of south—east England towards the Channel Islands. This is the zone
Channel Islands. This is the zone where we could see minor flooding
where we could see minor ﬂooding over the
where we could see minor flooding over the next few days as rain
over the next few days as rain totals tot up. There is some snow
totals tot up. There is some snow around the Southwest and the
around the Southwest and the Pennines and higher ground of a
Pennines and higher ground of a southern Scotland. Rain and sleet
southern Scotland. Rain and sleet for many at lower levels but still
for many at lower levels but still coming and going throughout the day,
coming and going throughout the day, lots of the dry weather towards the
lots of the dry weather towards the west. It is a windy day across
west. It is a windy day across England and whilst today, it will
England and whilst today, it will make it feel colder than 2—4 C into
make it feel colder than 2-4 C into the evening at
make it feel colder than 2—4 C into the evening at temperatures dropping
the evening at temperatures dropping in western Scotland and Northern
in western Scotland and Northern Ireland again, widespread frost, icy
Ireland again, widespread frost, icy conditions into tomorrow. Tonight
conditions into tomorrow. Tonight across the south—east of Scotland in
across the south-east of Scotland in the
across the south—east of Scotland in the Southern uplands and around the
the Southern uplands and around the borders, we could see a good
borders, we could see a good covering of snow over higher ground
covering of snow over higher ground and the showers continue to run in
and the showers continue to nm in across
and the showers continue to run in across northern parts of England
across northern parts of England producing some snow across the
producing some snow across the Pennines. Another cold, icy start
Pennines. Another cold, icy start tomorrow. I will have more details
tomorrow. I will have more details to come.
Hello, this is BBC News.
The Headlines...
Further restrictions are expected to control the spread
of coronavirus in both England and Scotland — in England,
the Prime Minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
m:
We have been waiting to see the impact of the tier for measures on
impact of the tier for measures on the vims. --
impact of the tier for measures on the virus. —— Tier 4.
It is unclear at the moment, but if you look at the numbers
there is no question we are going
to make tougher measures.
m:
We will be announcing those in due course.
The rollout of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab has begun —
the Prime Minister says tens of millions of doses will have been
administered by the end of March.
It means everything to me, to my mind it is the only way of getting
back to normal life.
This virus is terrible, isn’t it?
The NHS already has over half a million doses of the jab,
and says today is even more significant than the first Pfizer
vaccination last month.
Today when I saw the first jab in the building behind me,
it felt like an even bigger moment.
Another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
Primary schools in most of England reopen,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
President Trump is heard on tape asking an election official
to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of Georgia.
Democrats call it a disgrace.
A coroner in Malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure
in the case of the Franco—Irish teenager, Nora Quoirin.
in the case of the Franco—Irish teenager, Nora Quoirin.
A court in London has ruled that the Wikileaks founder,
Julian Assange, cannot be extradited to the United States
to face charges relating to the disclosure of thousands
of secret military documents.
The Wikileaks disclosure in 2010 was the largest leak of classified
documents in US history.
A little earlier, our giplomatic correspondent,
James Landalec explained how the judge came to her decision.
The
Thejudge went
The judge went through a very close detail all the defence case made by
detail all the defence use made by julian
detail all the defence case made by Julian Assange’s legal team about
julian Assange’s legal team about why, in their
Julian Assange’s legal team about why, in their view,
Julian Assange’s legal team about why, in theirview, he
Julian Assange’s legal team about why, in their view, he should not be
why, in their view, he should not be expedited to face all the charges
expedited to face all the charges relating to the release of thousands
relating to the release of thousands of military documents almost a
of military documents almost a decade ago. As you went through it
decade ago. As you went through it she said, the
decade ago. As you went through it she said, theJulian Assange team
she said, the julian Assange team had
she said, theJulian Assange team had claimed that the Department of
had claimed that the Department of justice would
had claimed that the Department of Justice would treat him harshly, I
justice would treat him harshly, I have no
Justice would treat him harshly, I have no evidence of that, the team
have no evidence of that, the team had claimed the charges were
had claimed the charges were political, she said she found no
political, she said she found no evidence of any more hostility in
evidence of any more hostility in the Tmmp
evidence of any more hostility in the Trump administration, and she
the Tmmp administration, and she went through
the Trump administration, and she went through all of these argument,
went through all of these argument, dismissing the defence case, but
dismissing the defence rase, but then
dismissing the defence case, but then she came to the situation of
then she came to the situation of the mental state of
then she came to the situation of the mental state ofJulian Assange.
the mental state of julian Assange. On that,
the mental state ofJulian Assange. On that, she came to the conclusion
On that, she came to the conclusion that if he were extradited and taken
that if he were extradited and taken to an American prison, and their
to an American prison, and their total isolation he would likely
total isolation he would likely face, she said, I am certifies that
face, she said, I am certifies that the procedures described will not
the procedures described will not prevent
the procedures described will not preventJulian Assange from finding
prevent julian Assange from finding a way to
preventJulian Assange from finding a way to commit suicide. For this
a way to commit suicide. For this reason, I have decided exhibition
reason, I have decided exhibition would be a present by reason of
would be a present by reason of mental harm and I order his
mental harm and I order his discharge. What happens now? This
discharge. what happens now? This was the
discharge. What happens now? This was the Old Bailey, Weatherby and
was the Old Bailey, Weatherby and appeal? The Americans have said they
appeal? The Americans have said they will appeal, they have M days to do
will appeal, they have 14 days to do so. At the
will appeal, they have M days to do so. At the moment this is
will appeal, they have M days to do so. At the moment this isjust
will appeal, they have M days to do so. At the moment this is just a
so. At the moment this is just a District judge,
so. At the moment this is just a DistrictJudge, it could go to the
District judge, it could go to the High Court or
DistrictJudge, it could go to the High Court or Supreme Court. There
High Court or Supreme Court. There is a process to be done. The
is a process to be done. The Americans have M days in which to
Americans have 14 days in which to lodge that
Americans have M days in which to lodge that appeal. The interesting
lodge that appeal. The interesting question is what happens to
lodge that appeal. The interesting question is what happens toJulian
question is what happens to julian Assange?
question is what happens toJulian Assange? There has been a request
Assange? There has been a request that he be bailed, because if you
that he be bailed, because if you think about it, he has been in
think about it, he has been in detention, facing these charges in
detention, facing these charges in Belmarsh prison for the last 20
Belmarsh prison for the last 20 mother once. Before that he spent
mother once. Before that he spent seven years voluntarily held up in
seven years voluntarily held up in the Ecuadorian embassy. This is a
the Ecuadorian embassy. This is a man who has been confined, initially
man who has been confined, initially voluntarily and subsequently by the
voluntarily and subsequently by the state, for a long period of time and
state, for a long period of time and the question now is what he get any
the question now is what he get any Bill conditions, will be allowed
Bill conditions, will be allowed out, that is being decided at the
out, that is being decided at the moment.
Today marks the first full working day with the UK
outside the European Union.
Negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading
but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders and
customs hold—ups in the early days.
Our correspondent SimonJones gave us the latest from Dover.
m:
We have seen a steady stream of lorries arriving this morning,
lorries arriving this morning, heading into the port, wanting to
heading into the port, wanting to cross the Channel to France, heading
cross the Channel to France, heading to Calais Dunkirk. Lorries arriving
to Calais Dunkirk. Lorries arriving have to have the right customs
have to have the right customs declarations and safety
declarations and safety certificates, otherwise they will be
certificates, otherwise they will be turned away, plus also the added
turned away, plus also the added complication if they are going to
complication if they are going to France, they need a negative
France, they need a negative coronavirus test. 50
France, they need a negative coronavirus test. So far, over the
coronavirus test. So far, over the past three days, the start of the
past three days, the start of the New Year, traffic has been light, we
New Year, traffic has been light, we were into the weekend after the
were into the weekend after the holiday, it is expected to pick up
holiday, it is expected to pick up today and in the coming days. Let’s
today and in the coming days. Let’s speak to someone at the sharp end of
speak to someone at the sharp end of theirs, Chris, from one of the ferry
theirs, Chris, from one of the ferry companies. From your point of view,
companies. From your point of view, how has it gone? We are quite happy
how has it gone? We are quite happy with how it has gone, as expected,
with how it has gone, as expected, the traffic much less the last year.
the traffic much less the last year. So far, we have got the roads clear
So far, we have got the roads clear which is the main thing. People were
which is the main thing. People were talking about potential chaos on the
talking about potential chaos on the roads, traffic
talking about potential chaos on the roads, trafficjams stretching for
roads, traffic jams stretching for milas, was
roads, trafficjams stretching for miles, was like doom mongering are
milas, was like doom mongering are we still
miles, was like doom mongering are we still are early days? We are
we still are early days? We are still early days from the
still early days from the perspective when it is always quiet
perspective when it is always quiet at this time of year, but what we’re
at this time of year, but what we’re seen so far is that freight
seen so far is that freight customers have done very well and
customers have done very well and working out what they need to do in
working out what they need to do in terms of customs clearances so we
terms of customs clearances so we are happy with the compliance we
are happy with the compliance we have seen and customs, so far it is
have seen and customs, so far it is good news. How does that work when a
good news. How does that work when a lorry driver goes into the port?
lorry driver goes into the port? What
lorry driver goes into the port? what do
lorry driver goes into the port? What do they have to show, to show
what do they have to show, to show that they are
What do they have to show, to show that they are bored already? The
that they are bored already? The first thing they need to do is come
first thing they need to do is come to the poor and show that they are
to the poor and show that they are Covid-19 ready,
to the poor and show that they are Covid—19 ready, and then they go
Covid-19 ready, and then they go through the
Covid—19 ready, and then they go through the Perth for border control
through the Perth for border control and showing documentation. As long
and showing documentation. As long as they have a valid customs
as they have a valid customs clearance document they are allowed
clearance document they are allowed to board. What happens then assault
to board. what happens then assault the
to board. What happens then assault the information is transferred to
the information is transferred to the customs agent in Calais and
the customs agent in Calais and Dunkirk and we can tell the drivers
Dunkirk and we ran tell the drivers when they are
Dunkirk and we can tell the drivers when they are on board whether they
when they are on board whether they are good to go, green light or
are good to go, green light or orange light, and they have to pull
orange light, and they have to pull aside. I am
orange light, and they have to pull aside. lam happy
orange light, and they have to pull aside. I am happy to say that the
aside. I am happy to say that the vast majority of freighter drivers
vast majority of freighter drivers have a green light to go, very
have a green light to go, very important for every body to keep the
important for every body to keep the pores dear
important for every body to keep the pores clear here and in Calais.
pores dear here and in Calais. Today has
pores clear here and in Calais. Today has been described as a first
Today has been described as a first real test of this new system but
real test of this new system but from what we have seen, traffic is
from what we have seen, traffic is still pretty light. When I do
still pretty light. when I do expecting
still pretty light. When I do expecting it to build up? When will
expecting it to build up? when will we see
expecting it to build up? When will we see the real test? Over the next
we see the real test? Over the next week or two we will start to see
week or two we will start to see traffic build—up again. It is fair
traffic build-up again. It is fair to say that
traffic build—up again. It is fair to say that after the last couple of
to say that after the last couple of Brexit build—up is we had, 2019 and
Brexit build-up is we had, 2019 and onwards, we
Brexit build—up is we had, 2019 and onwards, we saw a dip in traffic
onwards, we saw a dip in traffic after that, that will take some time
after that, that will take some time to clear and there was a lot of
to clear and there was a lot of stockpiling by companies in the
stockpiling by companies in the mn-up to
stockpiling by companies in the run—up to New Year to try to avoid
mn-up to New Year to try to avoid any problams. It
run—up to New Year to try to avoid any problems. It is all going well
any problams. It is all going well so far.
any problems. It is all going well so far. We are talking about lorries
so far. We are talking about lorries but obviously looking ahead to the
but obviously looking ahead to the summer, hopefully the return of the
summer, hopefully the return of the summer holidays, who knows? But how
summer holidays, who knows? But how I do expecting that to affect
I do expecting that to affect tourist passengers? We have a job to
tourist passengers? We have a job to do to explain to customers what it
do to explain to customers what it is they need to have in terms of
is they need to have in terms of some of the new documentation which
some of the new documentation which may come through around health
may come through around health insurance are being allowed to dry
insurance are being allowed to dry for the continent but we are
for the continent but we are confident we will have plenty of
confident we will have plenty of time to explain what customers need
time to explain what customers need and we are looking forward to
and we are looking forward to bringing them back on board. We have
bringing them back on board. We have missed them over the last few
missed them over the last few months, as I’m sure everyone will
months, as I’m sure everyone will understand, so as soon as we see the
understand, so as soon as we see the opportunity to open up travel again
opportunity to open up travel again and we are talking with Government
and we are talking with Government about when we can do that safely, we
about when we ran do that safely, we will
about when we can do that safely, we will welcome them back, give them a
will welcome them back, give them a meal and set them on their way. I
meal and set them on their way. I ran tell you
meal and set them on their way. I can tell you from a wet and windy
ran tell you from a wet and windy day, the idea
can tell you from a wet and windy day, the idea of summer holidays
day, the idea of summer holidays does seem a very long time away.
A recording has emerged which appears to show
President Trump putting pressure on a senior Republican official
to overturnjoe Biden’s election victory in Georgia.
The Washington Post says the audio is from an hour—long phone call
with Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger.
The Vice President—elect — Kamala Harris — called it
a "bold abuse of power".
Paul Hawkins reports.
Impeachment, the Russia scandal and catching Covid
in the middle of a pandemic.
The Trump presidency has been a roller—coaster ride.
So, on one level, perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised.
After all, Donald Trump himself said...
Losing is never easy.
Not for me, it’s not.
But on another level, no—one could have foreseen
that the President of the United States would ask
Georgia’s top election official to find the votes that would change
November’s result.
You can’t let it happen and you are letting it happen.
The call lasted an hour, the President angrily making
unsubstantiated claim that ballots had been shredded and voting
machinery removed — claims that were denied by a lawyer
for the state.
With Secretary Raffensperger saying, "The challenge you have,
Mr President, is that the data you have is wrong."
The president called him a child.
Condemnation of the call has been swift.
Well, it was, yes, certainly the voice of desperation
and it was a bold, bald—faced, bold abuse of power.
The president’s refusal to accept the result had split his own party
with the former Republican leader of the House of Representatives
saying it was difficult to conceive of a more anti—democratic
and anti—conservative act.
Well, it is tough to be shocked any more by what the President does
but this was truly shocking.
Extraordinary.
To put pressure on a Republican Secretary
of State to find the votes, I mean, that’s awful stuff.
But 11 Republican senators, led by Ted Cruz, are still planning
to challenge the election result when it’s officially
certified on Wednesday.
We live in a world where truth literally does not matter
any more, evidently.
At least here in the US and the American media
truth does not matter.
It’s all about propaganda from the liberal media
and so the reality is, you go listen to the call,
all the narrative of that is literally a not...
A nonsense call.
Donald Trump is holding an election rally on Monday night in Georgia,
where two Republican—held Senate seats are up for grabs
in Tuesday’s election.
Polling suggests both races are tight, with the outcome
deciding who controls the Upper House of Congress.
But with Donald Trump questioning the voting process in Georgia,
will Republicans still turn out to vote?
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
A Malaysian coroner has delivered a verdict of misadventure
in the case of More Quoirin, the French—Irish schoolgirl
whose body was found in the jungle in 2019.
The 15—year—old had gone missing from an eco—resort
outside Kuala Lumpur, where she’d been on holiday
with her family.
Howard Johnson reports.
It was from this jungle resort in central Malaysia that Nora went
missing on the morning of August the 4th, 2019.
She’d arrived at the Dusan Resort with her familyjust the day before.
The children and Sebastian were tired because they really
didn’t get much sleep on the plane.
They found the overnight flight quite tiring.
So we had no ambition for the first day beyond just acclimatising.
But around Sam the following morning, father Sebastian
discovered Nora was missing.
The site of where Nora was staying was empty.
I looked around.
Tried to keep my composure for a few seconds.
Immediately after that, run downstairs and start
started searching around.
Mother Meabh said a window in the downstairs kitchen area
that she said she had closed the night before was found open.
The family insisted there was a criminal element to the case
as their daughter had difficulty walking unassisted and had
never wandered off alone.
But the police always maintained it was a missing persons case.
There is the possibility that the missing person had
woken up from sleep.
Maybe she wanted to go to the toilet and was confused
by the sort of house which was new to her and left
the house on her own.
Nora...
During the inquest, the court heard how a massive manhunt was mobilised
to search for the 15—year—old in the thickjungle
surrounding the resort.
Missing person flyers were handed out in nearby communities.
The owner of the Dusan Resort told the inquest the area had never
experienced anything like it.
It has always been a safe place for my family.
We have never had a burglary, and we have never had an intruder
in any of our houses.
Nora’s naked body was eventually found ten days
after she disappeared, close to a stream on a
palm oil plantation.
There was no sign she had been physically assaulted.
Autopsies carried out both in Malaysia and London both
concluded that Nora had died because of a heavily ulcerated upper
intestine caused by extreme stress and lack of food.
This is very unusual.
But there must be something more than the normal, I mean, stress.
This is tremendous.
A senior British pathologist said that scratches on Nora’s torso,
legs and feet were consistent with her moving through
the densejungle.
Today’s verdict of death by misadventure means that
Coroner Maimoonah Aid believes that on the balance
of probabilities, Nora wandered off alone.
Nora’s parents called for this inquest.
But it’s delivered a verdict that will undoubtedly disappoint them.
Howard Johnson, BBC News.
Millions of children should be going back to school today,
but most senior school pupils are learning from home this week
and many primaries will also remain closed to the majority of children.
It’s all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
Graham Satchell has been speaking to some parents in England
about their concerns and confusion.
Parents across the country with tough decisions to make
as the number of Covid cases continues to rise.
Sean and Aiden live in Cheshire, which hasjust moved into Tier 4,
but their school will be open this week.
For their mental health, it’s the right environment for them.
Obviously, their education is key, but mine are only little —
they’re still, you know, seven and nine, and...
you know, it’s more about the social aspect of it.
But, you know, if it’s for the greater good,
and if keeping them off an extra couple of weeks, an extra few weeks,
would bring the rates down and get it all under control,
then, yeah, I’d be behind that 100%.
In the Midlands, Leo and Lucy’s school is also open —
but their mum isn’t sure they should go.
We are in a situation where we’re saying it’s not safe to go and get
a haircut from someone in full PPE, but we are expecting my sister,
who teaches at a sixth form college in Leicester,
to go and mix with a group of 4,000 students on a daily basis.
And if what is necessary to keep everyone else safe is for me to,
you know, pull myself up by my bootstraps and print off some
worksheets for a few more weeks, I can do that.
This is Amy and her three children in Richmond, in London.
Primary schools are closed in London.
Amy is worried about her children, but needs them to go
to school so she can work.
It’s scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
So on that sense, I don’t particularly want my
children at school.
But to allow me to go to work, to allow me to earn the money
that me and my children need to be able to survive, to pay
the bills, to eat — yes, it is very important.
Leyla Preston’s children are enjoying some fresh
air in the playground.
Cases here in Hertfordshire have been rising fast,
and schools are shut.
We live in a very high—case area — Hertsmere — and we haven’t...
I haven’t heard of one case at my kid’s school,
so I think they’re doing really well in terms of safety.
So in that sense, I think it would probably be betterfor them
to go back to schooljust because they need the socialising,
they need the classroom environment, they need to have something
different, something more in their lives.
In Sussex, Chloe found out late last night her school —
which was due to be open tomorrow — will now be closed
for at least two weeks.
She’s saying to me, "Mum, is it safe for me to go back to school?"
And I’m like, "I don’t know!"
In September, I absolutely felt that it was safe
to go back to school.
All of the information coming through was showing that
transmission rates amongst children was really, really small.
And that felt really safe with the measures
the school had in place.
What’s happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’t new
the case with the new strain.
In north London, Sam was told on Friday that her daughter’s
primary school would stay closed for the time being.
Sam’s family really struggled with home schooling
in the first lockdown.
Oh, gosh, the amount of times Ijust ended the day sobbing
because it was just too much, trying to handle a child
with learning difficulties remotely, a 6—year—old who was unwilling
to learn remotely, on top of my dayjob...
And I think that’s why my response to this one has been so much
stronger than it was the first time — because I fear going back
into that same position that we had earlier in the year.
There are no easy answers here — each family with its own
concerns and worries.
Graham Satchell, BBC News.
The headlines on BBC News...
Further restrictions are expected to control the spread
of coronavirus in both England and Scotland — in England,
the Prime Minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
The rollout of the Oxford AstraZeneca jab has begun —
the Prime Minister says tens of millions of doses will have been
administered by the end of March.
Primary schools in most of England reopen this morning,
but there’s growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
Ever since the Brexit vote —— the UK has been looking forfresh
trade deals around the world — and a free trade agreement
with Australia may be among the first to be signed.
Australia’s winemakers are among those hoping to benefit ——
those hoping to benefit —
they shipped more than £200 million
worth of wine to Britain in the last financial year.
Shaimaa Khalil reports from South Australia.
Quenching the international thirst for Australian wine means doing
things on a massive scale.
Accolade is one of the country’s biggest producers.
Each of these vats holds the equivalent of almost
400,000 bottles, and much of it is destined for Britain.
Pumped into shipping containers, it’s sent to the other
side of the world to be packaged and sold.
Brands made here are some of the UK’s best sellers.
Britain leaving the EU has allowed it to negotiate free trade deals,
including with Australia, a prospect they relish here.
But Brexit isn’t all good news for Australian winemakers
who still don’t know what it will mean for moving their products
from the UK into mainland Europe.
And there are questions over how labelling requirements will change
and the costs involved.
We’re doing everything possible to minimise any disruptions
on the back of Brexit.
I think for us, regardless of the outcome, what we’re looking
for now is the potentials associated with the free trade agreement
between the UK and Australia.
At the moment, the tariffs imposed on Australian wine imports
into the UK are anywhere between 13 pence and 15 per litre.
That is compared to New World competitors such as Chile and South
Africa which have a zero tariff.
Australia exports more wine to the UK than anywhere else
in the world, but most of it is that the cheaper
end of the market.
So could a free trade deal with Britain help producers
here sell their more expensive brands competitively?
m:
We are going to the Old Bailey, the chief Executive of Coghlan is
chief Executive of Coghlan is talking about the judge prospect
talking about the judge prospect decision not extradite
talking about the judge prospect decision not extraditejulian
decision not extradite julian Assange.
decision not extraditejulian Assange. Thank you for coming. I had
Assange. Thank you for coming. I had hoped that today would be the day
hoped that today would be the day that julian
hoped that today would be the day thatJulian would come home. Today
that julian would come home. Today is not that day.
thatJulian would come home. Today is not that day. But that day will
is not that day. But that day will come soon. As long as
is not that day. But that day will come soon. As long asJulian has to
come soon. As long as julian has to endure suffering
come soon. As long asJulian has to endure suffering and isolation as an
endure suffering and isolation as an unconvicted prisoner in Belmarsh
unconvicted prisoner in Belmarsh prison, and as long as our children
prison, and as long as our children continue to be bereft of their
continue to be bereft of their father’s love and affection, we
father’s love and affection, we cannot celebrate. We will celebrate
cannot celebrate. We will celebrate the day he comes home. Today is a
the day he comes home. Today is a victory for julian.
the day he comes home. Today is a victory forJulian. Today’s victory
victory for julian. Todars victory is the
victory forJulian. Today’s victory is the first step towards justice in
is the first step towards justice in this case. We are pleased that the
this rase. We are pleased that the court has
this case. We are pleased that the court has recognised the seriousness
court has recognised the seriousness and inhumanity of what he has
and inhumanity of what he has endured and what he faces. But let’s
endured and what he faces. But let’s not forget the indictment in the US
not forget the indictment in the US has not been dropped. We are
has not been dropped. We are externally concerned that the US
externally concerned that the US Government has decided to appeal
Government has decided to appeal this decision, it continues to want
this decision, it continues to want to punish
this decision, it continues to want to punishJulian and make him
to punish julian and make him disappear
to punishjulian and make him disappear into the deepest, darkest
disappear into the deepest, darkest whole of the US prison system. The
whola of the US prison system. The rest of his
whole of the US prison system. The rest of his life. —— for the rest of
rest of his life. -- for the rest of his life. That
rest of his life. —— for the rest of his life. That can never happen. We
his life. That ran never happen. We will never
his life. That can never happen. We will never accept that journalism
his life. That can never happen. We will never accept thatjournalism is
will never accept that journalism is a crime in
will never accept thatjournalism is a crime in this country or any
a crime in this country or any other. Let’s not forget that US
other. Let’s not forget that US agents plotted to kill
other. Let’s not forget that US agents plotted to killJulian on
agents plotted to killJulian on British soil, his British solicitors
British soil, his British solicitors were deliberately targeted by name
were deliberately targeted by name and their documents were stolen.
and their documents were stolen. Their illegal operations even
Their illegal operations even targeted our six—month—old baby. It
targeted our six-month-old baby. It is sickening at is
targeted our six—month—old baby. It is sickening at is also a threat to
is sickening at is also a threat to everyone. On behalf of
is sickening at is also a threat to everyone. On behalf ofJulian and
everyone. On behalf of julian and myself I want
everyone. On behalf ofJulian and myself I want to thank the millions
myself I want to thank the millions of peopla
myself I want to thank the millions of people around the world and the
of people around the world and the institutions that are already
institutions that are already falling for
institutions that are already calling for this persecution end. I
falling for this persecution end. I ask you to
calling for this persecution end. I ask you to shout louder, lobby
ask you to shout louder, lobby harder until he is free. I call on
harder until he is free. I all on everyone else
harder until he is free. I call on everyone else to come together to
everyone else to come together to defend Julian’s rights. Not
everyone else to come together to defend Julian’s rights. Notjust
defend julian’s rights. Not just julian’s
defend Julian’s rights. Notjust Julian’s rights, they are your
julian’s rights, they are your rights also.
Julian’s rights, they are your rights also. Julian’s freedom is
rights also. julian’s freedom is couplad to
rights also. Julian’s freedom is coupled to all our freedoms. And our
coupled to all our freedoms. And our freedoms are lost in the blink of an
freedoms are lost in the blink of an out. I all
freedoms are lost in the blink of an out. I call on insiders to come
out. I all on insiders to come forward to
out. I call on insiders to come forward to expose the full extent of
forward to expose the full extent of the misconduct that has led to
the misconduct that has lad to julian’s
the misconduct that has led to Julian’s imprisonment. —— the blink
julian’s imprisonment. -- the blink of an R.
And I call on the President of the
And I all on the President of the United
And I call on the President of the United States to end this now. Mr
United States to end this now. Mr President, tear down these prison
President, tear down these prison walls, let our little boys have
walls, let our little boys have their father.
walls, let our little boys have theirfather. Free
walls, let our little boys have theirfather. FreeJulian, Free the
their father. Free julian, Free the press, free us
theirfather. FreeJulian, Free the press, free us all.
press, free us all. CHEERING
CHEERING
Three
Threejulian
Three Julian Assange!
Threejulian Assange! That
Three Julian Assange! That was
Three julian Assange! That was Stella
Three Julian Assange! That was Stella Morris, the partner of
Three Julian Assange! That was Stella Morris, the partner ofJulian
Stella Morris, the partner of julian Assange, the
Stella Morris, the partner ofJulian Assange, the mother of his two
Assange, the mother of his two children, and as you can see and to
children, and as you ran see and to 9°-
children, and as you ran see and to go, quite a crowd.
children, and as you can see and to go, quite a crowd. Gathered at the
go, quite a crowd. Gathered at the Old Bailey on the day the court
Old Bailey on the day the court mled
Old Bailey on the day the court ruled he cannot be extradited to the
mled he cannot be extradited to the United
ruled he cannot be extradited to the United States. This is the editor in
United States. This is the editor in chief of Wikileaks, we have a moment
chief of wikileaks, we have a moment to listen
chief of Wikileaks, we have a moment to listen to him. We have all
to listen to him. We have all experienced a horrible year in 2020,
experienced a horrible year in 2020, it has been horrible for most of
it has been horrible for most of ours, but let’s remember it was yet
ours, but let’s remember it was yet ten of a situation for
ours, but let’s remember it was yet ten of a situation forJulian
ten of a situation for julian Assange.
ten of a situation forJulian Assange. But what a glimpse of hope
Assange. But what a glimpse of hope to start the New Year and hopefully
to start the New Year and hopefully a new era. It is a day with a when
a new era. It is a day with a when the four julian
a new era. It is a day with a when the fourJulian Assange. The editor
the four julian Assange. The editor in chief of
the fourJulian Assange. The editor in chief of Wikileaks. The latest on
in chief of wikileaks. The latest on that and
in chief of Wikileaks. The latest on that and the rest of the news coming
that and the rest of the news coming “P
that and the rest of the news coming up in a few minutes on the one
up in a few minutes on the one o’clock news. I will say goodbye and
o’clock news. I will say goodbye and leave you with the weather.
o’clock news. I will say goodbye and leave you with the weather.
Still wintry are therefore some of you but the weather set up for the
you but the weather set up for the next day so different from last
next day so different from last week, high—pressure tendon
week, high—pressure tendon low—pressure south and east, more of
low-pressure south and east, more of an ease to
low—pressure south and east, more of an ease to north—easterly flow.
an ease to north-easterty ﬂow. Still
an ease to north—easterly flow. Still cold and buying night temps
Still cold and buying night temps are dropping to freezing sleet and
are dropping to freezing sleet and Hillsborough, but also rain,
Hillsborough, but also rain, particularly in the south—east, the
particularty in the south-east, the “Y
particularty in the south-east, the way to spar
particularly in the south—east, the way to spar over the next few days,
way to spar over the next few days, hills of North Kent, east of Surrey
hills of North Kent, east of Surrey and across the Channel Islands we
and across the Channel Islands we could see as much as 50 millilitres
could see as much as 50 millilitres of rain in some spots, there could
of rain in some spots, there could be some minor
of rain in some spots, there could be some minorﬂooding. The rain
be some minor ﬂooding. The rain continues
be some minorﬂooding. The rain continues on that Bristol went,
continues on that Bristol went, showers across eastern irritated
showers across eastern irritated wintry over the high ground, best of
wintry over the high ground, best of the dry weather towards the west. A
the dry weather towards the west. A busy day for England and Wales, wind
busy day for England and Walas, wind touching gala
busy day for England and Wales, wind touching gale force are the eastern
touching gale force are the eastern portion of the English Channel. That
portion of the English Channel. That will make it feel colder, as we go
will make it feel colder, as we go into the evening. Dropping below
into the evening. Dropping below freezing in parts of Scotland and
freezing in parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland, and other cold
Northern Ireland, and other cold frosty night to come. We could see
frosty night to come. We could see significant snow showers on the
significant snow showers on the likes of the Borders, Southern
likes of the Borders, Southern uplands, some as well back into the
uplands, some as well back into the Pennines in the morning making for
Pennines in the morning making for icy conditions. Temperatures at
icy conditions. Temperatures at their lowest, where Tyler —7 or —8,
their lowest, where Tylar -7 or -8, holding up in
their lowest, where Tyler -7 or -8, holding up in the
their lowest, where Tyler —7 or —8, holding up in the south and east
holding up in the south and east with the rain continues to fall.
with the rain continues to fall. Watch out for ice in the morning,
Watch out for ice in the morning, snow showers in Scotland should
snow showers in Scotland should ease, sleet and snow pushing through
ease, sleet and snow pushing through northern include particularly across
northern include particularty across the
northern include particularly across the Pennines, still raining what
the Pennines, still raining what parts of Southeast Asia down towards
parts of Southeast Asia down towards the Channel Islands. A lot of you
the Channel Islands. A lot of you will have a dry and bright day,
will have a dry and bright day, perhaps feeling a little bit colder
perhaps feeling a little bit colder than today. As we go to Tuesday
than today. As we go to Tuesday night into Wednesday, easterly flow,
night into Wednesday, easterly flow, high—pressure stunts to hold firm
high-pressure stunts to hold firm across
high—pressure stunts to hold firm across the North, when following
across the North, when following lighter, more in the way and ties
lighter, more in the way and ties into Wednesday morning, the showers
into Wednesday morning, the showers in the south—east across parts of
in the south-east across parts of Kent by the
in the south—east across parts of Kent by the south—east across parts
Kent by the south-east across parts of Kent by this
Kent by the south—east across parts of Kent by this date, a subtle wind
of Kent by this date, a subtle wind change, things improving. Showers
change, things improving. Showers dotted around two central areas but
dotted around two central areas but mostly dry and bright but a pretty
mostly dry and bright but a pretty chilly day after a frothy start. The
chilly day after a frothy start. The blue and the chart means another
blue and the chart means another widespread frost taking a suit when
widespread frost taking a suit when the night into Thursday morning.
the night into Thursday morning. More rain, sleet and snow across
More rain, sleet and snow across parts of Scotland and Northern
parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland but brighter
parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland but brighterfor
parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland but brighter for England and
Ireland but brighter for England and Walas
Ireland but brighter for England and Wales and most will be dry on
Walas and most will be dry on Friday.
as the Government comes under pressure to announce
another national lockdown.
Visiting a hospital where the first Oxford—AstraZeneca jabs
were administered, BorisJohnson says Covid—19
is surging and hospitals are under huge pressure.
What we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the Tier
4 measures on the virus and it’s a bit unclear still at the moment
but I think there’s, you know, if you look at the numbers,
there’s no question we’re going to have to take tougher
measures and we’ll be announcing those in due course.
We’ll be live in Westminster and asking what are
the Government’s options.
Also this lunchtime...
82—year—old dialysis patient Brian Pinker becomes the first
person to receive the new vaccine.
It’s hailed a "pivotal" moment.
The vaccine means everything to me.
I mean, to my mind, it’s the only way of getting back
to a bit of normal life.
You know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
Parents and teachers face a "confusing picture" of primary
school closures in England as unions call for a delay to children
returning to classrooms.
WikiLeaks founderJulian Assange wins his battle against extradition
to the United States after a judge at the Old Bailey rules
he’s a suicide risk.
I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have.
Find me more votes — President Trump is recorded
on the phone ordering officials in Georgia to change
the election result.
And coming up on BBC News, the new World Darts Champion,
Gerwyn Price, says he’s thankful he won after securing the title
at the 12th time of asking.
Good afternoon, and welcome to the BBC News at One.
The Prime Minister is warning of "tough, tough" weeks to come
as the Government faces pressure to announce another national
lockdown amid concerns the new variant coronavirus
is spreading out of control.
BorisJohnson said there was "no question" about the need for tougher
measures which would be announced "in due course".
It comes as infection levels are nearly four times higher now
than they were at the start of December and that has put more
pressure on hospitals.
There was some brighter news.
In what’s being described as a "pivotal moment" in the UK’s
fight against coronavirus, the first doses of the Oxford
University and AstraZeneca Covid—19 vaccine have been administered.
The first recipent was 82—year—old dialysis patient Brian Pinker
who said, "To my mind, it’s the only way to getting
back to a normal life."
Here’s our health correspondent Anna Collinson.
Her report does contain some flash photography.
At 7:303m this morning, all eyes were on an 82—year—old man, dialysis
patient Brian Pinker became the first person to receive the
Oxford—AstraZeneca vaccine.
He is now looking forward to celebrating
his 48th wedding anniversary.
The vaccine means everything to me.
To my mind, it’s the only way of getting back to a bit of
normal life.
You know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
Sam Foster administered the jab, which is seen
as a crucial moment in the UK’s fight against the coronavirus.
It was a huge privilege.
Every single patient that we have vaccinated over
the last couple of weeks have got their own personal stories to the
difference it’s going to make for them, so no different this
morning with our first two patients.
More than 500,000 doses are now being
rolled out, starting with a small group of
hospitals, including in Oxford.
A thumbs up from one of the scientists
who helped develop the vaccine.
It is a hugely proud moment.
It is a testament to the efforts of the teams both here and
around the world who have been working on the vaccine.
But also, I think, especially important for all
of those volunteers who came forward without really knowing whether this
vaccine was going to work to actually see their involvement has
brought us to this moment today.
The AstraZeneca jab is cheaper and easier to
store than the Pfizer one so fewer resources
are needed to reach the most vulnerable.
The phase one priority list is headed by those
who live and work in
care homes, followed by the over 805 and front
line health workers, and
then younger groups and the clinically vulnerable.
The first phase includes all adults aged 50
and over.
Doctors say a fast roll—out is essential so patients
will now wait 12 weeks for their second dose.
Leading scientists say this delay will allow more people to
be protected faster.

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 04/01/2021, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/17920523X?bcast=133570167 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)