You can see more isobars on the chart for the north and west,
so it’s going to be a breezy day for all, windy across the north—west,
with more cloud around and showery bursts of rain,
particularly across northern and Western Scotland,
perhaps the far north-west of England,
and thicker cloud for western Wales and the far south—west.
The best of the sunshine, southern and eastern England.
Like I mentioned, a breezy day for all
but windier across the north—west.
That will impact the temperatures, the mid teens across northern and
Western Scotland, but again in the sunshine further south it’s
going to feel warm, low to mid twenties Celsius.
Now, for Thursday, we’ve got low pressure again to the
north—west, higher pressure to the south—east, so not much change.
I think the best of the brightness will be across southern and eastern
areas, variable amounts of cloud, outbreaks of rain
and stronger winds for Western Scotland
and Northern Ireland close to the low pressure system.
But we are drawing air up from the south—west, so it’s a warm air mass.
Temperatures range from around 20 to 25 degrees.
Beyond that period, into the following weekend
and the following week, high pressure wants to build in
across the country, and that’ll keep
these weather systems out at bay.
So if you look at the jet stream,
you can see it’s veering to the north of the UK.
We will be on the warmer side of that jet as we end
the week and head into the following weekend
and the following week, and we’ll also see warmer air
building in, particularly when
high pressure establishes itself, bringing sunshine.
So it’s a fine and settled outlook for the
end of the week and beyond, with increasing
amounts of sunshine, light winds.
Temperatures will also be
creeping up. That’s how it’s looking.
Good times on BBC iPlayer.
Oh—ho—ho!
Your light’s going to shine bright
and you’re going to meet so many wonderful people.
Go, go, go!
Boom!
This is the best day out ever.
Now, that’s what I’m talking about.
We’re so excited.
Surprise!
Yeehah!
We’re young, we’re in love, we’re going to make it happen.
You were going to poison me? Yeah.
Well, you were going to poison me.
Well, no, I wasjust fantasising about...poisoning you.
What’s the difference? The difference is the poisoning.
APPLAUSE
Young people are our capital...
..and while it’s my pleasure to congratulate you
on this placement,
the work to stay here starts now.
We both know...
Wake up!
..what you’re capable of.
We should probably nudge up to around 20 in Glasgow
as well for Monday.
And then, the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
will see the jet stream pushing low pressures and weather
fronts mostly between Scotland and Iceland, but there isjust
the chance that some of these weather systems will clip
the very far north—west of the UK.
In the south, we will be closer to the high pressure,
so basically, the further south you are, the better the weather
will be in the week ahead.
Further north, dry, generally, but always a bit more cloud.
That’s it from me.
Bye— bye.
Welcome to BBC News — I’m Lewis Vaughanjones.
Our top stories...
G7 finance ministers agree a deal —
to make big tech companies pay more tax.
The post—pandemic world must be fairer.
Especially with regard to international taxation.
A UK health boss says the coronavirus vaccines
have "broken the chain" between infection
and serious illness.
Jamaica’s Shelly—Ann Fraser—Pryce becomes
the second—fastest woman in history — with her 100m
victory in Kingston.
BOOING AND CHANTING.
And an unfriendly farewell — a chorus of boos for the first
cruise ship to leave Venice since the pandemic started.
Hello and welcome to the programme.
It’s being called an "historic agreement", that could see
global governments make billions more in tax revenue.
The deal made by the G7 group of leading economies
could shake—up the tax system for multinational companies,
like big tech giants.
It could include a global minimum rate of 15% to avoid
countries undercutting each other.
Amazon, Google, and Facebook have welcomed the move.
Here’s our Economics Editor Faisal Islam.
Multinational companies, especially the big tech giants,
have become more powerful than some governments,
especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
Today, the finance ministers of the seven leading
economies, the G7, hit back with an historic deal brokered
by the Chancellor Rishi Sunak.
I’m delighted to announce that today after years
of discussion, G7 finance ministers have reached
a historic agreement to reform the global tax system,
to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially
to make sure it is fair, so that the right companies
pay the right tax in the right places.
They agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation
tax of at least 15%.
As well as rules to make the largest companies
with profits of more than 10% pay more tax in countries where
sales are made, notjust where they declare their profits.
The US had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
What do you say to those campaigners who say 15%
isn’t really going to be the transformative change?
We have yet to set the final rate.
There is an agreement amongst the G7, though,
to go for at least 15%, and I do think that is
an historic achievement.
Foryears, campaigners and European finance
ministers wanted this change but it was unthinkable,
up until a few months ago.
It’s the pandemic that has changed things, requiring
finance ministers around the world to have to fill
coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also a change
in the American government, as well, creating
a window of opportunity.
Now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
The proposals must now go to the wider 620 group
including China, Russia and Brazil, and then
the rest of the world.
The German finance minister hailed today as an important
step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead
with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
I’m sure that the decision that has been made today
will be very successful.
This is a train that has already started and anyone
willjoin the train.
Ireland’s rate of corporation tax is 12.5%.
Isn’t this notjust about a corporate tax rate
but the end of a low tax business model
for your country?
We will, even with an acknowledgement of the change
that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate
policies in place in Ireland that deliver a competitive
approach for Ireland and allow us to grow
and retain employment.
Google and Amazon have said they support the work
being done to reform tax rules.
50 has Facebook, which acknowledged it could end up
paying more as a result.
This deal is a product of very different times.
An opportunity taken in a crisis by the
world’s big seven.
The Americans are also using this meeting to urge
the rest of the world, despite worries about higher
borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial
support into the recovery or risk undermining it.
Faisal Islam, BBC News, at the G7.
Earlier I spoke to Stephaniejohnston,
chief correspondent for Tax Notes Today
which is a news service for tax professionals.
I asked her how significant she thought this agreement is.
It sort of depends on who you ask.
Landmark in the fact that countries are able,
the seven largest economies are able to agree on something
so major, but it’s not the final word, let’s
just say this.
Because, you know, this plan still needs to go to 139
countries for considerations, for further tweaks.
And then to the 620 finance ministers for them
to agree this plan...
So still hoops to jump through, but how likely do you think
something approximating what we’ve heard about today
will actually come into force?
Political agreement I think is very likelyjust
because this project has gone on for so long and the issue
and stakes are so high.
This problem, these problems that this agreement is trying
to address have been going on for years and decades.
You know, countries agree a change is needed
to the international tax Corporation, to the
international system.
Multinationals also agree that change is needed and countries
need a way to not only raise revenues, but also
stabilise the tax system, which is very badly needed.
0K, critics of this say it doesn’t go far enough,
having this, for example, 15% minimum tax rate, it’sjust
too low for some people?
Right, that is a big sticking point, Ithink.
But I think we also have to really recognise,
take a step back and think, these are major corporations
and major economies talking about global minimum taxation
which is really unthinkable say a decade ago.
I started this job about ten years ago and to think that
countries can even get to some agreement on the taxation
regime and a reallocation of profits among countries,
that was unthinkable decades ago.
I see it as a step toward a broader change.
That’s really good to hear, important to keep
that context in mind.
And with that in mind still, there’s a lot of cynicism
from people saying, actually, these big companies,
they have an army of people behind them trying to find
the most tax efficient arrangements for them
and that will continue?
Well, generally speaking, you can assume rules
are meant to be, not broken, but bent.
I mean, I would guess that companies...
Let’s just say, there will be plenty of work
available for tax lawyers and tax journalists.
A health boss in England says the decision on easing
restrictions on the 21st ofJune is finely balanced.
Chris Hopson warned that the delta variant,
first discovered in India, is still spreading
but he said vaccines appear to be breaking the link
between coronavirus cases and serious illness.
Our health correspondent Naomi Grimley reports.
It’s the big question of the summer.
Can hospitals still cope with the numbers of people
who will fall seriously ill with Covid—19 before
the full effects of mass vaccination are felt?
Hospital admissions are well below the levels
we saw in winter.
And today one of those representing health
trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
It does look as though the vaccines have kind
of broken the chain between catching Covid—19
and potentially being very, very seriously ill
and potentially dying.
Bolton is the area hit hardest by Covid’s more
transmissible Delta variant, first discovered in India.
Looking at what’s happening in hospitals is a gauge
to whether the NHS in general will be able to cope.
This graph shows the number of Covid patients in
Bolton’s hospitals over the last few months.
You can see there are high peaks in November and again
in January and February.
In the last few weeks, the figures have been rising
again but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
But new case numbers are rising noticeably as we mix more
and some experts fear the Delta variant could take hold
in groups which haven’t yet been fully vaccinated.
More mutations could be incorporated into the Delta
variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective
and that’s really what we want to avoid.
The worst case scenario for us is a variant
that is both more transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
Opinions in the scientific community remains split.
Perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that
more data is needed.
Naomi Grimley, BBC News.
The Indian capital Delhi has announced a gradual lifting
of covid restrictions, weeks after being ravaged
by a second wave.
Markets and malls will partially reopen from Monday.
Despite the move, officials are still warning the country
to prepare for a third wave of coronavirus.
The Secretary General of the United Nations,
Antonio Guterres, has expressed outrage at the killing
of a large number of civilians in Burkina Faso.
Suspected jihadist militants struck the north—eastern
village of Solhan in the Sahel region
of the country.132 people, including children —
were killed when homes and a market were targeted.
Burkina Faso’s RTB television announced
the government’s decision to hold three days
of national mourning.
Islamist extremists have carried out a series
of attacks in Burkina Faso and neighbouring countries
in the Sahel and more than 350,000 citizens have
been forced from their homes in the past three years.
Western diplomats in Nigeria have expressed
disappointment at the government’s decision
to suspend Twitter.
A joint statement from the US, EU, Britain, Canada and Ireland
said the right to free expression and information
was a pillar of democracy in Nigeria.
The row started after Twitter removed a tweet by Nigeria’s
President Muhammadu Buhari saying it breached the social
media platform’s rules — the governemnt accuses
the social media platform of undermining Nigeria’s
corporate existence. Mayeni Jones reports.
On Saturday morning, Twitter users in Nigeria woke
up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts.
That’s using most mobile phone networks.
On Wi—Fi, you could still access the website
and the hashtag "Thank God for VPN" has been trending,
suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use
the website by using virtual private networks.
The Nigerian government had announced on Friday that it
had planned to suspend all of Twitter’s
activities in the country.
At the time it was unclear what they meant by that.
It seems they have now decided to block access to the website.
Telecoms companies that operate in Nigeria released a statement
saying that they had received a directive from the government
to suspend Twitter and that they had complied,
but they did say that they followed the United Nations
provisions on freedom of communication and that
they agreed with those.
Twitter users in Nigeria have been very angry.
They say this is undemocratic.
Nigeria is Africa’s largest democracy and many see
this as a step backwards for the country.
Many also pointing out to the fact that President Buhari
was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805
and they see this latest move as a continuation
of that legacy.
Twitter has issued a statement, as they say they are deeply
concerned by the suspension of their services in Nigeria
and say they will work towards reinstating a service
for its users here.
There are about 150 million internet users in Nigeria and
according to the authorities here just over 60% of those use
Twitter, so it is a huge market for the social media company.
It will be really desperate to try and rebuild relationships
with the government.
For a little bit of context, this has happened because
Twitter deleted a post by President Buhari
earlier this week.
They said it breached its rules in that post.
Many Nigerian users flagged it because they felt it was
a threat to a secessionist movement in the
south—east of Nigeria.
This is BBC News — a reminder of the headlines:
G7 finance ministers say their agreement to reform
the global tax system will help end a ‘race to the bottom’
on taxation and help fund the economic recovery.
The head of NHS providers in England says
coronavirus vaccines appears to have broken the link between
cases and serious illness.
A US federaljudge has overturned California 5 32
year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it
unconstitutional.
He 5 given the state thirty days to appeal
against his decision.
California 5 governor condemned the ruling saying
it is a direct threat to public safety.
Robyn Thomas, executive director of Giffords Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence, told us she expected
the case may go to the US Supreme Court.
I certainly expect that gun rights advocates,
the gun lobby and the gun industry, who would love to be
selling many more assault weapons to many more Americans,
would like it to go to the Supreme Court
because they will do anything they can to convince
people to buy these guns.
This is what drives a lot of the momentum behind this
litigation, is the desire to sell more guns and
to encourage Americans that they need these very,
very lethal weapons in order to be safe.
When in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets
endangers the safety, notjust of our communities,
but of your own family.
Many, many of these mass shootings that happen
in our society happen because of unsecured assault
weapons left in the home, like the Sandy Hook shooting.
Let’s take a look at some of the other
stories making the news...
Kurdish officials in northern Iraq say at least
three people have been killed in a Turkish air strike
on a camp for displaced people.
m:
We are having some technical gremlins, so
We are having some technical gremlins, sol
We are having some technical gremlins, so I will bring you
gremlins, so I will bring you some of the stories before we
some of the stories before we get to our guest.
Kurdish officials in northern Iraq say at least
three people have been killed in a Turkish air strike
on a camp for displaced people.
The strike on the Makhmour camp, housing Kurdish
refugees from Turkey, comes three days after
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned that Turkey would "clean
up" the camp, which it claims provides a haven
for Kurdish militants.
Thousands of people have marched through Budapest to
protest against controversial plans to open a multi—million
dollar Chinese University campus in
the Hungarian capital.
They say the project will undercut the country’s
own higher education, and increase the influence of
China’s Communist authorities.
The right—wing government of Viktor Orban has
close ties with Beijing.
Now with just a month and a half before the Olympics
this summer, Jamaica’s two—time Olympic champion Shelly—Ann
Fraser—Pryce has become the second—fastest woman
in history, after running 100m injust 10.63 seconds.
Ms Fraser—Pryce beat the 10.72 seconds run
by Sha’Carri Richardson earlier this year,
and is second only to Florence Griffith—Joyner
who has held the world record since 1988.
Johanna Gretschel is a sports journalist
and long—distance runner herself and joins me
now from Texas.
Thank you for coming on the programme. Thank you so much
programme. Thank you so much for having me. This seems like
for having me. This seems like a pretty significant
a pretty significant achievement, what do you make
achievement, what do you make of it? Incredible, 10.63, we
of it? Incredible, 10.63, we haven’t seen a time like this
haven’t seen a time like this in nearty 33
haven’t seen a time like this in nearly 33 years and the
in nearly 33 years and the fastest anyone has run this
fastest anyone has mn this year is
fastest anyone has run this year is 10.72. To take the
year is 10.72. To take the leading time down by that much
leading time down by that much is definitely something nobody
is definitely something nobody saw coming. It
is definitely something nobody saw coming. Itjust bodes
saw coming. It just bodes really
saw coming. Itjust bodes really well. Given her age, how
really well. Given her age, how unexpected is this? 0K,
unexpected is this? 0K, Shelly—Ann is 3A years old, so
Shelly-Ann is 34 years old, so a little
Shelly—Ann is 3A years old, so a little bit more advanced than
a little bit more advanced than your typical elite athlete. She
your typical elite athlete. She is part of a larger trend where
is part of a larger trend where we are seeing women not being
we are seeing women not being able to continue their athletic
able to continue their athletic rareers
able to continue their athletic careers into their late 305.
careers into their late 305. And something we haven’t
And something we haven’t mentioned yet but I am sure we
mentioned yet but I am sure we will get to, she also recently
will get to, she also recently had a child a couple of years
had a child a couple of years ago and was already able to
ago and was already able to come back from childbirth in
come back from childbirth in 2019 and when the World
2019 and when the World Championships in the 100 has
Championships in the 100 has from that and was able to
from that and was able to change her colloquial nickname
change her colloquial nickname from The Pocket Rockets which
from The Pocket Rockets which she is really short, she is
she is really short, she is five feet tall,
she is really short, she is five feet tell, to the Mummy
five feet tell, to the Mummy Rockets. When women go through
Rockets. When women go through childbirth and are able to make
childbirth and are able to make that
childbirth and are able to make thatjump back into athletic
that jump back into athletic fitness,
thatjump back into athletic fitness, they are also able to
fitness, they are also able to gain some unprecedented
gain some unprecedented athletic gains and inner
athletic gains and inner strength that wasn’t there
strength that wasn’t there before. At 3A, she is a bit
before. At 34, she is a bit more
before. At 3A, she is a bit more advanced in age than your
more advanced in age than your typical elite athlete, but I
typical elite athlete, but I think it is a larger trend that
think it is a larger trend that we will see, especially at this
we will see, especially at this Olympic Games, because it was
Olympic Games, because it was delayed for a year because of
delayed for a year because of the pandemic so many athletes
the pandemic so many athletes he would have retired last year
he would have retired last year have been able to stay in the
have been able to stay in the game and prolong the career.
game and prolong the career. just brieﬂy,
game and prolong the career. Just briefly, what are her
Just briefly, what are her chances? Shelly—Ann is the
chances? Shelly—Ann is the favourite. There has been talk
favourite. There has been talk about the young American,
about the young American, Sha’Carri Richardson, who came
Sha’t’arri Richardson, who came out blazing
Sha’Carri Richardson, who came out blazing this year. 10.63,
out blazing this year. 10.63, Shelly-Ann
out blazing this year. 10.63, Shelly—Ann is definitely
Shelly—Ann is definitely cementing her status as the
cementing her status as the favour. Thank you so much,
favour. Thank you so much, great to have you on. Thank
great to have you on. Thank you.
Dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand
and shells from the Italian island of Sardinia —
where it’s illegal to remove the island’s natural resources.
Authorities there say the investigation is ongoing —
so far, 41 people are facing fines of up to 3,600
US dollars each.
Our news reporter Courtney Bembridge
has the details.
They are looking for tourists who may be unwittingly
or on purpose ﬂouting these local laws which restrict
people taking pebbles from the beach, any beach sand.
Sardinia is famous for its pristine, white sand and people
have been taking it away.
Each summer they put this operation in place to stop this
practice and stop people taking it home with them.
Why are people taking sand from a beach.
You may remember holidays, that thing we used to do?
People want a souvenir of these trips are what they would do
is finish an empty water bottle, fill it up with sand.
Customs officials are finding x—rays to find
these things in luggage.
There was one French couple in 2019, they were found that
A0 kilograms of sand in the back of their car.
They said they had no idea it was illegal,
but they were facing a penalty at the time of up
to six years in jail.
It is taken very seriously and the fine is up to 3600 US
dollars and 41 people have been caught in this latest operation
and they are trawlling the website where the bottles
of sand are getting high prices.
I can understand it is one thing taking a bit of sand,
I don’t know why you would do it, but you take it to remind
yourself of a holiday, but you will saying there
is a market for the sand?
Yes, there is a market online and the authorities are saying
you are getting very high prices for the sand.
My guess when you outlaw something its value increases.
There is a black market for sand, pebbles and rocks.
But the locals are sick of it and they have been complaining
for years that the beaches are being degraded by this
practice and they have set up their own system
where they get this sand and once it has been
confiscated from Taurus, they return it to the
specific beach came from.
So they are using a Facebook group called Sardinia
Robbed And Plundered.
A cruise ship has left Venice —
the first to do so since the coronavirus pandemic began.
While people are keen to get back to normality,
not everyone was happy about the ship entering
That you canal.
Rachel Stanton reports.
"No big ships".
That is what is on the flags being raised here in Venice.
People have taken to the streets and waters,
as they are concerned about the impact ships have
on the historic city.
Back in March this year, Italy’s government said cruise
ships would no longer sail past Venice’s St Mark’s Square
and the dock in the historic centre, but would instead be
diverted to the city’s industrial port.
However, the infrastructure is not yet in place
for this to happen.
This is the MSC Orchestra.
It’s set to cruise around the Mediterranean with
about 650 passengers.
But residents in Venice have been urging the government to
ban large ships from the lagoon over safety and
environmental concerns.
The reason we are here is because we are citizens of
Venice and we are against this passage, but we are also
against this type of tourism model that is destroying
the city and is pushing out residents and people
that want to live here.
A rival protest also took place in support of the resumption
of the tourist season.
Many have suffered financially as well as
losing their livelihoods.
In the last two decades, the picturesque city has become
one of the world’s most important cruise destinations,
and people are keen for things to get back on track.
Venice is a home port.
This is where many itineraries begin or end, and this
means two things, first that the economic impact
in Venice is huge.
The other thing is that, well, basically, there is a risk that
if Venice is taken off the itineraries, all
of the Adriatic will suffer the consequences of this,
so yeah, it would be a huge impact.
The battle to stop large vessels from being in these
waters is far from over.
The government said it is organising bids
for a rival alternative outside the lagoon, relieving
the traffic through Venice.
It’s reaching that time in the bulletin where we take
the opportunity to show you pictures of some
cute animals.
This time the animals in question are five wolf cubs —
who made their public debut at a zoo in Mexico City.
The cubs, who are said to be in good health,
are part of a breeding programme that’s kept
the species alive.
A reminder of our top story.
There’s been a mixed reaction to a landmark deal
reached by the G7 group of advanced economies to make
multinational companies pay more tax in the countries
where they do business.
Finance ministers, meeting in London, agreed to a global
minimum corporate tax rate of 15%.
Facebook said it wanted the reform to succeed,
even if it pays more tax.
Amazon also welcomed the move.
ﬂ
I will be back with the headlines in a couple of
headlines in a couple of minutes. Plenty online.
You can reach me on twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones
ﬂ
lam
I am Lewis Vaughan—Jones and
I am Lewis Vaughan-limes and this is
I am Lewis Vaughan—Jones and this is BBC News.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit and miss,
particularly across England.
You are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared
to Saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
But across Scotland and Northern Ireland I think
it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
Now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It’s a weak weather front, it’s actuallyjoining a big
area of low pressure to the north but that
will bring some showers to parts of Wales and England
from morning onwards.
So this is what it looks like through the early hours,
you can see some rain affecting parts of Devon, Dorset
into Wales and the Midlands, a stray shower in
the north of Scotland.
But generally speaking, it’s a clear night in Scotland,
Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District as well.
But many of us in England and Wales will be waking up
to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that
through the afternoon as well.
But I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands, but also
around Wales and east Anglia.
The best of the weather on Sunday Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine, but modest
highs here, 16 to 18.
In the south, despite the cloud and the showers will
still manage around 21 also in London.
This is BBC News, the headlines...
The G7 group of advanced economies have
reached a deal to make multinational companies pay
more tax in the countries where they do business.
Finance ministers meeting in London
agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%
to avoid countries undercutting each other.
A senior NHS official says the UK vaccination
programme appears to have broken the link between
cases of Covid—19 and serious illness or death.
The head of NHS Providers says people in hospital
with the Delta variant of coronavirus
are significantly younger —
which puts less strain on critical care.
The Nigerian government has defended its decision
to suspend Twitter — saying the social media
platform had been used to spread misinformation that
had violent consequences.
A joint statement from the US, the EU, Britain, Canada
and Ireland said the right to free expression
was a pillar of democracy.
Now on BBC News it’s Dateline London.
Hello and welcome to Dateline London.
This week we are asking should the UK unlock
from Covid restrictions or not?
Should the rich nations provide excess vaccines
to poorer countries, and what can we expect from
forthcoming global summits?
The G7 here in the UK and President Biden
and Vladimir Putin meeting in Geneva.
Joining me we have got Thomas and Stephanie.
And joining me here in studio is the BBC’s esteemed
health editor Hugh Pym.
Welcome to you all.
Freedom from C0vid restrictions in England onJune 21,
that is what BorisJohnson is hoping will still happen.
Scientists fear another wave despite the success of the UK’s
vaccination programme.
Let’s start off with you Hugh.
June the 21st, will restrictions be
lifted in England?
BorisJohnson says, you know, the data is looking pretty
good but actually, a lot of the figures are going in the
wrong direction at the moment.
Yes, I think this one will go right to the wire,
possibly up until the 14th ofJune because the Government
has made it clear that, for England, a week’s notice
will be given of any lifting of restrictions
planned for the 21st.
The first possible date.
But they will be watching data throughout the week leading up
to the 14th and right now the situation across the UK
to the 14th and right now the situation across the UK
is not looking quite as bright as it might have been
and of course, all of the UK’s four nations are looking very
closely at all the stats because they are making
decisions themselves throughout the UK about to when to lift
restrictions in different ways.
So the latest data on infections across the UK
suggests quite a big increase in the week leading up to
May the 29th, that is based on community infections picked
up by the Office for National Statistics,
and the daily reported case numbers which are just people
who have gone for testing.
That actually shows a pretty big increase as well.
More than 6000 in the UK for the first time
since the end of March.
But what the ministers and officials have to do making
these decisions is to say, yes, we expected cases
to go up because we opened up a bit in May.
How many people are actually going to hospital?
How many, sadly, don’t survive?
How effective is the vaccine, actually, in this situation?
Of course, we have got this Delta variant first identified
in India which we now know is more transmissible
and is increasing cases and is actually now
the dominant variant in the UK.
It has been described as a race between the vaccine
and the variant but there are some people saying,
actually, a huge proportion of adults in the UK have now
been vaccinated and rich countries should start giving
away their access vaccines to the poorer countries.
We have heard from Nepal and other countries
pleading for more vaccines because they are
so short of them.
The argument in the UK in the different nations
is you do need to get down to the 30—year—olds and below
that to those aged over 18 because there is still
a vulnerability to getting sick and then transmitting quite
a lot of cases amongst lower age groups who haven’t been
vaccinated so they could spread it to the vulnerable
who had not been vaccinated who are older.
In other words, you do need to push on with
the vaccine programme here.
But is contested by some who say that once you get under
people in their 205 you need to prioritise maybe sending
vaccines to other countries more in need so it is quite
delicately poised debate.
The argument in the UK is that the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine,
developed in the UK and has been provided at cost
only, not profit.
That is part of the UK’s contribution, they argue,
to the global effort.
Stephanie, do you think the richer nations should be
doing more and giving away more of their vaccines?
They all talk about, we are not vaccinated
until the whole world is vaccinated but on the whole
day seem to be wanting to vaccinate their adult
population first before they give away too much more.
No, absolutely.
I think wealthy countries with advanced vaccination
programmes are in a position to start sharing a lot more
doses than they have so far.
I mean, in the US there are now vaccinating 12—year—olds
where in low—income countries I think less than 1% of people
have gotten one dose.
The fact of the matter is, you know, we have seen
the virus, you know, surge in places with low vaccination
with very little access to vaccines.
Take Argentina, Nepal, Thailand and, you know,
so far the US has promised to provide about 25 million
doses, sharing most of the global alliance
called Covax which was set up last year to provide vaccines
to low—income countries and so far it is way
behind on its targets.
It is about 190 million doses short of where it was hoping
to be by the end ofJune and it is kind of outmanoeuvred
and outbid by wealthy countries that have blocked up vaccine
supplies with bilateral deals with the most promising vaccine
developers but the reality is the US in particular,
I would say, is in a position to be sharing more doses
than it is.
At the current rate it is going, I think
it is delivering about 70 million doses more than has
been administered so they are really looking at a glut
in vaccine supply and, you know, I think for each
country should be realising it is in their self interest now
to be sharing this vaccines more widely in order to contain
the virus as well as slow the spread of these variants
that are developing and seem to be boomeranging back
to rich countries.
Thomas, I mean, some people watching this might say
charity begins at home, vaccination begins at home.
We need to look after our own country first before
we look after the rest of the world.
Welcome I don’t want to...
But I will admit that this new pandemic that hit the world
globally at a moment when nobody was prepared
for it and as you say, all these governments
are elected into power by the electorate,
have to mind and consider their own population.
But at the same time they also have to be understanding
of the fact that you don’t save your own country
and population if you don’t make sure
that the rest of the world will participate in the general
saving effort and so we have learned, all the while, and,
yes, I agree with you, you have to mind the store,
your own store.
You have to be generous, as it were, to your own population.
To show that you care for them but you also have to educate
everyone in your own country, that you cannot buy safety
by isolating yourself against the rest of the world.
This is a global pandemic and if there is a future pandemic
of this kind hopefully we will all learn from it
and we will start right from the beginning to spread
the available medicine and help in as wide a way as possible.
We have learned that from what we have experienced
in the last 18 months.
The question, this issue about, you know,
should the richer countries he vaccinating their children?
It is now becoming possible.
When adults in some of the poorer countries
around the world hath not been vaccinated.
This is becoming a key question, isn’t it?
Welcome it is.
Certainly on the back of news that the medical regulators
given the go—ahead and said it is safe to vaccinate
children under 12 and over following the EMA for Europe
has also given the green light to that and in the US the FDA,
and in fact, the US has started vaccinating children
aged 12 or over and it is planned in France as well.
It is not definitely going to go ahead in the UK.
TheJCVI, the expert committee on vaccinations which advises
the Government will give a view on whether it should happen.
No doubt some of these ethical issues will come into play.
It has been indicated by ministers that there is enough
Pfizer to go through to 12—year—olds and over.
Children certainly don’t get seriously ill based on the data
but they can transmit it to communities and therefore
you would want to vaccinate but it is a delicate issue.
The US and France with a lot lower levels of uptake, then
there is more of an argument for getting the vaccine
into children.
But certainly, it is a very topical issue
right now, as you say.
Some of these richer countries do have huge
stockpiles of vaccines.
The UK has millions and millions.
Either in its hands
or on order.
Yes, I think that that the vaccines currently
being used in the UK, a lot was ordered and also
Johnson and Johnson, the doses which are due
to come through there.
The single—dose vaccine.
And others which have not yet been formally approved
and the argument of British ministers is, well, we moved
quickly to secure these and we do need to act
for the benefit of taxpayers but it is certainly leaving
governments like that open to suggestion, you have
ordered far too many, can you not release
some at this stage?
Thank you for that.
Later this month there are two important summit
meetings coming up.
The first is the G7 and it is being hosted
here in the UK and in fact, I will be in Cornwall
covering that for BBC News next weekend.
The second is the first face—to—face meeting
between PresidentJoe Biden and Russia’s Vladimir
Putin in Geneva.
Thomas, it is summit season.
Sketch out for us what you think will be the importance
of those two summits.
It is a pretty tall order to be summarising
the summits in such a short time.
Let me start with a second one.
The dialogue, as it were, between President Biden
and President Putin.
I am reminded of what happened exactly 60 years ago
inJune 1961 when Kennedy and Khrushchev met and it was
decided to be a summit where the mettle of the young
American president was tested.
Will Putin do the same?
I hope not.
Biden is the most experienced politician in America
at the moment and he does not need the Russian President
trying to find him out so they are having to work
for a stable relationship.
The problem with Russia is, the main bone of
contention is Ukraine.
A democratic hopefully Western country which
Russia cannot accept close in the proximity.
They consider Ukraine to be a threat
to their own authoritarian rule.
That is why President Putin has leaned on this other dictator
in his neighbourhood in Belarus, Lukashenko.
And supported him an air piracy where plane was forced down
and a Belarus dissident was apprehended and so forth.
Such events cannot be tolerated and we need to unite to make
sure that won’t happen, but on the other hand
there is a mixed signal coming from the Biden administration.
He shown himself willing to reconsider some of
the approaches towards Russia.
For example, he has waived sanctions against the company
which built in Germany the Nordstream gas pipeline
which was a very big issue in the beginning
of the Biden presidency.
And so that has been moved off the table of opposition,
and their meeting,
which is a way to recognise Russia as an important ally,
and they can talk about common problems like Covid,
probably even the Middle East and other
issues the world over.
So there is a reason for trying to work a relationship.
Now, that said, lam not very hopeful it will
happen straightaway.
Earlier President Biden was asked in an interview, do
you think that President Putin is a killer and he said yes.
And when they met for the first time ten years ago
when they were both vice President at the time Biden
looked into the eyes of Putin and said, I don’t think
you have a soul.
So there is no real sort of national rapprochement
between them and no natural understanding.
And they will have to work on it to try to mediate.
The Ukraine issue, as I said before, is a difficult one
for Putin who cannot accept a democratic Western country
in the neighbourhood that threatens
his own authoritarian rule.
It seems to be an intractable situation and we will
need to wait and see what comes of it.
Now, in Cornwall, it is an equally intractable event
because the several issues which are on the table,
each of them takes a whole conference to solve.
There is the question of global trade.
Britain is very much in the forefront, as a global
nation, now having left the EU, to want to expand trade
relations with the world and they also want to work
on taxing big tech companies which so far has been a bone
of contention but overall, which will absolutely outshine
all these other issues will be the issue of how to deal
with another global pandemic if the world is hit by it.
We are coming together here at an important moment
and I said before the world at large has to recognise this
as a global problem.
We have to forget all our own individual nations
which we have to serve.
We have to think globally.
Gordon Brown has published a new book, Seven Ways
of Saving The World, and he said how shocked
he was that global cooperation was lacking in the beginning
of the pandemic when isolationism ruled supreme.
So the Cornwall gathering will have to unite behind a common
approach to global pandemics.
Stephanie, let me ask you how important is a lot this for
Joe Biden, do you think?
It is his first overseas trip as President and, you know,
some people are saying, actually, he should not be
seeing Putin at all.
He is rewarding Putin by even having that
face—to—face meeting with him.
Yes, absolutely.
Many are questioning what he is hoping to
achieve by meeting him.
For Putin the meeting itself is a victory.
It signals his acceptance on the global stage, you know,
and as Thomas pointed out there is no love lost
between the two of them.
There is no personal chemistry, you know, and there is a very
long list of issues that Biden will no doubt raise
and admonish Putin for.
Everything from the poisoning and jailing of the Russian
opposition activist, Navalny, the spate of cyber attacks that
have happened in the US emanating
from hackers in Russia.
Now, we don’t know to what extent that is sanctioned
by the Russian Government but that is certainly
another bone of contention between the two but,
you know, I think it kind of reflects Biden’s worldview
that he kind of want to engage with adversaries in the hopes
of trying to, diplomatically, so to speak, as a way of trying
to find some common ground, figure out whether you can get
certain issues forward and I think some of
issues will be perhaps Iran’s nuclear programme
where there are perhaps shared interests.
Possibly a new arms control treaty, Syria, what have you.
So there is a long list of things that they do
need to discuss.
All I can say is it will certainly be a very different
summit to the one in 2018 between Trump and Putin
which was, as you may remember, a disaster.
Trump was trying to curry favour with Putin, said
he believed him when he said that Russia had nothing to do
with election meddling in 2016.
And it was by and large seen as an embarrassment.
You know, so this will have a very different tone to it
and we will wait to see how much of the sort of clash that
might happen behind the scenes we get a view on the kind
of joint statement that they might put together at the end.
Let me just ask you about the G7 summit in Cornwall
because the pandemic of course is going to feature
very heavily.
And it is a chance, really, for more co—operation
between the big nations of the world.
Yes, and as we have been hearing, calls are coming
in from diplomats and former leaders and others putting
pressure on the G7 to really come up with a big financial
contribution to vaccine roll—outs
in developing nations.
Gordon Brown, the former British prime minister
been one of them.
Saying that the G7 collectively has got the
firepower to make much bigger contribution
at the moment financially.
The health ministers have been meeting in Oxford.
They’ve come out with a communique, one bit
of which includes a push to speed up and harmonise drug
development so that drug trials can happen a lot more quickly
and there are standards for doing it but there’s one
thing learned in this pandemic is the normal rather ponderous
way that drugs are approved had to be thrown out of the window
to get to treatments and vaccines to the patient
as quickly as possible and then there are moves to boost
international agreements on certification so that
vaccine passports and certificates
could be more easily available.
But of course this is all talk at the moment.
Whether any action follows is another matter.
We are talking about talking.
0K.
Before we go I want to ask each of you to tell us something
that has caught your eye, maybe a story or event
we ought to be covering.
Let’s start with you Thomas.
There happen a number of cases lately of compatriots
of mine in Germany and other EU citizens who came to
Heathrow Airport and had problems being accepted
by the Border Force either as some of them who had settled
status and were allowed to in Britain but the documents
were not recognising they had to be verified,
and others who thought they wanted to try to work
and the borderforce said no, this is not possible
and they were put in detention.
And straightaway asked fly back home.
There is been a general sort of breakdown
in good spirits and good vibes, as it were, between
the forces that be at the border and visitors.
I think all these problems are causing a lot of reputational
damage to Britain in Europe because these stories
about what you envisage and what you experience
when you try to enter Britain, they spread like fire,
they are all over the media in Europe and they lead
to an increased ill will towards Britain and I think
we need to study what happens at the British Border
and whether or not a new sense of xenophobia is taking hold
of those officials and we need to really fight it
tooth and nail to not allow this to happen.
Thank you for that.
Stephanie, what has caught your eye?
Well, you know, two cases of pro—democracy activists
being arrested, I think I would love to highlight.
One, obviously, today is the anniversary of
Tiananmen Square massacre and a pro—democracy
activist was detained.
Can I pronounce her name right?
Just a very sad moment.
And in Belarus I think we have moved on and forgotten
about the activist who remains injail and he appeared
in a one—hour TV interview in Belarus where he pledged
his support for the Belarusian President and, you know,
confessed to alleged crimes and some of his supporters
noted that, you know, he had marks on his wrist
which indicated that, you know, he had been tortured.
So here you have a case of two pro—democracy activists,
you know, campaigning against authoritarian regimes
who are now sitting in prison and it is just a sad state
of the world that, you know, they are just two of
many other activists in similar situations.
You think the world, the democratic world,
if you like, does enough?
There have been a lot of protests
and strong words about those things that you are talking
about but is there enough action?
Well, you know, not enough.
We are confronting these authoritarian regimes that
are routinelyjailing, you know, activists.
And it pops up in the news and then we forget about it,
which is why I wanted to highlight the plight
of the activist in Belarus because it is easy to
move on in the cycle
and forget that these people are
still sitting injail.
So I don’t actually think there was another that is done
and not enough attention paid to these cases.
And they are multiplying.
A quick one to you, Thomas.
Do you think that the democratic world,
if you want to call it that, is doing enough
on these things?
Whatever you do in these instances you are actually
hitting against a stone wall.
These authoritarian regimes, dictatorships,
why don’t we call them by their proper names?
Will absolutely fight it and move it off the table
and not care a single iota about whatever protest
we put forward.
If you want to go further and punish those regimes
by sanctions you have a problem
in your own country.
Will sanctions hurt our own interest?
Economic and otherwise?
There is a limit to what we can do if countries behave
in a dictatorial sense and reign supreme over the freedom
of their subjects.
That is a very hard nut to crack.
A minute to tell you what has caught your eye.
Long Covid.
The symptoms that can persist for many, many
months after somebody has had the virus.
Figures from the UK say a million people report
long coated symptoms and a big increase in people who have had
them for more than a year.
I interviewed a woman of 26 studying for a PhD and keen
on outdoor activities like mountaineering
and canoeing anti—said all of that had to change.
It had totally changed her life and her message to other 20
year olds and anyone else who has not had
and who is eligible, long Covid is a very
nasty long lasting condition
which there is no cure or remedy at the moment.
Thank you very much indeed.
That is it for this week.
My thanks to Thomas, Stephanie and Hugh here
in the studio and of course, thanks to you
very much for watching.
As I mentioned, I will be in Cornwall next week
for the G7 summit.
Looking forward to little English sunshine on the coast.
Shaun will be here next week same time, same place.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit and miss,
particularly across England.
You are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared
to Saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
But across Scotland and Northern Ireland I think
it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
Now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It’s a weak weather front, it’s actuallyjoining
a big area of low pressure to the north but that
will bring some showers to parts of Wales and England
from morning onwards.
So this is what it looks like through the early hours,
you can see some rain affecting parts of Devon, Dorset
into Wales and the Midlands,
a stray shower in the north of Scotland.
But generally speaking, it’s a clear night in Scotland,
Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District as well.
But many of us in England and Wales will be waking up
to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that
through the afternoon as well.
But I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands, but also
around Wales and east Anglia.
The best of the weather on Sunday — Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine, but modest
highs here, 16 to 18.
In the south, despite the cloud and the showers we’ll
still manage around 21 also in London.
You can see, there’s the clock, 8pm, 9pm, still some showers
around in the evening across parts
of England and Wales.
So not a completely dry day but with a bit of luck you’ll have
prolonged sunny spells rather than the heavy showers.
On Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK.
So the best of the weather, although a little bit hazy
at times out towards the west, I think.
But decent enough, temperatures around 22 in London,
20 in Liverpool and should probably nudge up to around 20
in Glasgow as well for Monday.
And then the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
we’ll see the jet stream pushing low
pressures and weather
fronts and mostly between Scotland and Iceland,
but there is just the chance that some of these weather
systems will clip the very far north—west of the UK
and the south will be closer to the high pressure,
so basically the further south you are, the better the weather
will be in the week ahead.
Further north, dry generally but always a bit more cloud.
That’s it from me, bye—bye.
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
It’s being hailed as a "historic agreement",
that could see global governments make billions
more in tax revenue.
The deal made by the G7 group of leading economies
could shake—up the tax system for multinational companies,
like big tech giants.
It could include a global minimum corporate tax rate
of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
Tech companies Google and Facebook have
welcomed the move.
Our Economics Editor Faisal Islam reports.
Multinational companies, especially the big tech giants,
have become more powerful than some governments,
especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
Today, the finance ministers of the seven leading
economies, the G7, hit back with an historic deal brokered
by the Chancellor Rishi Sunak.
I’m delighted to announce that today after years
of discussion, G7 finance ministers have reached
a historic agreement to reform the global tax system,
to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially
to make sure it is fair, so that the right companies
pay the right tax in the right places.
They agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation
tax of at least 15%.
As well as rules to make the largest companies
with profits of more than 10% pay more tax in countries where
sales are made, notjust where they declare their profits.
The US had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
What do you say to those campaigners who say 15%
isn’t really going to be the transformative change?
We have yet to set the final rate.
There is an agreement amongst the G7, though,
to go for at least 15%, and I do think that is
an historic achievement.
Foryears, campaigners and European finance
ministers wanted this change but it was unthinkable,
up until a few months ago.
It’s the pandemic that has changed things, requiring
finance ministers around the world to have to fill
coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also a change
in the American government, as well, creating
a window of opportunity.
Now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
The proposals must now go to the wider 620 group
including China, Russia and Brazil, and then
the rest of the world.
The German finance minister hailed today as an important
step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead
with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
I’m sure that the decision that has been made today
will be very successful.
This is a train that has already started and anyone
willjoin the train.
Ireland’s rate of corporation tax is 12.5%.
Isn’t this notjust about a corporate tax rate
but the end of a low tax business model
for your country?
We will, even with an acknowledgement of the change
that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate
policies in place in Ireland that deliver a competitive
approach for Ireland and allow us to grow
and retain employment.
Google and Amazon have said they support the work
being done to reform tax rules.
50 has Facebook, which acknowledged it could end up
paying more as a result.
This deal is a product of very different times.
An opportunity taken in a crisis by the
world’s big seven.
The Americans are also using this meeting to urge
the rest of the world, despite worries about higher
borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial
support into the recovery or risk undermining it.
Faisal Islam, BBC News, at the G7.
Let 5 get some of the day 5 other news.
UN Secretary—General, Antonio Guterres, has expressed
outrage at a suspected jihadist militant attack
in Burkina Faso.
At least 132 people have been killed in the north—eastern
village of Solhan in the Sahel region of the country.
Three days of mourning have been announced.
The President of El Salvador has told atendees at
the Bitcoin 2021 conference in Florida that he’ll make
the crypto currency legal tender in his country alongside
the US dollar.
If congress backs his proposal, El Salvador would become
the first country in the world to formally adopt bitcoin.
Thousands of people have marched through Budapest to
protest against controversial plans to open a multi—million
dollar Chinese University campus in
the Hungarian capital.
They say the project will undercut the country’s
own higher education, and increase the influence of
China’s Communist authorities.
The right—wing government of Viktor Orban has
close ties with Beijing.
m:
We pause to say goodbye to viewers watching around the
viewers watching around the world, but in the UK...
Former US President Donald Trump has returned to the stage
to address the Republican faithful, for his first speech
in several months as he considers a new presidential
run in 202A.
Organisers at the convention of North Carolina’s Republican
Party said the event was a sell—out, with
all 1250 tickets sold.
Although Mr Trump has been cut off from social networks,
many Republicans still see him as a valuable asset ahead
of midterm elections next year.
It’s a disgrace what’s happening to our country.
The survival of America depends on our ability to elect
Republicans at every level, starting with the
midterms next year.
We have to get it done.
We have no choice, actually.
The head of NHS Providers, which represents English
trusts — says the decision on easing restrictions
in England on the 2lst ofJune is finely balanced.
Chris Hopson warned that the delta variant,
first discovered in India, was still spreading
but he said vaccines appear to be breaking the link
between coronavirus cases and serious illness.
Our health correspondent Naomi Grimley reports.
It’s the big question of the summer.
Can hospitals still cope with the numbers of people
who will fall seriously ill with Covid—19 before
the full effects of mass vaccination are felt?
Hospital admissions are well below the levels
we saw in winter.
And today one of those representing health
trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
It does look as though the vaccines have kind
of broken the chain between catching Covid—19
and potentially being very, very seriously ill
and potentially dying.
Bolton is the area hit hardest by Covid’s more
transmissible Delta variant, first discovered in India.
Looking at what’s happening in hospitals is a gauge
to whether the NHS in general will be able to cope.
This graph shows the number of Covid patients in
Bolton’s hospitals over the last few months.
You can see there are high peaks in November and again
in January and February.
In the last few weeks, the figures have been rising
again but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
But new case numbers are rising noticeably as we mix more
and some experts fear the Delta variant could take hold
in groups which haven’t yet been fully vaccinated.
More mutations could be incorporated into the Delta
variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective
and that’s really what we want to avoid.
The worst case scenario for us is a variant
that is both more transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
Opinions in the scientific community remains split.
In the end the decision whether to loosen restrictions further
to loosen restrictions further is a political one.
Opinions in the scientific community remains split.
Perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that
more data is needed.
Naomi Grimley, BBC News.
The latest government figures show there were 5,765
new coronavirus infections and 13 deaths, in the
latest 24—hour period.
On average the number of new cases reported per day
in the last week, was 4,485.
In the vaccine roll—out over 174,000 people have received
a first vaccine dose in the last 2A hours.
In total, more than 40.1 million people have now
had theirfirstjab.
That’s 76.2% of the UK adult population.
Over 360,000 people had their second dose
in the past 2A hours, meaning more than 27.1 million
people have had both doses.
That’s 51.6% of the adult population.
Coronavirus restrictions have eased for millions
of people in Scotland.
Glasgow has moved down to level two, which means people can
meet in each other’s homes, in limited numbers,
and drink alcohol in pubs and restaurants for the first
time in almost nine months.
But a planned relaxation across some other parts of
the country has been delayed.
Alexandra Mackenzie reports.
Restrictions in Glasgow have been eased.
Life is beginning to lookjust a little bit more normal.
As the city moves to level two, it’s the first time this
new bar has been allowed to serve alcohol inside.
So far it’s been good.
A lot of happy faces, obviously, people getting out
and about, and I think there is starting to be a
weight off people’s shoulders.
Cinemas also reopened in Glasgow today.
They had already opened in the rest of Scotland.
This new one in the city centre welcomed its first customers.
It’s really exciting for us as a family.
We really enjoy going to the cinema.
We are going to see Cruella and I’m really excited to go
back to the cinema again.
We can go and socialise with our friends who we feel
like we haven’t seen in ages, as well.
And we’ve just found out we’re having a baby
so we get to share that news, as well!
But the number of cases of coronavirus in Scotland has
been rising, they’ve more than tripled in the last month.
The First Minister has described the situation
as "fragile" and is encouraging people to remain cautious.
Because of this, some easing has been put on pause.
Places, including Edinburgh and Dundee, had hoped to have
more restrictions lifted, but instead, for now,
those remain in place.
In Glasgow, people are making the most of life with fewer
restrictions, but fear there is still some way to go
before they can celebrate the end of the Covid pandemic.
Alexandra Mackenzie, BBC News, Glasgow.
Western diplomats in Nigeria have expressed disappointment
at the government’s decision to suspend Twitter.
A joint statement from the US, EU, Britain, Canada and Ireland
said the right to free expression and information
was a pillar of democracy in Nigeria.
The row started after Twitter removed a tweet by Nigeria’s
President Muhammadu Buhari saying it breached the social
media platform’s rules — the governemnt accuses
the social media platform of undermining Nigeria’s
corporate existence."
Mayenijones reports.
On Saturday morning, Twitter users in Nigeria woke
up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts.
That’s using most mobile phone networks.
On Wi—Fi, you could still access the website
and the hashtag "Thank God for VPN" has been trending,
suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use
the website by using virtual private networks.
The Nigerian government had announced on Friday that it
had planned to suspend all of Twitter’s
activities in the country.
At the time it was unclear what they meant by that.
It seems they have now decided to block access to the website.
Telecoms companies that operate in Nigeria released a statement
saying that they had received a directive from the government
to suspend Twitter and that they had complied,
but they did say that they followed the United Nations
provisions on freedom of communication and that
they agreed with those.
Twitter users in Nigeria have been very angry.
They say this is undemocratic.
Nigeria is Africa’s largest democracy and many see
this as a step backwards for the country.
Many also pointing out to the fact that President Buhari
was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805
and they see this latest move as a continuation
of that legacy.
Twitter has issued a statement, as they say they are deeply
concerned by the suspension of their services in Nigeria
and say they will work towards reinstating a service
for its users here.
There are about 150 million internet users in Nigeria and
according to the authorities here just over 60% of those use
Twitter, so it is a huge market for the social media company.
It will be really desperate to try and rebuild relationships
with the government.
For a little bit of context, this has happened because
Twitter deleted a post by President Buhari
earlier this week.
They said it breached its rules in that post.
Many Nigerian users flagged it because they felt it was
a threat to a secessionist movement in the
south—east of Nigeria.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
G7 finance ministers say their agreement to reform
the global tax system will help end a ‘race to the bottom’
on taxation and help fund the economic recovery.
The head of NHS providers in England says coronavirus
vaccines appears to have broken the link between cases
and serious illness.
A US federaljudge has overturned California 5
32—year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it
unconstitutional.
He 5 given the state 30 days to appeal.
California 5 governor condemned the ruling saying
it is a direct threat to public safety.
Robyn Thomas, executive director of Giffords Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence, told us the case may go
to the Supreme Court.
I certainly expect that gun rights advocates,
the gun lobby and the gun industry, who would love to be
selling many more assault weapons to many more Americans,
would like it to go to the Supreme Court
because they will do anything they can to convince
people to buy these guns.
This is what drives a lot of the momentum behind this
litigation, is the desire to sell more guns and
to encourage Americans that they need these very,
very lethal weapons in order to be safe.
When in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets
endangers the safety, notjust of our communities,
but of your own family.
Many, many of these mass shootings that happen
in our society happen because of unsecured assault
weapons left in the home, like the Sandy Hook shooting.
Dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand
and shells from the Italian island of Sardinia —
where it’s illegal to remove the island’s natural resources.
Authorities there say the investigation is ongoing —
so far, 41 people are facing fines of up to 3,600
US dollars each.
Our news reporter Courtney Bembridge
has the details.
They are looking for tourists who may be unwittingly
or on purpose ﬂouting these local laws which restrict
people taking pebbles from the beach, any beach sand.
Sardinia is famous for its pristine, white sand and people
have been taking it away.
Each summer they put this operation in place to stop this
practice and stop people taking it home with them.
Why are people taking sand from a beach?
You may remember holidays, that thing we used to do?
People want a souvenir of these trips are what they would do
trips and what they would do
is finish an empty water bottle, fill it up with sand.
Customs officials are finding x—rays to find
these things in luggage.
There was one French couple in 2019, they were found that
A0 kilograms of sand in the back of their car.
They said they had no idea it was illegal,
but they were facing a penalty at the time of up
to six years in jail.
It is taken very seriously and the fine is up to 3600 US
dollars and 41 people have been caught in this latest operation
and they are trawlling the website where the bottles
of sand are getting high prices.
I can understand it is one thing taking a bit of sand,
I don’t know why you would do it, but you take it to remind
yourself of a holiday, but you will saying there
is a market for the sand?
Yes, there is a market online and the authorities are saying
you are getting very high prices for the sand.
My guess when you outlaw something its value increases.
There is a black market for sand, pebbles and rocks.
But the locals are sick of it and they have been complaining
for years that the beaches are being degraded by this
practice and they have set up their own system
where they get this sand and once it has been
confiscated from Taurus, they return it to the
confiscated from tourists, hey return it to the
specific beach came from. hey return it to the
So they are using a Facebook group called Sardinia
Robbed And Plundered.
A cruise ship has left Venice —
the first to do so since the coronavirus pandemic began.
While people are keen to get back to normality,
not everyone was happy about the ship entering
the Giudecca canal.
Rachel Stanton reports.
"No big ships".
That is what is on the flags being raised here in Venice.
People have taken to the streets and waters,
as they are concerned about the impact ships have
on the historic city.
Back in March this year, Italy’s government said cruise
ships would no longer sail past Venice’s St Mark’s Square
and the dock in the historic centre, but would instead be
diverted to the city’s industrial port.
However, the infrastructure is not yet in place
for this to happen.
This is the MSC Orchestra.
It’s set to cruise around the Mediterranean with
about 650 passengers.
But residents in Venice have been urging the government to
ban large ships from the lagoon over safety and
environmental concerns.
The reason we are here is because we are citizens of
Venice and we are against this passage, but we are also
against this type of tourism model that is destroying
the city and is pushing out residents and people
that want to live here.
A rival protest also took place in support of the resumption
of the tourist season.
Many have suffered financially as well as
losing their livelihoods.
In the last two decades, the picturesque city has become
one of the world’s most important cruise destinations,
and people are keen for things to get back on track.
Venice is a home port.
This is where many itineraries begin or end, and this
means two things, first that the economic impact
in Venice is huge.
The other thing is that, well, basically, there is a risk that
if Venice is taken off the itineraries, all
of the Adriatic will suffer the consequences of this,
so yeah, it would be a huge impact.
The battle to stop large vessels from being in these
waters is far from over.
The government said it is organising bids
for a viable alternative outside the lagoon, relieving
the traffic through Venice.
Now with just a month and a half before the Olympics
this summer, Jamaica’s two—time Olympic champion Shelly—Ann
Fraser—Pryce has become the second—fastest woman
in history, after running 100m injust 10.63 seconds.
Ms Fraser—Pryce beat the 10.72 seconds run
by Sha’Carri Richardson earlier this year,
and is second only to Florence Griffith—Joyner
who has held the world record since 1988.
Johanna Gretschel is a sports journalist in Texas
and long—distance runner herself — she gave me
her reaction to Ms Frances—Pryce’s feat.
Incredible, 10.63, we haven’t seen a time like this in nearly
33 years and the fastest anyone has run this year is 10.72.
To take the leading time down by that much is definitely
something nobody saw coming.
Itjust bodes really well.
Given herage, how unexpected is this?
0K, Shelly—Ann is 3A years old, so a little bit more advanced
than your typical elite athlete.
She is part of a larger trend where we are seeing
women not being able to continue their athletic
careers into their late 305.
And something we haven’t mentioned yet but I am
sure we will get to, she also recently had a child
a couple of years ago and was already able to come
back from childbirth in 2019 and when the World
in 2019 and win the World
Championships in the 100 has from that and was able to
change her colloquial nickname from The Pocket Rocket
which she is really short, she is five feet tall,
to the Mommy Rocket.
When women go through childbirth and are able to make
thatjump back into athletic fitness, they are also able
to gain some unprecedented athletic gains and inner
strength that wasn’t there before.
At 3A, she is a bit more advanced in age than your
typical elite athlete, but I think it is a larger
trend that we will see, especially at this Olympic
Games, because it was delayed for a year because of
the pandemic so many athletes who would have retired
last year have been able to stay in the game
and prolong their career.
Just briefly, what are her chances?
Shelly—Ann is the favourite.
There has been talk about the young American,
Sha’Carri Richardson, who came out blazing this year.
Ran two 10.75 in the same day.
10.63, Shelly—Ann is definitely cementing her
status as the favourite.
From a sprint to along distance trek that’s captured
the imagination of millions of people across China.
A herd of wild elephants that has been moving
northwards over the course of several months.
They began theirjourney in a nature reserve in Yunnan
province and after five—hundred kilometres —
they’ve now reached the outskirts of
the city of Kunming.
The BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Day after day, week after week, month after month, the elements
month after month, the elements are on the march. The smaller
are on the march. The smaller members of the group sometimes
members of the group sometimes need a helping hand, or trunk
need a helping hand, or tmnk to get them
need a helping hand, or trunk to get them on their way. Such
to get them on their way. Such a situation has happened for
a situation has happened for the first time in history. It
the first time in history. It has never happened before. It
has never happened before. It needs to be further observed
needs to be further observed and studied. It is not entirely
and studied. It is not entirely dear
and studied. It is not entirely clear when their odyssey began.
clear when their odyssey began. Some say they might have set
Some say they might have set out as earty
Some say they might have set out as early as December. The
out as earty as December. The animals
out as early as December. The animals forging a trail through
animals forging a trail through the Chinese countryside,
the Chinese countryside, occasionally straying into
occasionally straying into towns and villages and helping
towns and villages and helping themselves to something to eat.
themselves to something to eat. TRANSLATION: They like to go to
TRANSLATION: They like to go to areas frequented by humans as
areas frequented by humans as there is plenty of food. The
there is planty of food. The Asian
there is plenty of food. The Asian elephants take such areas
Asian elephants take such areas as their habitat. The Asian
as their habitat. The Asian authorities have deployed
authorities have deployed people to try to lure the
people to try to lure the animals away from the local
animals away from the local population. But now they have
population. But now they have reached a major city of more
reached a major city of more than 6 million people. What
than 6 million peopla. what they plan
than 6 million people. What they plan to do next is any
they plan to do next is any one’s guess.
You can reach me on twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones
ﬂ
lam
I am Lewis Vaughan—Jones and
I am Lewis Vaughan-limes and this is
I am Lewis Vaughan—Jones and this is BBC News.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit and miss,
particularly across England.
You are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared
to Saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
But across Scotland and Northern Ireland I think
it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
Now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It’s a weak weather front, it’s actuallyjoining a big
area of low pressure to the north but that
will bring some showers to parts of Wales and England
from morning onwards.
So this is what it looks like through the early hours,
you can see some rain affecting parts of Devon, Dorset
into Wales and the Midlands, a stray shower in
the north of Scotland.
But generally speaking, it’s a clear night in Scotland,
Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District as well.
But many of us in England and Wales will be waking up
to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that
through the afternoon as well.
But I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands, but also
around Wales and east Anglia.
The best of the weather on Sunday Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine, but modest
highs here, 16 to 18.
In the south, despite the cloud and the showers will
still manage around 21 also in London.
You can see, there’s the clock, 8pm, 9pm, still some showers
around in the evening across parts
of England and Wales.
So not a completely dry day but with a bit of luck you’ll have
prolonged sunny spells rather than the heavy showers.
On Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK.
So the best of the weather, although a little bit hazy
at times out towards the west, I think.
But decent enough, temperatures around 22 in London,
20 in Liverpool and should probably nudge up to around 20
in Glasgow as well for Monday.
And then the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
we’ll see the jet stream pushing low
pressures and weather
fronts and mostly between Scotland and Iceland,
but there is just the chance that some of these weather
systems will clip the very far north—west of the UK
and the south will be closer to the high pressure,
so basically the further south you are, the better the weather
will be in the week ahead.
Further north, dry generally but always a bit more cloud.
That’s it from me, bye—bye.
This is BBC News — the headlines...
The G7 group of advanced economies have
reached a deal to make multinational companies pay
more tax in the countries where they do business.
Finance ministers, meeting in London,
agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%
to avoid countries undercutting each other.
A senior NHS official says the UK vaccination
programme appears to have broken the link between
cases of the Covid—19 and serious illness or death.
The head of NHS Providers says people in hospital
with the Delta variant of coronavirus
are significantly younger —
which puts less strain on critical care.
A US federaljudge has overturned the state
of California s 32—year—old ban on assault weapons —
calling it "unconstitutional".
He 5 given the state 30 days
California 5 governor — Gavin Newsom — condemned
the ruling, saying it was
a direct threat to public safety.
Coventry has hosted an array of small—scale
performances around the city
to mark the start of its year as the UK City of Culture.
From music and dance performances
to horseback rides, the event — called Coventry Moves —
was billed as a "playful and engaging"
introduction to the city.
Colleen Harris reports.
# I rise above
# Life is below, river flows...#
Breathing new life into Coventry’s
ska and 2—tone legacy,
the singer Pauline Black of the ‘705 and ‘805 band
The Selecter opened the UK City of Culture with a performance
in a residential part of the city.
I play the River Spirit.
There is a river that runs under Coventry called
the Sherbourne, and I’m enticing the future generation
by telling a story about how Coventry came together.
Big up the Belly dancers!
Organisers have had to keep plans low key and secret
to avoid attracting crowds, so performers and street
theatre are moving through the city telling its story
of resilience, innovation and youthfulness.
Youthfulness is the glint in a young person’s eyes
after they’ve discovered their potential.
Coventry is a city where we are a community.
Any time where I’m able to represent my city and fly
the flag, I’m always grateful to have that duty and
responsibility to represent the city and be
an energy of youthfulness. It’s fantastic.
It’s hoped the legacy of UK City of Culture will bring
Coventry’s cultural history to a global audience,
but online only, for now.
Colleen Harris, BBC News.
And that’s it.
Now on BBC News it’s time for this week’s
edition of Our World.
In the summer of 2014, IS militants
swept across northern Iraq.
In Sinjar, they would go on to commit a massacre,
taking thousands of young women like Amsha hostage.
Almost seven years later, much of the region remains in ruins
and thousands remain missing.
Despite everything, Amsha chose to remain in Sinjar.
Now every day she confronts the deadly legacy left hidden
by herformer captors.
On the 3rd of August 2014, IS militants invaded Sinjar,
homeland of the Yazidi people.
The so—called Islamic State regarded this religious
minority as infidels.
Reserving for them their most brutal treatment.
IS militants took Amsha and her brother from their car and
took them to a nearby base.
For Amsha, it was the start of 11 months of torture.
During their occupation of Sinjar, the so—called Islamic
State took over 6000 Yazidis hostage, forcing boys into
training camps and girls and young women into slavery.
Five years on, Amsha now lives back at home with her family.
IS militants might have gone from Sinjar but
they are still taking lives.
Civilians are frequently killed or injured
by explosive devices.
Three months ago, Amsha started work as a deminer,
working with a British NGO, the Mines Advisory Group.
When Amsha firstjoined MAG, she worked as a dog handler.
It was the start of a new career
and an important step in her path to recovery.
Iraq remains one of the most heavily mined countries
in the world.
In Sinjar, civilians live side by side
with homes still contaminated with explosives
and fields laced with IEDs.
Since 2016, MAG has cleared over 27,000 items of
unexploded ordnance from across Iraq, returning
thousands of square metres of [and back to the community.
Seven years ago, Amsha’s family along with hundreds of
thousands of other Yazidis, fled to Mount Sinjar.
Now, a temple on top of the mountain
has become a place for reflection for Amsha.
Back in Sinjar, Amsha is one of a handful of women who have
chosen to stay, to provide for theirfamilies
and help rebuild.
Every week, Amsha and her close friend and colleague spend time
together in Sinjar town.
Before IS militants attacked, around half a million Yazidis
called Sinjar their home.
Amsha was in high school, alongside
her sisters and brothers.
IS militants are thought to have murdered over 5000
Yazidis, and of those taken captive, almost 3,000
are still considered missing.
For Amsha and her colleagues, the dangerous work of making
their [and safe continues.
Despite the progress that the group and other de—mining
agencies have made in clearing the land, the work will
continue for years to come.
Sinjar remains volatile, with various armed groups spread
across the region, often at odds with each other and with
the civilian population.
But despite this, the numbers of
those returning are slowly increasing
and new signs of life are emerging every day.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit and miss,
particularly across England.
You are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared
to Saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
But across Scotland and Northern Ireland I think
it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
Now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It’s a weak weather front, it’s actuallyjoining
a big area of low pressure to the north but that
will bring some showers to parts of Wales and England
from morning onwards.
So this is what it looks like through the early hours,
you can see some rain affecting parts of Devon, Dorset
into Wales and the Midlands, a stray shower in
the north of Scotland.
But generally speaking, it’s a clear night in Scotland,
Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District as well.
But many of us in England and Wales will be waking up
to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that
through the afternoon as well.
But I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands, but also
around Wales and east Anglia.
The best of the weather on Sunday Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine, but modest
highs here, 16 to 18.
In the south, despite the cloud and the showers will
still manage around 21 also in London.
You can see, there’s the clock, 8pm, 9pm, still some showers
around in the evening across parts
of England and Wales.
So not a completely dry day but with a bit of luck you’ll have
prolonged sunny spells rather than the heavy showers.
On Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK.
So the best of the weather, although a little bit hazy
at times out towards the west, I think.
But decent enough, temperatures around 22 in London,
20 in Liverpool and should probably nudge up to around 20
in Glasgow as well for Monday.
And then the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
we’ll see the jet stream pushing low
pressures and weather
fronts mostly between Scotland and Iceland,
but there is just the chance that some of these weather
systems will clip the very far north—west of the UK
and the south will be closer to the high pressure,
so basically the further south you are, the better the weather
will be in the week ahead.
Further north, dry generally but always a bit more cloud.
That’s it from me, bye—bye.
This is BBC News.
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones.
Our top stories:
Our top stories:
G7 finance ministers agree a deal to make big tech
companies pay more tax.
The post pandemic world must be fairer, especially with regard
fairer, especially with regard to international taxation.
A UK health boss says the coronavirus vaccines have
"broken the chain" between infection and serious illness.
jamaira’s Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce becomes
the second—fastest woman in history with her 100m
victory in Kingston.
And an unfriendly farewell: A chorus of boos for the first
cruise ship to leave Venice since the pandemic started.
Hello, welcome to the programme.
It’s being hailed as a "historic agreement",
that could see global governments make billions more
in tax revenue.
The deal, made by the G7 group of leading economies,
could shake up the tax system for multinational companies
like big tech giants.
It could include a global minimum corporate tax rate
of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
Tech companies Google and Facebook have welcomed
the move.
Our economics editor Faisal Islam reports.
Multinational companies, especially the big tech giants,
have become more powerful than some governments —
especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
Today, the finance ministers of the seven leading economies,
the G7, hit back with an historic deal brokered
by the Chancellor, Rishi Sunak.
I’m delighted to announce that today, after years
of discussion, G7 finance ministers have reached
a historic agreement to reform the global tax system,
to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially,
to make sure it’s fair, so that the right companies pay
the right tax in the right places.
They agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation
tax of at least 15%, as well as rules to make
the largest companies with profits of more than 10%
pay more tax in countries where sales are made,
not just where they declare their profits.
The US had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
What do you say to those campaigners who say 15% isn’t
really going to bite, isn’t going to be the transformative
change?
We have yet to set the final rate.
There is an agreement among the G7, though,
to go for at least 15%, and I do think that’s
an historic achievement.
Foryears, campaigners and European finance ministers
wanted this change, but it was unthinkable,
up until a few months ago.
It’s the pandemic that has changed things, requiring
finance ministers around the world to have to fill
coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also
the change in the American government
as well, creating a window of opportunity.
Now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
The proposals must now go to the wider 620 group,
including China, Russia and Brazil, then the rest
of the world.
The German finance minister hailed today as an important
step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead
with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
I’m sure that the decision that has been made today
is — will be very successful.
This is a train that already started and anyone
willjoin the train.
Ireland’s rate of corporation tax is 12.5%.
Isn’t this notjust about a corporate tax rate
but the end of a low tax business model
for your country?
We will, even with an acknowledgement of the change
that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate
policies in place in Ireland that deliver a competitive
approach for Ireland and allow us to grow
and retain employment.
Google and Amazon have said they support the work
being done to reform tax rules.
50 has Facebook, which acknowledged it could end up
paying more as a result.
This deal is a product of very different times —
an opportunity taken in a crisis
by the world’s big seven.
The Americans are also using this meeting to urge
the rest of the world, despite worries about higher
borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial
support into the recovery, or risk undermining it.
Faisal Islam, BBC News, at the G7.
A health boss in England says the decision on easing
restrictions on the 21st ofJune is finely balanced.
Chris Hopson warned that the Delta variant,
first discovered in India, is still spreading but he said
vaccines appear to be breaking the link between coronavirus
cases and serious illness.
Our health correspondent Naomi Grimley reports.
It’s the big question of the summer — can hospitals
still cope with the numbers of people who’ll fall seriously
ill with Covid—19 before the full effects of mass
vaccination are felt?
Hospital admissions are well below the levels we saw
in winter and today, one of those representing
health trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
It does look as though the vaccines have kind
of broken the chain between catching Covid—19
and potentially being very, very seriously ill
and potentially dying.
Bolton is the area hit hardest by Covid’s more transmissible
Delta variant, first discovered in India.
Looking at what’s happening in hospitals is a gauge
to whether the NHS in general will be able to cope.
This graph shows the number of Covid patients in Bolton’s
hospitals over the last few months.
You can see there are high peaks in November and again
in January and February.
In the last few weeks, the figures have been rising
again, but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
More mutations could be incorporated into the Delta
incorporated into the Delta variant that could mean that
variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective and
vaccines are less effective and that is really what we want to
that is really what we want to avoid. The worst—case scenario
avoid. The worst-case scenario for us is a
avoid. The worst—case scenario for us is a variant that is
for us is a variant that is both more transmissible and
both more transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
Opinions in the scientific community remain split.
Perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that more
data is needed.
Naomi Grimley, BBC News.
Western diplomats in Nigeria have expressed disappointment
at the government’s decision to suspend Twitter.
A joint statement from the US, EU, Britain, Canada and Ireland
said the right to free expression and information
was a pillar of democracy in Nigeria.
The row started after Twitter removed a tweet
by Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari, saying it
breached the social media platform’s rules.
The government accuses the social media platform
of "undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence".
Mayenijones reports.
On Saturday morning, Twitter users in Nigeria woke
up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts.
That’s using most mobile phone networks.
On Wi—Fi, you could still access the website
and the hashtag #ThankGodforVPN has been trending,
suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use
the website by using virtual private networks.
The Nigerian government had announced on Friday that it had
planned to suspend all of Twitter’s activities
in the country.
At the time, it was unclear what they meant by that.
It seems that they have now decided to block access
to the website.
The telecoms companies that operate in Nigeria released
a statement, saying that they had received
a directive from the government to suspend Twitter and that
they had complied, but they did say that they followed
the United Nations provisions on the freedom of communication
and that they agreed with those.
Twitter users in Nigeria have been very angry.
They say that this is undemocratic.
Nigeria is Africa’s largest democracy and many see this
as a step backwards for the country.
Many also pointing out to the fact that President Buhari
was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805
and they see this latest move as a continuation
of that legacy.
Twitter has issued a statement.
They say they are deeply concerned by the suspension
of their services in Nigeria and they say they will work
towards reinstating a service for its users here.
There are about 150 million internet users in Nigeria
and according to the authorities here, just over 60%
of those use Twitter, so it is a huge market
for the social media company.
It will be really desperate to try and rebuild relationships
with the government.
For a little bit of context, this has happened because
Twitter deleted a post by President Buhari
earlier this week.
They said it breached its rules in that post.
Many Nigerian users flagged it because they felt
it was a threat to a secessionist movement
in the south—east of Nigeria.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
UN Secretary—General Antonio Guterres has expressed outrage
at a suspected jihadist militant attack
in Burkina Faso.
At least 132 people have been killed in the north—eastern
village of Solhan in the Sahel region of the country.
Three days of mourning have been announced.
The President of El Salvador has told attendees at
the Bitcoin 2021 conference in Florida that he’ll make
the cryptocurrency legal tender in his country,
alongside the US dollar.
If congress backs his proposal, El Salvador would become
the first country in the world to formally adopt Bitcoin.
Thousands of people have marched through Budapest
to protest against controversial plans to open
a multimillion—dollar Chinese university campus
in the Hungarian capital.
They say the project will undercut the country’s
own higher education and increase the influence
of China’s communist authorities.
The right—wing government of Viktor Orban has close
ties with Beijing.
Former US president Donald Trump has returned
to the stage to address the Republican faithful
for his first speech in several months as he considers
a new presidential run in 202A.
Organisers at the convention of North Carolina’s Republican
Party said the event was a sell—out, with all
1,250 tickets sold.
Although Mr Trump has been cut off from social networks,
many Republicans still see him as a valuable asset ahead
of midterm elections next year.
It’s a disgrace what is happening to our country. The
happening to our country. The survival of America depends
survival of America depends upon our ability to elect
upon our ability to elect Republicans at every level,
Republicans at every level, starting with the midterms next
starting with the midterms next year, we have to get it done.
year, we have to get it done. We have to get it done. We have
We have to get it done. We have no choice, actually.
A US federaljudge has overturned California’s
32—year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it
unconstitutional.
He’s given the state 30 days to appeal.
California’s governor condemned the ruling,
saying it is a direct threat to public safety.
Robyn Thomas, executive director of Giffords Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence, told us the case may go
to the Supreme Court.
ﬂ
I certainly expect that gun rights abacus, the lobby and
rights abacus, the lobby and the gun industry who would love
the gun industry who would love to be selling many more assault
to be selling many more assault weapons to many more Americans
weapons to many more Americans would like to go to the Supreme
would like to go to the Supreme Court because they will do
Court because they will do anything they can to convince
anything they ran to convince peopla to
anything they can to convince people to buy these guns. This
peopla to buy these guns. This is what
people to buy these guns. This is what drives a lot of the
is what drives a lot of the momentum this litigation is the
momentum this litigation is the desire to sell more guns and to
desire to sell more guns and to encourage Americans that they
encourage Americans that they need these very, very lethal
need these very, very lethal weapons in order to be safe
weapons in order to be safe when, in fact,
weapons in order to be safe when, infect, having
weapons in order to be safe when, in fact, having these
when, in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets
kind of weapons on our streets endangers the safety not only
endangers the safety not only of our communities but of your
of our communities but of your own family. Many, many of these
own family. Many, many of these mass shootings that happen in
mass shootings that happen in our society happen because of
our society happen because of unsecured assault weapons left
unsecured assault weapons left in the home, like the Sandy
in the home, like the Sandy Hook shooting.
This is BBC News.
Our top story this hour:
G7 finance ministers say their agreement to reform
the global tax system will help end a race to the bottom
on taxation and help fund the economic recovery.
Let’s stay with that now.
I’ve been speaking to Stephaniejohnston,
chief correspondent for Tax Notes Today,
which is a news service for tax professionals.
I asked her how significant she thought this agreement is.
It’s a sort of depends on who you ask, landmark in the fact
you ask, landmark in the fact that countries are able to, the
that countries are able to, the seven largest economies are
seven largest economies are able to agree on something so
able to agree on something so major but not so much that,
major but not so much that, it’s not the final word, let’s
it’s not the final word, let’s say this, because you know this
say this, because you know this agreement, this plan still
agreement, this plan still needs to go to 139 countries to
needs to go to 139 countries to consider it and then to the G7
consider it and then to the G7 for 620 INAUDIBLE likely agreed
for 620 INAUDIBLE likely agreed to this plan. CROSSTALK. I see,
to this plan. CROSSTALK. I see, so still hoops to jump through
so still hoops to jump through but are likely do you think
but are likely do you think something approximating what we
something approximating what we have heard about today will
have heard about today will actually come into force? Well,
actually come into force? Well, political agreement I think is
political agreement I think is very likely because there is,
very likely because there is, this project has gone on for so
this project has gone on for so long and the issues at stake
long and the issues at stake are so high and this problem
are so high and this problem has been, these problems that
has been, these problems that these agreements have been
these agreements have been trying to address have been
trying to address have been going on for years and decades
going on for years and decades so countries agree that you
so countries agree that you know are changes needed to the
know are changes needed to the national tax corporation system
national tax corporation system and you know multinationals
and you know multinationals also agree that changes and
also agree that changes and countries have, just need a
countries have, just need a stable, a
countries have, just need a stable, 3 way to not only raise
stable, a way to not only raise revenues
stable, 3 way to not only raise revenues but
stable, a way to not only raise revenues but also state my
revenues but also state my stack system which is very
stack system which is very badly needed. 0K, minutes of
badly needed. 0K, minutes of this say it does not go far
this say it does not go far enough, having a for example
enough, having a for example 15% minimum tax rate, it is too
1596 minimum tax rate, it is too low for
15% minimum tax rate, it is too low for some people. Right,
low for some peopla. Right, yeah.
low for some peopla. Right, yeah, so
low for some people. Right, yeah, so that is, that is a big
yeah, so that is, that is a big sticking point I think but I
sticking point I think but I think we also have to really
think we also have to really recognise and take a step back
recognise and take a step back and think you know based on
and think you know based on major company, major
major company, major corporations, and major
corporations, and major economies, talking about, you
economies, talking about, you know, global minimum taxation
know, global minimum taxation which was really unthinkable a
which was really unthinkable a decade ago, I mean, I
which was really unthinkable a decade ago, I mean, Istarted
decade ago, I mean, Istarted this job a
decade ago, I mean, Istarted thisjob a decade
decade ago, I mean, Istarted this job a decade ago and to
this job a decade ago and to think that countries could even
think that countries could even get to some close agreement to
get to some close agreement to a goal on taxation and even a
a goal on taxation and even a profit reallocation profits,
profit reallocation profits, among countries, that was
among countries, that was unthinkable, decades ago, so...
unthinkable, decades ago, so... CROSSTALK. I see it as a step
CROSSTALK. I see it as a step towards, you know, what a
towards, you know, what a change, so... That’s a
change, so... That’s a difficult, that’s really good
difficult, that’s really good to hear and it’s important to
to hear and it’s important to keep the context in mind and
keep the context in mind and with that in mind still, there
with that in mind still, there is a lot of cynicism from lots
is a lot of cynicism from lots of peopla,
is a lot of cynicism from lots of people, saying actually
of people, saying actually these big companies have an
these big companies have an army of people behind them,
army of peopla behind them, trying to
army of people behind them, trying to find the most tax
trying to find the most tax efficient arrangements for them
efficient arrangements for them and that will continue? Well, I
and that will continue? Well, I think things, generally
think things, generally speaking, anyone can, you can
speaking, anyone ran, you ran assume
speaking, anyone can, you can assume that rules were meant to
assume that mles were meant to be not
assume that rules were meant to be not broken but bent. I mean,
be not broken but bent. I mean, I would kind of gas that
I would kind of gas that companies will... Fits —— let’s
companies will... Fits -- let’s say there will
companies will... Fits —— let’s say there will be lots of work
say there will be lots of work for lawyers and tax
for lawyers and tax journalists.
Now with just 1.5 months before the Olympics
this summer, Jamaica’s two—time Olympic champion
Shelly—Ann Fraser—Pryce has become the second—fastest woman
in history, after running 100m injust 10.63 seconds.
Ms Fraser—Pryce beat the 10.72 seconds run
by Shacarri Richardson earlier this year,
and is second only to Florence Griffith—Joyner
who has held the world record since 1988.
Johanna Gretschel is a sports journalist in Texas
and long—distance runner herself.
She gave me her
reaction to Ms Frances—Pryce’s feat.
Wow! Incredible! 10.63, we have
Wow! Incredibla! 10.63, we have not
Wow! Incredible! 10.63, we have not been a time like this in 33
not been a time like this in 33 years and the fastest they have
years and the fastest they have mn this year
years and the fastest they have run this year the fastest is
years and the fastest they have run this year the fastest is
mn this year the fastest is 10.7 to
run this year the fastest is 10.7 to 30 take Delaney time —
10.7 to 30 take Delaney time - leading time
10.7 to 30 take Delaney time — leading time down by that much
leading time down by that much is something definitely no—one
is something definitely no-one saw coming
is something definitely no—one saw coming and bodes really
saw coming and bodes really well. Given her age,
saw coming and bodes really well. Given herage, how
well. Given herage, how unexpected is this? Well, 0K,
unexpected is this? Well, 0K, she is 3A years old, so
she is 34 years old, so obviously
she is 3A years old, so obviously a little more
obviously a little more advanced than your typical
advanced than your typical elite athlete but she is really
elite athlete but she is really part of
elite athlete but she is really maﬁa
elite athlete but she is really part of a larger trend where we
part of a larger trend where we are seeing women not being able
are seeing women not being able to continue their athletic
to continue their athletic careers into their late 305.
careers into their late 305. And something we have not
And something we have not mentioned yet but I’m sure we
mentioned yet but I’m sure we will get to, she also recently
will get to, she also recently had a child just a couple of
had a child just a couple of years ago and was already able
years ago and was already able to come back from childbirth in
to come back from childbirth in 2019 and win the World
2019 and win the World Championships in the 100 metres
Championships in the 100 metres from that, and was able to
from that, and was able to change her colloquial nickname
change her colloquial nickname from the pocket rocket, which
from the pocket rocket, which is called because she is very
is called because she is very short, around five feet tall,
short, around five feet tall, to the
short, around five feet tell, to the mummy rocket! She drawls
to the mummy rocket! She drawls that mum strength that
that mum strength that sometimes when women go through
sometimes when women go through childbirth and are able to make
childbirth and are able to make that big jump back into
that big jump back into athletic fitness they are also
athletic fitness they are also able to gain some kind of
able to gain some kind of unprecedented athletic games
unprecedented athletic games and inner strength that wasn’t
and inner strength that wasn’t there before. At 3A, she is
there before. At 34, she is more
there before. At 3A, she is more advanced in age than a
more advanced in age than a typical elite athlete but I
typical elite athlete but I think it is a larger trend that
think it is a larger trend that we will see, especially at this
we will see, especially at this in the big games because it was
in the big games because it was delayed for a year, from 2020
delayed for a year, from 2020 because of the pandemic, there
because of the pandemic, there may be some athletes it would
may be some athletes it would have retired last year are able
have retired last year are able to stay in the game and prolong
to stay in the game and prolong their athletic career. Just
their athletic career. just brieﬂy,
their athletic career. Just briefly, looking ahead to the
briefly, looking ahead to the athletics and the Olympics,
athlatis and the Olympic, what
athletics and the Olympics, what are her chances? Shelley
what are her chances? Shelley and is a favourite, for sure,
and is a favourite, for sure, and there was a lot of talk
and there was a lot of talk about Richardson, coming out
about Richardson, coming out blazing this year, running
blazing this year, mnning 210.7,
blazing this year, running 210.7, but
blazing this year, running 210.7, but10.63, Shelley and
210.7, but10.63, Shelley and Fraser-Pryce
210.7, but10.63, Shelley and Fraser—Pryce is definitely
Fraser—Pryce is definitely cementing her place as the
cementing her place as the favourite. — at
From a sprint to along distance trek that’s captured
the imagination of millions of people across China.
A herd of wild elephants that has been moving northwards
over the course of several months.
They began theirjourney in a nature reserve in Yunnan
province and, after 500km,
they’ve now reached the outskirts of the city of
Kunming.
The BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
day after day, week after week, month after month, the
month after month, the elephants are on the march. 15
elephants are on the march. 15 of them, heading northwards,
ofthem, heading northwards, for
of them, heading northwards, for reasons known only to
for reasons known only to themselves. Occasionally, the
themselves. Occasionally, the smaller members of the group
smaller members of the group need a helping hand or trunk,
need a helping hand or tmnk, to get them
need a helping hand or trunk, to get them on the way.
to get them on the way. TRANSLATION: Such a situation
TRANSLATION: Such a situation has happened for the first time
has happened for the first time in history and it hasn’t
in history and it hasn’t happened before and many are
happened before and many are thinking about the reasons and
thinking about the reasons and they are to be observed and
they are to be observed and studied. It is not in clearly —
studied. It is not in dearty - syntactically
studied. It is not in clearly — syntactically when the odyssey
syntactically when the odyssey began but some suggest they set
began but some suggest they set out as earty
began but some suggest they set out as early as December, the
out as earty as December, the animals
out as early as December, the animals forging a trail through
animals forging a trail through the Chinese countryside,
the Chinese countryside, occasionally straying into
occasionally straying into towns and villages, even
towns and villages, even helping themselves to something
helping themselves to something to eat as the
helping themselves to something to eat as theJenny Peter
to eat as theJenny Peter Greste.
Greste. TRANSLATION: They like to go do
TRANSLATION: They like to go do areas frequented by humans as
areas frequented by humans as there are plenty of food. The
there are planty of food. The Asian
there are plenty of food. The Asian elephants take that as
Asian elephants take that as habitat. The elephants have
habitat. The elephants have caused thousands of people to
caused thousands of people to evacuate homes, block off road
evacuate homes, block off road and trotted your them away from
and trotted your them away from the pope relation but they have
the pope relation but they have now reached a major city of
now reached a major city of more than 6 million people.
more than 6 million peopla. What
more than 6 million peopla. what they
more than 6 million people. What they plan to do next is
what they plan to do next is anyone’s
What they plan to do next is anyone’s guess!
Tim Allman, BBC News.
Dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand
and shells from the Italian island of Sardinia,
where it’s illegal to remove the island’s natural resources.
Authorities there say the investigation is ongoing.
So far, 41 people are facing fines of up to 3600 US dollars
each.
Our news reporter Courtney Bembridge has the details.
They are basically looking for tourists who may be unwittingly
tourists who may be unwittingly or maybe on purpose are
or maybe on purpose are ﬂouting the local laws, which
ﬂouting the local laws, which restricts
flouting the local laws, which restricts local people from
restricts [oral peopla from taking
restricts local people from taking pebbles on the beach, or
taking pebblas on the beach, or any
taking pebbles on the beach, or any beach sand, Sardinia is
any beach sand, Sardinia is famous for the pristine white
famous for the pristine white sand and people are taking it
sand and peopla are taking it away and
sand and people are taking it away and each summer they put
away and each summer they put the operation in place to try
the operation in place to try to stop the practice and stop
to stop the practice and stop peopla
to stop the practice and stop people taking it home with
peopla taking it home with them.
people taking it home with them. Why are people taking
them. why are peopla taking sand
them. Why are people taking sand from a beach? You may
sand from a beach? You may remember, Lewis, holidays, that
remember, Lewis, holidays, that thing we used to do! I guess
thing we used to do! I guess people wanted a souvenir of
people wanted a souvenir of these trips so what they would
these trips so what they would do is finish an empty water
do is finish an empty water bottle, fill it up with sound
bottle, fill it up with sound and other customs officials are
and other customs officials are using x-rays
and other customs officials are using x—rays to find these
using x-rays to find these things in
using x—rays to find these things in people luggage and
things in peopla luggage and not just a
things in people luggage and not just a little
things in people luggage and notjust a little bit of sand,
not just a little bit of sand, there
notjust a little bit of sand, there was a French couple in
there was a French couple in 2019, found with A0 kg of sound
2019, found with 40 kg of sound in the
2019, found with A0 kg of sound in the back of their car and
in the back of their far and said it
in the back of their car and said it was no idea that it was
said it was no idea that it was illegal in Sardinia but were
illegal in Sardinia but were facing a penalty at the time of
facing a penalty at the time of six years in
facing a penalty at the time of six years injail. So it is
six years injail. So it is taken very seriously. The fine
taken very seriously. The fine is up to 3000 euros, and there
is up to 3000 euros, and there are 41 people who have been
are 41 peopla who have been taught in
are 41 people who have been caught in this latest operation
taught in this latest operation and they
caught in this latest operation and they are trolling these
and they are trolling these websites where these bottles of
websites where these bottles of sand are getting really high
sand are getting really high prices.... The people are
prices.... The peopla are buying, I
prices.... The peopla are buying, Iran
prices.... The people are buying, I can understand taking
buying, I ran understand taking a bit of
buying, I can understand taking a bit of sand, I don’t know why
a bit of sand, I don’t know why you do it but you can take a
you do it but you ran take a bit of
you do it but you can take a bit of sand to remind yourself
bit of sand to remind yourself of a holiday but you are saying
of a holiday but you are saying there is a market for this sand
there is a market for this sand as well?
there is a market for this send as well? That is right. There
as well? That is right. There is a market online and
is a market online and authorities are saying you are
authorities are saying you are high prices for the sand and I
high prices for the sand and I guess when you outlaw
guess when you outlaw something, perhaps its value
something, perhaps its value increases. 50, now there is a
increases. So, now there is a black
increases. 50, now there is a black market fourth sand,
black market fourth sand, pebblas
black market fourth sand, pebbles and rocks but the
pebblas and rocks but the locals
pebbles and rocks but the locals are thick of it. They
locals are thick of it. They have been complaining for many
have been complaining for many years that teachers are being
years that teachers are being degraded by the practice and
degraded by the practice and they have actually set up a ——
they have actually set up a -- that the
they have actually set up a —— that the beaches are being
that the beaches are being degraded, so they are making
degraded, so they are making sure it is being returned to
sure it is being returned to the specific beach and using a
the specific beach and using a Facebook group to corral each
Facebook group to corral each other, and it is called
other, and it is called Sardinia robbed and plundered.
Staying in Italy, and the first cruise ship
to leave Venice since the pandemic began has set sail.
While people are keen to get back to normality,
not everyone was happy about the ship entering
the Giudecca Canal.
the Giudecca Canal.
Rachel Stanton reports.
IE
No big ships! That is what is on the ﬂag
No big ships! That is what is on the flag being waved here in
on the ﬂag being waved here in Venice.
on the flag being waved here in Venice. People have taken to
Venice. People have taken to the streets and waters as they
the streets and waters as they are concerned about the impact
are concerned about the impact cmise ships
are concerned about the impact cruise ships have on their
cruise ships have on their historic city. Back in March
historic city. Back in March this year, Italy’s government
this year, Italrs government said
this year, Italy’s government said cruise ships would no
said cmise ships would no longer sell
said cruise ships would no longer sell past Venice’s San
longer sell past Venice’s San Marco Square and dock away from
Marco Square and dock away from the centre but be diverted to
the centre but be diverted to the industrial port however,
the industrial port however, the infrastructure is not yet
the infrastmclure is not yet in place for
the infrastructure is not yet in place for this to happen.
in place for this to happen. This is the MSC Orchestra, set
This is the MSC Orchestra, set to cmise
This is the MSC Orchestra, set to cruise around the
to cruise around the Mediterranean with about 650
Mediterranean with about 650 passengers. But residence in
passengers. But residence in residence in Venice have been
residence in Venice have been urging the government to ban
urging the government to ban large cmise
urging the government to ban large cruise ships from the
large cmise ships from the green over
large cruise ships from the green over safety and
green over safety and environmental concerns. We are
environmental concerns. We are citizens of Venice and we are
citizens of Venice and we are against this passage but also
against this passage but also against this type of tourism
against this type of tourism model that is destroying the
model that is destroying the city and is pushing out
city and is pushing out residents and people that want
residents and peopla that want to
residents and people that want to live here. Arrival protest
to live here. Arrival protest took place in support of the
took place in support of the resumption of the tourist
resumption of the tourist season as many have suffered
season as many have suffered financially as well as losing
financially as well as losing livelihoods. In the last two
livelihoods. In the last two decades, the picturesque city
decades, the picturesque city has become one of the world’s
has become one of the world’s most important cruise
most important cruise destinations and people are
destinations and people are keen for things to get back on
keen for things to get back on track. Venice is a home port.
track. Venice is a home port. This is where many itineraries
This is where many itineraries begin or end. This means that
begin or end. This means that two things, firstly, the
two things, firstly, the economic Impact on Venice is
economic Impact on Venice is huge. The other thing is that,
huge. The other thing is that, well, basically, there is a
well, basically, there is a risk that if Venice is taken
risk that if Venice is taken off the itineraries, all the
off the itineraries, all the Adriatic will suffer the
Adriatic will suffer the consequences of this. So, yeah,
consequences of this. So, yeah, it would be a huge impact. The
it would be a huge impact. The battle to stop large vessels
battle to stop large vessels from being in these waters is
from being in these waters is far from over.
from being in these waters is farfrom over. The government
far from over. The government said it is
farfrom over. The government said it is organising bids for
said it is organising bids for a viable alternative outside
a viable alternative outside the lagoon, relieving the
the lagoon, relieving the traffic through Venice.
Rachel Stanton, BBC News.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones
This is BBC News. Goodbye.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit
and miss, particularty across England.
You’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared
to Saturday, and there will be a few showers around,
too,
but across Scotland and Northern Ireland,
I think it is a case of sunshine
right from the word go.
On the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low
pressure to the north
but that will bring some showers to parts of Wales,
and England, from morning onwards.
This is what it looks like through the early hours.
You can see some rain affecting parts of Devon,
Dorset, into Wales, Midlands, the stray shower in the north
of Scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night
in Scotland, Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District
as well, but many of us in England and Wales will be
waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay
like that through the afternoon as well
but I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands
but also around Wales and East Anglia the best
of the weather on Sunday, Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine as well,
but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
Despite the cloud and the showers,
still managing around 21 in London.
There is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm
still some showers around around in the evening
across parts of England and Wales.
Not a completely dry day but, with a bit of luck,
you will have some prolonged sunny spells
instead of heavy showers.
Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK,
so the best of the weather, although hazy at times,
out towards the west but decent enough temperatures —
around 22 in London, 20 in Liverpool,
probably nudging up to 20 in Glasgow as well for Monday.
Then, the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts
mostly between Scotland and Iceland, but the chance
that some of these weather systems will clip
the very far north—west of the UK.
In the south, it is closer to their high
pressure so, basically, the further south you are,
the better the weather will be in the week ahead,
further north, dry generally, but always a bit more
cloud.
That is it for me.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
The G7 group of advanced economies have reached a deal
to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries
where they do business.
Finance ministers meeting in London agreed to a global
minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries
undercutting each other.
A senior NHS official says the UK vaccination programme
appears to have broken the link between cases of the Covid—19
—— appears to have broken the link between cases
of Covid—19 and serious illness or death.
The head of NHS Providers says people in hospital
with the Delta variant of coronavirus are significantly
younger, which puts less strain on critical care.
The Nigerian government has defended its decision
to suspend Twitter, saying the social media platform had
been used to spread misinformation that
had violent consequences.
A joint statement from the US, the EU, Britain, Canada
and Ireland said the right to free expression was
a pillar of democracy.
Now on BBC News, Click.
This week — the Giant coming to a city near you.
A giant leap for disability.
And thrilling rides on giant screens.
Hey, Hey — it is one of my favourite fests.
We’ve been coming to the Hay Literary Festival
for quite a few years now, each time meeting amazing
people who have written on fascinating topics.
Every so often, someone has stolen the show and stopped
our world spinning.
Can you see it?
I’m sorry.
The town of Hay on Wye has more bookshops than you can throw
a thriller at and they are usually
packed with festivalgoers.
And after an enforced year online in 2020,
the organisers are taking tentative steps back into town.
As are we.
Welcome to Click at Hay, 2021.
OK, I said tentative steps.
Anyway, today, we are going to be talking about Al,
which, of course, is very big.
Artificial insemination.
Next year, then, I promise!
But in the meantime, some of Hay 21’s events
are being streamed from the cinema around the back
of Richard Booth’s beautiful bookshop.
And later on, we will bring you one of the most inspiring
stories from the festival.
First, I want to tell you a tall tale from
the Emerald Isle.
A very tall tale.
—— A very tall tale, indeed.
It’s one of the most famous stories ever written.
It’s actually called Travels Into Several Remote
Nations Of The World, In Four Parts, By Lemuel
Gulliver, First A Surgeon And Then A Captain Of Several
Ships.
But you probably know it better as Gulliver’s Travels.
Well, well!
What have we got here?
300 years after the book was written, I’m following in
the footsteps of its author Jonathan Swift to the place
that inspired him to write the novel in the first place.
This is Belvedere House in County Westmeath,
hang in the centre of Ireland.
So, the story goes that Jonathan Swift was standing
about here, looking across the lake, where there
is actually a place called Lilliput.
And he thought, "Wow, those people
in the distance are really small".
And the rest is history.
I said, why isn’t there a giant Gulliver here in Belvedere
House?
Paddy Dunning is a music manager and proprietor
of several museums.
He has rubbed shoulders with the likes of U2,
REM and Dame Shirley Bassey and now, he wants to make some
icons of his own.
We designed a beautiful statue in wood — larch wood —
and we would build a viewing tower from the hat.
And inside would be a heritage centre,
a museum dedicated not just to Jonathan Swift,
but to the writers of the county.
So that was where it started.
It didn’t end there, though, did it?
So we came up with what is the concept now,
which is a statue that has a matrix skin and now,
we have just hunched the Giant
Project, which is the search for 21 sites, to build 21
giants around the world.
People of the world, welcome to The Giant.
The Giant will be an interactive visitor attraction
centred around a huge, human—shaped moving structure
with cafes, restaurants, shops and a museum to boot,
literally at the boot.
The project is currently being masterminded at Paddy’s
residential recording studio, Grouse Lodge, and it’s caught
the attention of Eric Fraad, an opera director, music
producer movie—maker and all round
creative, who wanted to make sure that the statue could
represent absolutely anybody.
One of the possibilities was it’s a gigantic
statue, and it’s androgynous and therefore, with the LEDs,
you know, not projected but actually revealed
on it, it makes it much more spectacular and transformable
rather than a static image.
What kind of shape did you end up going for?
Essentially, it is an amalgamation of the facial
shape of a man, a woman and a child.
The human eye, it cheats.
The human eye fills in so much that’s not there.
If you give it a hint, it will fill in an awful lot
and that is part of what it is.
CHUCKLES.
Is it big enough, do you think?
And bear in mind this is only a small scale concept model.
It will be covered with millions and millions of pixels
of addressable LEDs.
That is all fed to controllers.
The more control you have over the LEDs, then the greater
spectral variations you can have with colour,
with intensity.
We’ve managed to get this big, massive movement up to the sky,
the winning pose, so that’s a big, massive movement.
These are 60—80 foot long arms that will weight tonnes.
If the giant is on the ground on top of the museum,
you would need an acre.
Interestingly, somebody in New York has been on,
and they can do it on airspace, and that is really interesting.
What does that mean?
Airspace means that they would put it on top of an existing
building.
Because of Covid, a lot of the cities are looking
at how are they going
to get tourism back?
How are they going to get people back into their
countries and their cities?
What is the draw going to be?
We do think that the technology that we’ve got will be
the future of statues, and there won’t be just
an image of one person.
We think that images will change as society changes.
And in fact, the image that Paddy thinks will draw most
attention is the image of you.
Part of the visitor experience will involve getting your whole
body scanned and then thrown up onto the statue for all to see.
The world’s most awe—inspiring selfie!
You can look up and you will become The Giant.
You are calling this the world’s biggest selfie.
It is the world’s biggest selfie!
There’s nothing like it on the planet.
You can’t ignore it, can you?
It’s so big, it’s going to be gigantic.
Poor, poor foolish little people.
Look what you’ve done.
With goliath ambitions, The Giant Company hopes
to raise hundreds of millions of dollars and plans to roll
out the first five by the end of this year.
One thing’s for sure — the scope of that task
will be enormous.
When I first heard about this project, I thought it was nuts.
But then I got here and I saw the scale model of the head,
and I started to understand how it could work,
and the technology needed to bring this to life is proven.
It is just coloured LEDs.
So maybe the main question is whether people will want it,
but we are living in the century of the selfie,
so who knows?
I have a feeling they will.
Hello and welcome to the week in Tech.
It was the week that Huawei launched its self—developed
operating system Harmony OS in an attempt to challenge
Google’s dominance in smartphone software.
Bill Gates and the EU announced a push for $1 billion
to accelerate clean tech.
And big news — eBay updated its terms
of service, meaning that sellers can no longer use
PayPal.
Also this week, and a cyber attack hit the world’s largest
meat supplier.
Computer networks atJBS were hacked, temporarily
shutting down some operations in Australia, Canada
and the US.
The ransomware attack could lead to shortages of meat
or raise prices for consumers.
A drone has filmed itself crashing into the lava flow
of a volcano.
It happened in the south—west of Iceland, were drone pilot
Gerry Helms tried capturing the volcano, which has been
erupting since March.
And finally, a not—at—all creepy robot which copies you.
Scientists at Columbia University in New York used
deep learning to teach robot Ave to mimic
the expressions are people around it.
Ava can express six basic emotions — anger, disgust,
fear, joy, sadness and surprise.
The aim of the technology is to build trust between
humans and robotic workers and caregivers in real—world
applications, such as hospitals, schools and homes.
Of course, these machines are not softening us up before
they become our robotic overlords.
The Hay festival is steeped in tradition.
A place where people come to exchange their screens
for good old —fashioned books.
But the pandemic has forced even the most conventional
to adapt, and this appearance has proved no gimmick.
ii
It has gone beyond digital.
I am a transitioning cyborg.
This is Peter Scott Morgan, who has motor neurone disease,
also known as ALS.
But he’s also a doctor of robotics and he calls
himself the world’s first human cyborg.
Peter was diagnosed with ALS in 2015 and decided to use
technology to overcome the extreme difficulty
that he knew that he would face.
He said that he chose to thrive rather than die.
There have been two sides to his transformation —
the physical and the virtual — and in a minute, Stephen Fry
will talk to one side about the other.
But first, Nick Kwek has been looking at how Peter 2.0
has been realised.
Today, I’m in the Scottish capital of Edinburgh —
a city with a rich history of storytelling, where novel
ideas come to life and the art of discourse has been mastered.
I’m here to meet the engineers putting personality
into synthetic voice.
Voice is part of what we are, it’s part of our souls,
it’s the way we communicate, it betrays
where we are from, our emotions, our motives,
everything.
Doctor Matthew Aylett and his team have been banking
Peter’s voice so that Peter can continue to talk
now it is gone.
He had to have his vocal track removed, so before that
happened, we recorded him extensively and then
we were able to recreate his voice
in a speech synthesis system so he can new type in text
and it will speak exactly the way that he spoke.
Text—to—speech technology has been around for a while.
We all remember Microsoft Sam, right?
His voice sounded a tad monotonous.
Peter provided far more than the average voice sample
recording amount — 15 hours’ worth of material.
In order to make a voice, you take that audio and you use
neural net system to learn how the sounds in the voice relate
to the words that are being spoken.
Once you have that model built, you can put a new set of words
in and it will produce a new output with that voice.
To better convey sentiment for specific scenarios,
Peter captured himself speaking in four different styles.
Tone of voice is very important.
Tone of voice is very important.
Tone of voice is very important!
Tone of voice is very...
—— Tone of voice is very important.
He also tirelessly recorded 3,000 stock phrases,
which he can quickly drop into conversation.
A little knowledge may be a dangerous thing,
but is not half as bad as a lot of ignorance!
Right, 0K.
He doesn’t want an automatic voice which talks for him.
He wants an automatic voice which he can control.
The whole idea of human—sensitive AI is to work
as a partnership, Peter has got a great phrase —
he sort of describes it as a ‘jazz combo’.
It is like the idea of two systems working together
to produce something which is greater
than the sum of their parts.
And create they have.
They have taught Peter 2.0 how to sing.
# Come with me.
# And you’ll be.
# In a world of pure imagination!
This is brilliant!
# Take a look...
How did you manage that, then?
Are you Willie Wonka?
Again, it is about communication, notjust
about the words you say.
They have taken things even further by combining his
synthetic voice with a virtual avatar, which is a work
in progress.
It’s pretty amazing what technology can do these days.
So, where does the AI start, and Peter stop?
There is a path of least resistance.
If the AI says stuff in a certain way it is easy
to say let’s just do that, then, but then how do you get
the balance right?
The real key is for the Al to be personalised to Peter,
rather than just being a default system.
You are watching Click at Hay festival.
That was Nick, so what can Peter 2.0 do?
That is what Stephen Fry asked at this year’s Hay Festival,
and this was the answer.
SPEAKS FRENCH.
TRANSLATION: And if one day I start sounding like a classic
American
newscaster it is because I can, and it seemed like an
interesting idea to try.
And it is still the real me.
OK, here are some highlights from Peter’s session
at the festival.
Stephen, it is absolutely wonderful to be talking
with you.
Thanks so much for inviting me.
It is going to be fun.
I think it is, it’s going to be fun and fascinating.
First things first, you have described yourself
as a transitioning cyborg.
How do you define a cyborg?
Cyborg is a fancy word for part human, part machine.
In my case, what has never been done before is that the most
important machine parts of me will be AI, not mechanics,
and that all potentially gets a bit weird.
Not least because I am planning to use more and more AI,
to look at everything from speaking to controlling
things to moving about.
I think that it is fair to say that we could describe your
journey to becoming the world’s first ever cyborg, real cyborg,
outside science fiction, begins with, how can I put it,
a wonky foot.
My very first symptom was as you so accurately
categorised, a wonky foot, but it then took a year
to get a diagnosis.
There is no test for MND, there is no nausea, no pain,
and usually, your brain stays as sharp as ever,
and the terminal bit turns out to be negotiable.
With that said, it has been dubbed the world’s cruellest
disease which inevitably sucks the joy out of life,
but I found that the key to imagine total paralysis
is to imagine that you’re in a luxury spa hotel,
and they insist that you put your feet up and don’t
move a muscle.
It’s brilliant.
At one point you write about the fork in the road
which we try to get at how humanity, notjust for you,
but the word human involves alongside AI,
and for you as a living embodiment of AI, this
is something you feel passionately about.
Way back in the early ‘805, I was preparing my dissertation
for what turned out to be the first Robotics PhD
in the UK.
Based on this and against the advice of both my professor
and my publisher, I ended my first Robotics textbook
with these words — if the path of enhanced human
is followed, then it will be possible for mankind and robots
to remain on the same evolutionary branch rather
than humanity watch the robot split away.
In this way, mankind will one day be able
to replace its all too vulnerable bodies with more
permanent mechanisms and use the supercomputers
as intelligence amplifiers.
That was 1984.
Ever since, I’ve advocated for making AI our partner
rather than rival.
Can you make any predictions as to how our daily lives might
actually play out, how they might look?
Especially for those with disabilities...
or at extreme old age.
We are at the early dawn of escaping the fear
of becoming powerless and feeling trapped
in an inadequate body.
Some people are pessimistic about Al and humanity,
but I have to say, from my perspective,
from everything I know, I feel incredibly excited
about our future.
I understand that you have a world—first that
you have chosen to reveal here and now,
to me, and to our audience.
Hello, lam Peter2.0.
Welcome to the future.
Now, if there is one thing I know about LJ Rich it’s
that she loves her thrills.
Here she is on a VR roller—coaster from a few years
ago so when we found out that Legoland had a new flying
theatre ride, well, there was one person
we could send to find out how it works.
Like many of us, I often dreamt of flying as a child.
I think that is why I love thrill rides and theme parks.
Such the harness, forget your daily worries and simply escape
into the sky for a few beautiful minutes.
This is the newly opened flight of the Sky Lion at Legoland,
the UK’s first flying theatre ride and I’m lucky
enough to be in before it opens to the public.
The only person on one of seven gondolas spread
across three floors.
The ultimate in social distancing.
It is a wonderful, complex mix of creativity and technology.
Behind the scenes, the maintenance team kindly put
the ride into manual.
When the ride starts the gondola rotates
towards and into a concave, 20—metre high screen.
Here is a close—up of the motorised mechanics
in action, which is surprisingly quiet.
There are three for each axis, allowing for a 30 degrees swing
and 23 degrees pitch, and degrees of yore,
or left to right.
And, during the ride, fragrant mist is sprayed
on board canisters so that we can smell sea air baby
lava dragon burps.
It is clear how much the video, lighting and music add
to the atmosphere.
The sight, the sound, smell, the movement,
to be as overwhelming as it is, and to know how the technology
works, but even knowing how it works, it works on my body,
physically, in a way that is quite astounding.
Inside the control room, the ride operator monitors
the gondola’s precise movements, and Theo is one
of those responsible for working out how exactly
how it is moving and when.
On the computer, first, we would understand where those
peaks and drops are, and we would programme that in,
and we would essentially go for a ride, and we would film
that ride and also speak whilst we were riding it,
and we had a big digital meter on the ride, so that we could
say, at two minutes ten, we need to bring this movement
back, or we need to exaggerate that big drop, at three minutes
ten, we are going to bring that forward.
The video creators also need to have intimate knowledge
of how the ride moves.
One of the first things that we start with is the ride
envelope,
what are the degrees of motion?
Three degrees forward and back, pitch and roll, stuff
like that, so all of those mechanical engineering things
that are built into the way that we work with our camera.
ern though the ride envelope may be X, you can trick
the brain into Y, because even though
the seat only moves a little
bit down, if we then continue the camera further down,
then slow down the way that the seat moves down
and speed up the camera, you have the sense that you’re
going much faster than you may actually be, or you may be
going at a steeper rate of descent than you actually
are, so it is understanding the mechanical engineering side
of it and then kind of how we actually trick the brain.
Outside, the sculptures hold 1.76 million Lego bricks,
they are hybrid Lego animals which move when you access them
through the app, and augmented reality contactless safari,
and post—Covid the park’s director is optimistic
that
most of us will eventually return.
The last year has been challenging with the pandemic.
We’ve had measures in place such a social distancing,
so we have had to reduce the number of people coming
into the park in the first place.
We collaborate with competitors on something like this.
It is important that we as an industry can get guests
through the door again for the longer term recovery.
Just time for one more ride.
That was LJ Rich having the time of her life.
We have enjoyed being back in Hay and hopefully next year
we will be back for the full shebang, don’t forget,
you can get us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter,
@BBCClick, thank you for watching and we will
see you soon.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit
and miss, particularty across England.
You’re likely to have a lot more cloud around,
compared to Saturday, and there will be
a few showers around, too,
but across Scotland and Northern Ireland,
I think it is a case of sunshine
right from the word go.
On the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low
pressure to the north
but that will bring some showers to parts of Wales,
and England, from morning onwards.
This is what it looks like through the early hours.
You can see some rain affecting parts of Devon,
Dorset, into Wales, Midlands, the stray shower in the north
of Scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night
in Scotland, Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District
as well, but many of us in England and Wales will be
waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay
like that through the afternoon as well
but I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands
but also around Wales and East Anglia the best
of the weather on Sunday, Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine as well,
but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
Despite the cloud and the showers,
still managing around 21 in London.
There is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm
still some showers around around in the evening
across parts of England and Wales.
Not a completely dry day but, with a bit of luck,
you will have some prolonged sunny spells
instead of heavy showers.
Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK,
so the best of the weather, although hazy at times,
out towards the west but decent enough temperatures —
around 22 in London, 20 in Liverpool,
probably nudging up to 20 in Glasgow as well for Monday.
Then, the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts
mostly between Scotland and Iceland, but the chance
that some of these weather systems will clip
the very far north—west of the UK.
In the south, it is closer to their high
pressure so, basically, the further south you are,
the better the weather will be in the week ahead,
further north, dry generally, but always a bit more
cloud.
That is it for me.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
G7 finance ministers agree a deal to make big tech
companies pay more tax.
The post—pandemic world must be fairer, especially with regard
to international taxation.
A UK health boss says the coronavirus vaccines have
"broken the chain" between infection and serious illness.
Jamaica’s Shelly—Ann Fraser—Pryce becomes
the second—fastest woman in history with her 100m
victory in Kingston.
And an unfriendly farewell: A chorus of boos for the first
cruise ship to leave Venice since the pandemic started.
Hello and welcome.
I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones.
It’s being hailed as a "historic agreement",
that could see global governments make billions more
in tax revenue.
The deal made by the G7 group of leading economies
could shake up the tax system for multinational companies
like big tech giants.
It could include a global minimum corporate tax rate
of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
Tech companies Google and Facebook have welcomed
the move.
Our economics editor Faisal Islam reports.
Multinational companies, especially the big tech giants,
have become more powerful than some governments —
especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
Today, the finance ministers of the seven leading economies,
the G7, hit back with an historic deal brokered
by the Chancellor, Rishi Sunak.
I’m delighted to announce that today, after years
of discussion, G7 finance ministers have reached
a historic agreement to reform the global tax system,
to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially,
to make sure it’s fair, so that the right companies pay
the right tax in the right places.
They agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation
tax of at least 15%, as well as rules to make
the largest companies with profits of more than 10%
pay more tax in countries where sales are made,
not just where they declare their profits.
The US had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
What do you say to those campaigners who say 15% isn’t
really going to bite, isn’t going to be the transformative
change?
We have yet to set the final rate.
There is an agreement among the G7, though,
to go for at least 15%, and I do think that’s
an historic achievement.
Foryears, campaigners and European finance ministers
wanted this change, but it was unthinkable,
up until a few months ago.
It’s the pandemic that has changed things, requiring
finance ministers around the world to have to fill
coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also
the change in the American government as well, creating
a window of opportunity.
Now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
The proposals must now go to the wider 620 group,
including China, Russia and Brazil, then the rest
of the world.
The German finance minister hailed today as an important
step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead
with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
I’m sure that the decision that has been made today is —
will be very successful.
This is a train that already started and anyone
willjoin the train.
Ireland’s rate of corporation tax is 12.5%.
Isn’t this notjust about a corporate tax rate
but the end of a low tax business model
for your country?
We will, even with an acknowledgement of the change
that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate
policies in place in Ireland that deliver a competitive
approach for Ireland and allow us to grow
and retain employment.
Google and Amazon have said they support the work
being done to reform tax rules.
50 has Facebook, which acknowledged it could end up
paying more as a result.
This deal is a product of very different times —
an opportunity taken in a crisis by the world’s big
HAY-h!
The Americans are also using this meeting to urge
the rest of the world, despite worries about high
borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial
support into the recovery, or risk undermining it.
Faisal Islam, BBC News, at the G7.
A health boss in England says the decision on easing
restrictions on the 21st ofJune is finely balanced.
Chris Hopson warned that the Delta variant,
first discovered in India, is still spreading but he said
vaccines appear to be breaking the link between coronavirus
cases and serious illness.
Our health correspondent Naomi Grimley reports.
It’s the big question of the summer — can hospitals
still cope with the numbers of people who’ll fall seriously
ill with Covid—19 before the full effects of mass
vaccination are felt?
Hospital admissions are well below the levels we saw
in winter and today, one of those representing
health trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
It does look as though the vaccines have kind
of broken the chain between catching Covid—19
and potentially being very, very seriously ill
and potentially dying.
Bolton is the area hit hardest by Covid’s more transmissible
Delta variant, first discovered in India.
Looking at what’s happening in hospitals is a gauge
to whether the NHS in general will be able to cope.
This graph shows the number of Covid patients in Bolton’s
hospitals over the last few months.
You can see there are high peaks in November and again
in January and February.
In the last few weeks, the figures have been rising
again, but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
But new cases are rising noticeably as we mix more,
and some experts fear the Delta variant could take hold
in groups which haven’t yet been fully vaccinated.
More mutations could be incorporated into the Delta
variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective
and that is really what we want to avoid.
The worst—case scenario for us is a variant that is both more
transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
Opinions in the scientific community remain split.
Perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that more
data is needed.
Naomi Grimley, BBC News.
Western diplomats in Nigeria have expressed disappointment
at the government’s decision to suspend Twitter.
A joint statement from the US, EU, Britain, Canada and Ireland
said the right to free expression and information
was a pillar of democracy in Nigeria.
The row started after Twitter removed a tweet
by Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari, saying
it breached the social media platform’s rules.
The government accuses the social media platform
of "undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence".
Mayenijones reports.
On Saturday morning, Twitter users in Nigeria woke
up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts —
that’s using most mobile phone networks.
On Wi—Fi, you could still access the website
and the hashtag #ThankGodforVPN has been trending, suggesting
many users have managed to find a way to use the website
by using virtual private networks.
The Nigerian government had announced on Friday that it
planned to suspend all of Twitter’s activities
in the country.
At the time, it was unclear what they meant by that.
It seems that they have now decided to block access
to the website.
The telecoms companies that operate in Nigeria released
a statement, saying that they had received
a directive from the government to suspend Twitter and that
they had complied, but they did say that they followed
the United Nations provisions on the freedom of communication
and that they agreed with those.
Twitter users in Nigeria have been very angry.
They say that this is undemocratic.
Nigeria is Africa’s largest democracy and many see this
as a step backwards for the country.
Many also pointing out to the fact that President Buhari
was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805
and they see this latest move as a continuation
of that legacy.
Twitter has issued a statement.
They say they are deeply concerned by the suspension
of their services in Nigeria and they say they will work
towards reinstating a service for its users here.
There are about 150 million internet users in Nigeria
and according to the authorities here, just over 60%
of those use Twitter, so it is a huge market
for the social media company and they will be really
desperate to try and rebuild relationships
with the government.
For a little bit of context, this has happened because
Twitter deleted a post by President Buhari
earlier this week.
They said it breached its rules in that post.
Many Nigerian users flagged it because they felt
that it was a threat to a secessionist movement
in the south—east of Nigeria.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
UN Secretary—General Antonio Guterres has expressed outrage
at a suspected jihadist militant attack
in Burkina Faso.
At least 132 people have been killed in the north—eastern
village of Solhan in the Sahel region of the country.
Three days of mourning have been announced.
The President of El Salvador has told attendees at
the Bitcoin 2021 conference in Florida that he’ll make
the cryptocurrency legal tender in his country alongside
the US dollar.
If congress backs his proposal, El Salvador would become
the first country in the world to formally adopt Bitcoin.
A bipartisan delegation of three United States senators
have arrived in Taiwan, where they’ve announced that
Washington will donate 750,000 coronavirus vaccine doses
to its ally.
The high—profile delegation and gift comes as Taiwan
accuses China of hampering its efforts to secure enough
doses as part of Beijing’s ongoing campaign to keep
the island isolated.
Former US president Donald Trump has returned
to the stage to address the Republican faithful
for his first speech in several months as he considers
a new presidential run in 202A.
Organisers at the convention of North Carolina’s Republican
Party said the event was a sell—out, with all
1,250 tickets sold.
Although Mr Trump has been cut off from social networks,
many Republicans still see him as a valuable asset ahead
of midterm elections next year.
It’s a disgrace what is happening to our country.
The survival of America depends upon our ability to elect
Republicans at every level, starting with the midterms next
year, we have to get it done.
We have to get it done.
We have no choice, actually.
A US federaljudge has overturned California’s
32—year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it
unconstitutional.
He’s given the state 30 days to appeal.
California’s governor condemned the ruling saying
it is a direct threat to public safety.
Robyn Thomas, executive director of Giffords Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence, told us the case may go
to the Supreme Court.
I certainly expect that gun rights advocates,
the gun lobby and the gun industry, who would love to be
selling many more assault weapons to many more Americans,
would like it to go to the Supreme Court
because they will do anything they can to convince people
to buy these guns.
This is what drives a lot of the momentum behind this
litigation is the — is the desire to sell more guns
and to encourage Americans that they need these very,
very lethal weapons in order to be safe when, in fact,
having these kind of weapons on our streets endangers
the safety not just of our communities,
but of your own family.
Many, many of these mass shootings that happen
in our society happen because of unsecured assault
weapons left in the home, like the Sandy Hook shooting.
This is BBC News.
The former British Prime Minister
The former British Prime MinisterJohn Major has urged
Minister john Major has urged Boris
MinisterJohn Major has urged BorisJohnson to let compassion
Boris johnson to let compassion prevail and
BorisJohnson to let compassion prevail and reverse the
prevail and reverse the decision to cut foreign aid
decision to cut foreign aid this year. It comes as more
this year. It comes as more than 1700 charities, business
than 1700 charities, business and academics written to the
and academic written to the British
and academics written to the British government, calling on
British government, falling on it to keep
British government, calling on it to keep its can provide
it to keep its can provide fitment. Helen Catt reports.
fitment. Helan Catt reports. Rishi
fitment. Helen Catt reports. Rishi Sunak announced late last
Rishi Sunak announced late last year he was going to cut UK aid
year he was going to cut UK aid budget from 0.7% of national
budget from 0.796 of national income
budget from 0.7% of national income to 0.5%, reduction about
income to 0.596, reduction about £4
income to 0.5%, reduction about £4 million. At the time is said
£4 million. At the time is said it was temporary and because of
it was temporary and because of the pandemic. In a letter the
the pandemic. In a letter the charities say it is having a
charities say it is having a real impact, as a result
real impact, as a result families are going hungry,
families are going hungry, giris are
families are going hungry, girls are not going to school
giris are not going to school and
girls are not going to school and vaccines are expiring on
and vaccines are expiring on shelves. They argued there is
shelves. They argued there is no justifiable economic need
no justifiable economic need for the cut and that, they say,
for the cut and that, they say, is because forecasts suggested
is because forecasts suggested by the end of this year the
by the end of this year the economy will have returned back
economy will have returned back to its previous pre—pandemic
to its previous pre-pandemic levels
to its previous pre—pandemic levels and also say the UK is
levels and also say the UK is hosting the G7 this week. They
hosting the G7 this week. They say that if the UK calls on the
say that if the UK calls on the believers to do more, it will
believers to do more, it will risk ringing hollow. On the
risk ringing hollow. On the government side, they say it
government side, they say it will spend £10 million this
will spend £10 million this year, 2021, on aid. The UK
year, 2021, on aid. The UK government spokesperson said
government spokesperson said the seismic impact of the
the seismic impact of the pandemic had forced to take
pandemic had forced to take tough but necessary decisions
tough but necessary decisions but the government was
but the government was committed to returning to
committed to returning to spending 0.7% when the fiscal
spending 0.7% when the fiscal situation allows. Thank you to
situation allows. Thank you to Helan.
situation allows. Thank you to Helen. With six weeks to go
Helen. with six weeks to go before
Helen. With six weeks to go before the Olympics, Jamaica’s
before the Olympics, Jamaica’s two—time Olympic champion
two—time Olympic champion Shelly—Ann Fraser—Pryce has
Shelly—Ann Fraser—Pryce has become the second fastest woman
become the second fastest woman in history after running 100
in history after running 100 metres in 10.63 seconds.
Ms Fraser—Pryce beat the 10.72 seconds run
by Sha’Carri Richardson earlier this year,
and is second only to Florence Griffith—Joyner
who has held the world record since 1988.
Johanna Gretschel is a sports journalist in Texas.
She gave me her reaction.
Wow!
Incredible!
Imean, 10.63!
You said it yourself —— we haven’t seen a time
like this in nearly 33 years and the fastest
anyone has mn this year is 10.72,
so, I mean,
so, I mean,
to take the leading time down by that much is something
definitely nobody saw coming and bodes
really well.
And, given her age, how unexpected is this?
Um, well, 0K, Shelly—Ann’s 3A years old, so obviously
a little more advanced than your typical
elite athlete but she is really
part of a larger trend where we are seeing women not
being able to continue their athletic careers
into their late 305.
And something we have not mentioned yet but I’m sure
we will get to, she also recently
had a child just a couple of years ago and was already
able to come back from childbirth in 2019 and win
the World Championships in the 100 metres
from that, and was able to change her colloquial
nickname from the ‘Pocket Rocket’,
which she is called
because she is very short, around five feet tall,
to the ‘Mummy Rocket’!
She draws that mum strength that,
sometimes when women go through childbirth and are able
to make that big jump back into athletic fitness,
they are also able to gain some kind of
unprecedented athletic gains and inner strength that wasn’t
there before.
At 3A, she is more advanced in age than a typical elite
athlete but I think it is a larger trend
that we will see, especially at this
Olympic Games, because it was delayed for a year,
from 2020 because of the pandemic, there
may be some athletes who would have retired last
year are able to stay in the game and prolong
their athletic career.
Just briefly, looking ahead to the
athletics at the Olympics, what are her chances?
Oh, man, Shelly—Ann is the favourite, for sure!
There was a lot of talk about the young American
Sha’Carri Richardson, who came out blazaing fast this
year, laying down a lot of10.7s, ran two 10.75
on the same day, that a lot of people got excited about,
but10.63, Shelly—Ann is definitely cementing her
status as the favourite.
Tennis, and Roger Federer admists
he’s considering pulling out of the French Open
after a gruelling four set victory over Germany’s Dominik
Koepfer.
The match lasted more than 3.5 hours.
The eighth seed is playing in only his third tournament
since January last year after two knee surgeries.
ﬂ
I thought it was very important for me. I clearly had not
for me. I dearty had not practised
for me. I clearly had not practised three hours 35
practised three hours 35 minutes because that is
minutes because that is obviously always pushing it. I
obviously always pushing it. I pushed as much as I could as I
pushed as much as I could as I thought reasonable. But this,
thought reasonable. But this, today, was I think a huge step
today, was I think a huge step forward for the team and for
forward for the team and for all of us. I did not expect to
all of us. I did not expect to be able to win three matches
be able to win three matches here and back up a good
here and back up a good performance of Marin Cilic and
performance of Marin Cilic and completely different
com pletely different circumstances
completely different circumstances tonight so I’m
circumstances tonight so I’m very happy and I think we have
very happy and I think we have a lot to go through with the
a lot to go through with the team tonight.
Dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand
and shells from the Italian island of Sardinia,
where it’s illegal to remove the island’s natural resources.
Authorities there say the investigation is ongoing.
With me is our news reporter Courtney Bembridge who’s been
following this story.
So people are stealing sand?
So peopla are stealing sand? This is
So people are stealing sand? This is a phenomenon that
This is a phenomenon that happens every year in this
happens every year in this operation has found 41 people.
operation has found 41 peopla. They have
operation has found 41 people. They have taken a total of 100
They have taken a total of 100 kilograms of sand, shells and
kilograms of sand, shells and pebbles, so not a small amount
pebbles, so not a small amount and authorities say desist at
and authorities say desist at the tip of the iceberg and what
the tip of the iceberg and what they are doing is selling them
they are doing is selling them online. There is a flourishing
online. There is a ﬂourishing black
online. There is a flourishing black market for sand, would
black market for sand, would you believe! They are getting
you believe! They are getting huge prizes for these, making a
huge prizes for these, making a profit out of this. Is because
profit out of this. Is because of is particularly special from
of is particularty special from the
of is particularly special from the beaches there are? As a
the beaches there are? As a Western Australian, would say
Western Australian, would say all sand from the beach is
all sand from the beach is particularly special! No, it is
particularly special! No, it is because people are taking them
because people are taking them from 705 and in fact in 2019, a
from 705 and in fact in 2019, a French couple talk A0 kg as a
French couple talk 40 kg as a 70! People
French couple talk A0 kg as a 70! People love 705 and want to
70! People love 705 and want to take mementos but it is a
take mementos but it is a unique beach in terms of sand.
unique beach in terms of sand. So
unique beach in terms of sand. 50 authorities are taking this
So authorities are taking this very seriously? Are they
very seriously? Are they investigating and trying to
investigating and trying to damp
investigating and trying to clamp down, what are they
clamp down, what are they doing? A
clamp down, what are they doing? Ajoint operation,
doing? A joint operation, customs
doing? Ajoint operation, customs or involved and the
customs or involved and the military is involved and they
military is involved and they are x-raying
military is involved and they are x—raying luggage and
are x-raying luggage and finding
are x—raying luggage and finding water bottles full of
finding water bottles full of sand and pebbles and then a
sand and pebbles and then a volunteer organisation is
volunteer organisation is actually taking the samples
actually taking the samplas back
actually taking the samples back to the beaches where they
hack to the beaches where they were
back to the beaches where they were taken from to try to kind
were taken from to try to kind of restore the situation. They
of restore the situation. They are really concerned because
are really concerned because millions visit the island every
millions visit the island every year and if they all take A0 kg
year and if they all take 40 kg with
year and if they all take A0 kg with them, they may not have
with them, they may not have any beach left and they are one
any beach left and they are one of the star attractions that
of the star attractions that bring tourist to Sardinia. That
bring tourist to Sardinia. That is the difficult balance
is the difficult balance because just so like many parts
because just so like many parts of the world, they are hugely
of the world, they are hugely dependent on tourists and want
dependent on tourists and want to attract people there and it
to attract peopla there and it is that
to attract people there and it is that balance between scaring
is that balance between staring people off
is that balance between scaring people off and attracting
peopla off and attracting peopla
people off and attracting people are making sure the
people are making sure the natural resources are there for
natural resources are there for future generations I suppose.
future generations I suppose. It seems a bizarre thing to be
It seems a bizarre thing to be spending police authority time
spending police authority time on but it is very important for
on but it is very important for that reason. We must move on.
that reason. We must move on. Thank you for that.
Staying in Italy, and the first cruise ship
to leave Venice since the pandemic began has set sail.
While people are keen to get back to normality,
not everyone was happy about the ship entering
the Giudecca Canal.
Rachel Stanton reports.
CHANTING IN ITALIAN.
"No big ships!"
That is what is on the flags being waved here in Venice.
People have taken to the streets and waters
as they are concerned about the impact cruise ships
have on the historic city.
Back in March this year,
Italy’s government said cruise ships would no longer sail past
Venice’s St Mark’s Square
and dock in the historic centre but, instead,
be diverted to the industrial port.
However, the infrastmclure is not yet
in place for this to happen.
This is the MSC Orchestra, set to cruise around
the Mediterranean with about 650 passengers.
But residents in in Venice have been urging the government
to ban large cruise ships from the green
—lagoon, over safety and environmental concerns.
We are citizens of Venice and we are against this passage
but also against this type of tourism model
that is destroying the city and is pushing out residents
and people that want to live here.
Arrival protest took place in support of the resumption
of the tourist season as many have suffered financially
as well as losing livelihoods.
In the last two decades, the picturesque city has become
one of the world’s most important cruise destinations
and people are keen for things to get back on track.
Venice is a home port.
This is where many itineraries begin or end.
This means that two things, firstly, the economic impact
on Venice is huge.
The other thing is that, well, basically, there is a risk that
if Venice is taken off the itineraries, all
the Adriatic will suffer the consequences of this.
So, yeah, it would be a huge impact.
The battle to stop large vessels from being in these
waters is far from over.
The government said it is organising bids
for a viable alternative outside the lagoon, relieving
the traffic through Venice.
Rachel Stanton, BBC News.
From a sprint to along distance trek that’s captured
the imagination of millions of people across China,
a herd of wild elephants that has been moving northwards
over the course of several months.
They began theirjourney in a nature reserve in Yunnan
province and after 500km,
they’ve now reached the outskirts of the city of
Kunming.
The BBC’s Tim Allman reports.
Day after day, week after week, month after month,
the elephants are on the march.
15 of them, heading northwards, for reasons known only
to themselves.
Occasionally, the smaller members of the group
need a helping hand, or trunk, to get them on their way.
TRANSLATION: Such a situation has happened for the first time
in history.
It has never happened before, so everyone is thinking
about the reasons.
It remains to be further observed and studied.
It is not entirely clear when their odyssey began
but some suggest they set out as early as December,
the animals forging a trail through
the Chinese countryside, occasionally straying
into towns and villages, even helping themselves
to something to eat as theirjourney progressed.
TRANSLATION: They like to go to areas frequented by humans
as there’s plenty of food.
The Asian elephants take such areas as their habitats.
The authorities have deployed thousands of people to evacuate
homes, block off roads and try to lure the animals
away from the local population but they have
now reached a major city of more than 6 million people.
What they plan to do next is anyone’s guess.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
And have a look at these clubs, in Mexico City. They are part
in Mexico City. They are part of a breeding programme that
of a breeding programme that has actually kept the species
has actually kept the species alive. That is it from me.
alive. That is it from me. There is plenty more on the
There is plenty more on the website of course and if you
website of course and if you are online can get me on social
are online ran get me on social media.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones
ﬂ
lam the
I am the was
. This is BBC News.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit
and miss, particularty across England.
You’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared
to Saturday, and there will be a few showers around,
too,
but across Scotland and Northern Ireland,
I think it is a case of sunshine
right from the word go.
On the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low
pressure to the north
but that will bring some showers to parts of Wales,
and England, from morning onwards.
This is what it looks like through the early hours.
You can see some rain affecting parts of Devon,
Dorset, into Wales, Midlands, the stray shower in the north
of Scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night
in Scotland, Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District
as well, but many of us in England and Wales will be
waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay
like that through the afternoon as well
but I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands
but also around Wales and East Anglia the best
of the weather on Sunday, Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine as well,
but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
Despite the cloud and the showers,
still managing around 21 in London.
There is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm
still some showers around around in the evening
across parts of England and Wales.
Not a completely dry day but, with a bit of luck,
you will have some prolonged sunny spells
instead of heavy showers.
Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK,
so the best of the weather, although hazy at times,
out towards the west but decent enough temperatures —
around 22 in London, 20 in Liverpool,
probably nudging up to 20 in Glasgow as well for Monday.
Then, the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts
mostly between Scotland and Iceland, but the chance
that some of these weather systems will clip
the very far north—west of the UK.
In the south, it is closer to their high
pressure so, basically, the further south you are,
the better the weather will be in the week ahead,
further north, dry generally, but always a bit more
cloud.
That is it for me.
Bye— bye.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
The G7 group of advanced economies have reached a deal
to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries
where they do business.
Finance ministers, meeting in London, agreed to a global
minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries
undercutting each other.
A senior NHS official says the UK vaccination programme
appears to have broken the link between cases of the Covid—19
and serious illness or death.
The head of NHS Providers says people in hospital
with the Delta variant of coronavirus are significantly
younger, which puts less strain on critical care.
The Nigerian government has defended its decision
to suspend Twitter, saying the social media platform had
been used to spread misinformation that
had violent consequences.
A joint statement from the US, the EU, Britain, Canada
and Ireland said the right to free expression was
a pillar of democracy.
Now on BBC News, the BBC uncovers allegations of filth,
lice, sickness and neglect in a vast system of mostly
closed—off camps scattered across the US, holding more
than 20,000 migrant children.
A warning, some viewers may find find parts
—— A warning, some viewers may find parts
of this programme distressing.
Over 19,000 migrant children locked up in America.
Children speaking for the first time tell of disease,
neglect, hunger and filth.
Now children are being shipped en masse to 13 new sites around
America...
It feels a lot more like a detention facility,
a prison for kids.
..sites that are shrouded in secrecy.
They go to bed hungry.
The boys have been in there for 45 days straight
without any sunlight.
This level of deprivation, which really amounts to child
abuse, is very widespread in the largest facilities.
What is the impact on thousands of children?
Will their experiences come to haunt them?
The Rio Grande, and a night of fear.
At midnight, migrants will cross the river
from Mexico to America.
Many are children, travelling alone.
US guards are waiting.
The rafts bring families with children, too.
Some have walked for weeks to get here.
Over 36,000 unaccompanied children have crossed
into America this spring.
Many of the adults will be deported.
But under President Biden, most of the children will remain.
The children who came alone who are told to line up
separately from the others.
Many came hoping tojoin a family member already there.
—— Many came hoping to join a family member
already in America.
These girls are cousins.
Border guards demand the children’s belts and
laces —
a measure usually reserved for prisoners, to prevent them
from committing suicide.
Jordi has fled violent gangs in Guatemala.
Tonight, he has a new dread.
America’s camps for migrant children.
What do you expect is going to happen next?
This is Donna, Texas.
These tents held over 3000 children earlier this spring.
These, the notorious cubicles the migrants call ‘ice boxes’.
These children’s stories have not yet been heard.
Journalists have been banned from talking to them.
But we’ve been tracking down children who have
been released.
This is Sonja.
She is waiting for her daughter, Ariani,
a ten—year—old.
Sonja fled violence in Honduras six years ago,
leaving Ariani behind.
She thought she was too young for the dangerous journey.
We are seeing more folks landing.
I think we’re gonna be seeing them soon.
0h, she’s here!
They are not sure, because they can’t recognise
her, but it is her.
Her daughter travelled hundreds of miles, only to be locked
up in Donna.
She didn’t want to let go of her mother.
How did you feel when you saw your daughter again?
Ariani slept in one of the plastic cubicles.
Cindy, 16 years old, who fled Honduras for her safety,
was also in Donna.
Here are some of the photos of Donna.
It was more crowded than this?
Much more crowded?
Wow.
Pipes were dripping, Cindy said, and inside her mylar
blanket, she was wet.
When night fell on the borderlands, the sound of
crying filled the tents.
Paola, 16 years old, cried on her mattress many nights.
And on top of everything, there was the filth.
Closely guarded and largely away from the world’s eyes,
illness in the tents became rampant.
Paola became sick.
So did Ariani.
Cindy got Covid.
Now, a mass movement of children is under way.
We obtained flight logs.
Here, children are about to be flown to a set
of new and secretive detention centres across the country.
They have the capacity for over 19,000 children.
One day, Cindy was told to get on a bus.
She was taken to the airport in the dark with a large group
of sick girls.
They were not told where they were going.
Cindy was flown 1500 miles away to a new detention site
in San Diego, California.
We set out to find the new facilities.
There are about a dozen of them.
Several here in Texas.
Setting them up has reduced overcrowding
in centres like Donna.
We entered San Antonio.
Just east of town was a sports stadium.
It had beds for over 2000 migrant teenagers.
In February, a month before this facility opened,
it was used for a rodeo.
We were given this image, showing where the children
have been kept.
We’ve been told it was the same building
that’s normally used for animals in the annual rodeo.
This detention site, which is now set to close,
has been under investigation following allegations of sexual
abuse, inadequate food and neglect of the children.
An hour away in the heart of downtown Dallas,
the business district, we’d heard that hundreds
of teenage boys were being held here in the convention centre.
I’d been told there were no windows in the part
of the building they were kept in.
But where were they?
We asked for access, but no.
You guys have to go somewhere else.
0K.
This is where the children are being held?
Yes, so uou guys cannot be over here.
Staff said they had to sign agreements that they won’t talk
about what goes on inside.
Private contractors run the place on behalf
of the government.
This women, an employee, spoke to us on the condition
of anonymity.
There’s rows and rows and rows of cots and there’ guards
everywhere.
It feels a lot more like a detention facility —
a prison for kids.
This is a rare glimpse inside the Dallas detention site.
It was secretly filmed and given to us.
Children spend, on average, a month in these sites.
Releases are processed slowly, even though most children have
sponsors in America ready to take them.
This man, who has also been working in the centre,
was deeply upset by conditions.
It’s freezing cold.
Each boy has one thin blanket.
The children have always complained about not having
enough, not eating enough.
The boys have been in there for 45 days straight
without any sunlight.
Absolutely no recreational time outside, no fresh air.
How did the boys cope with that?
How can they cope, you know?
They’re all depressed.
I heard the other day some were contemplating suicide
because of the conditions here.
Detention sites are regularly opened and closed.
Children are moved.
Many are now flooding into this place.
Fort Bliss, a tented camp that can hold 10,000
children in El Paso, Texas.
In April, crowds protested.
Here in the heat of the desert, some of the tents hold
hundreds of children.
Insiders have told the BBC large numbers of children
here now have Covid.
They say there are tents for those with [ice and scabies.
We are hearing some terrible stories come out
of Fort Bliss, including instances
of sexual abuse of children by workers there, including
children who are having to be on suicide watch for long
periods of time because of the conditions there.
I have deep, deep concerns about the physiological
and psychological deterioration of children in a camp
like that.
Democratic Congresswoman Silvia Garcia has visited several
of the sites and was keen to stress progress made.
And you’re not aware of problems in these facilities
when the facility closed I think because there have been
problems and allegations...
Let me just be clear.
You asked me about issues in Dallas.
I am not aware of issues in Dallas.
Obviously, if you’re looking at all facilities,
are there issues?
Yes, there are.
But I am telling you that I think that based on everything
I have seen in the ones I have visited, the administration
is doing a much betterjob today than they were when it
first started because they were not prepared for the sheer
numbers, they did not have the facilities in place,
they do now.
The government told the BBC that children in Dallas
and the other new centres have access to nutritious
food and recreation.
And they are being kept in a healthy environment.
They say they are trying to speed up releases.
This is Wilton, ten years old.
He had been wondering for hours in the desert in March
when a border guard found him.
President Biden is not the first to deal with a surge
of migrant children over the border.
In 2018, under President Trump, nearly 3000 children
were separated from their parents and crammed with others
into detention centres.
These are believed to be some of their voices.
Parents were taken off to be charged with illegal entry.
The policy left a searing mark on America’s conscience.
Republicans are now accusing President Biden
of separating families.
Pointing out that Trump later made children stay in Mexico
with their families to await asylum hearings.
They are absolutely incentivising the separation
of families and they are putting them in detention
centres notjust on the borders but in detention centres
across the country, and the centres by the way
were never equipped to house children.
But this is fundamentally different than President
Trump’s trial separation policy, right?
Which deliberately separated children from parents
and was widely seen as cruel.
I think the administration will take unaccompanied minors,
they are specifically separating children
from families.
The Trump administration was the expert on family
separation.
It was cruel, it was inhumane and it goes against our values
as Americans, but certainly it is the opposite with
the Biden administration because for this
administration, the goal is to reunify them with families
as quickly as possible, and again, the numbers
are huge.
80% of the children that are coming unaccompanied
have a relative in this country.
In Biden’s America, migrant children are not
being physically taken from their parents by
US border officials.
But they are being separated from other relatives.
Many of whom are sent back to Mexico whilst
the children stay.
Those children are uniformly removed from the arms
of their grandmothers and the laps of their aunts
and uncles and older siblings and the trauma they experience
is identical to the trauma experienced by a child
who is taken away from a biological parent.
When Ariani got to America, she was separated from her
adult sister, who had become like mother to her.
The trauma of their experiences followed the girls home.
Cindy was not the same.
Ariani drew pictures in detention of love hearts
and flowers to fight off her sadness.
Ariani, once a bubbly and sociable girl,
is now largely silent.
The children we worry about most are the children
who go quiet.
They become despairing internally.
For those children, the trauma goes underground.
It sits like landmines under the surface.
They are more likely to have substance abuse problems,
more likely to suicide, more likely to have physiological
problems.
And those can be long—term consequences of this kind
of trauma, consequences that these children live
with for the rest of their lives.
Children are still crossing the border in large numbers.
As night falls on the river, another group prepares
for the journey into a country that promises dreams,
but which for thousands of children leave scars.
Ariani’s nights now are filled with terror.
Hello.
The weather on Sunday is going to be a little hit
and miss, particularty across England.
You’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared
to Saturday, and there will be a few showers around,
too,
but across Scotland and Northern Ireland,
I think it is a case of sunshine
right from the word go.
On the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump
of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
It is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low
pressure to the north
but that will bring some showers to parts of Wales,
and England, from morning onwards.
This is what it looks like through the early hours.
You can see some rain affecting parts of Devon,
Dorset, into Wales, Midlands, the stray shower in the north
of Scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night
in Scotland, Northern Ireland, probably the Lake District
as well, but many of us in England and Wales will be
waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay
like that through the afternoon as well
but I think the biggest chance of catching some heavier
showers further south into the Midlands
but also around Wales and East Anglia the best
of the weather on Sunday, Northern Ireland,
Scotland, the Lake District should be fine as well,
but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
Despite the cloud and the showers,
still managing around 21 in London.
There is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm
still some showers around around in the evening
across parts of England and Wales.
Not a completely dry day but, with a bit of luck,
you will have some prolonged sunny spells
instead of heavy showers.
Monday, also likely to be some showers around,
particularly across northern and eastern areas of the UK,
so the best of the weather, although hazy at times,
out towards the west but decent enough temperatures —
around 22 in London, 20 in Liverpool,
probably nudging up to 20 in Glasgow as well for Monday.
Then, the rest of the week, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts
mostly between Scotland and Iceland, but the chance
that some of these weather systems will clip
the very far north—west of the UK.
In the south, it is closer to their high
pressure so, basically, the further south you are,
the better the weather will be in the week ahead,
further north, dry generally, but always a bit more
cloud.
That is it for me.
Bye— bye.
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Rachel Burden
and RogerJohnson.
Our headlines today:
Remembering more than 20,000 British servicemen who died
during the Normandy landings.
A new memorial’s opened on the 77th anniversary of D—Day.
Pupils are urged to take a Covid test before returning
to school after half term, amid rising infections.
The stars will be back on the red carpet,
but some are just a hologram.
It’s the Baftas pandemic style.
Burns battles for England.
He scores a century — but England still have work to do,
as New Zealand have the edge going into the final day
of the opening Test at Lord’s.
Good morning. For Scotland and Northern Ireland it is more
Northern Ireland it is more straightforward today. Looks like it
straightforward today. Looks like it will be dry and are sunnier than it
will be dry and are sunnier than it was yesterday. England and Wales,
was yesterday. England and Walas, more
was yesterday. England and Wales, more cloud around with dad and
more cloud around with dad and driuly
more cloud around with dad and drizzly weather, at the sky opens
driuly weather, at the sky opens up. -- damp.
drizzly weather, at the sky opens up. —— damp. Join me later
drizzly weather, at the sky opens up. —— damp. Join me laterfor all
up. -- damp. join me later for all the details.
It’s Sunday the sixth ofJune.
Our top story:
Our top story:
A memorial to British and Commonwealth troops
who died on D—Day is to be opened in Normandy today.
The monument honours the more than 22,000 servicemen who died
on the day and in the fighting that followed.
Our correspondent Hugh Schofield reports.
D—Day, the Normandy campaign, the thousands of tradition and
thousands of tradition and Commonwealth soldiers who died. Is
Commonwealth soldiers who died. Is that future generations are going to
that future generations are going to going to come to honour their
going to come to honour their memory. Part temple of remembrance,
memory. Part temple of remembrance, part place of contemplation, the
part place of contemplation, the British Normandy Memorial is a place
British Normandy Memorial is a place of serene beauty. At its centre, 3
of serene beauty. At its centre, a statue of three infantrymen caught
statue of three infantrymen taught in
statue of three infantrymen caught in battle. And on its 160 columns,
in battle. And on its 160 columns, the names, ranks and ages of all
the names, ranks and ages of all those who were killed. As the years
those who were killed. As the years passed and the numbers of those who
passed and the numbers of those who fought in the campaign dwindle, it
fought in the campaign dwindla, it is the
fought in the campaign dwindle, it is the fulfilment of a promise. The
is the fulfilment of a promise. The inspiration for it came from the
inspiration for it came from the veterans themselves. They wanted to
veterans themselves. They wanted to have one Single Place where all the
have one Single Place where all the comrades who lost their lives,
comrades who lost their lives, sewing
comrades who lost their lives, serving under General Montgomery,
sewing under General Montgomery, ran be
serving under General Montgomery, can be remembered together. And I
ran be remembered together. And I think they felt
can be remembered together. And I think they felt with the passing of
think they felt with the passing of time it was important there was a
time it was important there was a single place where people could come
singla place where peopla could come to
single place where people could come to reﬂect, to
single place where people could come to reflect, to think about what
to reﬂect, to think about what happened,
to reflect, to think about what happened, to realise the importance
happened, to realise the importance of what happened in 191m and how it
of what happened in 1944 and how it is still
of what happened in 191m and how it is still relevant today. The most
is still relevant today. The most glorious thing about the Normandy
glorious thing about the Normandy Memorial is the setting. On a hill,
Memorial is the setting. On a hill, overlooking Gold Beach. To the west,
overtooking Gold Beach. To the west, dearty visible
overlooking Gold Beach. To the west, clearly visible the remains of
dearty visible the remains of Mulberry
clearly visible the remains of Mulberry artificial harbour, and
Mulberry artificial harbour, and below us, the sands where on the
below us, the sands where on the morning of during the sixth
below us, the sands where on the morning of during the sixth19lm,
morning of during the sixth19lm, thousands of
morning of during the sixth1941i, thousands of British and
thousands of British and Commonwealth troops came pouring off
Commonwealth troops fame pouring off their
Commonwealth troops came pouring off their transports. Gold Beach was at
their transports. Gold Beach was at the centre of the landings, the
the centre of the landings, the Americans on one side, the Canadians
Americans on one side, the Canadians on the others. Here, British
on the others. Here, British soldiers scored early success but it
soldiers scored earty success but it was the
soldiers scored early success but it was the start of a long and bitter
was the start of a long and bitter fight to the lanes and villages of
fight to the lanes and villages of mral
fight to the lanes and villages of rural Normandy. Not till
fight to the lanes and villages of rural Normandy. Not tillJuly did
mral Normandy. Not till july did the
rural Normandy. Not tillJuly did the allies take the key city,
the allies take the key city, opening the way to Paris. Among
opening the way to Paris. Among those killed in the later fighting
those killed in the later fighting was the man who parachuted in as a
was the man who parachuted in as a signals officer on detail —— on
signals officer on detail -- on D-Day. His son
signals officer on detail —— on D—Day. His son comes often with his
D-Day. His son comes often with his children
D—Day. His son comes often with his children and grandchildren to visit
children and grandchildren to visit the grave. A hero. When I saw all
the grave. A hero. when I saw all the stories
the grave. A hero. When I saw all the stories in the letters and all
the stories in the letters and all of that that related to what he had
of that that related to what he had done. I will often think of him,
done. I will often think of him, even now, I think of him. And think
even now, I think of him. And think what a wonderful
even now, I think of him. And think what a wonderfuljob he did. It can
what a wonderful job he did. It ran mean, he is
what a wonderfuljob he did. It can mean, he is one of so many when you
mean, he is one of so many when you think of all these others who were
think of all these others who were equally brave and who lost their
equally brave and who lost their lives. This year, because of Covid,
lives. This year, because of Covid, there is no D—Day tourism. The
there is no D-Day tourism. The hotels are
there is no D—Day tourism. The hotels are empty. But the people of
hotels are empty. But the people of Normandy haven’t forgotten and the
Normandy haven’t forgotten and the famous Pegasus Bridge over the canal
famous Pegasus Bridge over the canal is once again 96 --
famous Pegasus Bridge over the canal is once again % —— the scene of
is once again 96 -- the scene of France
is once again % —— the scene of France re—enactors. The petition
France re-enactors. The petition will have
France re—enactors. The petition will have to wait a little to see
will have to wait a little to see the beaches again and we live in the
the beaches again and we live in the minds the site —— excitement and
minds the site -- excitement and sacrifice of
minds the site —— excitement and sacrifice of those terrible days.
sacrifice of those terrible days. One thing is sure, when they do
One thing is sure, when they do come, it is here at the Normandy
come, it is here at the Normandy Memorial that they will gather.
And Hugh Schofield is in the town of Ver—sur—Mer in Normandy,
where the memorial has been built.
ii
It is going to be a very poignant day. It is, of course. It will get
day. It is, of course. It will get under way here in four hours or so.
under way here in four hours or so. You ran see
under way here in four hours or so. You can see behind me there are only
You ran see behind me there are only a small

Citation: BBC News, 01:55 06/06/2021, BBC1 London, 245 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/18585089?bcast=134616560 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)