This is BBC News — these are the latest headlines in the UK
and around the world.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the Royal Family
of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
I don’t know how they could expect that after all this time we would
stilljust be silent if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
The UK Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing
too little to tackle inequality
This is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s a
progressive measure.
It means those on higher incomes contribute a lot
more than those on lower incomes.
If you want to tell me your reaction to the Budget —
or any of our main stories today — you can tweet me at annita
underscore mcveigh or use the hashtag BBC Your Questions
Countries with more overweight people have had the highest death
rates from Covid 19, a report says, as the government
looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
I’m dressed up as my favourite character.
Fantastic Mr Fox.
And as children dress up to mark World Book Day,
campaigners call for more
books with characters from ethnic backgrounds.
Hello, and welcome if you’re watching in the UK
or around the world.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition, Buckingham Palace says.
Prince Philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
He was being treated for an infection and moved
to St Bartholomew’s Hospital in London on Monday.
Our royal correspondent, Nicholas Witchell,
is following developments.
Duke of Edinburgh yesterday underwent a successful procedure for
underwent a successful procedure for a pre-existing
underwent a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition at
a pre-existing heart condition at Saint
a pre—existing heart condition at Saint Bartholomew is Hospital. His
Saint Bartholomew is Hospital. His Royal Highness will remain in
Royal Highness will remain in hospital
Royal Highness will remain in hospitalfor
Royal Highness will remain in hospital for treatment, rest and
hospital for treatment, rest and recuperation for a number of days.
recuperation for a number of days. So, a successful procedure for this
So, a successful procedure for this pre-existing
So, a successful procedure for this pre—existing heart condition. This
pre-existing heart condition. This surgical
pre—existing heart condition. This surgical procedure took place
surgical procedure took place yesterday, it’s been successful. It
yesterday, it’s been successful. It will remind us, of course, what
will remind us, of course, what happened nearly ten years ago when
happened nearty ten years ago when he had a
happened nearly ten years ago when he had a stent inserted in his heart
he had a stent inserted in his heart to treat a blocked coronary artery.
to treat a blocked coronary artery. whether
to treat a blocked coronary artery. Whether there has been another stent
whether there has been another stent inserted
Whether there has been another stent inserted or whether there has had to
inserted or whether there has had to be some adjustment to the existing
be some adjustment to the existing stent, we simply don’t know and I
stent, we simply don’t know and I don’t think the Palace will
don’t think the Palace will enlighten us any further. But the
enlighten us any further. But the important point that this procedure
important point that this procedure was carried out yesterday, for this
was carried out yesterday, for this pre-existing
was carried out yesterday, for this pre—existing heart condition, which
pre-existing heart condition, which must imply
pre—existing heart condition, which must imply that perhaps it is
must imply that perhaps it is something to do with the stent that
something to do with the stent that was inserted ten years ago, and he
was inserted ten years ago, and he will remain in hospital
was inserted ten years ago, and he will remain in hospitalfor
will remain in hospitalfor treatment, rest and recuperation is
treatment, rest and recuperation is the statement says, for a number of
the statement says, for a number of days. The Duke, Nicholas, he is 99,
days. The Duke, Nicholas, he is 99, I believe this is the start of his
I believe this is the start of his third week in hospital. Do we have
third week in hospital. Do we have any idea when he might be allowed to
any idea when he might be allowed to go home? The statement says a number
go home? The statement says a number of days but obviously, the family
of days but obviously, the family hoping that he is over the worst of
hoping that he is over the worst of this particular period in hospital.
this particular period in hospital. Yes. 16 nights so far in hospital,
Yes. 16 nights so far in hospital, initially, of course, at the King
initially, of course, at the King Edward VII hospital, he went in
Edward VII hospital, he went in there on the 16th of February and he
there on the 16th of February and he was transferred to Sin Bartholomew
was transferred to Sin Bartholomew is on Monday of this week. Very much
is on Monday of this week. Very much I think,
is on Monday of this week. Very much Ithink, in
is on Monday of this week. Very much I think, in the expectation there
I think, in the expectation there would be some procedure of some sort
would be some procedure of some sort because Saint Bartholomew is is the
because Saint Bartholomew is is the centre of cardiac excellence,
centre of cardiac excellance, particular
centre of cardiac excellence, particular skills and expertise
particular skills and expertise there. That skill and expertise has
there. That skill and expertise has now been brought to bear, this
now been brought to bear, this procedure carried out yesterday,
procedure carried out yesterday, successfully, the Palace says. How
successfully, the Palace says. How long will he remain in hospital? We
long will he remain in hospital? We are told a number of days. I would
are told a number of days. I would imagine that for a man of that age,
imagine that for a man of that age, of his age, he is
imagine that for a man of that age, of his age, he isjust
imagine that for a man of that age, of his age, he iSjUSt14
imagine that for a man of that age, of his age, he is just 1A weeks,
imagine that for a man of that age, of his age, he iSjUSt14 weeks, I
of his age, he is just 14 weeks, I think, short
of his age, he isjust 1A weeks, I think, short of
of his age, he iSjUSt14 weeks, I think, short of his 100th birthday,
think, short of his 100th birthday, to have a surgical procedure
to have a surgical procedure involving your heart, I would
involving your heart, I would imagine, that he would need rest,
imagine, that he would need rest, recuperation and further treatment
recuperation and further treatment well, we don’t know, but a number of
well, we don’t know, but a number of days, I
well, we don’t know, but a number of days, Iwould have
well, we don’t know, but a number of days, I would have thought,
well, we don’t know, but a number of days, Iwould have thought, but
well, we don’t know, but a number of days, I would have thought, but that
days, Iwould have thought, but that will certainly
days, I would have thought, but that will certainly take us into next
will certainly take us into next week, that is clear. Providing
week, that is clear. Providing everything goes according to plan I
everything goes according to plan I expect we won’t hear anything until
expect we won’t hear anything until the deal leaves hospital,
the deal leaves hospital, potentially? Potentially, as we
potentially? Potentially, as we know, the Palace neither the Palace
know, the Palace neither the Palace nor the hospital or into this what
nor the hospital or into this what the latest situation? There is never
the latest situation? There is never any latest, except in as they issued
any latest, except in as they issued statements such as this when there
statements such as this when there is something tangible to report. 50
is something tangibla to report. So I would
is something tangible to report. 50 I would think it is entirely
I would think it is entirely possibla
I would think it is entirely possible that there will be no
possibla that there will be no further
possible that there will be no further statement now from the
further statement now from the Palace unless there is any
Palace unless there is any significant change in video ‘s
significant change in video ‘s condition until such time as he is
condition until such time as he is ready to go home. That was our royal
ready to go home. That was our royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell.
The Duchess of Sussex has said Buckingham Palace could not
expect her and Prince Harry to be silent if it was "perpetuating
falsehoods" about them.
She was speaking to the US talk show host, Oprah Winfrey,
in an interview which will be broadcast in America on Sunday.
The Palace is launching an investigation into claims Meghan
had bullied staff in 2018.
SimonJones reports.
Meghan is making it clear she will not be afraid to speak
out in a second trailer for the interview
released overnight.
How do you feel about the Palace hearing you speak your truth today?
I don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time
we would stilljust be silent, if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
If that comes with risk of losing things, I mean, there’s a lot
that’s been lost already.
This is a second clip released by CBS but the first
in which we have heard the Duchess speak.
The interview was recorded before Buckingham Palace began
an investigation into claims Meghan had bullied former royal staff.
The Times newspaper has obtained an e—mail,
written in late 2018, byJason Knauf, the couple’s
Communication Secretary, to Simon Case, he is now the
Cabinet Secretary.
In it he is reported to have written...
"I’m very concerned that the Duchess was able to bully
two PAs out of the household in the past year.
The treatment of X was totally unacceptable."
Buckingham Palace said it was very concerned about the allegations.
Former members of staff are being invited to participate
in its investigation.
In a statement, it added...
"The Royal household has had
a dignity at work policy in place for a number of years and does not
and will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the workplace."
But a spokesperson for Meghan said...
"The Duchess is saddened by this
latest attack on her character, particularly as someone who has been
the target of bullying herself.
She will keep striving to set an example for doing
what is right and good."
The latest interview clip will do little to heal any apparent rifts
between the Sussexes and the Palace.
Simon Jones, BBC News.
Our Royal Correspondent Sarah Campbell says the latest clip
released from the US interview is quite extraordinary.
ﬂ
I think we knew and certainly for the first dip
I think we knew and certainly for the first clip from Harry that was
the first clip from Harry that was released earlier this week and the
released eartier this week and the ongoing
released earlier this week and the ongoing narrative from him, that the
ongoing narrative from him, that the press was likely to come in for
press was likely to come in for criticism in this interview. He’s
criticism in this interview. He’s made it absolutely clear. What we
made it absolutely clear. what we didn’t
made it absolutely clear. What we didn’t know was the level of
didn’t know was the level of criticism which might be levelled at
criticism which might be [availed at the Royal
criticism which might be levelled at the Royal family and the Royal
the Royal family and the Royal household. And I think that is why
household. And I think that is why this clip is so indicative and white
this clip is so indicative and white peopla at the
this clip is so indicative and white people at the Palace will be
people at the Palace will be particularly concerned about what’s
particularty concerned about what’s going to be
particularly concerned about what’s going to be aired on US television
going to be aired on US telavision this
going to be aired on US television this weekend because it does appear
this weekend because it does appear from that dip,
this weekend because it does appear from that clip, and this interview
from that dip, and this interview with Oprah
from that clip, and this interview with Oprah Winfrey is due to run for
with Oprah Winfrey is due to nm for two hours, it’s
with Oprah Winfrey is due to run for two hours, it’s mainly Meghan, there
two hours, it’s mainly Meghan, there is a little bit of Harry in there as
is a little bit of Harry in there as well but she will have a lot to say
well but she will have a lot to say duﬂng
well but she will have a lot to say during that time and from this clip
during that time and from this clip that’s been released, is she really
that’s been released, is she really saying that members of the firm, the
saying that members of the firm, the phrase that she uses, have actively
phrase that she uses, have actively been spreading falsehoods, spreading
been spreading falsehoods, spreading lies, effectively, about the couple?
lies, effectively, about the couple? And when she says the firm, is sheet
And when she says the firm, is sheet meaning the Royal household,
meaning the Royal household, disorder Palace machine, or is she
disorder Palace machine, or is she going to directly accuse individual
going to directly accuse individual members the Royal
going to directly accuse individual members the Royalfamily
going to directly accuse individual members the Royal family of
members the Royal family of spreading lies about them. That
spreading lies about them. That obviously is a huge accusation. But
obviously is a huge accusation. But that’s the point of traders, we have
that’s the point of traders, we have to wait until this weekend to find
to wait until this weekend to find out the context, it’s going to be
out the context, it’s going to be all about the context. That was
all about the context. That was Sarah Campbell.
Let’s talk to Katie Nicholl — Vanity Fair’s Royal Editor
and Author of the book "Harry And Meghan".
Good to have you with this and thank you for your time today. As Sarah
you for your time today. As Sarah was just saying, the whole point of
was just saying, the whole point of these teasers, trailers, call them
these teasers, trailers, all them what you will,
these teasers, trailers, call them what you will, is to draw us in and
what you will, is to draw us in and I suppose one of the big questions
I suppose one of the big questions from what we heard in that clip from
from what we heard in that clip from the Duchess of Sussex is who exactly
the Duchess of Sussex is who exactly is she referring to when she says
is she referring to when she says Buckingham Palace is perpetuating
Buckingham Palace is perpetuating falsehoods about her and Harry?
falsehoods about her and Harry? Well, until we hear this in context,
Well, until we hear this in context, it’s very difficult to say and there
it’s very difficult to say and there is so much speculation. I’m kind of
is so much speculation. I’m kind of reluctant to add to that but
reluctant to add to that but certainly when I talk about the
certainly when I talk about the firm, and the Duke of Edinburgh
firm, and the Duke of Edinburgh talks about the firm he is not
talks about the firm he is not talking about the Palace machine,
talking about the Palace machine, the eights, the press officers and
the eights, the press officers and private secretaries, he is talking
private secretaries, he is talking about the family. My understanding
about the family. My understanding is they will talk specifically about
is they will talk specifically about the family on certain subjects, I
the family on certain subjects, I think Rice is going to be one of
think Rice is going to be one of them. No two ways, this is going to
them. No two ways, this is going to be very uncomfortable viewing for
be very uncomfortable viewing for the Royal
be very uncomfortable viewing for the Royalfamily, that goes
be very uncomfortable viewing for the Royal family, that goes without
the Royal family, that goes without saying but whether she specifically
saying but whether she specifically is talking about the Royal family
is talking about the Royal family perpetuating falsehoods whether she
perpetuating falsehoods whether she thinks... But what I can tell you,
thinks... But what I ran tell you, it’s from a very
thinks... But what I can tell you, it’s from a very senior aide who
it’s from a very senior aide who worked very closely with them,
worked very closely with them, certainly in that period after the
certainly in that period after the Royal wedding,
certainly in that period after the Royalwedding, or
certainly in that period after the Royalwedding, orfive
certainly in that period after the Royal wedding, orfive months when
Royal wedding, or five months when narrative
Royal wedding, orfive months when narrative was beginning to change
narrative was beginning to change and we were reading about Duchess
and we were reading about Duchess difficult, we were reading stories
difficult, we were reading stories we hadn’t heard before. That was the
we hadn’t heard before. That was the start of this feeling of paranoia,
start of this feeling of paranoia, and there was an increased climate
and there was an increased climate of paranoia, the couple were
of paranoia, the couple were convinced that aids at Kensington
convinced that aids at Kensington Palace were briefing against them,
Palace were briefing against them, briefing the newspapers and that
briefing the newspapers and that was, I’m afraid, a climate of
was, I’m afraid, a climate of paranoia that exacerbated and became
paranoia that exacerbated and became more intensified as time went on.
more intensified as time went on. You say paranoia but do you think
You say paranoia but do you think that feeling was justified in some
that feeling was justified in some cases? Clearly, there were sources
cases? Clearty, there were sources briefing at the
cases? Clearly, there were sources briefing at the time against Meghan.
briefing at the time against Meghan. You know, those stories are there,
You know, those stories are there, they are in print. You will remember
they are in print. You will remember the story about the Sam e—mails that
the story about the 5am e-mails that she was sending
the story about the Sam e—mails that she was sending and that led to
she was sending and that lad to stories
she was sending and that led to stories about staff, there was a
stories about staff, there was a high turnover of staff, absolutely.
high turnover of staff, absolutely. But you know, there clearly was a
But you know, there dearty was a negative
But you know, there clearly was a negative narrative was being fed to
negative narrative was being fed to the media by certain sources, I
the media by certain sources, I think that’s irrefutable. What level
think that’s irrefutable. what level of
think that’s irrefutabla. what level of strain
think that’s irrefutable. What level of strain do you think the family
of strain do you think the family ties, the familial bonds are under
ties, the familial bonds are under right now? We’ve looked at the
right now? We’ve looked at the difficulties of late since the
difficulties of late since the couple ‘s departure to the United
couple ‘s departure to the United States, obviously things have been
States, obviously things have been strained but a lot of people have
strained but a lot of peopla have said
strained but a lot of people have said those bonds are there, that
said those bonds are there, that sustains. But what we are seeing
sustains. But what we are seeing here suggests a climate that is much
here suggests a climate that is much more difficult than that? It’s going
more difficult than that? It’s going to be very, very hard. I was being
to be very, very hard. I was being told that William and Harry ‘s
told that William and Harry ‘s relationship was on a better track,
relationship was on a better track, some of those wins were beginning to
some of those wins were beginning to heal, I
some of those wins were beginning to heal, Ithink
some of those wins were beginning to heal, I think this has
some of those wins were beginning to heal, I think this hasjust
some of those wins were beginning to heal, I think this has just blown
heal, I think this has just blown that rift wide open again. William
that rift wide open again. William is not happy about any of this. I’m
is not happy about any of this. I’m told by a dose
is not happy about any of this. I’m told by a close source to the
told by a close source to the Sussexes that Prince Harry has been
Sussexes that Prince Harry has been in touch with his grandmother this
in touch with his grandmother this week, therve
in touch with his grandmother this week, they’ve been speaking about
week, therve been speaking about the
week, they’ve been speaking about the Duke of Edinburgh ‘s health so
the Duke of Edinburgh ‘s health so he is obviously still in contact
he is obviously still in contact with certain members of his family
with certain members of his family but absolutely, this is going to
but absolutely, this is going to cause a huge strain and huge
cause a huge strain and huge pressure and very ill feelings,
pressure and very ill feelings, certainly, between Buckingham Palace
certainly, between Buckingham Palace and the Sussexes. I think, Palace
and the Sussexes. I think, Palace aids have really gone out of their
aids have really gone out of their “Y
aids have really gone out of their way to make life smooth for the
way to make life smooth for the couple, certainly in those early
couple, certainly in those earty days. We
couple, certainly in those early days. We keep reading about how the
days. We keep reading about how the Queen bent over backwards to
Queen bent over backwards to accommodate the couple, she
accommodate the couple, she absolutely did that, she did that in
absolutely did that, she did that in the mn-up to
absolutely did that, she did that in the run—up to the wedding, on so
the mn-up to the wedding, on so many different
the run—up to the wedding, on so many different occasions. There is
many different occasions. There is so much ill feeling and this is
so much ill feeling and this is turning into a very ugly war of
turning into a very ugly war of words. Someone compared it to me the
words. Someone compared it to me the other day, they haven’t seen it
other day, they haven’t seen it since the war of the wealthiest and
since the war of the wealthiest and the truth is no one really comes out
the truth is no one really comes out looking good in any good. Do you
looking good in any good. Do you have any sense whether senior Royals
have any sense whether senior Royals will have any idea what will be in
will have any idea what will be in this interview before it’s broadcast
this interview before it’s broadcast in the US at the weekend? ——
in the US at the weekend? -- Waleses. I
in the US at the weekend? —— Waleses. I think it’s fair to say
Waleses. I think it’s fair to say they didn’t know about the interview
they didn’t know about the interview until it was announced, I think
until it was announced, I think there is not a chance anyone will
there is not a chance anyone will get to see this, not from the
get to see this, not from the Palace, before it airs. Thank you
Palace, before it airs. Thank you for that.
The UK Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has defended his
decision to raise corporation tax for the most profitable companies
to 25% in 2023.
This measure — along with other moves such as freezing
income tax thresholds — mean that Britain is on course
to have the highest tax burden since the 19605.
Paul Hawkins reports.
Billed as a Budget to rescue an economy ravaged by Covid.
REPORTER: Can the country afford this budget, Mr Sunak?
The Chancellor has promised to protectjobs.
Tax increases loom, taking the UK’s tax burden to its highest
level since the 19605, according to the Office
for Budget Responsibility.
Obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public
finances and the economy, and I think I and the Government
have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time
but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery
in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
This is how he intends to do it.
The furlough scheme is to be extended until the end
of September, as will higher Universal Credit payments.
The headline rate of corporation tax will go up from 19% to 25%
from 2023, though smaller firms will be exempt.
And a freeze on income tax thresholds is expected to lead
to 1.3 million more people paying income tax, plusi million more
paying the higher rate.
But there will be some more help for hospitality.
Pubs won’t have to pay business rates until the end ofJune.
We have been open forfour months out of the last 12
when we get to reopen.
When we reopen, it’s going to be gardens only,
and then restricted inside.
We are going to need all the help we can get to get
hospitality through.
Labour talk of a missed opportunity.
I just think this didn’t deliver the scale of what was required.
For most people what they’re going to see is a very big
increase in council tax, possibly 3 Universal Credit cut,
and a very high level of unemployment, no
matter where they live.
Although much of the focus has been on business,
some number crunchers say the effects of the Budget will also
be felt far wider.
Much less attention was paid to what is happening
to British households.
In many ways, the year ahead for them is more difficult
than the year we’ve been through, with falling living
standards this autumn.
And actually, for public services, further cuts to public spending mean
that we may be seeing
what feels a lot like austerity.
There is now a route out of lockdown.
But tough times ahead.
The Chancellor says not all his decisions will be
popular but they are, he insists, honest.
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
Our chief political correspondent, Adam Fleming,
told me the Budget was a story of three chapters.
The first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of
continuing to spend billions of pounds to support people and
pounds to support people and businesses through what they hope is
businesses through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic. And
the last stage of the pandemic. And that will last until September when
that will last until September when society is supposedly all but two
society is supposedly all but two have opened up again. Then chapter
have opened up again. Then chapter two starts, the recovery of the
two starts, the recovery of the government hopes which will be
government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax
boosted by a massive, massive tax break with billions of pounds for
break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff. Then
businesses to invest in staff. Then the year after is when chapter three
the year after is when chapter three starts. That is when we see the
starts. That is when we see the government raising more money in
government raising more money in taxation. First of all, by an
taxation. First of all, by an increase in the rate of corporation
increase in the rate of corporation tax, paid by companies earning more
tax, paid by companies earning more than a quarter of £1 billion of
than a quarter of £1 billion of profits a
than a quarter of £1 billion of profits 3 year. And then, secondly,
profits a year. And then, secondly, freezing those
profits 3 year. And then, secondly, freezing those thresholds for the
freezing those thresholds for the rates of income tax which means more
rates of income tax which means more lower earners will start paying the
lower earners will start paying the basic rate and for higher earners
basic rate and for higher earners will start paying the higher rate.
will start paying the higher rate. And Rishi Sunak, the Chancellors
And Rishi Sunak, the chancellors this morning
And Rishi Sunak, the Chancellors this morning has been defending that
this morning has been defending that as a fair way of mending the public
as a fair way of mending the public finances. People’s current take—home
finances. People’s current take-home pay it won’t be
finances. People’s current take—home pay it won’t be affected by this
pay it won’t be affected by this policy but you are right and I was
policy but you are right and I was clear yesterday, that this means the
clear yesterday, that this means the incremental benefit that they would
incremental benefit that they would have experienced had those
have experienced had those thresholds continue to rise with
thresholds continue to rise with inflation won’t be there. We are
inﬂation won’t be there. We are going to keep
inflation won’t be there. We are going to keep putting up the
going to keep putting up the thresholds next year as we promised
thresholds next year as we promised but then they will be frozen at the
but then they will be frozen at the higher level but you mention the
higher level but you mention the resolution foundation, I think
resolution foundation, I think therve
resolution foundation, I think they’ve also said this is a good way
therve also said this is a good way to raise money
they’ve also said this is a good way to raise money that we need because
to raise money that we need because it’s a progressive measure, it means
it’s a progressive measure, it means those on higher incomes contribute a
those on higher incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes
lot more than those on lower incomes and I think that’s what most people
and I think that’s what most peopla would accept
and I think that’s what most people would accept as a fair way to do
would accept as a fair way to do what we need to do. The resolution
what we need to do. The resolution foundation that the Chancellor
foundation that the Chancellor mentioned as a think tank that looks
mentioned as a think tank that looks at peopla on
mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they
at peopla on low incomes and they are doing
at people on low incomes and they are doing everything right now with
are doing everything right now with their analysis which will be
their analysis which will be followed in an hour by the very
followed in an hour by the very famous Institute for Fiscal Studies
famous Institute for Fiscal Studies and it’s always the economists view
and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that
of the budget the day after that tends to shape People’s reactions
tends to shape People’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the
and in terms of reactions, the labour Party
and in terms of reactions, the Labour Party is opposed to tax rises
labour Party is opposed to tax rises now, they think
Labour Party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad
now, they think that would be had for the
now, they think that would be bad for the recovery. But the Shadow
for the recovery. But the Shadow Chancellor Anneliese Dodds is in
Chancellor Anneliese Dodds is in favour of those phrases to the
favour of those phrases to the income tax threshold. In principle,
income tax threshold. In principle, on that freeze, we are not against
on that freeze, we are not against the freeze on principle. What I am
the freeze on principle. What I am concerned about is the fact that
concerned about is the fact that this is taking place when we have
this is taking place when we have got the changes to council tax but
got the changes to council tax but also changes to social security as
also changes to social security as well. You quoted a speaker from the
well. You quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation 3
well. You quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation a moment ago
resolution foundation a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the
who pointed out that actually, the government is planning to switch off
government is planning to switch off its increase in social security,
its increase in social security, actually, right at the time when we
actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment,
anticipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to
that’s not a sensible approach to take. Labour
that’s not a sensible approach to take. Labourare
that’s not a sensible approach to take. Labour are also critical of
take. labour are also critical of this thing that
take. Labour are also critical of this thing that the government has
this thing that the government has got called the tan 5 fund, £1
got rallad the tan 5 fund, £1 billion
got called the tan 5 fund, £1 billion allocated for investment in
billion allocated for investment in towns around England and if you look
towns around England and if you look at the towns, the vast majority of
at the towns, the vast majority of them are in seats held by
them are in seats held by Conservative MPs. Labour says is
Conservative MPs. labour says is cronyism, the
Conservative MPs. Labour says is cronyism, the Conservatives just say
cronyism, the Conservatives just say it’s a product of levelling up and
it’s a product of levelling up and put the result was at the last
put the result was at the last election. A0 out of 45 towns
elaction. 40 out of 45 towns receiving
election. A0 out of 45 towns receiving that money from the
receiving that money from the Newtown deal that’s been mentioned
Newtown deal that’s been mentioned in the budget, to be precise. What
in the budget, to be precise. what was left out,
in the budget, to be precise. What was left out, what’s conspicuous by
was left out, what’s conspicuous by its absence, would you say? We are
its absence, would you say? We are going to be with a lot of
going to be with a lot of uncertainty. So does the pandemic
uncertainty. So does the pandemic pan out in a way that’s better or
pan out in a way that’s better or worse than Rishi Sunak predicts?
worse than Rishi Sunak predicts? Also, do we have businesses
Also, do we have businesses investing in the way that he hopes
investing in the way that he hopes in the next year? And also, can you
in the next year? And also, ran you raise as
in the next year? And also, can you raise as much of corporation tax as
raise as much of corporation tax as you expect? There’s lots of things
you expect? There’s lots of things to deal with of the next few years.
to deal with of the next few years. In terms of other things that aren’t
In terms of other things that aren’t there, what about social care? It
there, what about social rare? It was
there, what about social care? It was meant to be a big reform to how
was meant to be a big reform to how social rare
was meant to be a big reform to how social care is funded by the end of
social rare is funded by the end of the year, there
social care is funded by the end of the year, there was no mention of
the year, there was no mention of that. The office of budget Day
that. The office of budget Day budget responsibility says missing
budget responsibility says missing is any idea of how to handle the
is any idea of how to handla the backlog in
is any idea of how to handle the backlog in the NHS, operations and
backlog in the NHS, operations and treatments that haven’t happened
treatments that haven’t happened because of Covid, will that require
because of Covid, will that require lots more money to deal with?
lots more money to deal with? Education, money has gone into these
Education, money has gone into these catch-up funds
Education, money has gone into these catch—up funds so there can be more
catch-up funds so there ran be more tuition for
catch—up funds so there can be more tuition for people to have fallen
tuition for peopla to have fallen behind
tuition for people to have fallen behind in their learning, will that
behind in their learning, will that require a lot more? And also, the
require a lot more? And also, the other thing the Office for Budget
other thing the Office for Budget Responsibility pointed out is if
Responsibility pointed out is if interest rates for government debt
interest rates for government debt go
interest rates for government debt 9° “P
interest rates for government debt go up then the government will have
go up then the government will have to spend a lot more on servicing its
to spend a lot more on servicing its debt which could mean more interest,
debt which could mean more interest, more tax rises and potentially more
more tax rises and potentially more spending cuts and so, when Rishi
spending cuts and so, when Rishi Sunak comes back to the House of
Sunak comes back to the House of Commons in the autumn, potentially
Commons in the autumn, potentially for another budget and definitely
for another budget and definitely for a spending review, we will talk
for a spending review, we will talk about the allocations of spending to
about the allocations of spending to government departments, will be
government departments, will be going through all of this over
going through all of this over again? That was Adam Fleming.
I put it to Pauljohnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies
that the Covid—19 pandemic means there’s still a lot
of uncertainty about the economy
You’re right, there’s a huge amount of uncertainty
about the forecast in all of this.
We all grab onto the central forecast from the OBR
and the central numbers that the Chancellor talks about,
but of course much more than usual we don’t really
have much of an idea,
frankly, what’s going to happen to the economy
in the next year or two.
But associated with that, and a slightly separate point, is
that the Chancellor has pencilled in some really very tight spending
plans into his spending review in the autumn and into this Budget,
which involve actually spending quite a lot less next year
and in subsequent years than he was planning pre—pandemic.
Now, frankly, that doesn’t strike me as being terribly plausible.
The idea that we will need to be spending less on education
and health and social care and local Government and all those things
after the pandemic than we thought we were going to beforehand just
doesn’t look in the least bit likely, given that we know...
Evenjust for the minimum things, like vaccination and Test
and Trace and PPE and so on, let alone catching up with the huge
backlog of operations and the need to catch up children who have lost
so much school, and the need to help local authorities and so on.
These numbers don’t look like they are going to hold.
And I was just asking Adam 3 second ago, what do you think was left out
that you would have liked to have seen in there?
What is conspicuous by its absence?
Your thoughts on that?
Well, I wrote a piece on Monday which said there are two
challenges for the Chancellor.
One is telling us how he is going to balance the books,
and he has given us a sense of that.
The other is what is he going to do about the big inequalities that have
opened up over the last year?
Inequalities in education, particularly it is poorer children
who have done badly.
Inequalities in employment, it’s the young and those
with lower levels of education who have done badly.
Inequalities between generations, once again it is younger people
who have suffered economically and older people who are,
economically at least, better off over this period.
And he didn’t really offer anything on those.
He didn’t really begin to address the challenge of the economic
inequalities that have opened up as a result of this pandemic.
And quite a lot of traction for this.
Again, something I was talking about with Adam a second ago.
The fact that A0 out of 45 towns getting this £1 billion deal
are Conservative constituencies.
Now, I don’t have the exact breakdown of which constituencies
those are yet, but does that strike you as levelling up?
Well, I haven’t looked at the details of which towns
are getting which funds.
I mean, there is frankly whenever allocations like this are done
on a geographic basis, and this works also when finances
are sent to local authorities, there is always a little bit
of a political overlay on some of the marginal decisions.
But I think, you know, the key point about levelling up
is even this sort of...
And it sounds like a lot of money, but across a lot of towns
across a period of time and given the scale of inequalities,
it’s going to make only a relatively small and quite
localised difference.
I think the real challenge for the Government here
is that they are promising a lot, and I think people might be
expecting a lot, but it’s going to take a very long time —
and certainly well beyond a parliament —
to see really noticeable changes in those differences
between local areas and towns.
I’m joined now by Lord Bilimoria, president
of the Confederation of British Industry,
which represents 190,000 businesses across the UK — Lord Bilimoria
is the founder of Cobra Beer and sits as an independent
crossbench peer in the House of Lords.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us
Thank you very much for joining us here on
Thank you very much forjoining us here on BBC News today. What works
here on BBC News today. what works in this budget
here on BBC News today. What works in this budget for you and what
in this budget for you and what isn’t there that you might have
isn’t there that you might have liked to have seen? This is a
liked to have seen? This is a really, really crucial budget in its
really, really crucial budget in its timing. A year
really, really crucial budget in its timing. A yearago
really, really crucial budget in its timing. A year ago we went into
timing. A year ago we went into lockdown, we’d been through a
lockdown, we’d been through a nightmare globally, a health crisis,
nightmare globally, a health crisis, economic crisis that has
economic crisis that has reverberated through the supply
reverberated through the supply chains, the demand shop, the supply
chains, the demand shop, the supply chop, we’ve all been affected, and
chop, we’ve all been affected, and the chance to his credit has been
the chance to his credit has been extraordinary in terms of per capita
extraordinary in terms of per rapita and in
extraordinary in terms of per capita and in absolute terms, £400 billion
and in absolute terms, £400 billion worth of support to save businesses
worth of support to save businesses and jobs and the economy. The proof
and jobs and the economy. The proof of that is very clear. Unemployment
of that is very dear. Unemployment a year ago was
of that is very clear. Unemployment a year ago was three and a half
a year ago was three and a half percent, one of the lowest rates
percent, one of the lowest rates going back to the 705, today it’s at
going back to the 705, today it’s at 5.1%, after the financial crisis
5.1%, after the financial crisis unemployment went up to nearly 10%
unemployment went up to nearty1096 and the
unemployment went up to nearly 10% and the reason for that is all the
and the reason for that is all the support, including in particular the
support, including in particular the further scheme and our request to
further scheme and our request to the CBI was thanks to our wonderful
the CBI was thanks to our wonderful vaccination programme, we are ahead
vaccination programme, we are ahead of the world, we have vaccinated 20
of the world, we have vaccinated 20 million people, when our capacity
million peopla, when our capacity goes up this
million people, when our capacity goes up this month we may be able to
goes up this month we may be able to vaccinate 1
goes up this month we may be able to vaccinatel million people a day,
vaccinatﬂ million peopla a day, that
vaccinatel million people a day, that means over 20
vaccinatei million people a day, that means over 20 million a month,
that means over 20 million a month, we will be vaccinating the whole
we will be vaccinating the whola population
we will be vaccinating the whole population very soon. We will be
population very soon. We will be able to open up our economy very
able to open up our economy very soon. Allow our businesses have
soon. Allow our businesses have suffered so much, give them the
suffered so much, give them the mnway,
suffered so much, give them the mmy, the
suffered so much, give them the runway, the breathing space, Andy
mnway, the breathing space, Andy Haldane,
runway, the breathing space, Andy Haldane, the chief economist of the
Haldane, the chief economist of the Bank of England said the economy is
Bank of England said the economy is like a coiled spring, I will go one
like a coilad spring, I will go one step further, I
like a coiled spring, I will go one step further, I say we are like a
step further, I say we are like a crouching lion waiting to roar and
crouching lion waiting to roar and lean
crouching lion waiting to roar and leap forward. We can do it if we are
leap forward. We ran do it if we are given the mmy,
leap forward. We can do it if we are given the runway, the Chancellor has
given the mnway, the Chancellor has listened, as
given the runway, the Chancellor has listened, as he has throughout the
listened, as he has throughout the year, whenever we’ve said we need an
year, whenever we’ve said we need an extension, we need more time and
extension, we need more time and help, he has listened and he has
help, he has listened and he has listened again. The most important
listened again. The most important aspect of this budget is to help
aspect of this budget is to help peopla
aspect of this budget is to help people give in terms of the scheme
people give in terms of the scheme extended, the business rates relief
extended, the business rates relief extended, VAT reduction down to 5%
extended, VAT reduction down to 596 being
extended, VAT reduction down to 5% being extended, no tax increases at
being extended, no tax increases at this time as our request and that is
this time as our request and that is not happening although corporation
not happening although corporation tax is going to go up in two years
taxis going to go up in two years time.
tax is going to go up in two years time. Which is a concern. We’ve
time. which is a concern. We’ve heard from
time. Which is a concern. We’ve heard from a couple of business
heard from a couple of business owners today already saying yes, of
owners today already saying yes, of course they would have liked more
course they would have liked more but this helps and it helps protect
but this helps and it helps protect jobs of their employees. However, I
jobs of their employees. However, I spoke to Paul
jobs of their employees. However, I spoke to Pauljohnson from the
spoke to Pauljohnson from the Institute for Fiscal Studies 3
Institute for Fiscal Studies a little
Institute for Fiscal Studies 3 little earlier and they have now
little eartier and they have now published
little earlier and they have now published their detailed assessment
published their detailed assessment of the budget and they are saying
of the budget and they are saying economy well supported in the short
economy well supported in the short mn but no
economy well supported in the short run but no real medium—term
mn but no real medium-term prospectus,
run but no real medium—term prospectus, spending numbers are too
prospectus, spending numbers are too tight to be credible, it’s a similar
tight to be credible, it’s a similar story from the Office for Budget
story from the Office for Budget Responsibility which says there is
Responsibility which says there is no real plan here, for next year
no real plan here, for next year onwards which in the business will,
onwards which in the business will, obviously, you would want to be
obviously, you would want to be planning for? Well, I think the
planning for? Well, I think the things like the reductions and tax
things like the reductions and tax to encourage investment, the
to encourage investment, the government says you put on £100 and
government says you put on £100 and it will be 130, 20 5% of your tax
it will be130, 20 596 of your tax bill to
it will be 130, 20 5% of your tax bill to encourage investment, what
bill to encourage investment, what we have to do short term is
we have to do short term is absolutely crucial because in the
absolutely crucial because in the short term, we can protect the jobs,
short term, we ran protect the jobs, that’s the
short term, we can protect the jobs, that’s the most important, we cannot
that’s the most important, we cannot have
that’s the most important, we rannot have youth
that’s the most important, we cannot have youth unemployment
have youth unemployment unemployment, we protect
have youth unemployment unemployment, we protectjobs and
unemployment, we protect jobs and get the
unemployment, we protectjobs and get the economy integral quickly
get the economy integral quickly which I think can happen in what
which I think ran happen in what will happen is
which I think can happen in what will happen is those jobs are what
will happen is those jobs are what will pay taxes, the biggest tax
will pay taxes, the biggest tax stake comes from jobs, that’s the
stake comes from jobs, that’s the key and the Chancellor says jobs
key and the Chancellor says jobs first, that’s what’s going to help
first, that’s what’s going to help with paying for all this money that
with paying for all this money that the government has put in and I
the government has put in and I think that short—term is crucial,
think that short-term is cmcial, yes I take
think that short—term is crucial, yes I take what they are saying
yes I take what they are saying about the long—term. Things like
about the long-term. Things like social
about the long—term. Things like social care at this pandemic has
social rare at this pandemic has exposed
social care at this pandemic has exposed Health and Social Care
exposed Health and Social (“are Secretary
exposed Health and Social Care Secretary needs far more attention
Secretary needs far more attention and will need more investment going
and will need more investment going forward. We need to address that
forward. We need to address that going forward. But now is the time
going forward. But now is the time for growth, for investment and
for growth, for investment and allowing the economy to open up.
allowing the economy to open up. Good to get your reaction, thank you
Good to get your reaction, thank you for your time today. You’ve been
for your time today. You’ve been texting me about the budget. And
texting me about the budget. And what you think of it, let me read
what you think of it, let me read some of your tweets. One viewer says
some of your tweets. One viewer says I don’t get how government gave £20
I don’t get how government gave £20 top up a 12 months to Universal
top up a 12 months to Universal Credit and extent six months proving
Credit and extent six months proving benefit wasn’t enough to live on but
benefit wasn’t enough to live on but working tax credit gets nothing for
working tax credit gets nothing for 12 months on a one—off £500, how is
12 months on a one-off 500, how is that fair?
12 months on a one—off £500, how is that fair? This from Neville. Who
that fair? This from Neville. who says, I
that fair? This from Neville. who says, Iagree
that fair? This from Neville. Who says, I agree mostly with tax
says, I agree mostly with tax changes, though I would have put tax
changes, though I would have put tax “P
changes, though I would have put tax up for anyone earning over £100,000
up for anyone earning over £100,000 now. I’m disappointed with nothing
now. I’m disappointed with nothing to tackle the climate emergency, to
to tackle the climate emergency, to freeze fuel duty is a big mistake.
freeze fuel duty is a big mistake. And 1 talks
freeze fuel duty is a big mistake. AndJ talks about the excluded, it’s
And 1 talks about the excluded, it’s amazing that
AndJ talks about the excluded, it’s amazing that after a year at the
amazing that after a year at the Chancellor still hasn’t supported
Chancellor still hasn’t supported the three plus million he is
the three plus million he is excluded from support, and now in
excluded from support, and now in debt management, struggling to pay
debt management, stmggling to pay rent
debt management, struggling to pay rent and
debt management, stmggling to pay rent and buy
debt management, struggling to pay rent and buy food and the company is
rent and buy food and the company is now insolvent. Let me try and fit in
now insolvent. Let me try and fit in a couple more of your tweets. Peter
a couple more of your tweets. Peter 5575
a couple more of your tweets. Peter says I think the budget is OK, but
says I think the budget is OK, but peopla
says I think the budget is OK, but people need to remember is the extra
people need to remember is the extra that has been borrowed because of
that has been borrowed because of Covid, it will have to be paid back
Covid, it will have to be paid back in the should be done by us an
in the should be done by us an outlat
in the should be done by us an outlet for our children or
outlet for our children or grandchildren. Thank you for all of
grandchildren. Thank you for all of those. Do keep them coming into me.
You can of course comment about any
You ran of course comment about any of our other
You can of course comment about any of our other stories today as well.
Let’s return new to our main story.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition, Buckingham Palace says.
Prince Philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
He was being treated for an infection and moved
to St Bartholomew’s Hospital in London on Monday.
Our heath correspondent, Katherine Da Costa, is with me.
Just a brief statement from the
just a brief statement from the palace with
Just a brief statement from the palace with this update on how the
palace with this update on how the Duke is doing. That’s right.
Duke is doing. That’s right. Buckingham Palace has said he had a
Buckingham Palace has said he had a procedure on Wednesday and will
procedure on Wednesday and will spend another few days in hospital
spend another few days in hospital for rest and recuperation. They
for rest and recuperation. They haven’t confirmed the exact
haven’t confirmed the exact procedure that he underwent but we
procedure that he underwent but we do know that in 2011 Prince Philip
do know that in 2011 Prince Philip was treated for a blocked artery in
was treated for a blocked artery in Cambridgeshire and had a stent
Gmbridgeshire and had a stent fitted
Cambridgeshire and had a stent fitted after suffering from chest
fitted after suffering from chest pain. There is a procedure that
pain. There is a procedure that takes about half an hour to two
takes about half an hour to two hours and patients are assessed,
hours and patients are assessed, they might have blood tests taken,
they might have blood tests taken, specialists will look inside the
specialists will look inside the arteries. Patients would write on ——
arteries. Patients would write on -- patients would
arteries. Patients would write on —— patients would lie on the table,
patients would lie on the table, they would inflate a small balloon
they would inﬂate a small balloon to clear
they would inflate a small balloon to clear the luggage and a stent is
to clear the luggage and a stent is fitted and that helps the blood flow
fitted and that helps the blood ﬂow again. There
fitted and that helps the blood flow again. There are some cases where
again. There are some rases where arteries begin to
again. There are some cases where arteries begin to narrow again so
arteries begin to narrow again so patients may require another stent
patients may require another stent to be fitted. Essentially what it is
to be fitted. Essentially what it is is a small wired mesh which acts
is a small wired mesh which acts like scaffolding to keep the
like scaffolding to keep the arteries open. Now, afterwards you
arteries open. Now, afterwards you would need some blood thinning drugs
would need some blood thinning dmgs such as aspirin
would need some blood thinning drugs such as aspirin and other specialist
such as aspirin and other specialist drugs and then it is a case of rest
drugs and then it is a use of rest and
drugs and then it is a case of rest and relaxation and follow—up
and relaxation and follow—up assessments. Because the Duke has
assessments. Because the Duke has been in hospital
assessments. Because the Duke has been in hospitalfor 16 nights and
been in hospital for 16 nights and was
been in hospitalfor 16 nights and was treated for an infection before
was treated for an infection before going to Saint Bartholomew and given
going to Saint Bartholomew and given he had a procedure at his age we
he had a procedure at his age we would expect him to be in hospital
would expect him to be in hospital for quite a few days yet for
for quite a few days yet for monitoring, I would assume. As you
monitoring, I would assume. As you say, he is 99, he has had a previous
say, he is 99, he has had a previous heart condition and he has spent a
heart condition and he has spent a fortnight ago hospital already. This
fortnight ago hospital already. This is a fairty
fortnight ago hospital already. This is a fairly straightforward
is a fairly straightforward procedure. In some cases patients
procedure. In some cases patients could go home in the same day but
could go home in the same day but because of his age and because he
because of his age and because he had an infection prior to this
had an infection prior to this procedure it may be that they want
procedure it may be that they want to spend a number of more days
to spend a number of more days checking him for more rest and
checking him for more rest and recuperation and to see how he is
recuperation and to see how he is responding. Catherine De Costa,
responding. Catherine De Costa, thank you for that.
In Myanmar, police have broken up demonstrations in several places
with tear gas and gunfire but there’s no immediate
word on casualties.
The French President Emmanuel Macron has repeated his call
for an immediate end to repression — and respect for the democratic
choice of the Myanmar people.
He tweeted that France is "at your side".
Hundreds of mourners this morning have
attended a funeral for a 19—year—old
protester whose face has gone viral on social media.
Angel, also known as Kyal Sin, was among 38 protestors
killed yesterday.
She was shot in the head while on the streets of Mandalay.
Our South East Asia correspondentJonathan Head
is following the story from Bangkok.
I think the scale of the violence yesterday and the way
in which people were gunned down, were rounded up, in mass arrests
and were savagely beaten really laid open the strategy of the military
authorities which is, I think, to put it bluntly,
to terrorise people back off the streets, to try to regain
control of a country that is a nationwide uprising,
whatever the cost.
There was no attempt whatsoever to minimise casualties.
And indeed, the videos we’ve seen circulating on social media show
both police and soldiers gloating over the fact that they tend to go
out and kill people.
They are making it very obvious, most of those killed yesterday had
either head or chest wounds, this is a deliberate shoot to kill
policy and yet people are out again and when we talk about them coming
out you need to understand how the strategy has evolved.
They are just rallying and marching in now,
they are barricading their neighbourhoods,
sometimes quite impressively, in a sense, to deny the military
government the control on the ground and that’s what the police and army
have been going in to try and stop but those barricades are becoming
bigger and harder to move.
So this is actually, a real fight going on for control
of Myanmar between its people, I mean, huge numbers of whom support
this movement, and a military that is still struggling
to assert its authority.
The European Union’s finance chief has said the UK’s decision
to make unilateral changes to the Northern Ireland
protocol raises questions about whether it can be trusted
in future trade negotiations.
Yesterday, the government
announced that it was extending a grace period for border
checks on some goods crossing the Irish Sea.
Mairead McGuinness accused the UK of breaching both trust
and an international agreement.
Health officials are to examine whether paying people to exercise
could help drive down levels of obesity.
Sir Keith Mills, who founded the Air Miles and Nectar rewards
programmes, is to advise the government on a new way to use
incentives to support people who choose healthier diets and do
more physical activity.
The MHRA says new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants,
like the one from Brazil, can be fast—tracked
through the approval system.
The UK’s regulator has issued guidance, along
with authorities in Australia, Canada, Singapore and Switzerland,
on what checks and measures would be necessary.
Our health correspondent Michelle Roberts explained more why
the decision had been taken.
The medicines regulator MHRA has been talking about what the next
been talking about what the next steps could be to keep up the
steps could be to keep up the pressure on this virus and to fight
pressure on this virus and to fight it. We have already got brilliant
it. We have already got brilliant vaccines which are working really
vaccines which are working really well in the real world with lots of
well in the real world with lots of peopla
well in the real world with lots of people protected but it appears that
people protected but it appears that with some of these new variants the
with some of these new variants the protection you get from the current
protection you get from the current vaccine, although it is good, it
vaccine, although it is good, it could possibly be made a bit better
could possibly be made a bit better by tweaking the design of these
by tweaking the design of these jabs. So when they talk about fast
jabs. So when they talk about fast tracking, how much faster are we
tracking, how much faster are we talking about then say the
talking about then say the production of the current vaccines
production of the current vaccines because that was done at an
because that was done at an incredibly fast pace? It took ten
incredibly fast pace? It took ten months to go from zero to having
months to go from zero to having vaccines available which was
vaccines available which was incredible. Now we have that science
incredible. Now we have that science the new tweaks if you like should be
the new tweaks if you like should be even quicker. We are talking months,
even quicker. We are talking months, maybe three, four months to get
maybe three, four months to get something that is available. It is
something that is available. It is very much like with the flu jab is
very much like with the ﬂu jab is we have every
very much like with the flu jab is we have every year. You can modify
we have every year. You ran modify those. You
we have every year. You can modify those. You don’t need the long
those. You don’t need the long lengthy clinical trials in thousands
langthy clinical trials in thousands of patients
lengthy clinical trials in thousands of patients because you already know
of patients because you already know the vaccine itself is really
the vaccine itself is really effective. 50
the vaccine itself is really effective. So you’re just making
effective. So you’re just making minor changes to make it a better
minor changes to make it a better match for the virus and that is what
match for the virus and that is what we have been doing with Covid. In
we have been doing with Covid. In that there seems to be an acceptance
that there seems to be an acceptance that with the vaccine programme
that with the vaccine programme rolling out here in the UK and
rolling out here in the UK and elsewhere, the US are talking about
elsewhere, the US are talking about ramping up the speed of delivery
ramping up the speed of delivery vaccines, the Covax programme
vaccines, the Covax programme getting vaccines at all countries.
getting vaccines at all countries. That governments don’t want to
That governments don’t want to contemplate and none of us want to
contemplate and none of us want to contemplate going back to a position
contemplate going back to a position where we go back into a spiral of
where we go back into a spiral of lockdown and reopening and there has
lockdown and reopening and there has to be a way to keep on marching
to be a way to keep on marching forward including tackling these
forward including tackling these variants whatever it takes. The
variants whatever it takes. The vaccines are one way to do that and
vaccines are one way to do that and testing is so important. Getting
testing is so important. Getting peopla who
testing is so important. Getting people who do test positive to
people who do test positive to isolate. That is why we have heard
isolate. That is why we have heard of such testing happening to try and
of such testing happening to try and clampdown particularly on the South
clampdown particularty on the South African
clampdown particularly on the South African and Brazil variant and the
African and Brazil variant and the UK variant that has some other
UK variant that has some other changes as well.
Millions of doses of the coronavirus vaccine
are being rolled out across Africa.
Tomorrow, around 4 million doses will be distributed across Nigeria’s
most densely populated city, Abuja.
First in line to receive the vaccine will be health
workers and front line staff, including teachers.
Peter Hawkins is the Unicef representative in Nigeria.
This is through the Covax programme, Peter. Good to have you with us on
Peter. Good to have you with us on BBC News. Unicef has a lot of
BBC News. Unicef has a lot of experience in immunisation
experience in immunisation programmes for malaria and other
programmes for malaria and other diseases so tell us about your
diseases so tell us about your involvement in the plans to tackle
involvement in the plans to tackle Covid. That has been quite an
Covid. That has been quite an incredible feats, the Covax facility
incredible feats, the Covax facility which includes Unicef and WHO and
which includes Unicef and WHO and other major donors, is about
other major donors, is about procuring large quantities come up
procuring large quantities come up to 3 million doses of vaccine and
to 3 million doses of vaccine and distributing them in 92 countries
distributing them in 92 countries across the globe. Here in Nigeria we
across the globe. Here in Nigeria we received 4 million doses the day
received 4 million doses the day before yesterday on the 2nd of March
before yesterday on the 2nd of March which is the first step and a
which is the first step and a fantastic first step in trying to
fantastic first step in trying to counteract the pandemic here in
counteract the pandemic here in Nigeria and complement the already
Nigeria and complement the already extensive measures that have taken
extensive measures that have taken place to try and prevent the virus
place to try and prevent the virus going around Nigeria. You mention
going around Nigeria. You mention peopla
going around Nigeria. You mention people like health care workers will
peopla like health rare workers will be among
people like health care workers will be among those to get the vaccine
be among those to get the vaccine first. What are conditions like at
first. what are conditions like at the
first. What are conditions like at the moment in terms of the number of
the moment in terms of the number of rases,
the moment in terms of the number of cases, transmission of the virus in
rases, transmission of the virus in Nigeria. How far
cases, transmission of the virus in Nigeria. How far do you think this
Nigeria. How far do you think this initial batch of vaccination will go
initial batch of vaccination will go to help tackle the virus though? At
to help tackla the virus though? At the
to help tackle the virus though? At the moment 155,000 people have
the moment 155,000 people have contracted Covid in Nigeria but that
contracted Covid in Nigeria but that hides a much larger statistic of
hides a much larger statistic of many more people who have contracted
many more peopla who have contracted it but
many more people who have contracted it but haven’t been tested or shown
it but haven’t been tested or shown positivity. Over 2000 people have
positivity. Over 2000 peopla have died
positivity. Over 2000 people have died from it but again, perhaps one
died from it but again, perhaps one in ten peopla
died from it but again, perhaps one in ten people who have died of Covid
in ten peopla who have died of Covid haven’t
in ten people who have died of Covid haven’t been registered as Covid
haven’t been registered as Covid deaths. The effects of Covid in a
deaths. The effects of Covid in a country like Nigeria is not only the
country like Nigeria is not only the direct effect but it is the indirect
direct effect but it is the indirect effect, schools were closed, the
effect, schools were closed, the economy has deteriorated
economy has deteriorated substantially. Now there are over
substantially. Now there are over 100 million people registered as
100 million people registered as poor. This vaccine is the first real
poor. This vaccine is the first real green light that allows us to move
green light that allows us to move forward. As you said, the health
forward. As you said, the health workers will start to be vaccinated
workers will start to be vaccinated from tomorrow that will go right
from tomorrow that will go right across the country to 1.2 million
across the country to 1.2 million front line workers being vaccinated,
front line workers being vaccinated, allowing many other measures to
allowing many other measures to continue for the workers to continue
continue for the workers to continue routine immunisation for children
routine immunisation for children which is the biggest killer in
which is the biggest killer in Nigeria. 50 the infrastructure is
Nigeria. So the infrastmclure is ready. Are
Nigeria. 50 the infrastructure is ready. Are there any challenges
ready. Are there any challenges about that? For routine immunisation
about that? For routine immunisation infrastructure is already here for
infrastmclure is already here for things like
infrastructure is already here for things like polio, as you mention.
things like polio, as you mention. We are integrating the whole system
We are integrating the whole system so that the chain of vaccination is
so that the chain of vaccination is done by the same system, a primary
done by the same system, a primary health care system, people register
health rare system, people register using the
health care system, people register using the registration we have used
using the registration we have used for polio. For those who cannot
for polio. For those who cannot register
for polio. For those who rannot register then
for polio. For those who cannot register then outreach will be done
register then outreach will be done with community health workers going
with community health workers going out into the community to generate
out into the community to generate the interest and the demands coming
the interest and the demands coming in. It is a slow process and a very
in. It is a slow process and a very long process. After the health
long process. After the health workers it is the over 50s and so on
workers it is the over 50s and so on and so
workers it is the over 505 and so on and so forth.
workers it is the over 50s and so on and so forth. By
workers it is the over 505 and so on and so forth. By 2022 we should get
and so forth. By 2022 we should get to the 50% we are aiming for but it
to the 5096 we are aiming for but it will be a long
to the 50% we are aiming for but it will be a long process. In the
will be a long process. In the meantime protective measures have to
meantime protective measures have to be taken to ensure we all keep safe
be taken to ensure we all keep safe and by keeping safer families are
and by keeping safer families are safe and our communities are safe.
safe and our communities are safe. You talk about interest and demand.
You talk about interest and demand. How supportive is the public
How supportive is the public generally about the idea of being
generally about the idea of being vaccinated against coronavirus?
vaccinated against coronavirus? There will always be vaccine
There will always be vaccine hesitancy, especially in a country
hesitancy, especially in a country like Nigeria which has seen many
like Nigeria which has seen many different types of accidents, three.
different types of accidents, three. This is where our risk community
This is where our risk community engagement really comes in.
Organisations, people at the community level, can really make
community level, ran really make them
community level, can really make them understand that this is safe
them understand that this is safe and good for them. I am vaccinated a
and good for them. I am vaccinated a person who is vaccinated, it is not
person who is vaccinated, it is not just a protection for me it is a
just a protection for me it is a protection for other people around
protection for other peopla around me as
protection for other people around me as well. It is that obligation
me as well. It is that obligation and that sense of "We are in the
and that sense of "We are in the last mile and we can continue this
last mile and we ran continue this last mile’
last mile and we can continue this last mile" which is so important to
last mile" which is so important to get peopla
last mile" which is so important to get people interested in what is
get people interested in what is happening around the vaccinations.
happening around the vaccinations. Peter, good to talk to you. Unicef
Peter, good to talk to you. Unicef rep in Nigeria. Thank you very much
rep in Nigeria. Thank you very much for your time.
rep in Nigeria. Thank you very much for your time.
The headlines on BBC News...
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating
falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
The Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing
too little to tackle inequality.
The Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has promised another £65 billion
of economic support in his Budget, which he says will help businesses
and people through the pandemic.
He also explained how he plans to start paying the bill,
which will push Britain’s tax burden to its highest level
since the 19605.
Nina Warhurst has been getting reaction from people in Redcar.
Every town and every city has thousands of stories
of what should happen now.
Bailey deserves a break.
He trained for three years as a rail engineer before cancer treatment cut
off his career before it even had a chance to start.
I was trying to get a job with Amazon but 700 people applied
for the same job that I applied for.
So that is probably going to be a no—go.
HE SINGS.
Kobe dreams of being a singer.
But times are tough for his mum.
She used to be a special needs nurse but stopped
to look after her daughter who has complex disabilities.
They just about get by on Universal Credit
and her husband’s income.
It has been a bit of a struggle, definitely.
During the first lockdown people are quite happy to get
takeaways and things.
My husband is a takeaway driver.
Then obviously, that’s not there.
50 his hours have been up and down in bits.
But yeah, we get by.
So things are OK at the moment but do you worry about what comes
next and what things will be like for the kids?
Yeah, absolutely. Kids are the future, aren’t they?
It is notjust about education, it is about mentally.
You ask all the time about Covid and about when he is
going to see his friends, when he can hug people.
Joanna runs three pubs.
She is desperate to get customers back through the doors but she is
worried about what happens if tax goes up and punters
can’t splash out.
She is glad VAT has come down and thinks it should stay down.
One thing I would like to see is something they do in Europe
and that is a fixed VAT percentage for the hospitality trade,
a country like Spain and France that does rely heavily
on tourism and hospitality, we are in that boat
now here in the UK.
A fixed rate that is lower than the standard rate
that everybody else pays is what they do in Spain.
I think it is around about 11%.
Something like that to be brought over here in the UK,
that would be a great asset.
But Gary’s hair salon isn’t farfrom Joanne’s pub.
He was hoping he might have had a surprise VAT cut
from the Chancellor.
We pay 20% VAT where hospitality pays 5%.
We are not a service you can put online or a takeaway service.
When we are closed we are closed.
The theory is that once things are back to normal then everyone
will want a haircut so you will be able to bounce back quickly.
There is no doubt we are going to be really, really busy.
I worry for salons because they will have
taken out extra debt, extra loans, they will have
deferred payments.
They will have to be paid back eventually so it is added
pressure on businesses.
Who are the real winners? Who will be the long—term losers?
We won’t truly know how successful the Chancellor’s support has been
for months, even years.
For now, everyone is just trying to make it to tomorrow.
Just to get our locations right,
just to get our locations right, Nina
Just to get our locations right, Nina Warhurst was in fact in
Nina Warhurst was in fact in Newcastle.
Just eight weeks after rioters stormed the US Capitol,
police say they’ve obtained intelligence showing
there is a possible plot to breach the building again today.
The plot is linked to afar right militia group,
and March 4th is the day that some conspiracy theorists believe
Donald Trump will return to take power once again.
While extra security measures are being put in place,
the House of Representatives has decided not to convene on Thursday.
Here’s an FBI counter—terrorism official warning of the threats
posed by extremists in the United States.
Looking forward we assess the extremist threat will continue to
extremist threat will continue to pose a threat to the US. We expect
pose a threat to the US. We expect racially motivated violence
racially motivated violence extremist and anti authority violent
extremist and anti authority violent extremist will pose the greatest
extremist will pose the greatest domestic terrorism threats
domestic terrorism threats throughout 2021 and leading into
throughout 2021 and leading into 2022.
CBS News correspondent Debra Alfarone is on Capitol Hill
with the latest on what intelligence agencies have told us.
They have been very general about this and not giving us much
this and not giving us much specific.
this and not giving us much specifics. There may be a
this and not giving us much specifics. There may be afar right
specific. There may be a far right militia group
specifics. There may be afar right militia group that is thinking about
militia group that is thinking about doing something at the capital,
doing something at the capital, breaching the capital and really
breaching the capital and really putting lawmakers at risk. They are
putting lawmakers at risk. They are asking lawmakers to not come in or
asking lawmakers to not come in or if they have two using one of the
if they have two using one of the parking garages and using the
parking garages and using the underground walkway that the Capitol
underground walkway that the Capitol has. We are in one building here but
has. We are in one building here but there are semi different buildings
there are semi different buildings that make up the Capitol so there
that make up the Capitol so there are all of these walkways underneath
are all of these walkways underneath and it is pretty hard to get in
and it is pretty hard to get in here. I come here every day and, I
here. I come here every day and, I tell you, there are big fences with
tell you, there are big fences with razor wire all around this huge
razor wire all around this huge sprawling complex. There are
sprawling complex. There are National Guard members outside her
National Guard members outside her arms, there is Capitol police
arms, there is Capitol police outside. It is not easy to get in
outside. It is not easy to get in here so if you are a lawmaker and
here so if you are a lawmaker and you get in here they are saying
they are saying don’t leave the Capitol building, use the
Capitol building, use the underground walkways to get from one
underground walkways to get from one place to the next. There is a bit of
place to the next. There is a bit of trepidation coming here today but we
trepidation coming here today but we come here every day and I’m sure
come here every day and I’m sure lawmakers are also on edge about
lawmakers are also on edge about this as well but we have to do the
this as well but we have to do the job that we have to do.
As thousands of children dress up to mark World Book Day,
campaigners are calling forfamilies, schools and nurseries
to have books with more characters from Black,
Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.
This is BBC News.
The headlines at 11am.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the royal family
of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
I don’t know how they could expect that after all this time we would
stilljust be silent if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
The Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605, as he faces
criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality.
This is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s
a progressive measure.
It means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more
than those on lower incomes.
New coronavirus vaccines to fight variants,
like the one from Brazil, can be fast—tracked
through the approval system — the UK’s medical regulator says.
Countries with more overweight people have had the highest death
rates from Covid 19, a report says as the government
looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has
insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’
her predecessor Alex Salmond.
I’m dressed up as my favourite character, fantastic Mr Fox.
And as children dress up
to mark World Book Day, campaigners call for more
books with characters from ethnic backgrounds.
Good morning.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition, Buckingham Palace says.
Prince Philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
He was being treated for an infection and moved
to St Bartholomew’s Hospital in London on Monday.
Our royal correspondent, Nicholas Witchell,
is following developments.
What more can you Telus? Well, not a
what more ran you Talus? Well, not a whola lot.
What more can you Telus? Well, not a whole lot. The palace is not saying
whola lot. The palace is not saying any more
whole lot. The palace is not saying any more about this pre—existing
any more about this pre-existing heart
any more about this pre—existing heart condition or the successful
heart condition or the successful procedure but given that the
procedure but given that the pre—existing heart condition that we
pro-existing heart condition that we know
pre—existing heart condition that we know about her ten years ago when he
know about her ten years ago when he had a stent inserted to relieve a
had a stent inserted to relieve a blocked coronary artery, it is
blocked coronary artery, it is reasonable to speculate that
reasonable to speculate that whatever took place at the hospital
whatever took place at the hospital yesterday was, in some way, was
yesterday was, in some way, was involving the stent. It could have
involving the stent. It could have been the insertion of a new one or
been the insertion of a new one or an insertion of the existing one.
an insertion of the existing one. I’m aware that this is known as
I’m aware that this is known as angioplasty and takes place under
angioplasty and takes place under [oral
angioplasty and takes place under local anaesthetic. When dealing with
[oral anaesthetic. when dealing with somebody
local anaesthetic. When dealing with somebody who is almost 100, they
somebody who is almost 100, they could have been a narrowing of the
could have been a narrowing of the Stentor the artery which was causing
Stentor the artery which was causing the heart condition for which he was
the heart condition for which he was transferred from one hospital to
transferred from one hospital to another, to son Bartholomew is
another, to son Bartholomew is hospital which is an expert hospital
hospital which is an expert hospital on cardiac issues. He experience
on cardiac issues. He experience monitoring and assessment on Tuesday
monitoring and assessment on Tuesday with the procedure carried out on
with the procedure carried out on Tuesday. It has been successful and
Tuesday. It has been successful and he will remain in hospital as the
he will remain in hospital as the palace says for rest and
palace says for rest and recuperation for a number of days. I
recuperation for a number of days. I imagine that mean, well,
imagine that mean, well, common—sense, for someone of his
common-sense, for someone of his age, it is perhaps
common—sense, for someone of his age, it is perhaps likely he will be
age, it is perhaps likely he will be there for another week. Perhaps
there for another week. Perhaps longer. The Royal
there for another week. Perhaps longer. The Royalfamily are not
longer. The Royal family are not likely to tell
longer. The Royalfamily are not likely to tell us much more because
likely to tell us much more because they don’t tend to give running
they don’t tend to give running commentaries. However, it does not
commentaries. However, it does not stop reporters like us watching for
stop reporters like us watching for comings and goings from the hospital
comings and goings from the hospital because Prince Charles visited when
because Prince Charles visited when he was in the previous hospital. He
he was in the previous hospital. He visited on the Saturday when he was
visited on the Saturday when he was at the King Edward. I think that
at the King Edward. I think that given we are told that the
given we are told that the procedure, whatever it was, was
procedure, whatever it was, was successful and he now requires a
successful and he now requires a period of rest and recuperation and
period of rest and recuperation and given the protocols that are in
given the protocols that are in place instant Bartholomew is,
place instant Bartholomew is, visiting is not permitted other than
visiting is not permitted other than in exceptional circumstances, I
in exceptional circumstances, I would be surprised if any prominent
would be surprised if any prominent members of the Royal family felt it
members of the Royal family felt it necessary to visit him there. Not
necessary to visit him there. Not least because it would be contrary
least because it would be contrary to protocols and not least as it
to protocols and not least as it would be seen as a signal that
would be seen as a signal that things have taken a turn for the
things have taken a turn for the worse. Thank you very much, Nick.
Our Correspondent Katharine Da Costa has more information
on the condition the Duke has.
They haven’t confirmed the exact procedure but we do know that in
procedure but we do know that in 2011 that he was treated for an
2011 that he was treated for an artery in Papworth and he had a
artery in Papworth and he had a stent fitted for heart pains, chest
stent fitted for heart pains, chest pains. There is a procedure that
pains. There is a procedure that takes half an hour to two hours
takes half an hour to two hours where patients are assessed, they
where patients are assessed, they might have blood tests taken and the
might have blood tests taken and the specialist will look inside their
specialist will look inside their arteries and, now, the patient would
arteries and, now, the patient would lie on a table with the x—ray.
lie on a table with the x—ray. Cardiologists would make a small
Cardiologists would make a small insertion in the groin area and
insertion in the groin area and passed through a catheter and then
passed through a catheter and then they inﬂate a
passed through a catheter and then they inflate a small balloon which
they inﬂate a small balloon which helps to
they inflate a small balloon which helps to clear the blockage and a
helps to clear the blockage and a stent is fitted and that helps the
stent is fitted and that helps the blood flow again. So, there are some
blood ﬂow again. So, there are some rases
blood flow again. So, there are some cases where arteries begin to narrow
rases where arteries begin to narrow again, so a
cases where arteries begin to narrow again, so a patient may require
again, so a patient may require another stent to be fitted.
another stent to be fitted. Essentially, what it is, is a small
Essentially, what it is, is a small wire mesh which acts like
wire mesh which acts like scaffolding to keep the arteries
scaffolding to keep the arteries open. Now, afterwards, you would
open. Now, afterwards, you would need some blood— thinning drugs, so
need some blood- thinning dmgs, so things like
need some blood— thinning drugs, so things like aspirin, other
things like aspirin, other specialist drugs and then it’s a
specialist drugs and then it’s a use of
specialist drugs and then it’s a case of rest and relaxation before
case of rest and relaxation before assessment.
The Duchess of Sussex has suggested the Royal Family have played a part
in what she called "perpetuating falsehoods" about her
and Prince Harry.
She made the comments in an interview with Oprah Winfrey,
to be broadcast in the US this weekend.
Meanwhile, last night, Buckingham Palace said its human
resources team was looking into claims that the Duchess had
bullied staff while she was a working royal in 2018.
Simon Jones has more.
Meghan is making it clear she will not be afraid to speak
out in a second trailer for the interview
released overnight.
How do you feel about the Palace hearing you speak your truth today?
I don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time
we would stilljust be silent, if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
If that comes with risk of losing things, I mean, there’s a lot
that’s been lost already.
This is a second clip released by CBS but the first
in which we have heard the Duchess speak.
The interview was recorded before Buckingham Palace began
an investigation into claims Meghan had bullied former royal staff.
The Times newspaper has obtained an e—mail,
written in late 2018, byJason Knauf, the couple’s
Communication Secretary, to Simon Case, he is now the Cabinet
Secretary.
In it he is reported to have written...
"I’m very concerned
that the Duchess was able to bully two PAs out of the household
in the past year.
The treatment of X was totally unacceptable."
Buckingham Palace said it was very concerned about the allegations.
Former members of staff are being invited to participate
in its investigation.
In a statement, it added...
"The Royal household has had
a dignity at work policy in place for a number of years and does not
and will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the workplace."
But a spokesperson for Meghan said...
"The Duchess is saddened by this
latest attack on her character, particularly as someone who has been
the target of bullying herself.
She will keep striving to set an example for doing
what is right and good."
The latest interview clip will do little to heal any apparent rifts
between the Sussexes and the Palace.
Simon Jones, BBC News.
I’m joined now by Royal Author and journalist Victoria Murphy.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Simon
Thank you for joining us. Simon jones talked
Thank you forjoining us. Simon Jones talked about any apparent
jones talked about any apparent rift.
Jones talked about any apparent rift. Harrell bigger rift is there
rift. Harrell bigger rift is there between the suffixes and the rest of
between the suffixes and the rest of the firm is Megan referred to them?
the firm is Megan referred to them? I think it’s pretty obvious. It’s
I think it’s pretty obvious. It’s absolutely astonishing we have all
absolutely astonishing we have all this information being put into the
this information being put into the pub“:
this information being put into the public domain but so much open
public domain but so much open hostility there. This latest clip
hostility there. This latest dip seems
hostility there. This latest clip seems to be in response to this
seems to be in response to this story published by the Times
story published by the Times yesterday, his allegations of
yesterday, his allegations of bullying, that statement however, we
bullying, that statement however, we have to remember that the interview
have to remember that the interview with Meghan was filmed before this
with Meghan was filmed before this story was released. She does talk
story was released. She does talk about the active role that the firm
about the active role that the firm is in creating false heads but she
is in creating false heads but she is not talking about this story now.
is not talking about this story now. So what she referring to? We note
So what she referring to? We note that Meghan has been very
that Meghan has been very frustrated. She has made no comment
fmstrated. She has made no comment as referred
frustrated. She has made no comment as referred to in court documents.
as referred to in court documents. It’s a very serious thing to suggest
It’s a very serious thing to suggest and to accuse, albeit not
and to accuse, albeit not individuals, but the firm, as she
individuals, but the firm, as she pulls the mob. I think that’s what
pulls the mob. I think that’s what peopla want
pulls the mob. I think that’s what people want to know and, from this
peopla want to know and, from this interview, I
people want to know and, from this interview, I think people are
interview, I think peopla are looking for
interview, I think people are looking for maybe a bit more
looking for maybe a bit more specific information here on what it
specific information here on what it is that makes her feel that that is
is that makes her feel that that is what was done, and I think that’s
what was done, and I think that’s what’s going to be the test of that
what’s going to be the test of that interview. What specifics, what
interview. what specific, what factual
interview. What specifics, what factual information is put forward
factual information is put forward to make that argument? Yes, because,
to make that argument? Yes, because, obviously, that clip was chosen to
obviously, that clip was chosen to peak peopla
obviously, that clip was chosen to peak people buzz interest and get
peak people bun interest and get them to
peak people buzz interest and get them to watch it at the weekend. How
them to watch it at the weekend. How important is the context of what the
important is the context of what the Duchess has said? It could show a
Duchess has said? It could show a very different light on things? I
very different light on things? I think this interview is incredibly
think this interview is incredibly long, it’s 90 minutes and gives them
long, it’s 90 minutes and gives them a huge amount of time to get forward
a huge amount of time to get forward there point and have their say. It’s
there point and have their say. It’s very dear
there point and have their say. It’s very clear that people clearly felt,
very clear that peopla dearty felt, some
very clear that people clearly felt, some individuals felt that, ahead of
some individuals felt that, ahead of this interview going out, it was
this interview going out, it was important for a different narrative
important for a different narrative to be heard. Now, the people who
to be heard. Now, the peopla who have
to be heard. Now, the people who have spoken to the Times, clearly
have spoken to the Times, dearty had not
have spoken to the Times, clearly had not come forward with this
had not come forward with this information before that something
information before that something has made them want to do that.
has made them want to do that. Perhaps there has been a realisation
Perhaps there has been a realisation that unless somebody does come
that unless somebody does come forward with this information to
forward with this information to present that narrative, so then it’s
present that narrative, so then it’s a set of considerations that will
a set of considerations that will not be heard, will not be taken into
not be heard, will not be taken into consideration. I suppose people will
consideration. I suppose peopla will now go watch
consideration. I suppose people will now go watch this Oprah interview...
now go watch this Oprah interview... In mind, it changes the situation
In mind, it changes the situation somewhat. But, I
In mind, it changes the situation somewhat. But, Ithink
In mind, it changes the situation somewhat. But, I think this
somewhat. But, I think this interview is a hugely landmark
interview is a hugely landmark moment. The suffixes have this
moment. The suffixes have this opportunity to have their say and
opportunity to have their say and they very much polarise opinion. The
they very much polarise opinion. The test of this interview will be
test of this interview will be whether people who are in the middle
whether peopla who are in the middle ground,
whether people who are in the middle ground, confused about what to
ground, confused about what to think, who don’t know what to
think, who don’t know what to believe, whether the suffixes are
believe, whether the suffixes are able to provide information that
able to provide information that actually talks about things that
actually talks about things that makes people understand and
makes people understand and empathise with them more than they
empathise with them more than they already do. Where does this leave
already do. where does this leave the palace
already do. Where does this leave the palace because it they tend not
the palace because it they tend not to want to engage in his public
to want to engage in his public statements that other people might
statements that other people might feel they have the right to make a
feel they have the right to make a response to? We so really hear about
response to? We so really hear about what goes beyond behind closed
what goes beyond behind closed doors. It’s something that’s worked
doors. It’s something that’s worked for them the many years, no comment.
for them the many years, no comment. But now they Meghan are putting lots
But now they Meghan are putting lots of information into the public
of information into the public domain so the Royal family are going
domain so the Royal family are going to have to reconsider their policy.
to have to reconsider their policy. I think it’s important to point out
I think it’s important to point out that even though there has been in
that even though there has been in and from the Sussexs that there is
and from the Sussexs that there is some sort of Buckingham Palace moved
some sort of Buckingham Palace moved to talk to the Times, this was
to talk to the Times, this was actually individuals who came
actually individuals who came forward to the Times newspaper.
forward to the Times newspaper. There is no suggestion this is
There is no suggestion this is orchestrated by palace officials.
orchestrated by palace officials. But, the palace has responded on
But, the palace has responded on record with a statement about making
record with a statement about making an investigation. It is an unusual
an investigation. It is an unusual thing for them to do. You might
thing for them to do. You might question these allegations were made
question these allegations were made sometime ago so there might be a bit
sometime ago so there might be a bit of a?
sometime ago so there might be a bit of 3? Around that, but certainly, I
of a? Around that, but certainly, I think we
of 3? Around that, but certainly, I think we are going to see them
think we are going to see them perhaps be more vocal than we’ve
perhaps be more vocal than we’ve ever seen before. It is fascinating,
ever seen before. It is fascinating, because I look back to years ago
because I look back to years ago when journalists like my sales when
when journalists like my sales when writing stories about the division
writing stories about the division of the households between the
of the households between the Cambridge is and the Sussexs. And
Cambridge is and the Sussexs. And that’s what we were being told. But
that’s what we were being told. But there was obviously a huge other
there was obviously a huge other element to the side of the story as
element to the side of the story as well. Huge disagreements which we
well. Huge disagreements which we now know from everything that has
now know from everything that has come out since that were much more
come out since that were much more entrenched, more tense and escalated
entrenched, more tense and escalated to a far greater extent than we had
to a far greater extent than we had initially first thought. This
initially first thought. This interview airs on Sunday in the
interview airs on Sunday in the United States. No doubt it will be
United States. No doubt it will be widely reported here but for the
widely reported here but for the moment, Victoria Murphy, thank you
moment, Victoria Murphy, thank you very much.
The UK Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has defended his
decision to raise corporation tax for the most profitable companies
to 25% in 2023.
This measure — along with other moves such as freezing
income tax thresholds — mean that Britain is on course
to have the highest tax burden since the 19605.
Paul Hawkins reports.
Billed as a Budget to rescue an economy ravaged by Covid.
REPORTER: Can the country afford this budget, Mr Sunak?
The Chancellor has promised to protectjobs.
Tax increases loom, taking the UK’s tax burden to its highest
level since the 19605, according to the Office
for Budget Responsibility.
Obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public
finances and the economy, and I think I and the Government
have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time
but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery
in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
This is how he intends to do it.
The furlough scheme is to be extended until the end
of September, as will higher Universal Credit payments.
The headline rate of corporation tax will go up from 19% to 25%
from 2023, though smaller firms will be exempt.
And a freeze on income tax thresholds is expected to lead
to 1.3 million more people paying income tax, plusi million more
paying the higher rate.
But there will be some more help for hospitality.
Pubs won’t have to pay business rates until the end ofJune.
We have been open forfour months out of the last 12
when we get to reopen.
When we reopen, it’s going to be gardens only,
and then restricted inside.
We are going to need all the help we can get to get
hospitality through.
Labour talk of a missed opportunity.
I just think this didn’t deliver the scale of what was required.
For most people what they’re going to see is a very big
increase in council tax, possibly 3 Universal Credit cut,
and a very high level of unemployment, no
matter where they live.
Although much of the focus has been on business,
some number crunchers say the effects of the Budget will also
be felt far wider.
Much less attention was paid to what is happening
to British households.
In many ways, the year ahead for them is more difficult
than the year we’ve been through, with falling living
standards this autumn.
And actually come up for public services,
further cuts to public spending mean that we may be seeing
what feels a lot like austerity.
For public services, too, further cuts to public spending may feel
a lot like austerity.
There is now a route out of lockdown.
But tough times ahead.
The Chancellor says not all his decisions will be
popular but they are, he insists, honest.
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
Our chief political correspondent, Adam Fleming,
told Annita McVeigh the Budget was a story of three chapters...
The first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of
pounds to support people and businesses
through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic.
And that will last until September when
society is supposedly all but have opened up again.
Then chapter two starts, the recovery of the
government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax
break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff.
Then the year after is when chapter three starts.
That is when we see the government raising more money in taxation.
First of all, by an increase in the rate of corporation
tax, paid by companies earning more than a quarter of £1 billion of
profits 3 year.
And then, secondly, freezing those thresholds for the
rates of income tax which means more lower
earners will start paying the basic rate and for higher earners
will start paying the higher rate.
And Rishi Sunak, the Chancellors this morning has been defending that
as a fair way of mending the public finances.
People’s current take—home pay, it won’t be affected by this
policy but you are right and I was clear
yesterday, that this means the incremental
benefit that they would have experienced had those
thresholds continue to rise with inflation won’t be there.
We are going to keep putting up the thresholds next year
as we promised but then they will be frozen at the
higher level, but you mention the resolution foundation, I think
they’ve also said this is a good way to raise money that we need because
it’s a progressive measure, it means those on higher
incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes
and I think that’s what most people would accept as a fair way
to do what we need to do.
The resolution foundation that the Chancellor
mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they
are doing everything right now with their analysis which will be
are doing a briefing right now with their analysis which will be
followed in an hour by the very famous Institute for Fiscal Studies
and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that
tends to shape People’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the
Labour Party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad
for the recovery.
But the Shadow Chancellor Anneliese Dodds is in
favour of those phrases to the income tax threshold.
In principle, on that freeze, we are not against
the freeze on principle.
What I am concerned about is the fact that
this is taking place when we have got the changes to council tax but
also changes to social security as well.
You quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation
a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the
government is planning to switch off its increase in social security,
actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment,
that’s not a sensible approach to take.
Labour are also critical of this thing that the government has
got rallad the towns fund, £1 billion
allocated for investment in
towns around England and if you look at the towns,
the vast majority of them are in seats held by
Conservative MPs.
Labour says is cronyism, the Conservatives just say
it’s a product of levelling up and put the result was at the last
election.
We can speak now toJohn Caudwell, philanthropist
and founder of Phones AU, who joins us live from Monaco.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. What is
Thank you for joining us. what is your initial
Thank you forjoining us. What is your initial reaction to what the
your initial reaction to what the Chancellor’s budget is going to mean
Chancellor’s budget is going to mean for businesses? I think that first
for businesses? I think that first of all, I think you did a good
of all, I think you did a good performance on his feet.
of all, I think you did a good performance on his feet.
performance on his feet. Unfortunately, some of the content
Unfortunately, some of the content was not great. For me, he should
was not great. For me, he should have made far more of
have made far more of recommendations of pandemic recovery
recommendations of pandemic recovery which is tackling four main areas of
which is tackling four main areas of the infrastructure, massive
the infrastructure, massive investment into apprenticeship
investment into apprenticeship schemes, inward investment and
schemes, inward investment and energy efficient setting. He did not
energy efficient setting. He did not do any of that really but he has
do any of that really but he has done some small stuff and I like his
done some small stuff and I like his reductions because that will really
reductions because that will really encourage businesses to invest in
encourage businesses to invest in infrastructure and capital spend and
infrastmclure and capital spend and that’s going
infrastructure and capital spend and that’s going to grow so that’s a
that’s going to grow so that’s a really good thing. Free ports I
really good thing. Free ports I think will generate a lot more
think will generate a lot more business and so very positive. His
business and so very positive. His restart grants for small businesses
restart grants for small businesses is going to be a very, very positive
is going to be a very, very positive thing as is Greenbank investment
thing as is Greenbank investment but. . .
thing as is Greenbank investment but... He has not gone far enough,
but... He has not gone far enough, anywhere near
but... He has not gone far enough, anywhere nearfar enough
but... He has not gone far enough, anywhere near far enough to gain the
anywhere near far enough to gain the recovery we nearly need. We have the
recovery we nearty need. We have the lowest
recovery we nearly need. We have the lowest interest rates of all time.
lowest interest rates of all time. Debt is affordable. We keep talking
Debt is affordable. We keep talking about putting the public finances
about putting the public finances are right but
about putting the public finances are right butJapan is into hundred
are right butjapan is into hundred percent debt
are right butJapan is into hundred percent debt GDP for 20 years or
percent debt GDP for 20 years or more. I must say are not an advocate
more. I must say are not an advocate of huge debt because interest rates
of huge debt because interest rates go
of huge debt because interest rates 9° “P
of huge debt because interest rates go up but nor am I
of huge debt because interest rates go up but nor am Ifun of
of huge debt because interest rates go up but nor am I fun of austerity
go up but nor am I fun of austerity or failing
go up but nor am I fun of austerity orfailing economy. And we really,
or failing economy. And we really, really need to
orfailing economy. And we really, really need to grow the economy,
really need to grow the economy, grow jobs,
really need to grow the economy, growjobs, get those 3 million
grow jobs, get those 3 million peopla
growjobs, get those 3 million people back in work, grow GDP and
peopla back in work, grow GDP and from that,
people back in work, grow GDP and from that, tax revenues will grow
from that, tax revenues will grow and when we grow those tax revenues,
and when we grow those tax revenues, if interest rates go up, which of
if interest rates go up, which of course they will do, but I submit
course they will do, but I submit that suspect years before anything
that suspect years before anything like a significant rise, we can
like a significant rise, we ran repay the
like a significant rise, we can repay the cost of debt servicing and
repay the cost of debt servicing and the debt back if we choose to outer
the debt back if we choose to outer success rather than austerity. Why
success rather than austerity. why do you
success rather than austerity. Why do you believe then that he is being
do you believe then that he is being too pmdent as
do you believe then that he is being too prudent as you see it? Given
too pmdent as you see it? Given that this
too prudent as you see it? Given that this is a Conservative
that this is a Conservative Government. They tend to want to
Government. They tend to want to keep taxes low but get we are seeing
keep taxes low but get we are seeing corporation tax due to rise to 25%
corporation tax due to rise to 2596 which
corporation tax due to rise to 25% which has caused some people to
which has caused some peopla to throw up their
which has caused some people to throw up their hands in despair. I
throw up their hands in despair. I think just
throw up their hands in despair. I thinkjust answered the question
thinkjust answered the question because
think just answered the question because you
thinkjust answered the question because you know, the simple fact is
because you know, the simple fact is that anything that damages
that anything that damages investment, especially inward
investment, especially inward investment is going to be a negative
investment is going to be a negative aspect for the UK. We need low
aspect for the UK. We need low corporation taxes and other
corporation taxes and other incentives to cause businesses to
incentives to cause businesses to relocate onto our shores, to grow
relocate onto our shores, to grow manufacturing industry, jobs and GDP
manufacturing industry, jobs and GDP growth. The rise in corporation tax,
growth. The rise in corporation tax, it’s still leaving this competitive
it’s still leaving this competitive element with the rest of Europe but
element with the rest of Europe but we need to be ultra—competitive and
we need to be ultra-competitive and treat
we need to be ultra—competitive and treat Britain as an aggressive
treat Britain as an aggressive business looking for maximum
business looking for maximum prosperity over the years to come in
prosperity over the years to come in order to payout debt through success
order to payout debt through success rather than the future austerity
rather than the future austerity which will come if we do not grow
which will come if we do not grow our economy. It was not my intention
our economy. It was not my intention to answer my own question! Other
to answer my own question! Other commentators have said that it will
commentators have said that it will still leave the UK better place than
still leave the UK better place than any of the other G7 economies, but
any of the other G7 economies, but we’ve got the context of Brexit to
we’ve got the context of Brexit to bear in mind. How much of the Shadow
bear in mind. How much of the Shadow does that cast? Well, I don’t
does that fast? Well, I don’t believe
does that cast? Well, I don’t believe it does cast a shadow. I
believe it does fast a shadow. I think
believe it does cast a shadow. I think there’s difficulties and
think there’s difficulties and settling in period is to get over
settling in period is to get over but Brexit is the very thing that
but Brexit is the very thing that allows us to be very adventurous
allows us to be very adventurous with our economic measures and to be
with our economic measures and to be competitive within Europe, more
competitive within Europe, more competitive than the Europeans are
competitive than the Europeans are capable of being so it gives us an
capable of being so it gives us an ability to attract trade from their
ability to attract trade from their shores onto hours but this is where
shores onto hours but this is where I am saying the Chancellor is not
I am saying the Chancellor is not being ambitious enough. He is being
being ambitious enough. He is being too pmdent. I
being ambitious enough. He is being too prudent. I would never want to
too pmdent. I would never want to expose Britain
too prudent. I would never want to expose Britain to fiscal problems
expose Britain to fiscal problams but, I
expose Britain to fiscal problems but, I really do not see interest
but, I really do not see interest rates going up significantly at all
rates going up significantly at all the many, many years and if the
the many, many years and if the money that we borrow is invested
money that we borrow is invested extremely wisely, it’s invested in
extremely wisely, it’s invested in the future, job creation which cuts
the future, job creation which cuts Government’s costs, it’s invested in
Government’s costs, it’s invested in GDP growth which provides more
GDP growth which provides more revenue, when we calculate the costs
revenue, when we ralmlate the costs of 3
revenue, when we calculate the costs of 3 million people out of work, the
of 3 million peopla out of work, the total cost
of 3 million people out of work, the total cost is probably in the region
total cost is probably in the region of between 100— £200 billion per
of between 100- £200 billion per year. Getting
of between 100— £200 billion per year. Getting those 3 million, if it
year. Getting those 3 million, if it turns out to be 3 million, I am
turns out to be 3 million, I am making that assumption because
making that assumption because that’s my forecast, but, whatever
that’s my forecast, but, whatever the number, getting those 3 million
the number, getting those 3 million back to work safely huge amount of
back to work safely huge amount of cost to the UK economy and would
cost to the UK economy and would easily pay for any debt servicing
easily pay for any debt servicing costs we need to. So this is a time
costs we need to. So this is a time to be more ambitious than the
to be more ambitious than the Chancellor has been. I understand
Chancellor has been. I understand why he has taken the road he has
why he has taken the road he has but, in my view, he should have
but, in my view, he should have really promoted the UK economy above
really promoted the UK economy above all else, to try and grow that GDP,
all else, to try and grow that GDP, grow
all else, to try and grow that GDP, growjobs, tax revenues, as a
grow jobs, tax revenues, as a consequence
growjobs, tax revenues, as a consequence of success, not as a
consequence of success, not as a consequence of making people worse
consequence of making people worse off and make Britain the absolute
off and make Britain the absolute leading light of Europe. We will see
leading light of Europe. We will see the end of the VAT reductions, and a
the end of the VAT reductions, and a furlough scheme will be closed down
furlough scheme will be closed down but, politically, he had to be seen
but, politically, he had to be seen to be behaving in this way. If not
to be behaving in this way. If not economically, which is more of your
economically, which is more of your argument, but politically, needs to
argument, but politically, needs to be seen to be trying to claw back
be seen to be trying to claw back this incredible amount of public
this incredible amount of public spending during the pandemic. This
spending during the pandemic. This money was never going to be free. It
money was never going to be free. It always had to be paid back. That’s
always had to be paid back. That’s where he could have put a reversal
where he could have put a reversal argument if he wished most people
argument if he wished most peopla would buy
argument if he wished most people would buy into that because he says
would buy into that because he says it has to be paid back with smack
it has to be paid back with smack the only issue with big debt is the
the only issue with big debt is the potential if the debt causes
potential if the debt causes inflation and interest rates rise.
inﬂation and interest rates rise. Many
inflation and interest rates rise. Many economies over the future years
Many economies over the future years are going to be living with debt of
are going to be living with debt of 1001:
are going to be living with debt of 10096 plus
are going to be living with debt of 100% plus of GDP. Who says we need
10096 plus of GDP. who says we need to pay it? The
100% plus of GDP. Who says we need to pay it? The only issue is if
to pay it? The only issue is if interest rates rise, the interest in
interest rates rise, the interest in that debt becomes a big drag on the
that debt becomes a big drag on the economy. So,
that debt becomes a big drag on the economy. 50, what we need to do is
economy. So, what we need to do is borrow big and
economy. 50, what we need to do is borrow big and invest wisely in big,
borrow big and invest wisely in big, to grow businesses in the UK, the
to grow businesses in the UK, the economy and we can choose to pay the
economy and we ran choose to pay the debt out of
economy and we can choose to pay the debt out of that growth, but even if
debt out of that growth, but even if we don’t pay it, we will have more
we don’t pay it, we will have more than enough income in the Exchequer
than enough income in the Exchequer to pay the increased servicing
to pay the increased servicing costs. 50 I don’t disagree with the
costs. So I don’t disagree with the budget. I just
costs. 50 I don’t disagree with the budget. Ijust don’t
costs. 50 I don’t disagree with the budget. I just don’t think
costs. 50 I don’t disagree with the budget. Ijust don’t think he’s been
budget. Ijust don’t think he’s been ambitious enough. There’s a lot of
ambitious enough. There’s a lot of smart moves in there but he could
smart moves in there but he could have done a lot more. In one of my
have done a lot more. In one of my major criticisms is his loan
major criticisms is his loan recovery scheme of 25,000 to £10
recovery scheme of 25,000 to £10 million because he is once again
million because he is once again said that he will guarantee 80% of
said that he will guarantee 8096 of that. Now,
said that he will guarantee 80% of that. Now, that will not work
that. Now, that will not work because those businesses that have
because those businesses that have been traumatised and need these
been traumatised and need these loans will not be able to put the
loans will not be able to put the other 20% equity in to guarantee the
other 2096 equity in to guarantee the loan. And
other 20% equity in to guarantee the loan. And I’ve had this argument
loan. And I’ve had this argument with the Chancellor nine months ago
with the Chancellor nine months ago on the previous set of lines and he
on the previous set of lines and he eventually changed his mind and he
eventually changed his mind and he put 10096
eventually changed his mind and he put 100% guarantee on. Why he thinks
put 10096 guarantee on. why he thinks he ran
put 100% guarantee on. Why he thinks he can revert back to 80% nine
he ran revert back to 8096 nine months
he can revert back to 80% nine months later and required a business
months later and required a business to put 2096
months later and required a business to put 20% Ml
months later and required a business to put 20% NI really do not know. It
to put 2096 NI really do not know. It might not be
to put 20% NI really do not know. It might not be over yet. There are
might not be over yet. There are always concessions, aren’t they?
always concessions, aren’t they? Good to talk to you,. Thanks for
joining us today. Thank you. Goodbye.
And just after two thirty this afternoon we’ll be
answering your questions on the the budget and its impact
on personalfinances.
I will bejoined byJasmine Birtles, founder
of the website MoneyMagpie and by Iona Bain, Founder
of Young Money blog.
Send in your questions using the hash tag BBC Your Questions or
by emailing yourquestions@bbc.co.uk.
That’s coming up at two thirty here on BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
Cloudy and chilly over the next three days but there will be
three days but there will be sunshine at times. The wettest front
sunshine at times. The wettest front sinking south bringing patchy rain
sinking south bringing patchy rain across Northern Ireland, northern
across Northern Ireland, northern England and East Anglia. It will
England and East Anglia. It will break up however and see sunshine
break up however and see sunshine but ahead of it, a lot of clout.
but ahead of it, a lot of clout. Temperatures between 5—10 C.
Temperatures between 5-10 C. Overnight,
Temperatures between 5—10 C. Overnight, the weather front sinks
Overnight, the weather front sinks down and there will be some clearer
down and there will be some dearer skies and
down and there will be some clearer skies and where we have got that
skies and where we have got that clearance, in the Highlands,
clearance, in the Highlands, temperatures will fall as low as
temperatures will fall as low as minus four Celsius. But generally,
minus four Celsius. But generally, it is going to be a cold night.
it is going to be a cold night. Tomorrow we start off with a bit
Tomorrow we start off with a bit more sunshine than we have been used
more sunshine than we have been used to but don’t get too excited because
to but don’t get too excited because the cloud will build up and expand
the cloud will build up and expand across most of the UK. Temperatures
across most of the UK. Temperatures for tomorrow, five in the north to
for tomorrow, five in the north to about 7-8 C
for tomorrow, five in the north to about 7—8 C in the south.
Hello, this is BBC News.
The headlines:
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating
falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
The Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing
too little to tackle inequality.
New coronavirus vaccines to fight variants —
like the one from Brazil — can be fast—tracked
through the approval system, the UK’s medical regulator says.
Countries with more overweight people have had the highest death
rates from Covid—19, a report says, as the government
looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has
insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’
her predecessor Alex Salmond.
Sport, and for a full round up, from the BBC Sport Centre,
here’s Jane Dougal.
Good morning.
m:
We are going to start with the cricket.
England’s batsmen have struggled again on the first day of the fourth
and final test against India.
They were bowled out for 205 after winning the toss in Ahmedabad.
The pich looked much improved on the one which attracted such
controversy last week, but England still failed to come
to terms with the Indian attack.
Captainjoe Root, the third wicket to fall — LBW for just five.
Ben Stokes resisted for a time and occasionally took
the attack to India on the way to a half century.
Stokes, though, eventually went for 55.
And, apart from Dan Lawrence with A6, the rest of the batting
folded fairly meekly.
James Anderson gave England some hope when he dismissed
Shubman Gill for a duck.
At the close India were 2A—1.
Staying with cricket, West Indies’ Kieron Pollard has
become just the third player to hit six sixes in one over
in an international match.
It was a remarkable T20 game in Antigua, especially for Sri
Lanka’s bowler Akila Da na njaya.
He took a hat—trick, and the West Indies slumped to 62—A,
chasing 132 to win.
Then came Pollard.
Every ball of Dananjaya’s next over was smashed over the boundary.
Pollard eventually out for 38, but West Indies winning by 4
wickets, with 41 balls to spare.
Rangers are getting close to ending all the hurt of the last decade,
by being crowned Scottish premiership champions, and stopping
Celtic getting 10 in a row.
Rangers’ manager Steven Gerrard, who’s on the brink of his first
title, was sent off at half time for comments he made
to the referee who’d booked Alfredo Morelos earlier.
And it was Morelos who came up with the only goal to secure the win.
They need just 4 more points now for the title.
Elsewhere, Hamilton drew 1—1 with StJohnstone.
There are three more Premier League games this evening.
Relegation threatened Fulham are at home to Spurs,
while second from bottom West Brom host Everton.
In the later game, Liverpool take on Chelsea, with both sides
eyeing a top 4 finish.
Last night, Manchester United could only manage a goalless
draw at Crystal Palace.
United are still 1A points behind leaders Manchester City.
Leicester City in 3rd are also dropping points,
but they did salvage a draw at Burnley, thanks to a wonderful
finish from Kelechi Iheanacho.
The point means Burnley are 6 points clear of the relegation zone now.
In last night’s other match, bottom side Sheffield United got
a rare win, beating Aston Villa1—0.
Manchester City can start thinking about the women’s champions league
quarter—finals after beating Fiorentina 3—0 in the home leg
of their last 16 tie.
City scored twice in the first four minutes through Lauren Hemp
and Ellen White, before Sam Mewis added another late on.
It was a good night for Chelsea in their first leg.
Their keeper, Ann Katrin Berger, saved two penalties before
Fran Kirby wrapped up the 2—0 win against Atletico Madrid
at Kings Meadow.
The new Chief Executive of Kick It Out says he believes
there are enough qualified people of colour to fill the vacant roles
at the FA and at the PFA, without resorting to tokenism.
Tony Burnett says there should be an environment where the best people
from any background are able to access opportunities.
Gordon Taylor steps down from his Chief Executive position
at the PFA at the end of the season, and the FA is recruiting a permanent
chair to replace Greg Clarke.
ﬂ
I would love to see absolutely a person of colour or from an ethnic
person of colour or from an ethnic minority background because they
minority background because they come through a process which is
come through a process which is open, fair and transparent and they
open, fair and transparent and they are the best person for the job. The
are the best person for the job. The other thing, there is a question we
other thing, there is a question we have to answer about the criteria
have to answer about the criteria for those jobs.
have to answer about the criteria forthosejobs. I
have to answer about the criteria for thosejobs. I would love
have to answer about the criteria for those jobs. I would love to see,
for those jobs. I would love to see, if it is not necessarily a person,
if it is not necessarily a person, irrespective of what the
irrespective of what the individual’s background, have they
individual’s background, have they got the right
individual’s background, have they got the right values? The
got the right values? The individuals in those jobs,
got the right values? The individuals in thosejobs, it is
got the right values? The individuals in those jobs, it is a
individuals in those jobs, it is a massively important that they value
massively important that they value inclusion. Massively important they
inclusion. Massively important they start with perspective that humans
start with perspective that humans are of equal value.
When you’ve been at the top, but you’re now123rd in the world,
it can be tough to deal with, and Andy Murray says he has been
struggling to adjust.
After losing on his Tour comeback in Montpellier last week,
he was beaten in straight sets last night in Rotterdam.
And his frustration was clear.
He is returning from a serious hip injury and was up
against Ath seed Andre Rublev.
Murray says he can’t help but over analyse the mistakes he’s making.
ﬂ
lam not
I am not used to making those errors in those moments. I am finding that
in those moments. I am finding that quite frustrating and mentally
quite frustrating and mentally finding myself looking back on those
finding myself looking back on those moments a little bit too much. Which
moments a little bit too much. which may be, you
moments a little bit too much. Which may be, you know, affected me a bit
may be, you know, affected me a bit in the second set.
That’s all the sport for now.
There’s more on the website and app — including news that Wales scrum
half Kieran Hardy has been ruled out of the Six Nations
with a hamstring injury.
That’s bbc.co.uk/sport.
The UK’s medicines regulator has ruled that new Covid vaccines
to fight emerging variants can be fast—tracked through
the approval system.
Guidance from the MHRA says manufacturers would need
to prove the jabs could provide protective antibodies.
This could be achieved from data on real—world
use, bypassing the need for lengthy clinical trials.
On a visit to a vaccination facility in Glasgow —
the Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, welcomed the decision.
ﬂ
I think that the MHRA have played a very, very wise publication. This is
very, very wise publication. This is all about making sure that if we
all about making sure that if we need an updated vaccine to work
need an updated vaccine to work against these new variants, we can
against these new variants, we ran get it approved
against these new variants, we can get it approved and into people’s
get it approved and into people’s arms as soon as as safely possible.
arms as soon as as safely possible. The regulator is incredibly rigorous
The regulator is incredibly rigorous on safety, but what they have shown
on safety, but what they have shown is that they are also prepared to
is that they are also prepared to move fast whilst doing all the
move fast whilst doing all the necessary checks. Today’s
necessary checks. Today’s announcement will mean that if we do
announcement will mean that if we do need an updated vaccine because of
need an updated vaccine because of these new variants, we will be able
these new variants, we will be able to do it faster. Faster than the
to do it faster. Faster than the first set of vaccines and faster
first set of vaccines and faster than almost anywhere else in the
than almost anywhere else in the world. How concerned are you about
world. How concerned are you about the new variants as we go forward on
the new variants as we go forward on the current spread of coronavirus?
the current spread of coronavirus? The number of cases is coming down
The number of cases is coming down and a number of hospitalisations and
and a number of hospitalisations and deaths is coming down even faster
deaths is coming down even faster because of the vaccine. We can see
because of the vaccine. We ran see the
because of the vaccine. We can see the vaccine saving lives right
the vaccine saving lives right across the UK right now. But one of
across the UK right now. But one of the worries that we have, one of the
the worries that we have, one of the risks as these new variants.
risks as these new variants. Thankfully, there is very, very
Thankfully, there is very, very small numbers in the UK now. We need
small numbers in the UK now. We need to keep it that way. At the same
to keep it that way. At the same time, do the scientific work in
time, do the scientific work in places like the University of
places like the University of Glasgow, working across the UK, to
Glasgow, working across the UK, to make sure that we have the updated
make sure that we have the updated vaccine as soon as as safely
vaccine as soon as as safely possible.
Health officials are to examine whether paying people
to exercise could help drive down levels of obesity.
Sir Keith Mills, who founded the Air Miles
and Nectar rewards programmes, is to advise the government
on a new way to use incentives to support people who choose
healthier diets and do more physical activity.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has
insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’
her predecessor Alex Salmond.
Giving evidence to the inquiry
into her Government’s handling of harassment
allegations against Mr Salmond, she described claims of a plot
against him as ‘absurd.’ Our Political Correspondent Nick
Eardley reports.
After months of allegations, yesterday Nicola Sturgeon
had her chance to make her case.
I solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm that
I will tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth.
Scotland’s First Minister insists she followed the rules,
that her government was right to investigate Alex Salmond
and that there was no plot to take him down.
Alex Salmond has been, for most of my life,
since I was about 21 years old, notjust a very close political
colleague, a friend, in my younger days somebody I looked
up to and revered, you know, I had no motive, intention,
desire to get Alex Salmond.
This was a marathon session, more than seven hours of questioning.
Miss Sturgeon apologised to women who were let down by the government,
but she insisted all the decisions she made were for the right reasons.
I have never claimed in this or anything else to be infallible.
I have searched my soul on all of this many, many times over.
It may very well be that I did not get everything right,
that is for others to judge, but in one of the most invidious
political and personal situations I have everfaced,
I believe I acted properly and appropriately, and that overall
I made the bestjudgments I could.
This row is not over, though, there could be more claims to come,
and a report on whether Miss Sturgeon broke the rules
ministers have to follow is expected this month.
Nick Eardley, BBC News, Holyrood.
Let’s return to the reaction to yesterday’s Budget.
The chancellor confirmed that the £20 top up of universal
credit will be extended for another six months.
Rishi Sunak said the measure, worth £1,000 a year,
would help those hardest hit by the pandemic.
Campaigners want the top up to be made permanent,
while Labour said the measure did nothing to address
insecurity and inequality.
With me is Caroline Rice, who receives Universal Credit.
And also I’m joined by Katie Schmuecker,
Deputy Director of Policy, Joseph Rowntree Foundation.
Welcome to you both. First, Katie, this £20 uplift, the weekly increase
this £20 uplift, the weekly increase being extended to September. Her
being extended to September. Her welcome is that? It is certainly
welcome is that? It is certainly better than taking away that
better than taking away that lifeline right now, but we are
lifeline right now, but we are concerned that only by can do much
concerned that only by ran do much extending it by
concerned that only by can do much extending it by six months, the
extending it by six months, the government seems to not be in touch
government seems to not be in touch with the realities of the economic
with the realities of the economic situation that we are actually in.
situation that we are actually in. We are going to be facing a perfect
We are going to be facing a perfect storm as we head into the winter.
storm as we head into the winter. just as furlough
storm as we head into the winter. Just as furlough ends, just as
Just as furlough ends, just as unemployment is expected to peak at
unemployment is expected to peak at around 2 million people, that is the
around 2 million peopla, that is the point at which
around 2 million people, that is the point at which this support of the
point at which this support of the additional £20 per week, which has
additional £20 per week, which has been a lifeline for so many people
been a lifeline for so many peopla through this
been a lifeline for so many people through this pandemic, is going to
through this pandemic, is going to be taken away. That means that about
be taken away. That means that about 6 million families are going to be
6 million families are going to be facing a really tough winter, as
facing a really tough winter, as they face a loss of income overnight
they face a loss of income overnight of
they face a loss of income overnight ofjust over £1000 per year.
ofjust over £1000 per year. Caroline, you have been in receipt
Caroline, you have been in receipt of Universal Credit, you also work
of Universal Credit, you also work as a registered childminder, how
as a registered Childminder, how much
as a registered childminder, how much difference to you has this
much difference to you has this extra £20 a week made? It has made a
extra £20 a week made? It has made a big difference. It is the difference
big difference. It is the difference between what I pay or basically
between what I pay or basically staying afloat. I had to make
staying afloat. I had to make difficult choices, from August, as
difficult choices, from August, as to what resources I can cut back on
to what resources I ran cut back on within the
to what resources I can cut back on within the house. And if that £20 is
within the house. And if that £20 is taken away, it is more difficult
taken away, it is more difficult choices to cut back
taken away, it is more difficult choices to cutback on something
choices to cut back on something else.
choices to cutback on something else. Caroline, you have been
else. Caroline, you have been contributing to a research project
contributing to a research project which tracks how low income families
which tracks how low income families fair during the pandemic. What sort
fair during the pandemic. what sort of impact has
fair during the pandemic. What sort of impact has the pandemic had on
of impact has the pandemic had on you? Your life, your ability to find
you? Your life, your ability to find work and earn money, to make sure
work and earn money, to make sure you are not dependent solely on
you are not dependent solely on benefit? Is a childcare provider,
benefit? Is a childcare provider, the demand at the minute for
the demand at the minute for childcare is very low. Parents are
childcare is very low. Parents are on furlough, you know, I have had a
on furlough, you know, I have had a family that is on working tax
family that is on working tax credits, has had childcare stop, she
credits, has had childcare stop, she is on furlough, I have had another
is on furlough, I have had another drop in income out of no fault of
drop in income out of no fault of anybodrs. It is
drop in income out of no fault of anybody’s. It is difficult, it is a
anybodrs. It is difficult, it is a mental
anybody’s. It is difficult, it is a mental strain on the household. It
mental strain on the household. It is a mental strain on me. It is a
is a mental strain on me. It is a mental strain on my child because
mental strain on my child berause she sees
mental strain on my child because she sees the impact on me on a
she sees the impact on me on a day-to-day
she sees the impact on me on a day—to—day basis. Worrying about
day-to-day basis. Worrying about what is
day—to—day basis. Worrying about what is next, you know. It is not
what is next, you know. It is not easy. Katie, the Chancellor said
easy. Katie, the Chancellor said that temporary support is only
that temporary support is only temporary, it cannot be made
temporary, it cannot be made permanent because of the impact it
permanent because of the impact it would have on public finances. How
would have on public finances. How satisfied are you with that as an
satisfied are you with that as an explanation of why it must end? If
explanation of why it must end? If you look back to the start of the
you look back to the start of the pandemic, the Chancellor when he
pandemic, the Chancellor when he announced the uplift to Universal
announced the uplift to Universal Credit, said that he was doing it in
Credit, said that he was doing it in order to strengthen our safety net.
order to strengthen our safety net. That right there is an admission of
That right there is an admission of the fact that it sisters security
the fact that it sisters security system has not been providing
system has not been providing adequate support for people, it has
adequate support for peopla, it has not
adequate support for people, it has not been there for them in the way
not been there for them in the way that they need it in difficult times
that they need it in difficult times -- social
that they need it in difficult times —— social security system. That was
-- social security system. That was the right thing to
—— social security system. That was the right thing to do then because
the right thing to do then because we fame
the right thing to do then because we came into the pandemic in bad
we came into the pandemic in bad shape, we came in on the back of a
shape, we came in on the back of a decade of deprivation, when people
decade of deprivation, when peopla on the
decade of deprivation, when people on the lowest incomes were seeing
on the lowest incomes were seeing their incomes fall and that was
their incomes fall and that was being driven largely by cuts to
being driven largely by cuts to social security,
being driven largely by cuts to socialsecurity, but
being driven largely by cuts to social security, but also low paid
social security, but also low paid jobs and really high housing costs.
jobs and really high housing costs. So the right
jobs and really high housing costs. 50 the right thing was to increase
So the right thing was to increase the adequacy of the social security
the adequacy of the social security system. The right thing to do
system. The right thing to do yesterday would have been to make
yesterday would have been to make that a permanent part of our social
that a permanent part of our social security system. We should all be
security system. We should all be able to rely on social security when
able to rely on social security when life events hit us. You know, the
life events hit us. You know, the last year has hammered home for all
last year has hammered home for all of us that we simply do not know
of us that we simply do not know what is around the corner. Our
what is around the corner. Our social security system should be an
social security system should be an embodiment of our desire to help and
embodiment of our desire to help and support one another. That is in tune
support one another. That is in tune with our values as a country. That
with our values as a country. That is something that we would have
is something that we would have liked to have seen Rishi Sunak
liked to have seen Rishi Sunak talking about yesterday and making
talking about yesterday and making that uplift to Universal Credit
that uplift to Universal Credit permanent, or
that uplift to Universal Credit permanent, orat
that uplift to Universal Credit permanent, or at the very least
permanent, or at the very least extending it for one year to get us
extending it for one year to get us to do what we know is going to be an
to do what we know is going to be an extremely challenging winter. Tell
extremely challenging winter. Tell us what the minimal income floor for
us what the minimal income ﬂoor for self-employed
us what the minimal income floor for self—employed people on Universal
self-employed peopla on Universal Credit is
self—employed people on Universal Credit is going to be? It is going
Credit is going to be? It is going to be reintroduced in
Credit is going to be? It is going to be reintroduced inJuly, I
to be reintroduced in july, I believe.
to be reintroduced inJuly, I believe. What potential impact will
believe. what potential impact will it have?
believe. What potential impact will it have? The minimum income floor is
it have? The minimum income ﬂoor is a part of Universal
it have? The minimum income floor is a part of Universal Credit that
a part of Universal Credit that appﬁes
a part of Universal Credit that applies to people who are
applies to people who are self—employed. What it basically is
self-employed. what it basically is is the job
self—employed. What it basically is is the job centre will assume an
is the job centre will assume an amount that they expect you to be
amount that they expect you to be able to earn, and then that is used
able to earn, and then that is used as the basis for your Universal
as the basis for your Universal Credit calculation, whether or not
Credit ralmlation, whether or not you do earn
Credit calculation, whether or not you do earn that amount in reality
you do earn that amount in reality through your self—employment. The
through your self-employment. The minimum
through your self—employment. The minimum income floor has been
minimum income ﬂoor has been suspended
minimum income floor has been suspended throughout the pandemic,
suspended throughout the pandemic, that has brought welcome relief to
that has brought welcome relief to very many low income self—employed
very many low income self-employed peopla, it is
very many low income self—employed people, it is going to be
people, it is going to be reintroduced from the end of
people, it is going to be reintroduced from the end ofJuly,
reintroduced from the end of july, it is not
reintroduced from the end ofJuly, it is not entirely clear why that
it is not entirely clear why that support is being taken away at the
support is being taken away at the end of july,
support is being taken away at the end ofJuly, two months sooner than
end of july, two months sooner than other
end ofJuly, two months sooner than other forms of
end ofJuly, two months sooner than otherforms of support
end ofJuly, two months sooner than other forms of support like
other forms of support like furlough. I think the important
furlough. I think the important point here is that people who are on
point here is that peopla who are on low
point here is that people who are on low incomes, self—employed and on
low incomes, self-employed and on Universal
low incomes, self—employed and on Universal Credit are actually going
Universal Credit are actually going to face a double whammy. First of
to face a double whammy. First of all, the minimum income floor is
all, the minimum income ﬂoor is going to come
all, the minimum income floor is going to come back in
all, the minimum income floor is going to come back inJuly, when we
going to come back in july, when we know that
going to come back inJuly, when we know that times are going to be
know that times are going to be tough economically, but then, come
tough economically, but then, come the end of September, that lifeline
the end of September, that lifeline of the uplift to Universal Credit,
of the uplift to Universal Credit, that extra £20 per week is going to
that extra £20 per week is going to be taken away. They are going to
be taken away. They are going to face a double whammy before then
face a double whammy before then heading into a difficult autumn,
heading into a difficult autumn, when we know unemployment is going
when we know unemployment is going to be high and things will be very
to be high and things will be very tough for a lot of families.
tough for a lot of families. Caroline, as someone who are
Caroline, as someone who are self—employed, what impact for the
self—employed, what impact for the reintroduction of the minimum income
reintroduction of the minimum income ﬂoor have
reintroduction of the minimum income floor have for you? Bearing in mind
ﬂoor have for you? Bearing in mind what your
floor have for you? Bearing in mind what your earning capacity has been
what your earning capacity has been the last 12 months. As Katie says,
the last 12 months. As Katie says, it is a double whammy. I have not
it is a double whammy. I have not experienced it minimum income floor
experienced it minimum income ﬂoor on
experienced it minimum income floor on Universal Credit prior to the
on Universal Credit prior to the pandemic. I do not know how much I
pandemic. I do not know how much I would potentially lose out to now in
would potentially lose out to now in july. I
would potentially lose out to now in july. lam kind
would potentially lose out to now in July. I am kind of guessing perhaps
july. lam kind of guessing perhaps 40 or
July. I am kind of guessing perhaps A0 or £50
july. lam kind of guessing perhaps 40 or £50 per
July. I am kind of guessing perhaps A0 or £50 per month that I could be
40 or £50 per month that I could be losing out in
A0 or £50 per month that I could be losing out in support. As a
losing out in support. As a childcare provider here in Northern
childcare provider here in Northern Ireland, our potential to earn here
Ireland, our potential to earn here is heavily restricted in comparison
is heavily restricted in comparison to our counterparts in Britain. My
to our counterparts in Britain. My potential to earn is really low here
potential to earn is really low here in Northern Ireland. And I am still
in Northern Ireland. And I am still expected to reach that minimum
expected to reach that minimum income floor, the same as the rest
income ﬂoor, the same as the rest of the UK, and
income floor, the same as the rest of the UK, and it is impossible. Due
ofthe UK, and it is impossibla. Due to the lack
of the UK, and it is impossible. Due to the lack of demand at the minute.
to the lack of demand at the minute. Had the circumstances really do not
Had the circumstances really do not help, do they? Ongoing uncertainty
help, do they? Ongoing uncertainty for you. Caroline Rice and Katie
for you. Caroline Rice and Katie Schmuecker
for you. Caroline Rice and Katie Schmueckerfrom
for you. Caroline Rice and Katie Schmuecker from the
for you. Caroline Rice and Katie Schmuecker from theJoseph Rowntree
Schmuecker from the joseph Rowntree Foundation,
Schmuecker from theJoseph Rowntree Foundation, good to have you both on
Foundation, good to have you both on BBC News today. Thank you very much
BBC News today. Thank you very much for talking to us.
Some dramatic pictures now — and ambitions to send humans to Mars
have suffered another setback — after a prototype rocket
exploded.
The unmanned Space—X rocket blew—up after what appeared to have
been a successful test flight in the United States.
Russell Trott reports.
Three, two, one...
Ignition...
..we have liftoff.
It was all running so smoothly.
The Starship prototype rocket launch from Boca Chica,
in Cameron County, Texas.
Five minutes in and the Space—X craft begins its tricky descent back
to the landing zone, ten kilometres —
or 30,000 feet below.
A near—perfect landing, or at least that’s how it looked
and despite some flames needing to be put out, it was all systems go
for a second flight.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
This time, not so good.
Thankfully, no one was on board and there were no injuries among
the safety crews on the ground.
Two previous tests also had failed.
Space—X, founded by the Tesla electric car entrepreneur,
Elon Musk, hopes to eventually send a reusable rocket to Mars.
It may need more testing.
Russell Trott, BBC News.
Now here’a story of two amazing friends who’ve managed to raise
£200,000 for the hospital treating one of them
for leukaemia.
10—year—olds Hughie and Freddie set out to raise
£1,000, to buy a slushie machine
for the children on Hughie’s ward, and patients at the Royal Manchester
Children’s Hospital have just had their first drinks delivered.
Josh Parry reports.
Sour cherry! Huey had a simple goal, to help other children like him
to help other children like him through the power of slashes. The
through the power of slashes. The kids get sore mouse so the word
kids get sore mouse so the word manager said to get a slushy machine
manager said to get a slushy machine because they all want cold things.
because they all want cold things. -- sore
because they all want cold things. —— sore mouth is. Friday was also
-- sore mouth is. Friday was also glad to help. Back
—— sore mouth is. Friday was also glad to help. Back in November, he
glad to help. Back in November, he set himself a target to run two
set himself a target to run two kilometres per day, completing his
kilometres per day, complating his target on
kilometres per day, completing his target on Christmas Day. To help and
target on Christmas Day. To help and do something and try and get help
do something and try and get help him get through it because it is a
him get through it because it is a really hard thing to get through. In
really hard thing to get through. In the 50th day, he trudged through the
the 50th day, he trudged through the winter rain and mud with each step
winter rain and mud with each step smashing through his £1000
smashing through his £1000 fundraising target. He is
smashing through his £1000 fundraising target. He isjust doing
fundraising target. He is just doing such a great
fundraising target. He isjust doing such a greatjob and I could not
such a great job and I could not thank
such a greatjob and I could not thank him
such a great job and I could not thank him any
such a greatjob and I could not thank him any more. Freddie, go!
thank him any more. Freddie, go! just like
thank him any more. Freddie, go! Just like Freddie, the donation
Just like Freddie, the donation showed no signs of slowing down.
showed no signs of slowing down. when
showed no signs of slowing down. When we went on air, it was £56,000,
when we went on air, it was 56,000, now it has
When we went on air, it was £56,000, now it has over £70,000! And an
now it has over £70,000! And an 85,000 now. They said, well,
85,000 now. They said, well, £200,000. We want to top it up. With
£200,000. We want to top it up. with extra
£200,000. We want to top it up. With extra funds, the boys have even
extra funds, the boys have even managed to buy the hospital some
managed to buy the hospital some life-saving
managed to buy the hospital some life—saving equipment. It is
life-saving equipment. It is basically a
life—saving equipment. It is basically a piece of kit that can
basically a piece of kit that ran warm up a
basically a piece of kit that can warm up a large amount of blood
warm up a large amount of blood really quickly. As soon as me and
really quickly. As soon as me and Friday heard it would save lives, we
Friday heard it would save lives, we were like, yes. As well as the
were like, yes. As well as the slashes, we have got a big box of
slashes, we have got a big box of fruit. The first delivery of
fruit. The first delivery of slashes. While while Freddie... His
slashes. while while Freddie... His journey to
slashes. While while Freddie... His journey to recovery continues, it
journey to recovery continues, it has been made a little easier by
has been made a little easier by friendship. Amazing what you can do
friendship. Amazing what you ran do with your best
friendship. Amazing what you can do with your best friend. Some breaking
with your best friend. Some breaking news from Germany regarding the use
news from Germany regarding the use of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus
of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine. Germany’s vaccination
vaccine. Germanrs vaccination authority
vaccine. Germany’s vaccination authority has now approved its use
authority has now approved its use in peopla over
authority has now approved its use in people over the age of 65,
in peopla over the age of 65, according to
in people over the age of 65, according to the health ministry.
according to the health ministry. They said that the permanent
They said that the permanent vaccination authority recommended
vaccination authority recommended extending to the maximum 12 weeks
extending to the maximum 12 weeks the period between receiving the
the period between receiving the first and second doses of the
first and second doses of the vaccine, which is of course what
vaccine, which is of course what tends to happen here. In the
tends to happen here. In the statement, the ministry said this is
statement, the ministry said this is good news for older people who are
good news for older peopla who are waiting for a
good news for older people who are waiting for a vaccine. They can now
waiting for a vaccine. They ran now be
waiting for a vaccine. They can now be vaccinated more quickly. We will
be vaccinated more quickly. We will shortly issue a regulation
shortly issue a regulation implementing both recommendations.
implementing both recommendations. Germany had held off giving the
Germany had held off giving the AstraZeneca vaccine the thumbs up
AstraZenera vaccine the thumbs up because
AstraZeneca vaccine the thumbs up because of a lack of data and they
because of a lack of data and they were not sure of its efficacy in
were not sure of its efficacy in peopla over
were not sure of its efficacy in people over the age of 65, but they
people over the age of 65, but they have now approved its use.
As thousands of children dress up to mark World Book Day,
campaigners are calling forfamilies, schools and nurseries
to have books with more characters from Black,
Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.
They say recent events by the Black Lives Matter movement
have drawn more attention to the importance of greater
representation in children’s books.
Our community affairs correspondent Adina Campbell reports.
Dressing up as a favourite book characters...
I’m dressed up as Fantastic Mr Fox, my favourite
character.
World Book Day is one of the biggest events in the school
calendar, but campaigners feel characters from ethnic
minority backgrounds are not represented enough
in children’s books.
We don’t see iconic roles, Charlie and the
Chocolate Factory, Alice in Wonderland, all these
characters are amazing but
they are white or they are written as white characters.
It would be great to see more characters pushed into the
limelight so they could be more iconic and so we could have
more selection when it comes to World Book Day.
Despite a third of schoolchildren from the UK being
from an ethnic minority backgrounds, latest figures show just 5% of all
published children’s book featured someone as a main character from one
of these backgrounds.
Over the last 30 years, children’s authors, like
Trish Cook, have been trying to increase representation.
There is no reason why black characters
shouldn’t be in books.
It is not something unusual.
In everyday life, we take on main roles, we
are notjust a friend or supporting role.
The stories I’m telling are universal stories,
stories that happened to
everyone, but I’m writing them from the point of view of a black
writer to make sure these characters get
out there because they haven’t been out there before.
A third of children and young people in the UK
say they are reading more during lockdown, according
to the National Literacy Trust, and some
businesses have seen a growth in sales.
I get such great feedback and parents DM me all the time to say
"Thank you, that finally my child sees a character..."
I believe in the saying, "You can’t be what you
can’t see"
I feel like a lot of children now are seeing themselves
as astronauts, politicians, they are realising they can
literally be anything.
For some parents, change has been too slow
and doesn’t fairly reflect the UK today.
Their message is clear.
We are raising the next generation, the next change makers,
the next business owners.
In orderfor in 20 years time for us to not be
having this conversation, we need to start now,
it starts with books.
What’s a Gruffalo?
Adina Campbell, BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
Hello again. It was another cloudy, chilly start to the day. In fact, as
chilly start to the day. In fact, as we go through the next few days, we
we go through the next few days, we will hang on to a fair bit of cloud,
will hang on to a fair bit of cloud, little bit of sunshine at times, fog
little bit of sunshine at times, fog in the morning, isolated showers,
in the morning, isolated showers, and it will turn colder. But it will
and it will turn colder. But it will be more settled and dry because this
be more settled and dry because this area of high pressure is going to
area of high pressure is going to drift across the UK and settle
drift across the UK and settle things down. Today, we have got this
things down. Today, we have got this weather front which are sinking down
weather front which are sinking down towards the south—west. What it is
towards the south-west. what it is doing is
towards the south—west. What it is doing is introducing some patchy,
doing is introducing some patchy, light rain, some hill snow, and some
light rain, some hill snow, and some brighter conditions behind it with
brighter conditions behind it with this north—easterly feed coming in.
this north-easterty feed coming in. Ahead of it,
this north—easterly feed coming in. Ahead of it, there is still a lot of
Ahead of it, there is still a lot of cloud, some of the fog this morning
cloud, some of the fog this morning lifting into low cloud, but there
lifting into low cloud, but there will be some brighter breaks here
will be some brighter breaks here and there. Under that cloud,
and there. Under that cloud, temperatures holding up to around
temperatures holding up to around 9-10 in
temperatures holding up to around 9—10 in the south—west. Even though
9-10 in the south-west. Even though there are
9—10 in the south—west. Even though there are still some cloud across
there are still some cloud across the north—east of England, there is
the north-east of England, there is not as
the north—east of England, there is not as much as there was, so it will
not as much as there was, so it will not feel quite as cold as it has
not feel quite as cold as it has done in recent days. A weather
not feel quite as cold as it has done in recent days. A weatherfront
done in recent days. A weather front drift
done in recent days. A weatherfront drift towards the south—west, with
drift towards the south-west, with its patchy
drift towards the south—west, with its patchy rain, as we head through
its patchy rain, as we head through the evening and overnight. There
the evening and overnight. There will be some clear skies around.
will be some clear skies around. where
will be some clear skies around. Where we have got the clear skies is
where we have got the clear skies is where we
Where we have got the clear skies is where we will have the lowest
where we will have the lowest temperatures. Following potentially
temperatures. Following potentially as low as 4; in parts of the
as low as -4 in parts of the Highlands.
as low as 4; in parts of the Highlands. Some of us will wake up
Highlands. Some of us will wake up tomorrow to a frost. The remnants of
tomorrow to a frost. The remnants of this front really just visible as
tomorrow to a frost. The remnants of this front reallyjust visible as a
this front really just visible as a high
this front reallyjust visible as a high pressure takes charge of our
high pressure takes charge of our weather and sits right across the
weather and sits right across the UK, keeping things fine and settled.
UK, keeping things fine and settled. And mostly dry. We start off on a
And mostly dry. We start off on a dry note, with a fair bit of
dry note, with a fair bit of sunshine, but through the day what
sunshine, but through the day what will happen is a bit more cloud will
will happen is a bit more cloud will build and we will see that extend
build and we will see that extend across many areas. It will still be
across many areas. It will still be a fine and dry day, and a bright
a fine and dry day, and a bright day, with temperatures five in
day, with temperatures five in Aberdeen to 7—8 in the south. We say
Aberdeen to 7-8 in the south. We say goodbye to the
Aberdeen to 7—8 in the south. We say goodbye to the double—figure
goodbye to the double—figure temperatures for now. Overnight,
temperatures for now. Overnight, Friday into Saturday, it will be
Friday into Saturday, it will be cold, frosty, temperatures in parts
cold, frosty, temperatures in parts of East Anglia could fall as might
of East Anglia could fall as might -4. A
of East Anglia could fall as might —A. A cold start to the day, but
-4. A cold start to the day, but where we
—A. A cold start to the day, but where we have got clear skies, we
where we have got clear skies, we will start with some sunshine. On
will start with some sunshine. On Saturday, the cloud will thicken
Saturday, the cloud will thicken from the west, heralding the arrival
from the west, heralding the arrival of an Atlantic weather front. This
of an Atlantic weather front. This will herald a change in our weather
will herald a change in our weather as well. Temperatures, five in
as well. Temperatures, five in Aberdeen to 7—8 as we pushed on
Aberdeen to 7-8 as we pushed on towards
Aberdeen to 7—8 as we pushed on towards London. Into the weekend and
towards London. Into the weekend and the earty part of
towards London. Into the weekend and the early part of next week, we
the earty part of next week, we start to
the early part of next week, we start to see more of an Atlantic
start to see more of an Atlantic influence coming our way, so the
inﬂuence coming our way, so the weather
influence coming our way, so the weather will turn more and settled,
weather will turn more and settlad, but it will
weather will turn more and settled, but it will also mean that it will
but it will also mean that it will become less cold, with temperatures
become lass cold, with temperatures closer to
become less cold, with temperatures closer to average.
This is BBC News.
The headlines.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the Royal Family
of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
I don’t know how they could expect that after all this time we would
stilljust be silent if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
The Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605 —— as he faces criticism for doing
too little to tackle inequality:
This is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s
a progressive measure.
It means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more
than those on lower incomes.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has
insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’
her predecessor Alex Salmond.
New coronavirus vaccines to fight variants —
like the one from Brazil — can be fast—tracked
through the approval system — the UK’s medical regulator says
1. II
If we do need an update on these vaccines then we’ll be able to do it
vaccines then we’ll be able to do it faster than when we initially
faster than when we initially created the vaccines.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition, Buckingham Palace says.
Prince Philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
He was being treated for an infection and moved
to St Bartholomew’s Hospital in London on Monday.
Our Royal correspondent Nicholas Witchell
gave me this update.
The palace is not saying any more about this pre—existing
heart condition, the nature of it, or the successful
procedure but given that the
pre—existing heart condition that we know
about ten years ago when he
had a stent inserted to relieve a blocked coronary artery, it is
reasonable to speculate that whatever took place
at St Barts hospital yesterday was, in some way,
was involving the stent.
It could have been the insertion of a new one or
an insertion of the existing one.
I’m aware that this is known as angioplasty and takes place under
local anaesthetic.
When dealing with somebody who is almost 100, there
When dealing with somebody who is almost 100, there
could have been a narrowing of the existing stent
or the artery which was causing
the heart condition for which he was transferred
from one hospital to another, to son Bartholomew is
to St Bartholomews
hospital which is an expert hospital on cardiac issues.
He experienced monitoring and assessment on Tuesday
with the procedure carried out on Tuesday.
It has been successful and he will remain in hospital as the
palace says for rest and recuperation for a number of days.
I imagine that mean, well, common—sense, for someone of his
age, it is perhaps likely he will be there for another week.
Perhaps longer.
The Royal Family are not likely to tell us much more because
they don’t tend to give running commentaries.
However, it does not stop reporters like us watching for
comings and goings from the hospital because Prince Charles visited when
he was in the previous hospital.
He visited on the first Saturday when he was
at the King Edward.
I think that given we are told that the
procedure, whatever it was, was successful and he now requires a
period of rest and recuperation and given the protocols that are in
place at St Bartholomew’s, visiting is not permitted other than
in exceptional circumstances,
ii
It is an NHS hospital, not a private hospital.
I would be surprised if any prominent
members of the Royal family felt it necessary to visit him there.
Not least because it would be contrary
to protocols and not least as it would be seen as a signal that
things have taken a turn for the worse.
Thank you very much, Nick.
Our Health Correspondent Katharine Da Costa has more
information on the condition the Duke has been treated for.
They haven’t confirmed the exact procedure
but we do know that in
a blocked artery in Papworth and he had a
stent fitted for heart pains, chest pains.
This was allegedly caused by a blocked artery.
There is a procedure that takes half an hour to two hours
where patients are assessed, they might
have blood tests taken and the
specialist will look inside their arteries
and, now, the patient would
lie on a table with the x—ray.
lie on a table with the x—ray machine.
Cardiologists would make a small insertion in the groin area and
pass through a catheter and then they inflate a small balloon which
helps to clear the blockage and a stent blockage
and a stent is fitted and that helps
the blood flow again.
So, there are some cases where arteries begin to narrow
again, so a patient may require another stent to be fitted.
Essentially, what it is, is a small wire mesh which acts like
scaffolding to keep the arteries open.
Now, afterwards, you would need some blood—thinning drugs, so
things like aspirin and other specialist
drugs and then it’s a
case of rest and relaxation and follow up assessment.
The Duchess of Sussex has suggested the Royal Family have
played a part in what she called "perpetuating falsehoods"
about her and Prince Harry.
She made the comments in an interview with Oprah Winfrey,
to be broadcast in the US this weekend.
Meanwhile, last night, Buckingham Palace said its human
resources team was looking into claims that the Duchess had
bullied staff while she was a working royal in 2018.
Simon Jones has more.
Meghan is making it clear she will not be afraid to speak
out in a second trailer for the interview
released overnight.
How do you feel about the Palace hearing you speak your truth today?
I don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time
we would stilljust be silent, if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
If that comes with risk of losing things, I mean, there’s a lot
that’s been lost already.
This is a second clip released by CBS but the first
in which we have heard the Duchess speak.
The interview was recorded before Buckingham Palace began
an investigation into claims Meghan had bullied former royal staff.
The Times newspaper has obtained an e—mail,
written in late 2018, byJason Knauf, the couple’s
Communication Secretary, to Simon Case, he is now the Cabinet
Secretary.
In it he is reported to have written...
"I’m very concerned
that the Duchess was able to bully two PAs out of the household
in the past year.
The treatment of X was totally unacceptable."
Buckingham Palace said it was very concerned about the allegations.
Former members of staff are being invited to participate
in its investigation.
In a statement, it added...
But a spokesperson for Meghan said...
The latest interview clip will do little to heal any apparent rifts
between the Sussexes and the Palace.
Simon Jones, BBC News.
The UK Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has defended his
decision to raise corporation tax for the most profitable companies
to 25% in 2023.
This measure — along with other moves such as freezing
income tax thresholds — mean that Britain is on course
to have the highest tax burden since the 19605.
Paul Hawkins reports.
Billed as a Budget to rescue an economy ravaged by Covid.
REPORTER: Can the country afford this budget, Mr Sunak?
The Chancellor has promised to protectjobs.
Tax increases loom, taking the UK’s tax burden to its highest
level since the 19605, according to the Office
for Budget Responsibility.
Obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public
finances and the economy, and I think I and the Government
have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time
but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery
in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
This is how he intends to do it.
The furlough scheme is to be extended until the end
of September, as will higher Universal Credit payments.
The headline rate of corporation tax will go up from 19% to 25%
from 2023, though smaller firms will be exempt.
And a freeze on income tax thresholds is expected to lead
to 1.3 million more people paying income tax, plusi million more
paying the higher rate.
But there will be some more help for hospitality.
Pubs won’t have to pay business rates until the end ofJune.
We have been open forfour months out of the last 12
when we get to reopen.
When we reopen, it’s going to be gardens only,
and then restricted inside.
We are going to need all the help we can get to get
hospitality through.
Labour talk of a missed opportunity.
I just think this didn’t deliver the scale of what was required.
For most people what they’re going to see is a very big
increase in council tax, possibly 3 Universal Credit cut,
and a very high level of unemployment, no
matter where they live.
Although much of the focus has been on business,
some number crunchers say the effects of the Budget will also
be felt far wider.
Much less attention was paid to what is happening
to British households.
In many ways, the year ahead for them is more difficult
than the year we’ve been through, with falling living
standards this autumn.
And actually come up for public services,
further cuts to public spending mean that we may be seeing
what feels a lot like austerity.
For public services, too, further cuts to public spending may feel
a lot like austerity.
There is now a route out of lockdown.
But tough times ahead.
The Chancellor says not all his decisions will be
popular but they are, he insists, honest.
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
Our chief political correspondent, Adam Fleming,
told Annita McVeigh the Budget was a story of three chapters...
The first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of
pounds to support people and businesses
through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic.
And that will last until September when
society is supposedly all but have opened up again.
Then chapter two starts, the recovery of the
government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax
break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff.
Then the year after is when chapter three starts.
That is when we see the government raising more money in taxation.
First of all, by an increase in the rate of corporation
tax, paid by companies earning more than a quarter of £1 billion of
profits 3 year.
And then, secondly, freezing those thresholds for the
rates of income tax which means more lower
earners will start paying the basic rate and for higher earners
will start paying the higher rate.
And Rishi Sunak, the Chancellors this morning has been defending that
as a fair way of mending the public finances.
People’s current take—home pay, it won’t be affected by this
policy but you are right and I was clear
yesterday, that this means the incremental
benefit that they would have experienced had those
thresholds continue to rise with inflation won’t be there.
We are going to keep putting up the thresholds next year
as we promised but then they will be frozen at the
higher level, but you mention the resolution foundation, I think
they’ve also said this is a good way to raise money that we need because
it’s a progressive measure, it means those on higher
incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes
and I think that’s what most people would accept as a fair way
to do what we need to do.
The resolution foundation that the Chancellor
mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they
are doing a briefing right now with their analysis which will be
followed in an hour by the very famous Institute for Fiscal Studies
and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that
tends to shape People’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the
Labour Party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad
for the recovery.
But the Shadow Chancellor Anneliese Dodds is in
favour of those phrases to the income tax threshold.
In principle, on that freeze, we are not against
the freeze on principle.
What I am concerned about is the fact that
this is taking place when we have got the changes to council tax but
also changes to social security as well.
You quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation
a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the
government is planning to switch off its increase in social security,
actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment,
that’s not a sensible approach to take.
Labour are also critical of this thing that the government has
got rallad the towns fund, £1 billion
allocated for investment in
towns around England and if you look at the towns,
the vast majority of them are in seats held by
Conservative MPs.
Labour says is cronyism, the Conservatives just say
it’s a product of levelling up and put the result was at the last
election.
You’re watching BBC News...
Labour has accused the Chancellor of planning
to reduce day—to—day spending in the Department of Health.
Budget documents show a planned cut of £30 billion in day—to—day
spending from April of this year, falling from 199 billion
pounds to 169 billion.
The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, has been visiting a hospital
in Derby and criticised the plans.
ﬂ
I think
Ithinka
I think a lot of people would be
I think a lot of peopla would be pretty
I think a lot of people would be pretty astonished know that the
pretty astonished know that the day-to-day
pretty astonished know that the day—to—day funding for the NHS is
day-to-day funding for the NHS is being cut. I’m
day—to—day funding for the NHS is being cut. I’m here at the Royal
being cut. I’m here at the Royal Derby Hospital. They are still
Derby Hospital. They are still stmggling
Derby Hospital. They are still struggling with coronavirus cases
stmggling with coronavirus cases and we
struggling with coronavirus cases and we are not through the pandemic
and we are not through the pandemic yet. And of course, we are going to
yet. And of course, we are going to get a big of cases, people on
get a big of cases, peopla on waiting
get a big of cases, people on waiting lists understandably who
waiting lists understandably who have not been dealt with this last
have not been dealt with this last year. So the NHS is going to have a
year. So the NHS is going to have a really hard
year. So the NHS is going to have a really ha rd year
year. So the NHS is going to have a really hard year and so I think that
really hard year and so I think that most peopla
really hard year and so I think that most people will be astonished that
most peopla will be astonished that the funding is
most people will be astonished that the funding is cut. But they’ve said
the funding is cut. But therve said therre
the funding is cut. But they’ve said they’re putting money into the NHS
therre putting money into the NHS and building
they’re putting money into the NHS and building new hospital? But if
and building new hospital? But if you don’t fund the NHS the day to
you don’t fund the NHS the day to day, you are heading for trouble. If
day, you are heading for troubla. If you have a
day, you are heading for trouble. If you have a health crisis you have an
you have a health crisis you have an economic crisis and I think most
economic crisis and I think most peoplc will
economic crisis and I think most people will say, "Look, we are not
peopla will say, "Look, we are not through the
people will say, "Look, we are not through the pandemic. Vaccines are
through the pandemic. Vaccines are still being rolled out and we got a
still being rolled out and we got a huge backlog. Everybody is talking
huge backlog. Everybody is talking about the backlog which is coming
about the backlog which is coming down the track, all sorts of
down the track, all sorts of operations that were not done last
operations that were not done last year that now need to be done. We
year that now need to be done. We understand why they were put off but
understand why they were put off but they have got to be done and I think
they have got to be done and I think that the right thing is to give the
that the right thing is to give the NHS the funding it needs to get
NHS the funding it needs to get through that. Is this budget going
through that. Is this budget going to affect low—income workers with
to affect low-income workers with the tax
to affect low—income workers with the tax impact? We are very critical
the tax impact? We are very critical of this on those with lower incomes
of this on those with lower incomes and you ran see
of this on those with lower incomes and you can see this in the council
and you ran see this in the council tax hike
and you can see this in the council tax hike that is coming. Families
tax hike that is coming. Families across the country, Universal Credit
across the country, Universal Credit coming to an end in this month,
coming to an end in this month, families using up to pounds ——
families using up to pounds -- losing up to
families using up to pounds —— losing up to £1000 a year. And a pay
losing up to £1000 a year. And a pay freeze for key workers, all the
freeze for key workers, all the staff in this hospital I’ve just
staff in this hospital I’ve just been talking to. This will hit our
been talking to. This will hit our income is very, very hard.
This will hit our income very, very hard.
This afternoon we’ll be answering your questions
on the the budget and its impact on personalfinances.
Jane Hill will bejoined byJasmine Birtles,
founder of the website MoneyMagpie and by Iona Bain, Founder
of Young Money blog.
Send in your questions using the hash tag BBC Your Questions or
by emailing yourquestions@bbc.co.uk.
That’s coming up at 2.30pm here on BBC News.
The Headlines on BBC News...
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the royal family
of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
The Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605 —— as he faces criticism for doing
too little to tackle inequality.
Sport and for a full round up, from the BBC Sport Centre.
Here’s Jane.
Good afternoon.
England’s batsmen have struggled again on the first day
of the fourth and final test against India.
They were bowled out for 205 after winning the toss in Ahmedabad.
England slumped to 30 for 3, and although Ben Stokes made
55 and Dan Lawrence A6, they still failed to deal with
spinners Ravi Ashin and Axar Patel who shared seven wickets.
India were on 24for1 in their first innings at the close.
England must win to level the series.
Liverpool managerJurgen Klopp says he won’t automatically release
players for international duty if they have to quarantine
on their return to the UK.
Liverpool’s Brazilian players Alisson Becker,
Fabinho and Roberto Firmino and Portugalforward
DiogoJota could face 10 days in quarantine on their return
to the United Kingdom from COVID—19 "red—list" countries.
Klopp said he had the backing of FIFA.
m:
We cannot let the boys just go and then see the situation when they
then see the situation when they come back. All players attending
come back. All players attending quarantine in a hotel for topics
quarantine in a hotel for topic just not
quarantine in a hotel for topics just not possible. I understand the
just not possible. I understand the need for these different essays but
need for these different essays but this is not a time we can make
this is not a time we ran make everybody
this is not a time we can make everybody happy and we have to admit
everybody happy and we have to admit that the players are paid by the
that the players are paid by the clubs so that means we have to be
dubs so that means we have to be first priority.
The new Chief Executive of Kick It out says he believes
The new Chief Executive of Kick It Out says he believes
there are enough qualified people of colour to fill the vacant roles
at the FA and at the PFA, without resorting to tokenism.
Tony Burnett says there should be an environment where the best people
from any background are able to access opportunities.
Gordon Taylor steps down from his Chief executive position
at the PFA at the end of the season, and the FA is recruiting a permanent
chair to replace Greg Clarke.
I’d love to see a black person or person from an ethnic minority
person from an ethnic minority because they come from place which
because they come from place which is fair and transparent in their
is fair and transparent in their best place for the
is fair and transparent in their best place for thejob.
is fair and transparent in their best place for the job. The other
best place for the job. The other question is about criteria regarding
question is about criteria regarding those jobs, I’d
question is about criteria regarding thosejobs, I’d love to
question is about criteria regarding those jobs, I’d love to see
question is about criteria regarding thosejobs, I’d love to see if
question is about criteria regarding those jobs, I’d love to see if it’s
those jobs, I’d love to see if it’s not necessarily appurtenant, not
not necessarily appurtenant, not necessarily their background, have
necessarily their background, have they got the right values? The
they got the right values? The individuals in those jobs you have
individuals in those jobs you have to start from a perspective that
to start from a perspective that every human being is of equal value.
That’s all the sport for now.
There’s more on the website and app — including
news that Wales scrum half Kieran Hardy has been ruled
out of the Six Nations with a hamstring injury.
That’s bbc.co.uk/sport.
Jane, thank you very much.
The UK’s medicines regulator has ruled that new covid vaccines
to fight emerging variants can be fast—tracked through
the approval system.
Guidance from the MHRA says manufacturers would need
to prove the jabs could provide protective antibodies.
This could be achieved from data on real—world
use, bypassing the need for lengthy clinical trials.
The Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, welcomed the decision.
I think that the MHRA have made a very, very wise publication.
This is all about making sure that if we need an updated vaccine
to work against these new variants, we can get it approved
and into people’s arms as soon as as safely possible.
The regulator is incredibly rigorous on safety, but what they have shown
is that they are also prepared to move fast whilst doing
all the necessary checks.
Today’s announcement will mean that if we do need an updated vaccine
because of these new variants, we will be able to do it faster.
Faster than the first set of vaccines and faster than almost
anywhere else in the world.
How concerned are you about the new variants as we go
forward on the current spread of coronavirus?
Thankfully, the number of cases is coming down
and a number of hospitalisations
and deaths is coming down even faster because of the vaccine.
We can see the vaccine saving lives right across the UK right now.
But one of the worries that we have, one of the risks
is these new variants.
Thankfully, there is very, very small numbers in the UK now.
Thankfully, there is very, very small numbers in the UK now.
We need to keep it that way.
At the same time, do the scientific work in places
At the same time, do the scientific work in places
At the same time, do the scientific work in places
like the University of Glasgow, working across the UK, to make sure
that we have the updated vaccine as soon as as safely possible.
The European Union’s finance chief has said the UK’s decision
to make unilateral changes to the Northern Ireland
protocol raises questions about whether it can be trusted
in future trade negotiations.
Yesterday, the government announced that it was extending
a grace period for border checks on some goods
crossing the Irish Sea.
Mairead McGuinness accused the UK of breaching both trust
and an international agreement.
The European Union’s highest court has ruled that Britain has
systematically breached agreed air pollution limits for years,
and ordered it to comply with the guidelines.
If it fails to do so, it may be fined.
Britain has left the EU, but it has agreed to respect court
decisions in cases, such as today’s, that
started before Brexit.
We can talk now to our energy and environment
analyst, Roger Harrabin.
Roger, what is this ruling saying?
Roger, what is this mling saying? Well, the
Roger, what is this ruling saying? Well, the UK like other nations in
Well, the UK like other nations in Europe has to abate European laws on
Europe has to abate European laws on air pollution, in this case, a toxic
air pollution, in this use, a toxic gas and
air pollution, in this case, a toxic gas and particularly by cars. The UK
gas and particularty by cars. The UK actually hasn’t
gas and particularly by cars. The UK actually hasn’t challenged the fact
actually hasn’t challanged the fact that it
actually hasn’t challenged the fact that it has been in breached over
that it has been in breached over emissions rules in 16 different
emissions mles in 16 different areas
emissions rules in 16 different areas but it argues that it has been
areas but it argues that it has been trying to clean up as quickly as
trying to clean up as quickly as possibla
trying to clean up as quickly as possible but it also passes part of
possibla but it also passes part of the
possible but it also passes part of the blame onto Volkswagen and other
the blame onto Volkswagen and other car—makers who cheated with their
far-makers who cheated with their emission
car—makers who cheated with their emission standards and given that
emission standards and given that councils and Government the wrong
councils and Government the wrong impression of what pollution would
impression of what pollution would look like so it is now considering
look like so it is now considering what it’s
look like so it is now considering what it’s going to do next. In terms
what it’s going to do next. In terms of the British relationship with
of the British relationship with this court though, in future, will
this court though, in future, will we be bound by these limits and
we be bound by these limits and these rulings now Brexit has
these rulings now Brexit has happened? Well, because these cases
happened? Well, because these rases started
happened? Well, because these cases started before Brexit, the court
started before Brexit, the court still retains jurisdiction over them
still retains jurisdiction over them so what will happen now is the court
so what will happen now is the court is saying that the UK, "0K,
so what will happen now is the court is saying that the UK, "OK, you have
is saying that the UK, "OK, you have to comply now and especially you
to comply now and especially you have two compliant reasonably quick
have two compliant reasonably quick amount of time. " if it does not
amount of time. ' if it does not comply then
amount of time. " if it does not comply then the European Commission
comply then the European Commission could apply again to the European
could apply again to the European Court of
could apply again to the European Court ofJustice and that would take
Court of justice and that would take another mling
Court ofJustice and that would take another ruling against the UK and
another ruling against the UK and theoretically, could issue a fine.
theoretically, could issue a fine. Now, there is an unresolved legal
Now, there is an unresolved legal point as to whether Britain outside
point as to whether Britain outside the European bloc would have to pay
the European bloc would have to pay that fine. One could imagine that
that fine. One could imagine that ministers would probably decide to
ministers would probably decide to 55V
ministers would probably decide to say that we are just not paying that
say that we are just not paying that now but it still has some way to go.
now but it still has some way to go. Roger, for the moment, thank you
very much.
In a moment, we’ll be live in Holyrood
for First Minister’s Questions.
But first, Nicola Sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive,
intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor Alex Salmond.
Giving evidence to the Inquiry into her government’s handling
of harassment allegations against Mr Salmond,
she described claims of a plot against him as ‘absurd.’
Our Political Correspondent Nick Eardley reports.
After months of allegations, yesterday Nicola Sturgeon had her
chance to make her case.
I solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and
affirm that I will tell the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth.
Scotland’s First Minister insists she followed the rules —
that her government was right to investigate Alex Salmond,
and that there was no plot to take him down.
Alex Salmond has been, for most of my life,
since I was about 20, 21 years old, not just a very close
political colleague, a friend and, in my
younger days, somebody I looked up to and revered.
You know, I had no motive, intention, desire,
to get Alex Salmond.
This was a marathon session, more than seven hours of questioning.
Ms Sturgeon apologised to women who were let down by the government,
but she insisted all the decisions she made were for the right reasons.
I have never claimed in this or anything else to be infallible.
I have searched my soul on all of this many, many times over.
It may very well be that I didn’t get everything right,
that’s for others to judge.
But in one of the most invidious, political and personal
situations I have ever faced, I believe I acted
properly and appropriately, and that overall I made the best
judgments that I could.
This row isn’t over, though.
There could be more claims to come.
And a report on whether Ms Sturgeon broke the rules ministers have
to follow is expected this month.
Nick Eardley, BBC News, Holyrood.
Some breaking news, the Metropolitan Police have ruled out a criminal
Police have mled out a criminal investigation
Police have ruled out a criminal investigation into Martin Bashir’s
investigation into Martin Bashir’s 1995
investigation into Martin Bashir’s 1995 interview with Diana Princess
1995 interview with Diana Princess of Wales. Princess
now, the Metropolitan Police are saying that they have received
saying that they have received correspondence but they are
correspondence but they are carefully assessing it and they’ve
carefully assessing it and they’ve obtained legal advice from the
obtained legal advice from the force’s lawyers, Independent counsel
force’s lawyers, Independent counsel and from the Crown Prosecution
and from the Crown Prosecution Service and the statement from
Service and the statement from Alexander Murray of the Met, says,
Alexander Murray of the Met, says, following the detail assessment and
following the detail assessment and the advice we received we do not
the advice we received we do not think it is appropriate to begin a
think it is appropriate to begin a criminal investigation into this. As
criminal investigation into this. As in this matter, should any
in this matter, should any significant new evidence comes to we
significant new evidence comes to we will reset it to
—— assess it.
Cloudy and chilly over the next three days but there will be
sunshine at times.
The wettest front sinking south bringing patchy rain
across Northern Ireland, northern England and East Anglia.
It will break up however and see sunshine
but ahead of it, a lot of cloud.
Temperatures between 5—10 C.
Overnight, the weather front sinks down and there will be some clearer
skies and where we have got that clearance, in the Highlands,
temperatures will fall as low as minus four Celsius.
But generally, it is going to be a cold night.
There will be some frost around.
Tomorrow we start off with a bit more sunshine than we have been used
to but don’t get too excited because the cloud will build up
and expand across most of the UK.
Temperatures for tomorrow, five in the north to
about 7—8 C in the south.
Hello, this is BBC News.
The headlines:
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital
for a number of days.
The Duchess of Sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating
falsehoods" about her and Prince Harry.
The Chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation
to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing
too little to tackle inequality.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has
insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’
her predecessor Alex Salmond.
New coronavirus vaccines to fight variants —
like the one from Brazil — can be fast—tracked
through the approval system, the UK’s medical regulator says.
Let’s cross to Holyrood now, where the First Minister
Nicola Sturgeon is taking questions from MSPs.
She is beginning with coronavirus
She is beginning with coronavims figures. Talk
She is beginning with coronavirus figures. Talk to a number of people
figures. Talk to a number of peopla who have sadly
figures. Talk to a number of people who have sadly died using our daily
who have sadly died using our daily measure, is now 3798. Once again I
measure, is now 3798. Once again I want to send my deepest condolences
want to send my deepest condolences to all those who have lost a loved
to all those who have lost a loved one. We will also publish the latest
one. We will also publish the latest estimate of the R figure it later
estimate of the R figure it later today and expect it to show, again,
today and expect it to show, again, that the R value is below one and
that the R value is below one and that reflects the best of trends we
that reﬂects the best of trends we ran say in the
that reflects the best of trends we can say in the daily figures right
ran say in the daily figures right now. I
can say in the daily figures right now. I will also
can say in the daily figures right now. I will alsojust
can say in the daily figures right now. I will also just give a quick
now. I will also just give a quick update on the vaccination programme.
update on the vaccination programme. As of 8:30am, an increase of 26,729
As of 8:30am, an increase of 26,729 cents
As of 8:303m, an increase of 26,729 cents yesterday. In
As of 8:30am, an increase of 26,729 cents yesterday. In addition,
cents yesterday. In addition, 100,058 people have also now receive
100,058 people have also now receive their second dose. That is an
their second dose. That is an increase of 7500 and 80 cents
increase of 7500 and 80 cents yesterday. Which means that in total
yesterday. which means that in total yesterday
yesterday. Which means that in total yesterday 34,230 people received
yesterday 34,230 people received vaccinations. 95% of 65—69
vaccinations. 9596 of 65-69 -year-olds
vaccinations. 95% of 65—69 —year—olds have now had a first
-year-olds have now had a first dose, as of
—year—olds have now had a first dose, as of 37% of 60—64 —year—olds.
dose, as of 3796 of 60-64 -year-olds. 3195 of
dose, as of 37% of 60—64 —year—olds. 31% of 55-59
dose, as of 37% of 60—64 —year—olds. 31% of 55—59 —year—olds and 26% of
3196 of 55-59 -year-olds and 2696 of 50-54
31% of 55—59 —year—olds and 26% of 50—54 —year—olds, and each group
50-54 -year-olds, and each group that is of
50—54 —year—olds, and each group that is of particular interest to
that is of particular interest to me, Presiding Officer. We still
me, Presiding Officer. We still expect to be offer to first doses to
expect to be offer to first doses to everyone over 50, all unpaid carers
everyone over 50, all unpaid carers and all adults with an underlying
and all adults with an underlying health condition by mid April. I
health condition by mid April. I think taking all of what I have just
think taking all of what I have just reported, there is little doubt that
reported, there is little doubt that things are, at the moment, firmly
things are, at the moment, firmly heading in the right direction. The
heading in the right direction. The number of cases is falling,
heading in the right direction. The number of cases is failing, the
number of cases is falling, the numbers in hospital are falling and
numbers in hospital are falling and the vaccination programme is
the vaccination programme is progressing extremely well. That is
progressing extremely well. That is why we are unable to set out the
why we are unable to set out the timetable for children’s return to
timetabla for children’s return to school.
timetable for children’s return to school. Next week, I will outline
school. Next week, I will outline any further changes we can make at
any further changes we ran make at this stage to
any further changes we can make at this stage to the level for
this stage to the level for restrictions. The following week, I
restrictions. The following week, I will provide more information about
will provide more information about the timetable after the 26th of
the timetabla after the 26th of April for
the timetable after the 26th of April for easing restrictions.
the timetable after the 26th of Aprilfor easing restrictions. There
April for easing restrictions. There is much to
Aprilfor easing restrictions. There is much to feel optimistic about
is much to feel optimistic about right now, but I want to stress that
right now, but I want to stress that that should not see us throw caution
that should not see us throw caution to the wind. Case numbers to remain
to the wind. use numbers to remain high, and of
to the wind. Case numbers to remain high, and of course the new variant
high, and of course the new variant remains highly infectious, so for
remains highly infectious, so for the moment, if we want to continue
the moment, if we want to continue this progress, my advice to everyone
this progress, my advice to everyone is to continue to abide by the
is to continue to abide by the stay—at—home rule. Stay—at—home,
stay-at-home rula. Stay-at-home, except for
stay—at—home rule. Stay—at—home, except for essential purposes,
except for essential purposes, follow facts when you are out, and
follow facts when you are out, and make sure that collectively we
make sure that collectively we continue to keep everything going in
continue to keep everything going in the right direction. My thanks to
the right direction. My thanks to everybody who is doing that and
everybody who is doing that and sticking with it during difficult
sticking with it during difficult times. Thank you very much, First
times. Thank you very much, First Minister. Could I encourage any
Minister. Could I encourage any member who wishes to ask a question
member who wishes to ask a question to press the button as soon as
to press the button as soon as possibla? I
to press the button as soon as possible? I call on Ruth Davidson? I
possibla? I all on Ruth Davidson? I want to
possible? I call on Ruth Davidson? I want to ask the First Minister about
want to ask the First Minister about the legal advice from the Salmond
the legal advice from the Salmond enquiry. Despite this parliament
enquiry. Despite this partiament voting for it
enquiry. Despite this parliament voting for it to be released four
voting for it to be released four months ago, it was only partially
months ago, it was only partially revealed this week. The ministerial
revealed this week. The ministerial code makes clear, in section 2.30,
code makes clear, in section 2.30, that ministers must act lawfully,
that ministers must act lawfully, informed of the legal
informed of the legal considerations, and that the legal
considerations, and that the legal implications of any action are
implications of any action are considered at the earliest
considered at the earliest opportunity. This part, acting early
opportunity. This part, acting earty on legal
opportunity. This part, acting early on legal implications, it is
on legal implications, it is important. Let’s go through the
important. Let’s go through the timeline. Nine weeks before
timeline. Nine weeks before conceding the
timeline. Nine weeks before conceding thejudicial
timeline. Nine weeks before conceding the judicial review, legal
conceding the judicial review, legal advice stated that the case was more
advice stated that the rase was more likely to fail
advice stated that the case was more likely to fail than succeed. The
likely to fail than succeed. The First Minister chose to go forward.
First Minister chose to go forward. One month before conceding, legal
One month before conceding, legal advice said the least worst option
advice said the least worst option was to stop because otherwise, and I
was to stop because otherwise, and I quote, expenses will be far higher.
quote, expenses will be far higher. The First Minister chose the worst
The First Minister chose the worst option. 19 days before conceding,
option. 19 days before conceding, the Lord Advocate, government and
the Lord Advocate, government and external lawyers all said the case
external lawyers all said the rase was not
external lawyers all said the case was not even stable minimum
was not even stable minimum requirement. The First Minister dug
requirement. The First Minister dug her heels in. Will she tell us, to
her heels in. will she tell us, to quote the
her heels in. Will she tell us, to quote the words of her own legal
quote the words of her own legal counsel, why did the government try
counsel, why did the government try to defend the indefensible for so
to defend the indefensible for so long? I
to defend the indefensible for so long? Ithink, is
to defend the indefensible for so long? I think, is anybody who paid
long? I think, is anybody who paid any attention to lengthy proceedings
any attention to lengthy proceedings yesterday, which clearly did not
yesterday, which dearty did not include
yesterday, which clearly did not include Ruth Davidson, will have
include Ruth Davidson, will have seen that is just simply not true.
seen that is just simply not tme. On
seen that is just simply not true. On December 11, the Law officers
On December 11, the Law officers were very clear, the information on
were very clear, the information on this has been published, and I think
this has been published, and I think the quote from the law office are
the quote from the law office are summarised in the note that was
summarised in the note that was published in advance of yesterday
published in advance of yesterday was that there was no question that
was that there was no question that the rase
was that there was no question that the case should be dropped on the
the use should be dropped on the contrary there
the case should be dropped on the contrary there were credible
contrary there were credible arguments to be made across the
arguments to be made across the petition, including on the issue of
petition, including on the issue of the appointment of the investigating
the appointment of the investigating officer. That was the position of
officer. That was the position of the law officers. Things started to
the law officers. Things started to go wrong, seriously wrong in the
go wrong, seriously wrong in the use
go wrong, seriously wrong in the rase in
go wrong, seriously wrong in the case in the days that followed, and
use in the days that followed, and in due
rase in the days that followed, and in due process
case in the days that followed, and in due process was followed that
in due process was followed that load to
in due process was followed that lead to a decision on the part of
lead to a decision on the part of the government to concede the case.
the government to concede the use. That is
the government to concede the case. That is there for anybody with an
That is there for anybody with an open mind to look at. I think the
open mind to look at. I think the Deputy First Minister is undertaken
Deputy First Minister is undertaken to provide further information to
to provide further information to the committee, which will happen,
the committee, which will happen, and the parliament can look at that.
and the partiament ran look at that. I
and the parliament can look at that. I answered questions for eight hours
I answered questions for eight hours on this yesterday. I answered every
on this yesterday. I answered every question that was put to me, and
question that was put to me, and shall provide siding officer, I
shall provide siding officer, I intend now to rest on that, allow
intend now to rest on that, allow both the committee and the enquiry
both the committee and the enquiry on the ministerial code to conclude
on the ministerial code to conclude their work.
on the ministerial code to conclude theirwork. In
on the ministerial code to conclude their work. In the meantime,
on the ministerial code to conclude theirwork. In the meantime, I
on the ministerial code to conclude their work. In the meantime, I am
their work. In the meantime, I am going to get on with the job, I
going to get on with the job, I suspect, most were watching at home
suspect, most were watching at home want me to get on with. Which is
want me to get on with. which is meeting,
want me to get on with. Which is meeting, leading this country
meeting, leading this country through and out of a pandemic. I
through and out of a pandemic. I will leave Ruth Davidson and the
will leave Ruth Davidson and the Conservatives to play the political
Conservatives to play the political games that they seem to prioritise
games that they seem to prioritise over else. Presiding Officer, the
over else. Presiding Officer, the First Minister characterises this as
First Minister characterises this as political games, but I have never
political games, but I have never forgotten, never forgotten the women
forgotten, never forgotten the women who were failed at the heart of this
who were failed at the heart of this enquiry. The thing... The thing that
enquiry. The thing... The thing that the First Minister cannot get away
the First Minister cannot get away from is that it was her government
from is that it was her government that failed them and that questions
that failed them and that questions still require to be answered. First
still require to be answered. First Minister, it is not up to question
Minister, it is not up to question if the government ignored legal
if the government ignored legal advice and cost taxpayers money,
advice and cost taxpayers money, what is being argued is how long and
what is being argued is how long and how much was wasted. This is what is
how much was wasted. This is what is tmly incredible.
how much was wasted. This is what is truly incredible. The view of legal
tmly incredible. The view of legal Counsel
truly incredible. The view of legal Counsel was, and I quote, based on
Counsel was, and I quote, based on the facts as then known. First
the facts as then known. First Minister, this government did not
Minister, this government did not even give its own lawyers the facts.
even give its own lawyers the facts. Advocates stated this, we have each
Advocates stated this, we have each experienced extreme professional
experienced extreme professional embarrassment. On instruction, they
embarrassment. On instmction, they made plainly
embarrassment. On instruction, they made plainly and demonstrably untrue
made plainly and demonstrably untrue statements before a judge. Documents
statements before a judge. Documents were withheld from those QCs, which
were withheld from those Qts, which were highly
were withheld from those QCs, which were highly relevant, yet
were highly relevant, yet undisclosed. They called that
undisclosed. They called that unexplained and frankly
unexplained and frankly inexplicable. They refused to come
inexplicable. They refused to come and I quote, rehearse the
and I quote, rehearse the regrettable way in which the
regrettable way in which the document disclosure has unfolded. So
document disclosure has unfolded. So I will ask the First Minister to
I will ask the First Minister to rehearse it for us now, will she
rehearse it for us now, will she confirm that the withheld documents
confirm that the withheld documents were precisely the ones that made
were precisely the ones that made this rase
were precisely the ones that made this case and is datable? Firstly, I
this use and is dabble? Firstly, I am going to
this case and is datable? Firstly, I am going to agree with something
am going to agree with something that Ruth Davidson’s said. I agree
that Ruth Davidson’s said. I agree that she has not forgotten the women
that she has not forgotten the women at the heart of this because I do
at the heart of this because I do not think Ruth Davidson ever
not think Ruth Davidson ever remembered the women at the heart of
remembered the women at the heart of this. The legal advice is there for
this. The legal advice is there for everyone to see. People with an open
everyone to see. People with an open mind, which does not include Ruth
mind, which does not include Ruth Davidson, can look at that. Ruth
Davidson, can look at that. Ruth Davidson says that she is not
Davidson says that she is not playing political games. I beg to
playing political games. I beg to differ. I think we saw the true
differ. I think we saw the tme colours
differ. I think we saw the true colours of the Conservatives
colours of the Conservatives yesterday. First of all, on Tuesday
yesterday. First of all, on Tuesday night, they said, I do not know if
night, they said, I do not know if Ruth Davidson approved this comment
Ruth Davidson approved this comment or not, but the conservative said,
or not, but the conservative said, in terms that it did not matter what
in terms that it did not matter what I said before a Parliamentary
I said before a Parliamentary committee yesterday because they had
committee yesterday because they had already made up their minds. It is
already made up their minds. It is not about due process, it is
not about due process, it is political desperation on the part of
political desperation on the part of the Conservatives. Presiding
the Conservatives. Presiding Officer, I think we also had a
Officer, I think we also had a glimpse of some of the values at
glimpse of some of the values at play with the Conservatives
play with the Conservatives yesterday, because during that
yesterday, because during that committee session, one of the Tory
committee session, one of the Tory members on it seem to be suggesting
members on it seem to be suggesting that I should have intervened in the
that I should have intervened in the process to effectively sweep the
process to effectively sweep the allegations against Mr Salmond under
allegations against Mr Salmond under the carpet. Then the other
the carpet. Then the other Conservative member asks me to
Conservative member asks me to apologise for the inappropriate
apologise for the inappropriate behaviour of a man.
apologise for the inappropriate behaviour of a men. There we have
behaviour of a man. There we have the Tories, I
behaviour of a men. There we have the Tories, I think, demonstrating
the Tories, Ithink, demonstrating without any
the Tories, I think, demonstrating without any help from me that they
without any help from me that they are indeed playing political games.
are indeed playing political games. while they
are indeed playing political games. While they do that, I say again,
whila they do that, I say again, eight hours
While they do that, I say again, eight hours of evidence to a
eight hours of evidence to a committee, it is time to allow the
committee, it is time to allow the committee and the independent
committee and the independent enquiry into the Miz ministerial
enquiry into the Miz ministerial code to do their
enquiry into the Miz ministerial code to do theirjob. In the
code to do theirjob. In the meantime, I’m going to get on with
meantime, I’m going to get on with my job of
meantime, I’m going to get on with myjob of leading this country
my job of leading this country through
myjob of leading this country through Covid and out of lockdown.
through Covid and out of lockdown. Presiding 0fficer,... Order, please.
Presiding 0fficer,... Order, please. The First Minister cannot get away
The First Minister cannot get away from the fact that this chamber is
from the fact that this chamber is an organ of this Parliament. This
an organ of this Partiament. This chamber only
an organ of this Parliament. This chamber only saw the legal advice
chamber only saw the legal advice that this chamber voted for four
that this chamber voted for four months ago this week. We have every
months ago this week. We have every right to question a First Minister
right to question a First Minister is the head of the government, who
is the head of the government, who failed these two women. First
failed these two women. First Minister, I want everyone to
Minister, I want everyone to understand how incompetent and
understand how incompetent and secretive this government is. Legal
secretive this government is. Legal counsel was provided with one e—mail
counsel was provided with one e-mail in a chain. It
counsel was provided with one e—mail in a chain. It was a crucial element
in a chain. It was a crucial element to their defence, but they were not
to their defence, but they were not given the next e—mail, sent less
given the next e-mail, sent less than half
given the next e—mail, sent less than half an hour later in the same
than half an hour later in the same chain. It was withheld. And when it
chain. It was withheld. And when it was finally handed over, it was one
was finally handed over, it was one of the final straws, and her lawyers
of the final straws, and her lawyers had to threaten to resign to force
had to threaten to resign to force the government’s hand. Presiding
the government’s hand. Presiding Officer, that information was
Officer, that information was available to the whole time. The
available to the whole time. The government could have passed it to
government could have passed it to their lawyers in September or
their lawyers in September or October or November. But they
October or November. But they withheld it. They kept it secret. It
withheld it. They kept it secret. It cost them months and all of us
cost them months and all of us £500,000 of taxpayer’s money. First
500,000 of taxpayer money. First Minister, why
£500,000 of taxpayer’s money. First Minister, why was the crucial
Minister, why was the crucial evidence withheld for months from
evidence withheld for months from the government on legal team. 7 The
the government on legal team. ? The use
the government on legal team. ? The rase ultimately
the government on legal team. 7 The case ultimately collapse because
case ultimately collapse because information came to light. I said
information came to light. I said that in the committee yesterday, and
that in the committee yesterday, and people ran
that in the committee yesterday, and people can judge,
that in the committee yesterday, and people canjudge, by
that in the committee yesterday, and people can judge, by looking
that in the committee yesterday, and people canjudge, by looking at
that in the committee yesterday, and people can judge, by looking at the
people ran judge, by looking at the advice
people can judge, by looking at the advice that was published,
advice that was published, themselves. The committee will come
themselves. The committee will come to its conclusions, as will be
to its conclusions, as will be independent enquiry on the
independent enquiry on the ministerial code. I await the
ministerial code. I await the findings of both. Again, if I can
findings of both. Again, if I ran try to strike a
findings of both. Again, if I can try to strike a note of consensus,
try to strike a note of consensus, because I do believe in the
because I do believe in the importance of this democratic
importance of this democratic institution, the time I sit down
institution, the time I sit down after the session of First
after the session of First Minister’s Questions today, I will
Minister’s Questions today, I will have been subjected, rightly and
have been subjected, rightly and property, to
have been subjected, rightly and properly, to ten hours of
properly, to ten hours of Parliamentary scrutiny over the
Partiamentary scmtiny over the course
Parliamentary scrutiny over the course of this week. That is me
course of this week. That is me doing my job in
course of this week. That is me doing myjob in discharging their
doing myjob in discharging their responsibilities. But can I gently
responsibilities. But ran I gently point out to
responsibilities. But can I gently point out to Ruth Davidson that this
point out to Ruth Davidson that this democratic institution that she
democratic institution that she extols the virtues of is the same
extols the virtues of is the same democratic institution that she is
democratic institution that she is about to depart, to take up a seat
about to depart, to take up a seat in the unelected House of Lords. I
in the unelacted House of Lords. I think peopla
in the unelected House of Lords. I think people across this country are
think peoplc across this country are becoming
think people across this country are becoming heartily sick of the soon
becoming heartily sick of the soon Baroness Davidson lecturing anybody
Baroness Davidson lecturing anybody else on democracy. Presiding
else on democracy. Presiding Officer, because of the legal advice
Officer, because of the legal advice that had to be dragged from this
that had to be dragged from this government, under
that had to be dragged from this government, underthreat
that had to be dragged from this government, under threat of a vote
government, under threat of a vote of no confidence, we know that for
of no confidence, we know that for weeks this government were
weeks this government were definitively and beyond any doubt
definitively and beyond any doubt ignoring legal advice. But the case
ignoring legal advice. But the use only became
ignoring legal advice. But the case only became and is datable so late
only became and is datable so late because this government withheld
because this government withheld crucial documents for so long. The
crucial documents for so long. The withheld documents from their own
withheld documents from their own lawyers.
withheld documents from their own lawyers, they withheld them from the
lawyers, they withheld them from the court, and they continue to withhold
court, and they continue to withhold them from this cup Parliament. What
them from this cup Partiament. what we have
them from this cup Parliament. What we have already seen shows that
we have already seen shows that there is no argument if this
there is no argument if this government ignored legal advice,
government ignored legal advice, they did. The argument as if it did
they did. The argument as if it did so for three weeks or for more than
so for three weeks or for more than three months. There is no argument
three months. There is no argument of the First Minister was at fault
of the First Minister was at fault for losing more than £500,000 of
for losing more than 500,000 of taxpayers
for losing more than £500,000 of taxpayers money, the argument is
taxpayers money, the argument is only about how much is to blame for.
only about how much is to blame for. There is no argument if Nicola
There is no argument if Nicola Sturgeon broke the ministerial code,
Sturgeon broke the ministerial code, the argument is only about how badly
the argument is only about how badly she broke it. We believe that the
she broke it. We believe that the sanction is to go, why doesn’t she?
sanction is to go, why doesn’t she? I think Ruth Davidson has just shown
I think Ruth Davidson has just shown her tme
I think Ruth Davidson has just shown her true colours and the
her true colours and the Conservative true colours all over
Conservative tme colours all over again. She
Conservative true colours all over again. She stands up your and says
again. She stands up your and says scmtiny on
again. She stands up your and says scrutiny on democracy and due
scmtiny on democracy and due process is
scrutiny on democracy and due process is really important, but
process is really important, but just as on Tuesday night, the
just as on Tuesday night, the Conservatives prejudge my evidence
Conservatives prejudge my evidence to the Parliamentary enquiry, she
to the Partiamentary enquiry, she has just
to the Parliamentary enquiry, she hasjust prejudged the
to the Parliamentary enquiry, she has just prejudged the outcome of
has just prejudged the outcome of the independent enquiry into the
the independent enquiry into the ministerial code. This is
the independent enquiry into the ministerial code. This isjust about
ministerial code. This is just about desperate
ministerial code. This isjust about desperate political games for the
desperate political games for the Conservatives. I suspect their
Conservatives. I suspect their private polling is even more
private polling is even more desperate than the public polling
desperate than the public polling right now, because remember, the
right now, because remember, the people of Scotland have been voting
peopla of Scotland have been voting no
people of Scotland have been voting no confidence in the Conservatives
no confidence in the Conservatives since the 19505. I think we are
since the 19505. I think we are about to see why. I will get on with
about to see why. I will get on with my job, I will let
about to see why. I will get on with myjob, I will let the enquiries do
my job, I will let the enquiries do their
my job, I will let the enquiries do theirjob, I have
myjob, I will let the enquiries do theirjob, I have not prejudge them,
theirjob, I have not prejudge them, Ruth Davidson clearly has. But I
Ruth Davidson dearty has. But I will also, in
Ruth Davidson clearly has. But I will also, in a few weeks, subject
will also, in a few weeks, subject myself to the ultimate scrutiny, the
myself to the ultimate scmtiny, the scmtiny and
myself to the ultimate scrutiny, the scrutiny and the verdict of the
scmtiny and the verdict of the people of
scrutiny and the verdict of the people of Scotland, the verdict that
people of Scotland, the verdict that matters most. As I do so, Ruth
matters most. As I do so, Ruth Davidson will be slinking off to the
Davidson will be slinking off to the House of Lords. Can I start by
House of Lords. (“an I start by offering my
House of Lords. Can I start by offering my condolences to all the
offering my condolences to all the families impacted by confident 19
families impacted by confident 19 and particularly those who have lost
and particularty those who have lost a loved
and particularly those who have lost a loved one. The exchanges we have
a loved one. The exchanges we have just heard represent the worst of
just heard represent the worst of our politic. --
just heard represent the worst of our politics. —— Covid 19. Everyone
our politic. -- Covid 19. Everyone of us come
our politics. —— Covid 19. Everyone of us come into this chamber and we
of us come into this chamber and we sit in front of that mace, inscribed
sit in front of that mace, inscribed with the ideals of this Parliament,
with the ideals of this Partiament, wisdom,
with the ideals of this Parliament, wisdom, compassion, justice, and
wisdom, compassion, justice, and integrity. Principles that have been
integrity. Principles that have been undermined when the government felt
undermined when the government felt the women who submitted claims of
the women who submitted claims of harassment. Undermined by the
harassment. Undermined by the government’s refusal to hand over
government’s refusal to hand over all documentation to the committee
all documentation to the committee investigating these failures, and
investigating these failures, and undermined by the government
undermined by the government ignoring two votes of this
ignoring two votes of this Parliament calling for all the legal
Partiament falling for all the legal advice
Parliament calling for all the legal advice to be published. The
advice to be published. The government keeps telling us they
government keeps telling us they have nothing to hide. But when this
have nothing to hide. But when this Parliament twice demanding legal
Partiament twice demanding legal advice
Parliament twice demanding legal advice to be published, they
advice to be published, they refused. When it was finally
refused. When it was finally released, it was partial and came
released, it was partial and fame just hours
released, it was partial and came just hours before the First
just hours before the First Minister’s appearance. Wisdom,
Minister’s appearance. wisdom, compassion,
Minister’s appearance. Wisdom, compassion, justice, and integrity.
compassion, justice, and integrity. First Minister, why did it take the
First Minister, why did it take the threat of a no—confidence vote in a
threat of a no-confidence vote in a Deputy First
threat of a no—confidence vote in a Deputy First Minister for your
Deputy First Minister for your government to act? The importance
government to act? The importance for all governments that have been
for all governments that have been able to take proper legal advice I
able to take proper legal advice I think should be understood by
think should be understood by everybody across this chamber. The
everybody across this chamber. The government rightly now given the
government rightly now given the allegations that have been levelled
allegations that have been levelled at it, have published that legal
at it, have published that legal advice, and people can now look at
advice, and peopla ran now look at that legal
advice, and people can now look at that legal advice and draw their own
that legal advice and draw their own conclusions. I say again, I sat in
conclusions. Isay again, Isat in front of
conclusions. I say again, I sat in front of a Parliamentary committee,
front of a Partiamentary committee, I am
front of a Partiamentary committee, lam not
front of a Parliamentary committee, I am not sure there’s any other
I am not sure there’s any other member of this chamber that has done
member of this chamber that has done likewise ever, I sat in front of a
likewise ever, I sat in front of a Partiamentary
likewise ever, I sat in front of a Parliamentary committee for eight
Partiamentary committee for eight hours, as is
Parliamentary committee for eight hours, as is my duty and obligation,
hours, as is my duty and obligation, answered questions that were put to
answered questions that were put to me and put the case of the
me and put the case of the government. I also apologised, as I
government. Ialso apologised, as I will do again, to
government. I also apologised, as I will do again, to the women who were
will do again, to the women who were let down by the mistake that the gap
let down by the mistake that the gap permanent mate. I think it is right
permanent mate. I think it is right and proper and I think there’s a
and proper and I think there’s a line with the principles, which I
line with the principlas, which I hold dear,
line with the principles, which I hold dear, as we allow the enquiry
hold dear, as we allow the enquiry to do its work, we allow the
to do its work, we allow the independent enquiry into the
independent enquiry into the ministerial code to do its work and
ministerial code to do its work and we allow me to get on with the job I
we allow me to get on with the job I believe the majority of the country
believe the majority of the country want me to focus on now, which is to
want me to focus on now, which is to continue to steer this country
continue to steer this country through a global pandemic so that we
through a global pandemic so that we ran get
through a global pandemic so that we can get through Covid, come out of
ran get through Covid, come out of lockdown
can get through Covid, come out of lockdown and get back to normality.
lockdown and get back to normality. That is what I intend to focus on
That is what I intend to focus on while these enquiries conclude their
while these enquiries conclude their work. First Minister, that answer
work. First Minister, that answer would have more credibility if all
would have more credibility if all of the legal advice was published
of the legal advice was published before you gave evidence, not legal
before you gave evidence, not legal advice after you give evidence. The
advice after you give evidence. The First Minister has rightly had the
First Minister has rightly had the opportunity to address the committee
opportunity to address the committee yesterday, and I do agree with her,
yesterday, and I do agree with her, it is important that all parties are
it is important that all parties are given due process and we do not
given due process and we do not prejudice the outcome of the
prejudice the outcome of the enquiry. With that in mind, within
enquiry. with that in mind, within the coming
enquiry. With that in mind, within the coming weeks, James Hamilton QC
the coming weeks, james Hamilton at will present his
the coming weeks, James Hamilton QC will present his report on potential
will present his report on potential breaches of the ministerial code to
breaches of the ministerial code to the government. The outcome of this
the government. The outcome of this report will be crucial in
report will be crucial in establishing the facts about what
establishing the facts about what happened. The wholly unacceptable
happened. The wholly unacceptable and disgraceful situation we have
and disgraceful situation we have had with the legal advice cannot be
had with the legal advice cannot be repeated with the Hamilton report.
repeated with the Hamilton report. (“an the
repeated with the Hamilton report. Can the First Minister give the
(“an the First Minister give the people of
Can the First Minister give the people of Scotland 3 cast iron
peopla of Scotland a cast iron guarantee
people of Scotland a cast iron guarantee that the government will
guarantee that the government will release the report without delay, or
release the report without delay, or obstruction on the day it is handed
obstruction on the day it is handed over by
obstruction on the day it is handed over byjames
obstruction on the day it is handed over byJames Hamilton QC? Yes. I
over byjames Hamilton 0C? Yes. I welcome
over byJames Hamilton QC? Yes. I welcome that commitment from the
welcome that commitment from the First Minister. But remember this,
First Minister. But remember this, we will hold her to that promise.
we will hold her to that promise. Because the First Minister is right,
Because the First Minister is right, this is about transparency, and can
this is about transparency, and ran be dull delay in
this is about transparency, and can be dull delay in publishing this
be dull delay in publishing this report. The ministerial code exists
report. The ministerial code exists to uphold standards in public life.
to uphold standards in public life. It is there to protect the integrity
It is there to protect the integrity of the office of the First Minister
of the office of the First Minister of all Scottish ministers, and the
of all Scottish ministers, and the whola
of all Scottish ministers, and the whole of the Scottish Government. In
whole of the Scottish Government. In her foreword to the ministerial
her foreword to the ministerial code, the First Minister says, and I
code, the First Minister says, and I quote, I
code, the First Minister says, and I quote, Iwill
code, the First Minister says, and I quote, I will lead
code, the First Minister says, and I quote, Iwill lead by
code, the First Minister says, and I quote, I will lead by example and
quote, I will lead by example and following the letter and spirit of
following the letter and spirit of this code, and I expect all
this code, and I expect all ministers and civil servants to do
ministers and civil servants to do likewise. Wisdom, compassion,
likewise. wisdom, compassion, justice, and
likewise. Wisdom, compassion, justice, and integrity. In that
justice, and integrity. In that light, does the First Minister agree
light, does the First Minister agree removing party and personality that
removing party and personality that a minister, any minister, who is
a minister, any minister, who is found in breach of the ministerial
found in breach of the ministerial code should resign? I will uphold my
code should resign? Iwill uphold my words in
code should resign? I will uphold my words in the foreword to the
words in the foreword to the ministerial code, I will uphold the
ministerial code, I will uphold the principles on that mace, but I will
principlas on that mace, but I will also
principles on that mace, but I will also demand the right to due
also demand the right to due process, which one party at least is
process, which one party at least is not prepared to give me. Let us wait
not prepared to give me. Let us wait and see what the outcome of the
and see what the outcome of the enquiries are. They will be
enquiries are. They will be published and then we can debate in
published and then we ran debate in this
published and then we can debate in this chamber the outcome of that. I
this chamber the outcome of that. I sat before
this chamber the outcome of that. I set before that committee, I
set before that committee, I answered every question, and I will
answered every question, and I will give the committee and the enquiry
give the committee and the enquiry the opportunity now to do their
the opportunity now to do their work. That is where we will leave
work. That is where we will leave First Minister’s Questions for
First Minister’s Questions for today.
Health officials are to examine whether paying people
to exercise could help drive down levels of obesity.
Sir Keith Mills, who founded the Air Miles and Nectar rewards
programmes, is to advise the Government on a new way to use
incentives to support people who choose healthier diets and do
more physical activity.
Let’s discuss this further withJohanna Ralston,
CEO of the World Obesity Federation, who joins us from
Boston, Massachusetts.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. There is, it
Thank you very much forjoining us. There is, it seems then, a
There is, it seems then, a connection between coronavirus and
connection between coronavims and obesity in
connection between coronavirus and obesity in terms of its severity and
obesity in terms of its severity and fatality. (“an
obesity in terms of its severity and fatality. Can you explain what that
fatality. Can you explain what that connection seems to be? Thank you so
connection seems to be? Thank you so much, first of all, it is a pleasure
much, first of all, it is a pleasure to be here. The connections, there
to be here. The connections, there is definitely a biological
is definitely a biological association, yet also we think there
association, yet also we think there is a relationship in terms of
is a relationship in terms of government policies and how those
government policies and how those both protect people against
both protect people against coronavirus and protect them around
coronavirus and protect them around obesity. We are going to do Mac ——
obesity. We are going to do Mac -- we did a study
obesity. We are going to do Mac —— we did a study showing that 90% of
we did a study showing that 90% of coronavirus tests occurred in
coronavirus tests occurred in countries with high obesity rates.
countries with high obesity rates. Similarty,
countries with high obesity rates. Similarly, countries with low Covid
Similarty, countries with low Covid deaths
Similarly, countries with low Covid deaths occurred in countries with
deaths occurred in countries with low obesity rates. There is clearly
low obesity rates. There is dearty an
low obesity rates. There is clearly an association. There is some
an association. There is some causation and some correlation. The
causation and some correlation. The causation, we note there is a
causation, we note there is a greater inflammatory response,
greater inﬂammatory response, various
greater inflammatory response, various drivers there. It also there
various drivers there. It also there is a correlation, which we think
is a correlation, which we think goes to some of the other diseases
goes to some of the other diseases that obesity drives, cardiovascular
that obesity drives, cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, but also
disease, cancer, diabetes, but also some of the policy of public health
some of the policy of public health policies. The UK has the
policies. The UK has the third—highest Covid death rate in
third-highest Covid death rate in the world,
third—highest Covid death rate in the world, the fourth obesity rate.
the world, the fourth obesity rate. Are these two things inextricably
Are these two things inextricably linked? We believe they are
linked? We believe they are definitely connected. The UK has had
definitely connected. The UK has had opportunities in the past two have
opportunities in the past two have more of a robust response to obesity
more of a robust response to obesity than it may have had. But we do
than it may have had. But we do applaud the announcement today of
applaud the announcement today of £100 million investment. The UK is
£100 million investment. The UK is actually playing catch up and doing
actually playing catch up and doing absolutely the right things in terms
absolutely the right things in terms of a robust response, in terms of
of a robust response, in terms of focusing on families and children,
focusing on families and children, particularty
focusing on families and children, particularly in places where access
particularty in places where access to
particularly in places where access to effective medical care and
to effective medical rare and healthy
to effective medical care and healthy foods is less than it might
healthy foods is lass than it might be in
healthy foods is less than it might be in other parts of the country. We
be in other parts of the country. We have been reporting, as you heard in
have been reporting, as you heard in the introduction, health officials
the introduction, health officials in the UK are looking at whether
in the UK are looking at whether they could perhaps pay people to
they could perhaps pay people to make healthier choices and to take
make healthier choices and to take more exercise. What is your view of
more exercise. what is your view of that as a
more exercise. What is your view of that as a workable idea? I think it
that as a workabla idea? I think it is perhaps
that as a workable idea? I think it is perhaps necessary, but absolutely
is perhaps necessary, but absolutely not sufficient. Why do they have to
not sufficient. why do they have to make
not sufficient. Why do they have to make these choices in the first
make these choices in the first place? Because there is far too much
place? Because there is far too much that is unhealthy that is available
that is unhealthy that is available to peopla
that is unhealthy that is available to people and at reduced cost. 50
to people and at reduced cost. So personal
to people and at reduced cost. 50 personal incentives can be useful,
personal incentives ran be useful, but in
personal incentives can be useful, but in some ways it places the onus
but in some ways it places the onus on the individual and plays into a
on the individual and plays into a narrative that unfortunately has
narrative that unfortunately has been prevalent for too long, that it
been prevalent for too long, that it is the individual who is at fault,
is the individual who is at fault, that is a narrative that we know is
that is a narrative that we know is not tme.
that is a narrative that we know is not true. People need to have, be
not tme. People need to have, be living in
not true. People need to have, be living in environments which are
living in environments which are healthier. That means fewer
healthier. That means fewer unhealthy choices, fewer unhealthy
unhealthy choices, fewer unhealthy options and far more healthy
options and far more healthy options. Both in terms of food and
options. Both in terms of food and physical activity,
options. Both in terms of food and physicalactivity, in
options. Both in terms of food and physical activity, in terms of other
physical activity, in terms of other aspects of contributing to health.
aspects of contributing to health. johanna
aspects of contributing to health. Johanna Ralston, thank you so much
johanna Ralston, thank you so much for your time.
Johanna Ralston, thank you so much for your time. Thank you so much. It
for your time. Thank you so much. It has been a pleasure.
The prime minister says he wants to ‘unite’ and ‘level—up’
across the whole country.
Speaking on a visit to Middlesbrough, BorisJohnson said
some places felt they had ‘missed out’ and the government
would address that.
But yesterday’s Budget has been criticised by thinktanks
and charities for doing little to address inequality.
MrJohnson was asked what people working in the health and care
sectors should do if they wanted to see a payrise.
m:
We are investing already in a health and social care sector, huge
and social rare sector, huge quantities,
and social care sector, huge quantities, throughout the pandemic.
quantities, throughout the pandemic. I think the whole country is
I think the whola country is massively
I think the whole country is massively grateful to health care
massively grateful to health care workers and social care workers for
workers and social rare workers for what they have
workers and social care workers for what they have done. So about 52
what they have done. So about 52 billion
what they have done. 50 about 52 billion went into the NHS, just to
billion went into the NHS, just to help cope with the pandemic. 1.5
help cope with the pandemic. 1.5 billion into social care. 35 million
billion into social rare. 35 million to support
billion into social care. 35 million to support local councils and all
to support [oral councils and all sorts of ways.
to support local councils and all sorts of ways. In one of the things
sorts of ways. In one of the things that we have done, as we have gone
that we have done, as we have gone with the vaccination programme,
with the vaccination programme, accelerated that, is concentrated on
accelcrated that, is concentrated on social
accelerated that, is concentrated on social care workers and care homes.
social rare workers and rare homes. We have, I
social care workers and care homes. We have, I think, vaccinated 94% of
We have, I think, vaccinated 9496 of the elderty rare
We have, I think, vaccinated 94% of the elderly care home residents. We
the elderty rare home residents. We over three
the elderly care home residents. We over three quarters of the staff
over three quarters of the staff now. We are doing everything we can
now. We are doing everything we ran to look
now. We are doing everything we can to look after them, but we are
to look after them, but we are massively, massively in their debt.
massively, massively in their debt. Still no pay rise for them in that
Still no pay rise for them in that the budget yesterday. A lot of these
the budget yesterday. A lot of these are in the private sector, the care
are in the private sector, the rare home
are in the private sector, the care home workers. What we have done is
home workers. what we have done is have a
home workers. What we have done is have a record investment, record
have a record investment, record increases in the living wage. Again,
increases in the living wage. Again, living wage will be going up, which
living wage will be going up, which is brought on by the government,
is brought on by the government, going up again in April. Our debt to
going up again in April. Our debt to those workers is massive.
Now, Stav has the weather
Now, Stav has the weather
High pressure is how we are going to end the week, high—pressure
dominating the scene, but bringing in some cooler air to all areas. It
in some cooler air to all areas. It will be chilly for the end of the
will be chilly for the end of the week and indeed into the weekend,
week and indeed into the weekend, but with a lot of dry weather
but with a lot of dry weather around. Variable cloud, perhaps in
around. Variable cloud, perhaps in sunshine. We have got this cold
sunshine. We have got this cold front spreading southwards across
front spreading southwards across the country through today.
the country through today. High—pressure building in from the
High-pressure building in from the north. I’m
High—pressure building in from the north. I’m that confident, you can
north. I’m that confident, you ran see the
north. I’m that confident, you can see the colder air moving its way
see the colder air moving its way southwards. There will be a little
southwards. There will be a little bit of patchy rain on that front,
bit of patchy rain on that front, affecting northern England, Northern
affecting northern England, Northern Ireland. That is the Midlands as we
Ireland. That is the Midlands as we move towards the end of the day. I
move towards the end of the day. I did, perhaps a few of but for most
did, perhaps a few of but for most it is going to be rather grey and
it is going to be rather grey and pretty damp. Those temperatures,
pretty damp. Those temperatures, singla
pretty damp. Those temperatures, single figures, low single figures
singla figures, low singla figures in
single figures, low single figures in the north, turning chilly here,
in the north, turning chilly here, and a chilly feel two things south
and a chilly feel two things south too. As we head into this evening
too. As we head into this evening and overnight, that front spreads
and overnight, that front spreads its way southwards, taking patchy
its way southwards, taking patchy rain with it. Skies will tend to
rain with it. Skies will tend to clear behind it. We will see
clear behind it. We will see variable cloud and clear skies. With
variable cloud and clear skies. with the skies
variable cloud and clear skies. With the skies are clear, it will turn
the skies are clear, it will turn cold with some frost across northern
cold with some frost across northern and western areas. An onshore breeze
and western areas. An onshore breeze continuing to keep things a little
continuing to keep things a little lass frosty
continuing to keep things a little less frosty across north sea coast.
lass frosty across north sea coast. Here for
less frosty across north sea coast. Here for went a week with a big area
Here for went a week with a big area of high pressure slap bang on top of
of high pressure slap bang on top of the UK. Hold erupt into it so it
the UK. Hold empt into it so it will feel
the UK. Hold erupt into it so it will feel quite chilly. We start off
will feel quite chilly. We start off on a cold note, perhaps centring
on a cold note, perhaps centring around, more than we have seen over
around, more than we have seen over the last few days, but through the
the last few days, but through the afternoon there is a chance that
afternoon there is a chance that cloud may tend to build up. Some
cloud may tend to build up. Some areas turning rare. Just a chance of
areas turning rare. just a chance of a shower
areas turning rare. Just a chance of a shower affecting the north sea
a shower affecting the north sea coast, being blown in that north sea
coast, being blown in that north sea wind. Temperatures range from around
wind. Temperatures range from around 5-8. Friday night
wind. Temperatures range from around 5—8. Friday night is going to be
5-8. Friday night is going to be railed,
5—8. Friday night is going to be called, particularly where we have
called, particularty where we have clear
called, particularly where we have clear skies.
called, particularly where we have clearskies. I
called, particularly where we have clear skies. I think we will see
clear skies. I think we will see more of a widespread frost to greet
more of a widespread frost to greet us for Saturday morning.
us for Saturday morning. High—pressure still with us for the
High-pressure still with us for the start of
High—pressure still with us for the start of the weekend. It will be a
start of the weekend. It will be a cold start, but bright with some
cold start, but bright with some sunshine. Again, through the day, we
sunshine. Again, through the day, we could see some cloud building up so
could see some cloud building up so it could turn a little grey for many
it could turn a little grey for many of us. A chilly day to come.
of us. A chilly day to come. Temperatures generally 6—8. It is a
Temperatures generally 6-8. It is a similar story on
Temperatures generally 6—8. It is a similar story on Sunday, chilly
similar story on Sunday, chilly start, some sunshine around, mainly
start, some sunshine around, mainly dry, but changes are starting to
dry, but changes are starting to take place across the north and
take place across the north and west, slightly more unsettled
west, slightly more unsettled conditions here, weather
west, slightly more unsettled conditions here, weatherfronts
conditions here, weather fronts pushing on. If
conditions here, weatherfronts pushing on. If you shower is at
pushing on. If you shower is at times, perhaps a little less culture
times, perhaps a little lass culture than
times, perhaps a little less culture than what it will be further south.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition.
Buckingham Palace says the operation was successful —
Prince Philip is likely to stay in hospitalfor a number more days.
It comes as the Duchess of Sussex tells American television she feels
she has to speak out about how the Palace
treated her and Prince Harry.
I don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time
we would still be just silent if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
We’ll have the latest from our Royal Correspondent.
Also this lunchtime:
More tax rises may be needed, says the Institute for Fiscal Studies,
as it warns the Chancellor’s spending plans don’t
look deliverable.
The number of coronavirus infections in England continues to fall,
say researchers, but the rate of decrease may have slowed.
And leave your money at home — Amazon opens its first
supermarket in the UK, and it doesn’t have any tills.
And coming up on BBC News...
Liverpool managerJurgen Klopp says he won’t automatically release
players for international duty if they have to quarantine
on their return to the UK.
Klopp said Fifa backed him.
Good afternoon and welcome to the BBC News at One.
The Duke of Edinburgh has undergone a procedure
for a pre—existing heart condition.
Buckingham Palace says the procedure was successful,
and was carried out yesterday.
The Duke, who is 99, is expected to stay in hospital
for a number of days.
The news comes as the royal family is being accused by the Duchess
of Sussex of perpetuating falsehoods about her and and her husband.
The dramatic comments are in a newly released excerpt from Meghan
and Prince Harry’s interview with Oprah Winfrey for
American television.
Here’s our Royal Correspondent, Nicholas Witchell.
It was on Monday of this week that the Duke was transferred
from the King Edward VII Hospital, where he had spent 13 nights
to St Bartholomew’s Hospital, one of Britain’s premier centres
for cardiac care.
He will have been assessed on Tuesday and then a surgical
procedure yesterday.
According to Buckingham Palace...
It’s thought the pre—existing heart condition may refer to the episode
ten years ago, when he was admitted by helicopter to Papworth Hospital.
He had suffered a blocked coronary artery.
A stent was inserted.
The Queen and other members of the family visited him
in hospital, a sign that this had been a moment of real anxiety.
This time, the Queen is remaining at Windsor,
where, with her officials, she will doubtless be
pondering the latest twists and turns in the Sussex saga.
Last night, the US broadcaster CBS issued another clip from the Duchess
of Sussex’s upcoming interview with Oprah Winfrey.
It is not comfortable viewing for the Palace.
How do you feel about the Palace hearing you speak your truth today?
I don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time
we would still be just silent if there is an active role
that The Firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
And if that comes with risk of losing things, I mean,
there’s a lot that has been lost already.
As the Duchess accuses the Palace of perpetuating unspecified
falsehoods against her, the Palace is preparing
to investigate claims from former members of her staff
that she bullied them, allegations which the Duchess’s
spokesman has denied.
Normally, of course, the Queen would have her husband at her side
to support her at moments such as this.
L111:
But not just now.
But notjust now. But from the
But not just now. But from the palace today
But notjust now. But from the palace today on social media, on
palace today on social media, on this world book Day, a reminder of
this world book Day, a reminder of lass
this world book Day, a reminder of less turbulent times. The Queen and
less turbulent times. The Queen and the Duke together at Bell moral in
the Duke together at Bell moral in 1976.
And Nicholas is here with me...
Let’s talk about the Duke. The

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 04/03/2021, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/17F5004FX?bcast=133988491 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)