Radio 2 - just like one of the family.
Listen now on BBC Sounds.
This is BBC News — these are the latest headlines in the UK
and around the world.
The Taliban says it’s taken control of the Panjshir Valley —
the last part of Afghanistan not under their control —
but the claim’s being disputed by rebel forces.
The UK Prime Minister BorisJohnson will tell MPs that he’ll
"use every economic, political and diplomatic
lever to protect the UK, and help the Afghan people.
The Prime Minister also faces a significant backlash
from within his own party over plans to pay for social
care reforms in England by increasing National Insurance.
Back to school for millions more children in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland, but will it spark
a rise in Covid cases?
For viewers in the UK — if your child 5 back
to school, how concerned are you about their return?
Is their school sticking with any measures like mask wearing
to try to reduce Covid transmission?
Get in touch with me on Twitter @annita—mcveigh
or using the hashtag YourQuestions.
Conjoined twins see each other for the first time,
after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour operation to separate them.
A three—year—old boy is found alive, in rugged Australian bushland,
after going missing from his home on Friday.
And coming up this hour — Big Ben gets its hands back!
We’ll be going live to the Elizabeth Tower.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around the world.
The Taliban say they have defeated resistance forces
in the Afghan provice of Panjshir and that they are in full
control of the area — the final part of the country that
has remained outside their rule since they swept
to power last month.
The Taliban had been facing stubborn opposition in the mountainous
province from fighters belonging to the National Resistance Front.
The Front has rejected the Taliban’s claims and denied that
Panjshir has fallen.
However, this photo, posted by a senior Taliban official,
is said to show a group of Taliban fighters outside the building
of Pa njshir s provincial governor.
Let’s hear what the Taliban spokesman
had to say about the situation in Panjshir at a news
conference this morning.
TRANSLATION: We have captured Panjshir with the will of God.
The local elders and religious leaders have been coordinating
with us and our operations went ahead with their help.
Some of those who are still wanting to fight are missing at the moment.
We are trying to tell them that if they want to join a normal life,
they are welcome to.
Afghanistan is their home, there is no problem
from our side, but they need to stop fuelling the instability.
That will be our condition.
We have received one report that says Amrullah Saleh has escaped
to Tajikistan, but we will work out on finding out
if this is true or not.
It is not confirmed yet.
In the last hour, our south—east Asia correspondent Yogita Limaye
gave me this update on the situation.
They continue to reject the claims of the Taliban,
saying they’re not in control of the whole of the province,
they say that their forces are still in strategic positions
in the valley.
One of the reasons it’s very difficult to verify this information
from eyewitnesses and people on the ground is because mobile
phone and internet networks have been cut off there over the past
week, when we saw heavy fighting between the Taliban
and the resistance forces.
The Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahi, of course saying
that we have taken control of the whole of the
Panjshir province.
They say that they were trying to resolve the issue through talks,
but when those didn’t work, they acted militarily
because they couldn’t accept a power island in Afghanistan.
We have heard from the spokesman of the resistance front who,
as I said, rejected the Taliban’s claims.
We haven’t yet had a specific response to the offer
of talks from the Taliban, but what they’ve always maintained
is that they are prepared to fight, but they’re also willing to talk,
but they cannot accept an Islamic dictatorship in Afghanistan.
The two main people who’ve been leading the resistance
movement are Ahmad Massoud, who’s the son of a very powerful
guerrilla commander, a man considered a hero
in Afghanistan, Ahmad Shah Massoud, who was assassinated in 2001.
The other person leading the resistance movement has been
former Vice President Amrullah Saleh, who says he’s
the caretaker President of the country, after Ashraf Ghani
fled from Afghanistan.
The whereabouts of both Mr Massoud and Mr Saleh are not known.
The Taliban, in their press conference today, claiming that
Mr Saleh had fled to Tajikistan, but we don’t have word from Mr Saleh
or his representatives on that yet.
Yogita Limaye.
Here in the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson will defend his handling
of the Afghanistan crisis in the Commons later, as he vows
to use "every economic, political and diplomatic lever"
to help Afghans.
He is expected to update MP5 on how the Government plans to resettle
20,000 Afghans in the UK over the coming years.
The Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary, Dominic Raab,
have both faced criticism over the UK’s response to
the Taliban takeover.
Let’s cross now to the Royal United Services Institute, where former
Prime Minister Tony Blair is speaking about the current
situation in Afghanistan.
To mark the anniversary of 9/11.
The turning of the religion into a puddla list --
The turning of the religion into a puddle list —— into a political
puddla list -- into a political doctrine, in
puddle list —— into a political doctrine, in the
puddle list —— into a political doctrine, in thejustification
puddle list —— into a political doctrine, in the justification of
doctrine, in the justification of struggle if necessary, armed
struggle if necessary, armed stmggle,
struggle if necessary, armed struggle, to achieve it. Other
struggle, to achieve it. Other Islamists agree with the ends, but
Islamists agree with the ends, but they issue violence. But the
they issue violence. But the ideology itself is in them —— is in
ideology itself is in them -- is in inevitable
ideology itself is in them —— is in inevitable conflict with open,
inevitable conflict with open, tolerant societies. Nearly
tolerant societies. Nearly everything about 9/11 and its
everything about 9/11 and its aftermath, particularly now, is
aftermath, particularty now, is mired in
aftermath, particularly now, is mired in controversy. What cannot be
mired in controversy. what cannot be seriously
mired in controversy. What cannot be seriously disputed, however, is that
seriously disputed, however, is that since 9/11, though thankfully there
since 9/11, though thankfuuy there has
since 9/11, though thankfully there has been no further terrorist attack
has been no further terrorist attack of that scale, radical Islam has not
of that stale, radical Islam has not declined
of that scale, radical Islam has not declined in force. What is disputed
declined in force. what is disputed is wide.
declined in force. What is disputed is wide. Is radical is I’m a
is wide. Is radical is I’m a coherent ideology, which represents
coherent ideology, which represents a first—order threat to our
a first-order threat to our security, or
a first—order threat to our security, or are we facing, despite
security, or are we facing, despite some common themes, 3 series of
some common themes, 3 series of disconnected security challenges,
disconnected security challenges, each of which require handling on
each of which require handling on its own terms based on local
its own terms based on local circumstances? —— radical Islam. It
circumstances? -- radical Islam. It is as a problem or
circumstances? —— radical Islam. It is as a problem or only its
is as a problem or only its manifestation in violent extremism.
manifestation in violent extremism. Is it akin to revolutionary
Is it akin to revolutionary communism and must be countered by
communism and must be countered by security and ideological measures
security and ideological measures over the long—term, or is that
over the long-term, or is that overstate it,
over the long—term, or is that overstate it, overestimate it, and
overstate it, overestimate it, and by the interventions in Afghanistan
by the interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq, to elevate its appeal
and Iraq, to elevate its appeal rather than diminish it —— appeal
rather than diminish it -- appeal rather
rather than diminish it —— appeal rather than diminish it is a
rather than diminish it is a fundamental strategic question and
fundamental strategic question and it needs a clear answer. In my view,
it needs a dear answer. In my view, Islamism, both
it needs a clear answer. In my view, Islamism, both the ideological ——
Islamism, both the ideological -- ideology and
Islamism, both the ideological —— ideology and the violence, is a
ideology and the violence, is a first—order security threat and
first—order security threat and unchecked, it will come to us, even
unchecked, it will come to us, even if centred far from us, as 9/11
if centred far from us, as 9/11 demonstrated. The analysis published
demonstrated. The analysis published recently from my Institute shows how
recently from my Institute shows how the roots of Islamism stretch back
the roots of Islamism stretch back over many decades, and they grew in
over many decades, and they grew in strength long before 9/11, and it
strength long before 9/11, and it examines the links between the
examines the links between the ideology and the violence. This is
ideology and the violence. This is supplemented by the excellent
supplemented by the excellent analysis of the State Concept and by
analysis of the State Concept and by the annual report we publish which
the annual report we publish which shows that this is a global
shows that this is a global challenge and one that is getting
challenge and one that is getting worse. The ideology, whether
worse. The ideology, whether promulgated by the Islamic Republic
promulgated by the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Shia, or Sunni,
of Afghanistan, Shia, or Sunni, through to Al-Qaeda, Isis, Boko
through to Al-Qaeda, Isis, Boko Haram
through to Al-Qaeda, Isis, Boko Harem and many others, has been the
Haram and many others, has been the principal cause of destabilisation
principal cause of destabilisation across the Middle East and beyond
across the Middle East and beyond and today in Africa. Like
and today in Africa. Like revolutionary communism, it operates
revolutionary communism, it operates in many different arenas and
in many different arenas and dimensions. Unlike it, its defeat
dimensions. Unlike it, its defeat will, ultimately through confronting
will, ultimately through confronting both the violence and the ideology
both the violence and the ideology -- and
both the violence and the ideology —— and like it. By a combination of
-- and like it. By a combination of hard and
—— and like it. By a combination of hard and soft power. Now, if this is
hard and soft power. Now, if this is a correct analysis, then especially
a correct analysis, then especially after the fall of Afghanistan, the
after the fall of Afghanistan, the leading powers must unite to develop
leading powers must unite to develop an agreed strategy. And even if
an agreed strategy. And even if initial discussion centred around
initial discussion centred around Western nations, China and Russia
Western nations, China and Russia also have an interest in countering
also have an interest in countering this ideology and our best allies
this ideology and our best allies are to be found in the many Muslim
are to be found in the many Muslim countries, including in the Middle
countries, including in the Middle East, desperate to retake their
East, desperate to retake their religion from extremism. We need
religion from extremism. We need also to assess our vulnerability.
also to assess our vulnerability. Covid-19
also to assess our vulnerability. Covid—19 has taught us about deadly
Covid-19 has taught us about deadly pathogens.
Covid—19 has taught us about deadly pathogens. Bio terror possibilities
pathogens. Bio terror possibilities might seem like the realm of science
might seem like the realm of science fiction, but we would be wise now to
fiction, but we would be wise now to prepare for their potential use by
prepare for their potential use by non—state actors. On the other hand,
non-state actors. On the other hand, if this analysis is
non—state actors. On the other hand, if this analysis is rejected, the
if this analysis is rejected, the alternative is, in effect, to say,
alternative is, in effect, to say, this is a second order problem,
this is a second order problam, where
this is a second order problem, where we are directly threatened, we
where we are directly threatened, we retaliate through counterterrorism
retaliate through counterherrorism measures,
retaliate through counterterrorism measures, drone strikes,
measures, drone strikes, surveillance, special
measures, drone strikes, surveillance, specialforces, but
surveillance, special forces, but otherwise,
surveillance, specialforces, but otherwise, we leave alone. But if
otherwise, we leave alone. But if this is where policy is heading, we
this is where policy is heading, we have to understand it to its
have to understand it to its limitations. We need to work out
limitations. We need to work out what we mean by not remaking
what we mean by not remaking countries from which terrorist
countries from which terrorist threats can arise. I understand it
threats ran arise. I understand it means
threats can arise. I understand it means that we do not do what we
means that we do not do what we tried to do in Afghanistan. The one
tried to do in Afghanistan. The one thing that should be understood, our
thing that should be understood, our remaking didn’t fail because the
remaking didn’t fail because the people didn’t want the country
people didn’t want the country remade. For
people didn’t want the country remade. Forsure, we
people didn’t want the country remade. For sure, we could have
remade. For sure, we could have remade better, but Afghans did not
remade better, but Afghans did not choose the Taliban takeover. The
choose the Taliban takeover. The last opinion poll in 2019 showed the
last opinion poll in 2019 showed the Taliban with 4% support among the
Taliban with 496 support among the Afghan
Taliban with A% support among the Afghan people. They conquered the
Afghan people. They conquered the country by violence, not persuasion.
country by violence, not persuasion. The barrier to nation building is
The barrier to nation building is usually not the people, but poor
usually not the people, but poor institutional capacity and
institutional capacity and governance including corruption,
governance including cormption, over many
governance including corruption, over many years. And most of all,
over many years. And most of all, the challenge of trying to build
the challenge of trying to build whilst internal elements combine
whilst internal elements combine with external support are trying to
with external support are trying to destroy. But counterterrorism on its
destroy. But counterherrorism on its own won’t
destroy. But counterterrorism on its own won’t remove an entrenched
own won’t remove an entrenched threat. We could see a middle
threat. We could see a middle course. For example, we could adopt
course. For example, we could adopt a strategy of assisting countries,
a strategy of assisting countries, with security, but also supporting
with security, but also supporting the government’s own attempts to
the government’s own attempts to develop their nations because
develop their nations because poverty and underdevelopment
poverty and underdevelopment undoubtedly facilitate the
undoubtedly facilitate the extremists. In a way, this is what
extremists. In a way, this is what we did in Afghanistan post—2014 when
we did in Afghanistan post-2014 when News
we did in Afghanistan post—2014 when Nato’s mission went to train, advise
News mission went to train, advise and assist.
Nato’s mission went to train, advise and assist. But even here, this will
and assist. But even here, this will likely encompass more than
likely encompass more than conventional counterterrorism. We
conventional counterterrorism. We need some boots on the ground.
need some boots on the ground. Naturally, our preference is for the
Naturally, our preference is for the boots to be local, but that will not
boots to be local, but that will not always be possible. Western
always be possible. Western societies and their political
societies and their political leaders have become quite
leaders have become quite understandably deeply averse to
understandably deeply averse to casualties amongst our armed forces.
casualties amongst our armed forces. This is not a problem of the Armed
This is not a problem of the Armed Forces themselves who are brave and
Forces themselves who are brave and extraordinary people, but it is now
extraordinary peopla, but it is now an
extraordinary people, but it is now an overwhelming political constraint
an overwhelming political constraint to any commitment to Western boots
to any commitment to Western boots on the ground, and special forces.
on the ground, and special forces. Yet the problem this gives rise to
Yet the problem this gives rise to is obvious. If the enemy we are
is obvious. If the enemy we are fighting knows the more casualties
fighting knows the more casualties they inﬂict,
fighting knows the more casualties they inflict, the more our political
they inﬂict, the more our political will erodes,
they inflict, the more our political will erodes, then the incentive
will erodes, then the incentive structure is plain. There is an
structure is plain. There is an additional challenge for Europe and
additional challenge for Europe and Halo.
additional challenge for Europe and Matt). It
additional challenge for Europe and Nate. It is clear now, if it wasn’t
Nah. It is clear now, if it wasn’t before, that
Nato. It is clear now, if it wasn’t before, that America has decided
before, that America has decided that for the foreseeable future, it
that for the foreseeabla future, it is a very -- it has
that for the foreseeable future, it is a very —— it has a very limited
is a very -- it has a very limited appetite for
is a very —— it has a very limited appetite for military engagement.
appetite for military engagement. After Kosovo, I initiated European
After Kosovo, I initiated European defence with France. I did this
defence with France. I did this precisely because I realised that
precisely because I realised that without the United States and
without the United States and President Clinton’s commitment, we
President (linton’s commitment, we could
President Clinton’s commitment, we could never have resolve the crisis.
could never have resolve the crisis. And today, the Balkans, relative to
And today, the Balkans, relative to its history, ran
And today, the Balkans, relative to its history, can aspire to a
its history, ran aspire to a peaceful
its history, can aspire to a peaceful future hopefully within
peaceful future hopefully within Europe. Yet the crisis was at your’s
Europe. Yet the crisis was at your’s doorstep, not
Europe. Yet the crisis was at your’s doorstep, not American’s, it is
doorstep, not Amerian’s, it is Europe that
doorstep, not American’s, it is Europe that faces the
Europe that faces the destabilisation of the ce hell.
destabilisation of the ce hell. Europe is already facing the fallout
Europe is already facing the fallout from Libya and elsewhere in the
from Libya and elsewhere in the Middle East, and for these purposes,
Middle East, and for these purposes, Britain is part of Europe, like it
Britain is part of Europe, like it or not. So how do Europe and Nate
or not. So how do Europe and Nato developed the capability to act when
developed the capability to act when America is unwilling? Answering
America is unwilling? Answering these questions, at least
these questions, at least confronting them, would also
confronting them, would also reinvigorate Western policymakers
reinvigorate Western policymakers capacity to think strategically. For
capacity to think strategically. For me, one of the most alarming
me, one of the most alarming developments of recent times has
developments of recent times has been a sense that the West has lost
been a sense that the West has lost its capacity to formulate strategy.
its capacity to formulate strategy. That short—term political
That short—term political imperatives have simply squeezed the
imperatives have simply squeezed the space of long—term thinking. It is
space of long-term thinking. It is this sense,
space of long—term thinking. It is this sense, more than anything else,
this sense, more than anything else, in my judgment,
this sense, more than anything else, in myjudgment, which gives our
in my judgment, which gives our allies anxiety
in myjudgment, which gives our allies anxiety and our opponents
allies anxiety and our opponents believe that our time is over.
believe that our time is over. Finally, one of the most depressing
Finally, one of the most depressing things I have heard regularly
things I have heard regularly articulated over the past weeks is
articulated over the past weeks is the idea that we are foolish in
the idea that we are foolish in believing that Western notions of
believing that Western notions of Liberal democracy and freedom are
Liberal democracy and freedom are exportable. Or that they will ever
exportable. Or that they will ever take root except in a somewhat
take root except in a somewhat decadent terrain of Western society.
decadent terrain of Western society. Now, maybe my generation of leaders
Now, maybe my generation of leaders were naive in thinking countries
were naive in thinking countries could be remade, or maybe the
could be remade, or maybe the remaking needed to last longer, but
remaking needed to last longer, but we should never forget as we see the
we should never forget as we see the women of Afghanistan in the media,
women of Afghanistan in the media, culture, civic society now fully in
culture, civic society now fully in fear of their lives, that our values
fear of their lives, that our values are still those which free people
are still those which free peopla choose.
are still those which free people choose. Recovering confidence in
choose. Recovering confidence in those values and in the universal
those values and in the universal application is a necessary part of
application is a necessary part of ensuring we stand up for them and we
ensuring we stand up for them and we are prepared to defend them. Thank
are prepared to defend them. Thank you very much.
you very much. APPLAUSE
APPLAUSE Mr Blair, thank you very much for
Mr Blair, thank you very much for your presentation. And I should say
your presentation. And I should say for the benefit of
your presentation. And I should say for the benefit ofjournalists or
for the benefit ofjournalists or people listening that both the
people listening that both the presentation and the discussion on
presentation and the discussion on the record. 50 it will be
presentation and the discussion on the record. So it will be recorded
the record. So it will be recorded in any shape or
the record. 50 it will be recorded in any shape or form that is
in any shape or form that is required. Let me
in any shape or form that is required. Let mejust
in any shape or form that is required. Let me just start with
required. Let me just start with your criticism about how we handled
your criticism about how we handled the withdrawal from Afghanistan over
the withdrawal from Afghanistan over the last few weeks. You mentioned at
the last few weeks. You mentioned at the beginning of your speech by
the beginning of your speech by saying, my views are known. You use
saying, my views are known. You use the rather strong, sometimes one
the rather strong, sometimes one could argue a bit spicy, terminology
could argue a bit spicy, terminology in terms of criticising the concept
in terms of criticising the concept of the forever wars. On packet —— on
of the forever wars. On packet -- on packet, tell us why
of the forever wars. On packet —— on packet, tell us why you think the
packet, tell us why you think the concept is harmful, as you
concept is harmful, as you suggested, and security questions.
suggested, and security questions. The term or the phrase ending
The term or the phrase ending forever wars has been used by
forever wars has been used by politicians of all political
politicians of all political stripes, particularly in the United
stripes, particularty in the United States.
stripes, particularly in the United States. Let me say right at the very
States. Let me say right at the very beginning, I have deep respect for
beginning, I have deep respect for President Biden, I had me Ajer and
President Biden, I had me Ajer and like him and agree with many of the
like him and agree with many of the things he is trying to do. —— I
things he is trying to do. -- I admire and
things he is trying to do. —— I admire and like him. But not simply
admire and like him. But not simply the Democrat Party but the
the Democrat Party but the Republican party, they use this
Republican party, they use this phrase and I think it is deeply
phrase and I think it is deeply disabling as a phrase. Because
disabling as a phrase. Because number one, we haven’t ended this
number one, we haven’t ended this war. We have ended our participation
war. We have ended our participation in it, different concept. Number
in it, different concept. Number two, it is not forever. In 20 years,
two, it is not forever. In 20 years, for a lot of the groups we have been
for a lot of the groups we have been fighting, and if you take the
fighting, and if you take the communism analogy, we stayed with
communism analogy, we stayed with that for 60, 70 years or more. But
that for 60, 70 years or more. But finally, the rhythm of what we are
finally, the rhythm of what we are doing post—2014 and by the end of
doing post-2014 and by the end of 2019
doing post—2014 and by the end of 2019 was obvious in a completely
2019 was obvious in a completely different to what we do in 2005,
different to what we do in 2005, 2006, 2007 and in the years after
2006, 2007 and in the years after the big problems arose in
the big problems arose in Afghanistan. 50 I
the big problems arose in Afghanistan. 50 Ijust think it is
Afghanistan. So Ijust think it is not a good
Afghanistan. 50 Ijust think it is not a good way of making policy
not a good way of making policy because in the end, it is a
because in the end, it is a political slogan.
because in the end, it is a politicalslogan. It
because in the end, it is a political slogan. It is not really
political slogan. It is not really based on an analysis of the correct
based on an analysis of the correct strategy. I have the benefit of
strategy. I have the benefit of talking to you before this event and
talking to you before this event and I know you’re thinking. But I
talking to you before this event and I know you’re thinking. But Ijust
I know you’re thinking. But I just wonder if you
I know you’re thinking. But Ijust wonder if you can tell us, the
wonder if you ran tell us, the proposition
wonder if you can tell us, the proposition that is now being put by
proposition that is now being put by a lot of people including the
a lot of people including the American President that we should
American President that we should get some of bin Laden, which by the
get some of bin Laden, which by the “Y
get some of bin Laden, which by the way took ten years, and somehow get
way took ten years, and somehow get out, and leave the pieces to the
out, and leave the pieces to the others, is it something you would
others, is it something you would have been able to sell to the
have been able to sell to the British public in 2001? I think it
British public in 2001? I think it is quite important, it is a good
is quite important, it is a good question because it is important to
question because it is important to go back and relive the events of
go back and relive the events of 9/11. I haven’t seen it yet, but I
9/11. I haven’t seen it yet, but I gather that is quite a good
gather that is quite a good documentary done by the BBC about
documentary done by the BBC about that day and the events of the
that day and the events of the decisions that were taken, at least
decisions that were taken, at least by the American President, President
by the American President, President Bush, at that time. I don’t think
Bush, at that time. I don’t think peopla would
Bush, at that time. I don’t think people would have felt a response
people would have felt a response that was merely about going and
that was merely about going and trying to deal with Al-Qaeda and
trying to deal with Al-anda and getting
trying to deal with Al-Qaeda and getting back out again, I don’t
getting back out again, I don’t think people would have found that
think peopla would have found that acceptable
think people would have found that acceptable at the time. Things can
acceptable at the time. Things can change officially over time. But in
change officially over time. But in any event, I don’t think you can
any event, I don’t think you ran deal with
any event, I don’t think you can deal with these groups when they are
deal with these groups when they are entrenched, simply by
entrenched, simply by counterterrorism measures. I
entrenched, simply by counterterrorism measures. Ijust
counterherrorism measures. Ijust don’t
counterterrorism measures. Ijust don’t think it is possible. They
don’t think it is possible. They hold territory. They build capacity.
hold territory. They build capacity. On the one thing that is very clear
On the one thing that is very clear about them is they are prepared to
about them is they are prepared to take large numbers of casualties. I
take large numbers of casualties. I mean, in the work my institute does
mean, in the work my institute does come up when you look even in the
come up when you look even in the years 2017 and 2018, you know, and
years 2017 and 2018, you know, and you look round—the—world, the
you look round-the-world, the numbers
you look round—the—world, the numbers of people that die at the
numbers of peopla that die at the hands of
numbers of people that die at the hands of the extremists is large,
hands of the extremists is large, but the numbers of extremists
but the numbers of extremists themselves who die is even larger.
themselves who die is even larger. But it hasn’t stopped them growing
But it hasn’t stopped them growing anﬂar
But it hasn’t stopped them growing antler of rating and they will
antler of rating and they will continue to do so. And I think one
continue to do so. And I think one of the things that is most difficult
of the things that is most difficult is for us to get our heads round the
is for us to get our heads round the elements of this to do with genuine
elements of this to do with genuine religious conviction. That may be
religious conviction. That may be completely misguided, but it is a
completely misguided, but it is a genuine religious belief that has
genuine religious belief that has been turned into this political
been turned into this political ideology. And the interesting thing
ideology. And the interesting thing about the work that my Institute has
about the work that my Institute has done and I really recommend the
done and I really recommend the paper on the roots of Islamism and
paper on the roots of Islamism and also... Former Prime Minister of the
also... Former Prime Minister of the UK Tony Blair at the Royal United
UK Tony Blair at the Royal United Services Institute delivering a
Services Institute delivering a speech marking the anniversary of
speech marking the anniversary of 9/11, but also dealing with the
9/11, but also dealing with the current situation in Afghanistan,
current situation in Afghanistan, and one of the points he made was
and one of the points he made was that our best allies, referring to
that our best allies, referring to the West, our best allies can be
the West, our best allies ran be found he
the West, our best allies can be found he said in many countries,
found he said in many countries, including the Middle East, desperate
including the Middle East, desperate to take back control of their
to take back control of their religion from extremists. We are
religion from extremists. We are going to move on now with some of
going to move on now with some of the days of the
going to move on now with some of the day’s of the main stories.
Millions of pupils are returning to classrooms
in England and Wales, amid fears of a spike
in students with Covid.
Scientists have warned of a rapid rise in school cases without such
measures and experts have not recommended jabs for healthy 12
to 15—year—olds.
In England, there are over 30 times more
children with Covid compared with last year.
In Scotland,
cases among the under—155 have trebled since school
restarted in mid—August.
We can’t say that the rise has been solely caused by schools
returning.
This graph shows cases in 2020 — in green —
and this year — in red.
Although cases were much lower at this point in 2020,
they followed a similar pattern, rising before schools went back
and then increasing more steeply later in September.
So what does this all mean in practical terms for schools as they
practical terms for schools as they return?
Martine Croxall is at a school in Stockton—on—Tees.
Thank you very much. You could be forgiven for thinking that this is
forgiven for thinking that this is some kind of medical centre, but it
some kind of medical centre, but it is not, it is the PE Hall at
is not, it is the PE Hall at Northshore Academy in Stockton upon
Northshore Academy in Stockton upon teas. And it has gone really quiet.
teas. And it has gone really quiet. It was really noisy a few minutes
It was really noisy a few minutes ago when the students were in here,
ago when the students were in here, but this is where 700 students have
but this is where 700 students have to be tested and have their lateral
to be tested and have their lateral ﬂow
to be tested and have their lateral flow tests done to keep the
flow tests done to keep the community safe. We will be talking
community safe. We will be talking in a moment about the challenges of
in a moment about the challenges of operating under these Covid
operating under these Covid conditions. This is the first day
conditions. This is the first day back for the new term here at
back for the new term here at Northshore Academy and everybody is
Northshore Academy and everybody is hoping that it will be a much better
hoping that it will be a much better year than last year. But there are
year than last year. But there are no masks, no bubbles, but it doesn’t
no masks, no bubbles, but it doesn’t mean things are quite back to normal
mean things are quite back to normal for everybody yet, as our education
for everybody yet, as our education editor reports.
Teacher Owen Harvey started 2021 in hospital with coronavirus.
He was away from his primary school class for months.
Barely able to walk, Owen gradually built
back his strength in his garden.
So this school year is a big step back to normal for this teacher,
now vaccinated, and for pupils, who’ll be able to mix
freely in the playground.
We’re just excited to get everybody back into school and to get back
to something like a normal curriculum, do assemblies again,
get that lovely social feeling that schools have been missing out
on so much of, and just get back to being school as normal.
Testing started in some of England’s secondary schools last week.
It’s the main precaution in place this term.
The top government doctors across the UK have another decision.
Should they offer the vaccine to all 12 to 15—year—olds?
Experts say the benefits aren’t great enough.
It’s a milder illness in teenagers.
Schools will be trying to return to their usual routines
and to reassure pupils.
School leaders need the choice to be able to adapt the contingency
framework and actually make it relevant to the local need, rather
than the national need.
So if we need to make adjustments to the measures we put in place
to minimise the risk, that we have the choice to do that,
and we can do it immediately, that we do not have to wait.
Owen has been walking his way back to health, back
to the classroom he loves, like many parents and pupils,
hoping this school year will be so much better than the last.
Branwen Jefferys, BBC News.
That must be a sentiment shared by so many millions of people across
so many millions of peopla across the country.
so many millions of people across the country. Teachers, parents and
the country. Teachers, parents and students alike. And of course,
students alike. And of course, schools still have to be kept safe
schools still have to be kept safe because Covid is still very much in
because Covid is still very much in the community. We are joined
because Covid is still very much in the community. We arejoined by
the community. We arejoined by Gareth Edmonds, the chief operating
Gareth Edmonds, the chief operating officer for the Northern
Gareth Edmonds, the chief operating officerfor the Northern Education
officer for the Northern Education Trust,
officerfor the Northern Education Trust, made up of 21 different
Trust, made up of 21 different school Academy is serving 1A,000
school Academy is sewing 14,000 pupils, it is a
school Academy is serving 1A,000 pupils, it is a very big community
pupils, it is a very big community to look after. We are here in a
to look after. We are here in a testing centre for the 700 students
testing centre for the 700 students at Northshore Academy, how difficult
at Northshore Academy, how difficult has it been setting this up compared
has it been setting this up compared with the other challenges you face?
with the other challenges you face? We followed the Government guidance,
We followed the Government guidance, we have worked over the summer to
we have worked over the summer to set the test centre is up. The
set the test centre is up. The assessed centres are running in all
assessed centres are mnning in all the secondary
assessed centres are running in all the secondary Academies this week,
the secondary Academies this week, students will receive two tests and
students will receive two tests and we will be back into the normal
we will be back into the normal student day within the Academies. It
student day within the Academies. It looks like the most peculiar thing
looks like the most peculiar thing to set up in a school, but this is
to set up in a school, but this is the easy hit, you are saying. Yes,
the easy hit, you are saying. Yes, the main challenge has been around
the main challenge has been around keeping a high—quality education for
keeping a high—quality education for children who haven’t been in the
children who haven’t been in the Academy, delivering remote learning
Academy, delivering remote learning packages through ICT, supporting our
packages through ICI’, supporting our workforce,
packages through ICT, supporting our workforce, revising our
packages through ICT, supporting our workforce, revising ourfinancial
workforce, revising our financial plans
workforce, revising ourfinancial plans throughout the year to support
plans throughout the year to support the students and office three
the students and office three maintaining the estates while the
maintaining the estates while the Academies have been closed. 5,000 of
Academies have been closed. 5,000 of your pupils needed laptops, a lot of
your pupils needed laptops, a lot of them came from the Government, the
them came from the Government, the trust provided the rest. But getting
trust provided the rest. But getting a laptop to a pupil was the first
a laptop to a pupil was the first bit of it. There was a lot more
bit of it. There was a lot more complication and just the IT and the
complication and just the IT and the software. Yes, that is right, no
software. Yes, that is right, no student in the Northern Education
student in the Northern Education Trust you needed a device didn’t get
Trust you needed a device didn’t get one, we got devices to all students
one, we got devices to all students who had a need, but for the IT
who had a need, but for the IT teams, there was a lot of work
teams, there was a lot of work around maintaining the remote
around maintaining the remote working for students in lessons and
working for students in lassons and then the
working for students in lessons and then the 5,000 devices needed,
then the 5,000 devices needed, anti—software, safeguarding software
anti-software, safeguarding software so the
anti—software, safeguarding software so the students remain safe and the
so the students remain safe and the safeguarding to keep in touch with
safeguarding to keep in touch with them to make sure they were
them to make sure they were supported. It sounds like you had to
supported. It sounds like you had to send a SWAT team and to get
send a SWAT team and to get everybody up and running quite
everybody up and mnning quite quickly, but
everybody up and running quite quickly, but it was quite
quickly, but it was quite successful, the pupils did well with
successful, the pupils did well with onUne
successful, the pupils did well with online learning? Yes, it has been
online learning? Yes, it has been one of the positives of this
one of the positives of this pandemic over the last 18 months,
pandemic over the last 18 months, students have taken remarkably well
students have taken remarkably well to remote learning, teachers have
to remote learning, teachers have worked well with it and new ways of
worked well with it and new ways of working have been developed.
working have been developed. Significant investment in ICT to be
Significant investment in ICT to be able to share work, to host shared
able to share work, to host shared learning across a number of
learning across a number of geographical boundaries has been a
geographical boundaries has been a great success. 50 now you are back
great success. So now you are back in the first day
great success. 50 now you are back in the first day of term, very kind
in the first day of term, very kind of you to invite us in when it is
of you to invite us in when it is obviously a settling in day for a
obviously a settling in day for a lot of people. You are trying to
lot of peopla. You are trying to keep
lot of people. You are trying to keep the place safe and there is a
keep the place safe and there is a lot of emphasis at the moment on air
lot of emphasis at the moment on air quality and monitoring airflow. How
quality and monitoring airﬂow. How are you doing
quality and monitoring airflow. How are you doing that, what guidance
are you doing that, what guidance and support have you had to keep
and support have you had to keep that ticking over properly? Yes, we
that ticking over property? Yes, we are testing five
that ticking over properly? Yes, we are testing five monitors in
are testing five monitors in Northshore at present. C02 monitors
Northshore at present. C02 monitors in Northshore. But it forms part of
in Northshore. But it forms part of a wider risk assessment that we have
a wider risk assessment that we have inside the school. So that is one
inside the school. So that is one area, but we have a really rigorous
area, but we have a really rigorous risk assessment around cleaning,
risk assessment around cleaning, around how students move around the
around how students move around the academy, it is one area that we are
academy, it is one area that we are looking at to keep students and
looking at to keep students and staff say. I am wondering if there
staff say. I am wondering if there are some changes you made because of
are some changes you made because of the pandemic you would be quite keen
the pandemic you would be quite keen to keep? Yes, there are a few. In
to keep? Yes, there are a few. In terms of the remote learning, that
terms of the remote learning, that has worked really well for a number
has worked really well for a number of students. It has worked really
of students. It has worked really well that best practice across our
well that best practice across our Academies. Certainly, in the test
Academies. Certainly, in the test centre the hygiene factor, we would
centre the hygiene factor, we would want to keep, particularly around
want to keep, particularly around lunchtimes and breaks where we are
lunchtimes and breaks where we are hoping that will help with
hoping that will help with attendance rates around the normal
attendance rates around the normal bugs, vimses,
attendance rates around the normal bugs, viruses, etc that we would
bugs, viruses, etc that we would have. And I think
bugs, viruses, etc that we would have. And I thinkjust the general
have. And I think just the general “Y
have. And I think just the general way the
have. And I thinkjust the general way the school has been set
have. And I thinkjust the general way the school has been setup, it
way the school has been set up, it it is a lot
way the school has been setup, it it is a lot safer and the hygiene
it is a lot safer and the hygiene has improved.
Wednesday night onwards. —— thunder from Wednesday.
Vaccines are under a lot of discussion at the moment and whether
discussion at the moment and whether there is any merit in giving a Covid
there is any merit in giving a Covid vaccine to 12 to 15—year—olds and
vaccine to 12 to 15-year-olds and that is very
vaccine to 12 to 15—year—olds and that is very much the group that you
that is very much the group that you are teaching here at this academy.
are teaching here at this academy. What
are teaching here at this academy. what is your
are teaching here at this academy. What is your view on whether they
what is your view on whether they should
What is your view on whether they should be vaccinated? Spoke to two
should be vaccinated? Spoke to two students this morning, it remains a
students this morning, it remains a personal view for those students to
personal view for those students to make that decision themselves. But
make that decision themselves. But from the trust perspective I think
from the trust perspective I think it is certainly something we would
it is certainly something we would encourage and like to have as the
encourage and like to have as the next step beyond these test centres
next step beyond these test centres we operate. The argument is from a
we operate. The argument is from a health point of view there is no
health point of view there is no real need because they do not
real need because they do not contract Covid very badly. There is
contract Covid very badly. There is the risk of lung Covid for some
the risk of lung Covid for some children like anybody but should we
children like anybody but should we be vaccinated children to protect
be vaccinated children to protect older people? What are the merits of
older people? what are the merits of doing so in your
older people? What are the merits of doing so in your view? That is part
doing so in your view? That is part of a wider risk assessment for
of a wider risk assessment for keeping everybody safe. If children
keeping everybody safe. If children wish to participate in that
wish to participate in that vaccination programme and it has
vaccination programme and it has some benefits and I would welcome
some benefits and I would welcome that. Other vaccines are given in
that. other vaccines are given in school
that. Other vaccines are given in school like the HPV vaccine are
school like the HPV vaccine are sometimes delivered to this age
sometimes delivered to this age EWUP
sometimes delivered to this age group so how well—equipped would you
group so how well-equipped would you be to
group so how well—equipped would you be to administer the vaccine on
be to administer the vaccine on site? This shows how resilient
site? This shows how resilient schools have been over the last 18
schools have been over the last 18 months and if there was that desire
months and if there was that desire to do that it is something the trust
to do that it is something the trust would be able to encourage to
would be able to encourage to children and families should they
children and families should they wish. You serve pockets of the
wish. You serve pockets of the community that are under privileged,
community that are under privileged, disadvantaged, you have quite a few
disadvantaged, you have quite a few children here on free school meals
children here on free school meals and that was very much a
and that was very much a consideration to make sure they were
consideration to make sure they were fed property
consideration to make sure they were fed properly during the pandemic,
fed property during the pandemic, but in
fed properly during the pandemic, but in terms of recovery, we hear a
but in terms of recovery, we hear a lot about what education needs to
lot about what education needs to recover. Her
lot about what education needs to recover. Herfar back
lot about what education needs to recover. Her far back do you think
recover. Her far back do you think is an Academy failed during the
is an Academy failed during the pandemic? With the IT learning,
pandemic? with the IT learning, remote
pandemic? With the IT learning, remote learning, the shared learning
remote learning, the shared learning across the trust, those students
across the trust, those students have had a real high quality level
have had a real high quality level of education. Their lessons were
of education. Their lessons were maintained, their subjects are
maintained, their subjects are maintained. A number of pastoral
maintained. A number of pastoral staff contacted children, every
staff contacted children, every child had a call once a weekend of
child had a all once a weekend of the
child had a call once a weekend of the child was deemed vulnerable
the child was deemed vulnerable there was a number of calls need
there was a number of falls need daily to
there was a number of calls need daily to support that child and
daily to support that child and their
daily to support that child and theirfamily. The progress the
theirfamily. The progress the children made, yes, we have had some
children made, yes, we have had some catch ups that have been funded and
catch ups that have been funded and they have been well received but the
they have been well received but the provision that children have had
provision that children have had across the trust been a real credit
across the trust been a real credit to teachers. You have had hundreds
to teachers. You have had hundreds of children you are telling me
of children you are telling me dambering
of children you are telling me clambering for master classes which
dambering for master classes which is amazing,
clambering for master classes which is amazing, signing up for stuff
is amazing, signing up for stuff outside the school day, which is a
outside the school day, which is a testament to the learning here.
testament to the learning here. Thank you very much. Obviously some
Thank you very much. Obviously some children need more support than
children need more support than others. Those who have special
others. Those who have special educational needs in particular
educational needs in particular found it quite a struggle during the
found it quite a struggle during the pandemic if they were having to
pandemic if they were having to learn online. We will be speaking to
learn online. We will be speaking to a couple of those in a few minutes,
a couple of those in a few minutes, within the next hour or so, and also
within the next hour or so, and also the special educational needs
the special educational needs co—ordinator here.
co—ordinator here. Thank you very much. A few more
co-ordinator here. Thank you very much. A few more of
Thank you very much. A few more of your responses on Twitter to the
your responses on Twitter to the question we asked earlier, how are
question we asked eartier, how are you feeling
question we asked earlier, how are you feeling about your children
you feeling about your children going back to school? How concerned
going back to school? How concerned are you? Are there any measures in
are you? Are there any measures in place? This one says my 11—year—old
place? This one says my 11-year-old daughter
place? This one says my 11—year—old daughter returned last Wednesday and
daughter returned last Wednesday and is of Covid positive already along
is of Covid positive already along with mum and myself. Someone says
with mum and myself. Someone says doing the exact same thing time
doing the exact same thing time after time expecting different
after time expecting different results as a theme of madness away
results as a theme of madness away are English people expected to throw
are English people expected to throw their kids to the lines Scotland
their kids to the lines Scotland have trebled since schools reopened
have trebled since schools reopened yet the stats show that in the under
yet the stats show that in the under 15 age group cases have trebled in
15 age group cases have trebled in Scotland. Schools there went back in
Scotland. Schools there went back in the middle of August. John says your
the middle of August. john says your interview
the middle of August. John says your interview with the Commissioner for
interview with the Commissioner for schools was concerning and she
schools was concerning and she reassured that pupils and students
reassured that pupils and students would be safe and no mention of the
would be safe and no mention of the wider public. Teenagers do not tend
wider public. Teenagers do not tend to wear masks on public transport.
to wear masks on public transport. Keep your thoughts coming in on
Keep your thoughts coming in on this. I
Keep your thoughts coming in on this. lam
Keep your thoughts coming in on this. I am sure it is a subject we
this. I am sure it is a subject we will be returning to again and
will be returning to again and again. You can do that on Twitter.
And viewers in the UK can find out more about some of the big questions
about the school return — on catch—up plans, mental health
and the legacy of coronavirus — in a special programme on the BBC
News Channel this evening.
Discussing those issues will be Mary Bousted
from the National Education Union, Natalie Perea from the
Education Policy Institute, and Jules White, Head Teacher
at Tanbridge House School in Surrey.
That’s at half—past eight tonight in the UK.
The headlines on BBC News:
The Taliban says it’s taken control of Panjshir Valley —
the last part of Afghanistan not under their control.
But the claim’s being disputed by rebel forces.
The UK Prime Minister BorisJohnson will tell MPs that he’ll
"use every economic, political and diplomatic
lever to protect the UK, and help the Afghan people."
The Prime Minister also faces a significant backlash
from within his own party, over plans to pay for social
care reforms in England by increasing National Insurance.
Back to school for millions more children in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland 7 but will it spark
a rise in Covid cases?
Conjoined twins see each other for the first time —
after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour operation to separate them.
A three—year—old boy is found alive, in rugged
Australian bushland, after going missing
from his home on Friday.
BorisJohnson is facing a backlash from MPs as they return
to Westminster, over plans for reforming the funding of social
care and the NHS in England.
Many, including prominent Conservatives, are angry
about reports that he’s considering raising national
insurance rates, which would break a manifesto pledge.
Reports suggest £5.5 billion of funding has been agreed
to plug NHS shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment
caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
The government is also considering increasing national
insurance contributions by at least 1% to improve social care.
National insurance is paid by workers until they reach
the state pension age, and by their employers.
For someone on average earnings of £29,500,
a 1% increase in national insurance would cost them about £200 a year.
Our Chief Political Correspondent, Adam Fleming, has been
giving us more details.
Eli”.
MPs are coming back to Westminster today and it is the first day of
today and it is the first day of Parliament sitting as normal. All
Partiament sitting as normal. All the MP5
Parliament sitting as normal. All the MP5 are going to be there and
the MP5 are going to be there and that means the atmosphere is going
that means the atmosphere is going to be heightened and one
to be heightened and one Conservative backbencher said to me
Conservative backbencher said to me it is already pretty feeble before
it is already pretty feeble before anyone has even got here. What we
anyone has even got here. what we are expecting is
anyone has even got here. What we are expecting is two things. The
are expecting is two things. The first is this extra £5.5 billion for
first is this extra 55.5 billion for the NHS
first is this extra £5.5 billion for the NHS this financial year for the
the NHS this financial year for the second half of this year and that is
second half of this year and that is to help health service get through
to help health service get through the winter to deal with Covid and
the winter to deal with Covid and also to help deal with the backlog,
also to help deal with the backlog, peopla who
also to help deal with the backlog, people who missed out on other
people who missed out on other treatment because the pandemic. That
treatment because the pandemic. That is the less controversial starter if
is the less controversial starter if you like. Then as soon as tomorrow
you like. Then as soon as tomorrow we could get the more controversial
we could get the more controversial main course which is the
main course which is the government’s proposals for reforming
government’s proposals for reforming adult social care in England and we
adult social rare in England and we think the
adult social care in England and we think the centrepiece of that will
think the centrepiece of that will be revising this idea of a cap on
be revising this idea of a rap on the total
be revising this idea of a cap on the total amount that an individual
the total amount that an individual could be liable for their care costs
could be liable for their rare costs over their
could be liable for their care costs over their lifetime which would
over their lifetime which would protect people from extortionate
protect peopla from extortionate bills, but
protect people from extortionate bills, but that would mean more
bills, but that would mean more taxpayer money going into the social
taxpayer money going into the social rare system
taxpayer money going into the social care system and it looks like
care system and it looks like ministers have decided an increase
ministers have decided an increase in national insurance contributions
in national insurance contributions by employees and employers is the
by employees and employers is the “Y
by employees and employers is the way to do that. Details of the
way to do that. Details of the negotiations between government
negotiations between government departments have been coming out in
departments have been coming out in dribs and drabs over the last couple
dribs and drabs over the last couple of months, but because of the
of months, but because of the absence of a concrete proposal that
absence of a concrete proposal that means the field has been kind of
means the field has been kind of left open to the
left open to the critics to get their arguments in first so you get
their arguments in first so you get quite a lot of Tory MPs seeing
quite a lot of Tory MPs seeing national insurance is the wrong tax
national insurance is the wrong tax because it is paid by people of
because it is paid by peopla of working
because it is paid by people of working age and once you get to
working age and once you get to state pension age you do not pay
state pension age you do not pay national insurance any more even
national insurance any more even though it is quite likely you may be
though it is quite likely you may be the one benefiting from the care
the one benefiting from the rare spending
the one benefiting from the care spending when you are that age, and
spending when you are that age, and you get cut some Conservatives,
you get cut some Conservatives, including some in the cabinet, who
including some in the cabinet, who say this would be a clear breach of
say this would be a dear breach of their
say this would be a clear breach of their manifesto at the last
their manifesto at the last election. What we are starting to
elaction. what we are starting to see is peopla
election. What we are starting to see is people in the government
see is people in the government making the case for the change and
making the use for the change and this morning it
making the case for the change and this morning it was the Armed Forces
this morning it was the Armed Forces Minister james
this morning it was the Armed Forces MinisterJames Healy.
Far too many of my constituents who are retired rely
on their state pension, and they’re certainly not
in a house that is entirely bought and paid for,
and they’re terrified of falling ill and not being able
to afford their own care.
This is something that shouldn’t be pitted as generation
against generation.
The social contract is that, whilst you’re of working age,
you pay your taxes to pay for those who are not working,
in anticipation that when you yourself are retired
those who are of working age at that time will do the same for you.
That social contract has become dangerously out of balance.
This isn’t an intergenerational thing.
There are people who are young who are in need and need support,
and there are people who are old who are in
need and need support.
We need a social contract that is fair for all.
Going back to when Boris
Going back to when BorisJohnson mentioned this in his first speech
mentioned this in his first speech as Prime Minister he said we will
as Prime Minister he said we will fix the social care crisis with a
fix the social rare crisis with a dear plan we
fix the social care crisis with a clear plan we have prepared, but
dear plan we have prepared, but dearty the
clear plan we have prepared, but clearly the plan on how to fund it
dearty the plan on how to fund it is far
clearly the plan on how to fund it is far from worked out. Is there a
is far from worked out. Is there a risk this could lead to a delay in
risk this could lead to a delay in the reforms that social care needs?
the reforms that social rare needs? The
the reforms that social care needs? The government is still negotiating
The government is still negotiating with itself over the proposal it is
with itself over the proposal it is going to put forward so there are
going to put forward so there are prospects of a delay there because
prospects of a delay there because it has already been delayed once
it has already been delayed once because this was meant to happen
because this was meant to happen before the summer holiday. Then the
before the summer holiday. Then the government will have to negotiate
government will have to negotiate with its own backbenchers and other
with its own backbenchers and other parties in Parliament because they
parties in Partiament because they said they
parties in Parliament because they said they wanted to do this on a
said they wanted to do this on a cross-party
said they wanted to do this on a cross—party basis, so more scope for
cross-party basis, so more scope for delay they are,
cross—party basis, so more scope for delay they are, and introducing a
delay they are, and introducing a GP
delay they are, and introducing a rap on social
delay they are, and introducing a cap on social care costs is very
rap on social rare costs is very easy to say. It
cap on social care costs is very easy to say. It requires quite a lot
easy to say. It requires quite a lot of logistic and
easy to say. It requires quite a lot of logistics and practice that would
of logistic and practice that would involve
of logistics and practice that would involve local authorities across the
involve [oral authorities across the country and
involve local authorities across the country and care providers of the
country and rare providers of the scope for a
country and care providers of the scope for a massive delay there as
scope for a massive delay there as well, and it is worth remembering
well, and it is worth remembering this is already been delayed and
this is already been delayed and kicked into the long grass multiple
kicked into the long grass multiple times over the last few decades, but
times over the last few decades, but even this precise mechanism of a cap
even this precise mechanism of a rap and a
even this precise mechanism of a cap and a change to the means test about
and a change to the means test about who is eligible for care anyway is
who is eligibla for rare anyway is actually
who is eligible for care anyway is actually already on the statute
actually already on the statute books, it exists as a piece of
books, it exists as a piece of legislation, passed by David
legislation, passed by David Cameron’s government. It is ready to
Cameron’s government. It is ready to go. It is just that they oppose the
go. It is just that they oppose the introduction of it for various
introduction of it for various political, economic and logistical
political, economic and logistical reasons. It is desired to think that
reasons. It is desired to think that this whole big changes kind of
this whola big changes kind of sitting
this whole big changes kind of sitting there already in
sitting there already in legislation, in hibernation, ready
legislation, in hibernation, ready to go, but the things that make it
to go, but the things that make it ready to go on a whole load of very
ready to go on a whole load of very complicated political values and
complicated political values and financial decisions. Adam Fleming.
Conjoined twins from Israel have been able to see each
other for the first time after being separated.
The one—year—old sisters underwent a 12—hour operation that took months
of preparation and involved dozens of experts.
Claire Sedman reports.
Sisters face—to—face for the first time after surviving
a miraculous marathon operation.
Conjoined at the back of their heads from birth
a year ago, separation surgery was meticulously planned
between major blood vessels in their heads.
A very delicate task — one bleed could be catastrophic.
TRANSLATION: Of course, after all the preparations
and all of the models we have built in a designated surgery room,
we specifically prepared for this thing with a surgical
theatre and VR of the twins and with 3 SD model
we prepared in advance.
Where the two were attached, there was no skin and skull,
so doctors needed the babies to essentially grow more skin.
Inflatable silicon bags were inserted into their heads
and gently expanded to stretch their skin slowly.
This meant that, when doctors reconstructed their skulls
after the separation, they had excess skin,
which could be used to seal their new heads.
We are just finishing the twins’ separation procedure.
It has gone extremely well and I’m delighted how well
the whole team’s done.
It’s an excellent team here and it’s been a real
pleasure to be a part of it.
Medics say this type of surgery, a first for Israel,
has only ever happened 20 times worldwide.
Separating them so young, they say there is now
a high chance they will live normal lives —
already breathing and eating on their own.
There is rehabilitation for their physical
and cognitive development planned which will, no doubt,
be spurred on by these remarkable sisters’
own determination to succeed.
Claire Sedman, BBC News.
A three—year—old boy missing in Australian bushland
since Friday has been found alive.
Anthony A] Elfalak was feared to have been abducted.
But he was discovered after police helicopter pilots spotted him
in amongst trees in a deep gully in New South Wales.
Here is the moment Anthony was spotted
after the four day search.
He was seen sitting in a puddle using his hands to drink water.
He has since been reunited with his family after he went vanished
on his parents’ rural property.
Our Sydney Correspondent, Shaimaa Khalil, told me his family
are describing the rescue as a miracle.
ﬂ
I cannot stop watching that footage
I rannot stop watching that footage that you
I cannot stop watching that footage that you were just chewing and
that you were just chewing and talking about. That moment when he
talking about. That moment when he was found by the police saying I
was found by the police saying I have got the boy, and you can see
have got the boy, and you ran see him scooping
have got the boy, and you can see him scooping water with his little
him scooping water with his little hands and washing his face, four
hands and washing his face, four days after he had gone missing and
days after he had gone missing and very unforgiving very rugged
very unforgiving very rugged terrain, rocks and secretaries.
terrain, rocks and secretaries. There was another extraordinary
There was another extraordinary moment right after this where he was
moment right after this where he was being held by the rescue teams and
being held by the rescue teams and his mother saying they have found my
his mother saying they have found my baby, and he was reunited with his
baby, and he was reunited with his mother, cradled into the ambulance,
mother, cradled into the ambulance, and just falling asleep. His father
and just falling ashep. His father said he
and just falling asleep. His father said he looked at his mother and he
said he looked at his mother and he just fell asleep in her arms. He
just fell ashep in her arms. He said
just fell asleep in her arms. He said generally he was OK and he had
said generally he was OK and he had a few and bites, some nappy rash, it
a few and bites, some nappy rash, it looks as if he fell over,
looks as if he fell over, unsurprisingly because of where he
unsurprisingly because of where he was on the terrain he was trying to
was on the terrain he was trying to navigate, but generally he is an
navigate, but generally he is an good condition. Usually for his
good condition. Usually for his parents and siblings but the larger
parents and siblings but the larger family and community, search dogs,
family and community, search dogs, hundreds of volunteer personnel, 3
hundreds of volunteer personnel, a police
hundreds of volunteer personnel, 3 police helicopter, so many people
police helicopter, so many people trying to find him. Finding him in a
trying to find him. Finding him in a place they had searched before. One
place they had searched before. One of the relatives were speaking to
of the relatives were speaking to the media saying this was an
the media saying this was an absolute nightmare but now that he
absolute nightmare but now that he is Sivebak with his family they are
is Sivehak with his family they are describing it
is Sivebak with his family they are describing it a medical. Has this
describing it a medical. Has this been a huge story in Australia? Yes,
been a huge story in Australia? Yes, it has been headline news since it
it has been headline news since it happened. We woke up this morning
happened. We woke up this morning and it was one of the big stories
and it was one of the big stories and you could hear the concern in
and you could hear the concern in the fact that this may not end well.
the fact that this may not end well. There were concerns about him being
There were concerns about him being abducted. Investigations by the
abducted. Investigations by the police. The family saying they
police. The family saying they themselves were not thinking
themselves were not thinking about... It was Father’s Day at the
about... It was Father’s Day at the weekend and of all the days he was
weekend and of all the days he was looking for his missing son... This
looking for his missing son... This ending has lifted up so many people
ending has lifted up so many peopla watching
ending has lifted up so many people watching the story quite closely,
watching the story quite closely, not expecting a happy ending but
not expecting a happy ending but also the way, the manner in which he
also the way, the manner in which he was found, just sitting on his own,
was found, just sitting on his own, drinking water, trying to fend for
drinking water, trying to fend for himself, and the minute he was
himself, and the minute he was reunited with his mother, and also
reunited with his mother, and also that moment when his family found
that moment when his family found out. You could hear someone shouting
out. You could hear someone shouting they got ten, they got ten, and
they got ten, they got ten, and everybody cheering and celebrating,
everybody cheering and celebrating, his grandmother celebrating, hands
his grandmother celebrating, hands “P
his grandmother celebrating, hands up in the air, thanking the police.
up in the air, thanking the police. A story that was followed closely in
A story that was followed closely in Australia.
The original hands from Big Ben’s clockface are to be returned
to the Elizabeth Tower in London after three years
of conservation work.
Experts have painted them to match the original
Prussian Blue colour scheme.
It’s the latest stage of the 80—million—pound
restoration project.
The iconic clock and bell were due to resume chiming this year,
but work was delayed because of the pandemic.
Tim Muffett has climbed the tower to see how the work has progressed.
What a morning it is to be 96 metres above the streets of London.
I am standing just in front of the eastern clock face
of the Elizabeth Tower, home to the world—famous Big Ben.
Pretty much surrounded by scaffolding for four years.
The biggest restoration project in its history has been under way.
It has gone on for longer and cost more money than had
originally been planned.
The team behind us are delighted to say that the finish line
is finally in sight.
Countdown to completion.
One of the biggest restoration jobs ever undertaken on a landmark
British building is approaching the finish line.
Good to see you, Ian.
And you.
What is it you’re doing here?
We’re servicing the rollers.
This is one of the bits that we couldn’t actually get
to and service while the minute hands were on.
If you’re a clock mechanic, this is like the Champions League
and the World Cup rolled into one, I’d imagine, this project.
Working on this clock will be a once—in—a—lifetime opportunity.
To actually have taken it all to pieces, putting it
back together again, and then carry on looking after it
for a few more years — it’s just going to be fantastic.
Typically, it’s this — the Great Clock of Westminster —
that activates the hammer, which strikes the Great Bell —
or Big Ben, as it’s known.
We filmed the clock before it was taken off
site for restoration.
It should be reinstalled soon.
And five years ago, we also saw why restoration was necessary.
This elevation, the water ingress is actually coming
into this clock face.
And as you can see, it’s actually affecting
and rusting away the ironwork.
This is in so much better condition than it was four or five
years ago, isn’t it?
It’s all been taken back to the bare frame.
Any damage that was done to it, it’s now been coated, painted back
up to its original colour.
One of the most striking things you notice is the colour
of the clock faces.
For many years, the minute demarcations, the numbers
and the clock hands were painted black.
But during the refurbishment, as many layers of paint
were stripped away, it became clear that they were originally
this shade of blue — it’s called Prussian Blue —
and that is what they’ve been repainted in.
This restoration project was originally budgeted at £29 million.
The total bill is now set to exceed 80 million.
As you peel off the layers of this building, you find more and more
that needs to be done.
When we’re taking out one piece of stain, adjacent stains often
needed to be replaced.
It’s one of those things, until you can get up close to it,
it’s very difficult to see the scope of repair.
The pandemic also brought work to a halt for several months,
so the tower’s been covered up for longer than expected.
It’s sad that I can’t see it, you know — just, we’re
here for one night and then...
Big Ben’s, like, covered.
Yeah, it’s covered.
We’ve been here for two years.
We haven’t seen it open.
It looks ugly, doesn’t it?
Yeah, no, we need it back.
I mean, already, you can kind of see the restoration.
With the clock mechanism out of action, a computerised
system has meant that, on special occasions,
Big Ben has still been struck.
We’re standing in the belfry of the Elizabeth Tower
and it was specially constructed so that the chiming bells
for the four quarters could be heard right across London.
There’s one piece of damage here that’s been deliberately left alone.
This crack appeared when Big Ben was struck during a test in 1858.
The hammer was too heavy, but it gives the bell its unique tone.
This is London.
BONG.
It should be E — the note E — but it does give it
a slightly ﬂat sound — a very serious sound, in fact.
So, that’s one bit of repairing you didn’t want to do.
That’s right, yes.
No change to the bell whatsoever because it’s
become the familiar note.
A much—loved building — largely hidden for the past few years —
slowly revealing itself once more.
Tim Muffett, BBC News.
We can chat to the chair of the Elizabeth Tower project.
So many bits of restoration you can see but also a lot we cannot.
Such a huge project.
It is a huge project and there are amazing
things you can see today, the restored hand which has been
conserved and brought back and just finished reinstalling
the clock hands.
The paint work which has gone back to the original colour scheme
in the 19th Century, gilding, stain work that has been
re—carved in many places by craftsmen working on site
and carving by hand.
That is amazing.
What you cannot see we are installing a completely
new fire safety system.
So this building will be in good order
So this building will be in good orderfor the next 160
So this building will be in good order for the next 160 years as
order for the next 160 years as well.
The range of skills that have been used to do this
restoration is extraordinary, hundreds of people based
right around the UK.
Yeah, we reckon maybe around 500 people worked on the project
at different stages and obviously as you see it is a London project
but it is also a nationwide project.
The stonework has been quarried in Yorkshire,
cast—iron has been made and new parts made
in Scotland, South Yorkshire, the glass has been hand cut
in a studio in London.
It is a huge range of skills.
Notjust those classic heritage skills but also cutting—edge stuff
like the University of Lincoln doing work with us to help establish
through analysis of paint samples to work out the original paint.
The timescale now, we are in the final stages,
when will the Elizabeth Tower and Big Ben be finished
and fully restored 7
We are in the final stages.
m:
We are starting to take down the scaffolding.
Certainly by New Year’s Eve these clock faces will be
visible to everyone.
From next year we will be bringing back the Great Clock which has been
taken apart and lovingly restored and reconnecting the bells
and you will be hearing Big Ben chiming again certainly before
Easter and then after that we will be taking the scaffolding down
I hope before the summer.
You have a lot on your plate.
It is spectacular to be up here.
The views are incredible and it will be great to see
this world—famous site with the scaffolding off back
to its glory and restored in a way it has never been restored before.
Venice has been holding its historic regatta.
The event involves a parade on the Grand Canal and
a series of boat races.
This year is the 1600th anniversary of the
foundation of the city.
It was also the first time the winning men’s and women’s
rowing teams were awarded the same cash prize.
You’re watching BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather.
Hello.
A brief return to summer this week in which we could see temperatures,
particularly in England, approach 30 Celsius, but either way,
we will see temperatures higher than at any point
than they were during August.
After a bit of a murky start, there will be more sunshine around
and that heat building.
Things change from late Wednesday onwards, traditional British
cooldown coming in the form of thunderstorms and some
outbreaks of rain.
This morning still a bit of rain around,
we saw earlier, but this afternoon, across parts of western Scotland,
a bit drizzly, one or two isolated showers through eastern England,
but a lot more sunshine across England and Wales after a bit
of a murky start to the day.
Light winds here, more breeze across western Scotland
where we continue to see the cloud and the drizzle.
Temperatures here in the mid to high teens but elsewhere widely
into the 20s and even warmer than yesterday across England
and Wales, 27 or 28 Celsius, 82 Fahrenheit.
This evening and overnight, mist, low cloud and fog will form
in the Irish Sea and across northern England, north Midlands,
North Wales, a greater chance of some dense patches of fog to take
us into tomorrow morning.
Wherever you are, though, it won’t be a cold night,
quite a muggy and humid one for some, down to 12 to 17
Celsius, the warmest across the Channel Islands.
This is the setup for Tuesday.
High pressure to the east of us, winds go around that in a clockwise
fashion and that is what is helping to bring in ever warmer air
from the near continent.
So, we’ve got mist and fog to begin with, northern England,
North Midlands, North Wales.
That will be dense through the morning rush hour,
gradually clearing.
Cloud across Scotland and Northern Ireland breaking up
a bit more readily through Tuesday compared with today and temperatures
here will start to climb into the mid 205 in inland areas.
Some fog around the coast in Northern Ireland.
But England and Wales, we could see 30 Celsius.
Into Wednesday, more sunshine for Scotland and Northern Ireland
to begin with, a few developing Northern Ireland later.
Through the day, Channel Islands, south—west England, Wales,
we are going to see some thundery downpours gradually break out.
Temperatures maybe not quite as high across England and Wales
compared with Tuesday but a warmer day in Scotland, 26, 27 Celsius.
If it all gets too much, a humid night will follow
through Wednesday night into Thursday, but
quite a thundery one.
That lasts until Thursday. In the sunshine on Thursday it will still
sunshine on Thursday it will still feel pleasant even though it is not
feel pleasant even though it is not cooler. --
feel pleasant even though it is not cooler. —— much cooler.
This is BBC News.
The headlines at 11:
The Prime Minister is facing a significant backlash
from his own MPs over plans to pay for social care reforms in England
by increasing National Insurance.
But ministers say the elderly desperately need reform.
The social contract in the UK is broken.
The contract between those of working age, paying
taxes to support those that
aren’t of working age, it is not affordable any more,
it doesn’t work.
The Taliban says it’s taken control of Panjshir Valley —
the last part of Afghanistan not under their control.
But the claim’s being disputed by rebel forces.
Back to school for millions more children in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland — but will it spark
a rise in Covid cases?
Breast cancer charities urge people to get checked
after the death of Sarah Harding
Hello baby — twins joined at the back of their heads see each
other for the first time — after undergoing a gruelling
12—hour operation to separate them.
A three—year—old boy is found alive, in rugged Australian bushland,
after going missing from his home on Friday.
And coming up this hour — four years after restorations began,
Big Ben gets its hands back!
BorisJohnson is facing a backlash from MPs as they return
to Westminster, over plans for reforming the funding of social
care and the NHS in England.
Many, including prominent Conservatives, are angry
about reports that he’s considering raising
National Insurance rates, which would break a manifesto
pledge.
Reports suggest £5.5 billion of funding has been agreed
to plug NHS shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment
caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
The government is also considering increasing
National Insurance contributions by at least1% to
improve social care.
National Insurance is paid by workers until they reach
the state pension age, and by their employers.
For someone on average earnings of £29,500,
a1% increase in National Insurance would cost them about £200 a year.
Let’s speak to lone Wells, who’s in Westminster.
Quite a storm over this. Tell us more. The first thing to say is
more. The first thing to say is there are two different
there are two different announcements at play. We are
announcements at play. We are expecting this announcement of £5.5
expecting this announcement of 55.5 billion
expecting this announcement of £5.5 billion for the NHS, something
billion for the NHS, something specifically to tackle things like
specifically to tackla things like NHS
specifically to tackle things like NHS backlogs, also upcoming winter
NHS backlogs, also upcoming winter pressures given the fact winter is
pressures given the fact winter is always busy for the NHS but in
always busy for the NHS but in addition to ongoing Covid pressures
addition to ongoing Covid pressures and backlogs of the waiting list.
and backlogs of the waiting list. Separately this row is brewing about
Separath this row is brewing about how
Separately this row is brewing about how the new plan for social care is
how the new plan for social rare is going to be
how the new plan for social care is going to be funded after reports
going to be funded after reports that the government were considering
that the government were considering raising national insurance by at
raising national insurance by at least
raising national insurance by at least1%
raising national insurance by at least 1% to
raising national insurance by at least1% to pay for this. This has
least 196 to pay for this. This has caused
least1% to pay for this. This has caused concern both by opposition
caused concern both by opposition parties but also within the
parties but also within the Conservative Party as well. There is
Conservative Party as well. There is a number of different reasons why
a number of different reasons why MPs have been concerned about this
MPs have been concerned about this on the Tory backbenches. Firstly,
on the Tory backbenches. Firstly, the effect it breaks a manifesto
the effect it breaks a manifesto promise not to raise any taxes.
promise not to raise any taxes. There are a number of conservatives
There are a number of conservatives concerned about that. There is
concerned about that. There is concern about it hitting lower wage
concern about it hitting lower wage income work harder because it is
income work harder because it is paid up until state pension age.
paid up until state pension age. There have been some MPs like the
There have been some MPs like the former minister and Tory MP
There have been some MPs like the former minister and Tory MPJake
former minister and Tory MP jake Berry arguing
former minister and Tory MPJake Berry arguing income tax would be a
Berry arguing income tax would be a better way to pay for this. It would
better way to pay for this. It would be better to raise income tax across
be better to raise income tax across the spectmm.
be better to raise income tax across the spectrum. At least everyone
the spectmm. At least everyone would pay for
the spectrum. At least everyone would pay for that. Including
would pay for that. Including pensioners who receive a very high
pensioners who receive a very high value pension, some of them tens of
value pension, some of them tens of thousands of pounds. What we are
thousands of pounds. what we are seeing here is
thousands of pounds. What we are seeing here is there are concerns
seeing here is there are concerns from MPs about financially
from MPs about financially comfortable people, some people of a
comfortable peopla, some peopla of a pensionabla
comfortable people, some people of a pensionable working age not having
pensionabla working age not having to pay
pensionable working age not having to pay certain costs but those costs
to pay certain costs but those costs being shouldered by younger
being shouldered by younger generations and low income workers.
generations and low income workers. But there have been ministers today
But there have been ministers today defending this saying we shouldn’t
defending this saying we shouldn’t be seeing this as a generation
be seeing this as a generation versus generation thing,
versus generation thing, particularly because there is an
particularty because there is an overall
particularly because there is an overall agreement among all parties
overall agreement among all parties that something needs to be done to
that something needs to be done to tackle the social care crisis. The
tackla the social rare crisis. The fact that
tackle the social care crisis. The fact that there are people of all
fact that there are people of all ages, both older generations but
ages, both older generations but also disable people who require
also disable people who require day-to-day
also disable people who require day—to—day care to help with
day-to-day rare to help with everyday
day—to—day care to help with everyday things, as we have had
everyday things, as we have had people like the defence minister
people like the defence minister today arguing that rather than being
today arguing that rather than being seen as a generation to generation
seen as a generation to generation thing, we should look at this as
thing, we should look at this as part of the social contract we all
part of the social contract we all pay into. Far too many of my
pay into. Far too many of my constituents who are retired rely on
constituents who are retired rely on their state pension and they are not
their state pension and they are not in a house entirely bought and paid
in a house entirely bought and paid for and they are terrified of
for and they are terrified of falling ill and not being able to
falling ill and not being able to afford their own care. This is
afford their own rare. This is something
afford their own care. This is something that shouldn’t be fitted
something that shouldn’t be fitted as generation against generation,
as generation against generation, the social contract is that whilst
the social contract is that whilst you are of working age, you pay your
you are of working age, you pay your taxes to pay for those who aren’t
taxes to pay for those who aren’t working. In anticipation that when
working. In anticipation that when you are retired, those that are of
you are retired, those that are of working age will do the same for
working age will do the same for you. That contract is out of
you. That contract is out of balance. This isn’t an
balance. This isn’t an intergenerational thing, there are
intergenerational thing, there are peopla who
intergenerational thing, there are people who are young who are in need
peopla who are young who are in need of support and
people who are young who are in need of support and there are people who
of support and there are peopla who are old
of support and there are people who are old who need support. We need a
are old who need support. We need a social contract that is fair for
social contract that is fair for all. The other thing to stress about
all. The other thing to stress about this is confirmation hasn’t been yet
this is confirmation hasn’t been yet given about whether it will
given about whether it will definitely be a rise to national
definitely be a rise to national insurance but one thing that is also
insurance but one thing that is also concerning MPs is both that they
concerning MP5 is both that they haven’t had this
concerning MPs is both that they haven’t had this presented to them
haven’t had this presented to them in Parliament before some of these
in Partiament before some of these reports have
in Parliament before some of these reports have been coming out about
reports have been coming out about how this will be paid for, but a lot
how this will be paid for, but a lot of MPs are searching and wanting
of MPs are searching and wanting answers to what the plan itself will
answers to what the plan itself will be, feeling one Conservative MP told
be, feeling one Conservative MP told me the funding model was being
me the funding model was being released the wrong way round. I
released the wrong way round. I think that is something a lot of MPs
think that is something a lot of MPs are concerned about. Also worth
are concerned about. Also worth stressing that social care is
stressing that social care is something that is devolved, it is
something that is devolved, it is not something which the devolved
not something which the devolved nations can set their own plans for
nations ran set their own plans for but
nations can set their own plans for but whatever funding is announced
but whatever funding is announced will have knock on implications for
will have knock on implications for the whole of the UK. Let’s talk to
the whola of the UK. Let’s talk to an
the whole of the UK. Let’s talk to an economist for fiscal studies.
an economist for fiscal studies. Stuart Adam. Let’s pick up on that
Stuart Adam. Let’s pick up on that point about the funding model being
point about the funding model being discussed before the model of social
discussed before the model of social rare will
discussed before the model of social care will look like is. In terms of
rare will look like is. In terms of how much
care will look like is. In terms of how much is needed and how much will
how much is needed and how much will be raised by this proposal to
be raised by this proposal to increase national insurance, how do
increase national insurance, how do you see the balance in those two
you see the balance in those two aspects? Each one percentage point
aspects? Each one percentage point you add to national insurance to all
you add to national insurance to all rates of national insurance,
rates of national insurance, employees, employers and the
employees, employers and the self—employed would raise you about
self-employed would raise you about £10
self—employed would raise you about £10 billion across the UK. Now, in
£10 billion across the UK. Now, in terms of how much funding is needed,
terms of how much funding is needed, a figure that is often talked about
a figure that is often talked about is also about £10 billion. That is
is also about £10 billion. That is the figure that Sir Andrew Dillon
the figure that Sir Andrew Dillon what he will lead a social care
what he will lead a social rare funding
what he will lead a social care funding review for the coalition
funding review for the coalition government recently suggested would
government recently suggested would be enough to take us from a care
be enough to take us from a rare system we
be enough to take us from a care system we should be ashamed of to
system we should be ashamed of to one that we could all be proud of. I
one that we could all be proud of. I don’t have a view as to whether that
don’t have a view as to whether that is the right amount. If you want to
is the right amount. If you want to pay for increased NHS spending as
pay for increased NHS spending as well then you need to find funding
well then you need to find funding for that. That may be more of a
for that. That may be more of a short-term
for that. That may be more of a short—term pressure, particularly in
short-term pressure, particularty in terms of
short—term pressure, particularly in terms of dealing with ongoing costs
terms of dealing with ongoing costs of Covid and trying to reduce the
of Covid and trying to reduce the NHS backlogs. What about the issue
NHS backlogs. what about the issue of the
NHS backlogs. What about the issue of the younger people bearing the
of the younger people bearing the bmnt
of the younger people bearing the brunt of the national insurance rise
bmnt of the national insurance rise because
brunt of the national insurance rise because of the fact it stops once
because of the fact it stops once you hit retirement age. Some would
you hit retirement age. Some would say it is wrong, it is outdated that
say it is wrong, it is outdated that the national insurance payments stop
the national insurance payments stop at retirement age when a lot of
at retirement age when a lot of people tarry
at retirement age when a lot of people carry on working and why
people carry on working and why shouldn’t they pay national
shouldn’t they pay national insurance on their earnings. If that
insurance on their earnings. If that were to be changed, how much would
were to be changed, how much would that raise? Imposing national
that raise? Imposing national insurance on the earnings of people
insurance on the earnings of peopla who
insurance on the earnings of people who carried on working after
who carried on working after retirement age gets you a bit of
retirement age gets you a bit of money but not a huge amount on this
money but not a huge amount on this scale, about £1 billion or so. The
stale, about £1 billion or so. The issue
scale, about £1 billion or so. The issue there
stale, about £1 billion or so. The issue there may
scale, about £1 billion or so. The issue there may be more one of
issue there may be more one of principle that if you extended it to
principle that if you extended it to the earnings of those above state
the earnings of those above state pension age, may be people would see
pension age, may be peopla would see it as lass
pension age, may be people would see it as less unfair to then raise
it as lass unfair to then raise national
it as less unfair to then raise national insurance contributions to
national insurance contributions to everyone to raise the bigger amounts
everyone to raise the bigger amounts of money that will be needed. The
of money that will be needed. The second aspect of it that is more
second aspect of it that is more important quantitatively is that
important quantitatively is that national insurance isn’t levied on
national insurance isn’t levied on pension income as opposed to the
pension income as opposed to the earnings of people over state
earnings of peopla over state pension
earnings of people over state pension age. And if you extended
pension age. And if you extended national insurance to pension income
national insurance to pension income you could potentially raise much
you could potentially raise much larger amounts of money but you need
larger amounts of money but you need to be careful about that because
to be careful about that because unlike with income tax, we don’t
unlike with income tax, we don’t give national insurance relief for
give national insurance relief for pension contributions or at least
pension contributions or at least for employee pension contributions,
for employee pension contributions, so if you just brought national
so if you just brought national insurance on pension income there
insurance on pension income there might be an element of double
might be an element of double taxation on pension saving that way.
taxation on pension saving that way. What would you say are the other
what would you say are the other viabla
What would you say are the other viable options that could raise this
viabla options that could raise this sort of
viable options that could raise this sort of money? The simplest way to
sort of money? The simplest way to raise large amounts of money is
raise large amounts of money is through increasing the rates of
through increasing the rates of national insurance, income tax,
national insurance, income tax, there is also VAT as the third. You
there is also VAT as the third. You could also look more widely at other
could also look more widely at other aspects of the tax system, things
aspects of the tax system, things like capital gains tax, inheritance
like capital gains tax, inheritance tax, there has been talk of possibly
tax, there has been talk of possibly introducing a wealth tax or anything
introducing a wealth tax or anything else, corporation tax for example,
else, corporation tax for example, duties on fuel and tobacco and
duties on fuel and tobacco and alcohol. With those smaller taxes it
alcohol. with those smaller taxes it is harder
alcohol. With those smaller taxes it is harder to raise really large sums
is harder to raise really large sums so you either need to do something
so you either need to do something more radical to those taxes or you
more radical to those taxes or you would need to get little bit of
would need to get little bit of money from several different ones in
money from several different ones in order to raise the revenue you would
order to raise the revenue you would need. Another issue that has been
need. Another issue that has been raised particularly in Scotland with
raised particularty in Scotland with the
raised particularly in Scotland with the SNP is that this is an England
the SNP is that this is an England only situation because there are
only situation because there are different setups already in
different setups already in Scotland, where social care is free
Scotland, where social rare is free for anybody
Scotland, where social care is free for anybody who is assessed as
for anybody who is assessed as needing it. Home care is free in
needing it. Home rare is free in Northern
needing it. Home care is free in Northern Ireland for over 755 and
Northern Ireland for over 755 and rare
Northern Ireland for over 755 and care costs are in Wales but an
rare costs are in Walas but an increase
care costs are in Wales but an increase to the national insurance
increase to the national insurance would apply to everybody across the
would apply to everybody across the board. There is no way around that.
board. There is no way around that. Is
hoard. There is no way around that. Is that fair?
board. There is no way around that. Is that fair? De devolved funding
Is that fair? De devolved funding settlement is designed to try to
settlement is designed to try to take account of that so it is true
take account of that so it is tme that a
take account of that so it is true that a national insurance rise
that a national insurance rise unlike an income tax rise would
unlike an income tax rise would apply across the whole UK, but if
apply across the whola UK, but if the
apply across the whole UK, but if the government increased health and
the government increased health and social care spending on England
social care spending on England because that is a devolved matter,
because that is a devolved matter, the government automatically then
the government automatically then end up paying more grant to the
end up paying more grant to the Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish
Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish governments which they could then
governments which they could then spent on either health care and
spent on either health rare and social
spent on either health care and social care themselves or on other
social rare themselves or on other things. In the
social care themselves or on other things. In the case of the Scottish
things. In the case of the Scottish Government because income tax is
Government because income tax is devolved, the Scottish Government
devolved, the Scottish Government could use that revenue to reduce
could use that revenue to reduce income tax and therefore partly
income tax and therefore partly offset the effect of the increase in
offset the effect of the increase in national insurance. It has been very
national insurance. It has been very interesting talking to you. Thank
interesting talking to you. Thank you for
interesting talking to you. Thank you forjoining us.
The Taliban say they have defeated resistance forces
in the Afghan provice of Panjshir and that they are in full
control of the area — the final part of the country that
has remained outside their rule since they swept
to power last month.
This video, published by a senior Taliban official,
it’s said to show Taliban fighters raising their flag at the provincial
This is the wrong video. There is a video that purports to show the flag
video that purports to show the ﬂag being raised in
video that purports to show the flag being raised in the former
being raised in the former Governor’s compound. They are famous
Governor’s compound. They are famous for holding out against the Taliban
for holding out against the Taliban in that area. Let’s hear what the
in that area. Let’s hear what the Taliban spokesman had to say at a
Taliban spokesman had to say at a news conference earlier today.
TRANSLATION: We have captured Panjshir with the will of God.
The local elders and religious leaders have been coordinating
with us and our operations went ahead with their help.
Some of those who are still wanting to fight are missing at the moment.
We are trying to tell them that if they want to join a normal life,
they are welcome to.
Afghanistan is their home, there is no problem
from our side, but they need to stop fuelling the instability.
That will be our condition.
We have received one report that says Amrullah Saleh has escaped
to Tajikistan, but we will work out on finding out
if this is true or not.
It is not confirmed yet.
Our Correspondent Secunder Kermani is in the capital Kabul.
What is the latest? We have still
what is the latest? We have still got these
What is the latest? We have still got these competing claims as we
got these competing claims as we have had over the past few days
have had over the past few days about what is happening in Panjshir
about what is happening in Panjshir but it certainly seems today that
but it certainly seems today that the Taliban are confident they have
the Taliban are confident they have taken control of the province,
taken control of the province, announcing it through their official
announcing it through their official spokesman, something they had not
spokesman, something they had not previously done. We also saw videos
previously done. We also saw videos of the Taliban raising their flag
of the Taliban raising their ﬂag above
of the Taliban raising their flag above the governor ‘s compound in
above the governor ‘s compound in the town, the provincial capital of
the town, the provincial capital of Panjshir. These fighters calling
Panjshir. These fighters calling themselves the resistance front,
themselves the resistance front, they say they still occupy strategic
they say they still occupy strategic positions within Panjshir. It is not
positions within Panjshir. It is not clear yet where their leadership is,
dear yet where their leadership is, they include
clear yet where their leadership is, they include the son of a legendary
they include the son of a legendary anti—Taliban fighter in the former
anti-Taliban fighter in the former vice
anti—Taliban fighter in the former vice president in a staunch opponent
vice president in a staunch opponent of the Taliban stop as you heard,
of the Taliban stop as you heard, there are some reports he may have
there are some reports he may have ﬂed to
there are some reports he may have fled to Tajikistan although that is
ﬂed to Tajikistan although that is not
fled to Tajikistan although that is not confirmed as yet. Ahmad Massoud
not confirmed as yet. Ahmad Massoud has said untreated that he is safe
has said untreated that he is safe but has not provide details. From
but has not provide details. From the Taliban’s perspective, at this
the Taliban’s perspective, at this press conference, they are saying
press conference, they are saying this marks the moment they have
this marks the moment they have captured the entire country, the
captured the entire country, the whole of Afghanistan and they say it
whola of Afghanistan and they say it also
whole of Afghanistan and they say it also marks the end of decades of war
also marks the end of decades of war in the country. We will have to see
in the country. We will have to see if that is true, whether or not
if that is true, whether or not there a further clashes or not but a
there a further dashes or not but a significant
there a further clashes or not but a significant moment nonetheless. If
significant moment nonetheless. If is tme
significant moment nonetheless. If is true and they now move on to form
is tme and they now move on to form a government,
is true and they now move on to form a government, they are going to then
a government, they are going to then had to deal with all of the detail
had to deal with all of the detail of mnning a
had to deal with all of the detail of running a government they haven’t
of mnning a government they haven’t done
of running a government they haven’t done before. How is it envisaged
done before. How is it envisaged that is going to work with yellow
that is going to work with yellow absolutely. Transforming themselves
absolutely. Transforming themselves from an insurgent group to a
from an insurgent group to a government is going to be a
from an insurgent group to a government is going to be afar
government is going to be a far bigger
government is going to be afar bigger challenge than it was to take
bigger challenge than it was to take over the country using military
over the country using military force. It has been more than three
force. It has been more than three weeks since the Taliban took over
weeks since the Taliban took over Kabul and they have still yet to
Kabul and they have still yet to announce or establish a new
announce or establish a new government. Many Afghans feeling
government. Many Afghans feeling they are in a state of limbo, hoping
they are in a state of limbo, hoping that even if they are not supporters
that even if they are not supporters of the Taliban that a new government
of the Taliban that a new government is announced, they have a more
is announced, they have a more tangibla
is announced, they have a more tangible idea of what the future
tangibla idea of what the future will
tangible idea of what the future will look like, potentially the
will look like, potentially the economy can improve, a lot of people
economy ran improve, a lot of peopla facing
economy can improve, a lot of peoplc facing financial
economy can improve, a lot of people facing financial hardship at the
facing financial hardship at the moment. In this press conference,
moment. In this press conference, they said a new government would be
they said a new government would be announced within a number of days.
announced within a number of days. One source telling me it could come
One source telling me it could come by the end of this week but the
by the end of this week but the announcement has already been pushed
announcement has already been pushed back on a number of occasions, so we
back on a number of occasions, so we could be delayed further. We also
could be delayed further. We also had a question in that press
had a question in that press conference about the status of the
conference about the status of the Taliban’s supreme leader. He has not
Taliban’s supreme leader. He has not been seen in public or heard from in
been seen in public or heard from in pub“:
been seen in public or heard from in public and we have been hearing
public and we have been hearing there are some concerns within the
there are some concerns within the Taliban about why that was. The
Taliban about why that was. The spokesman saying he would be making
spokesman saying he would be making a public appearance very soon
a public appearance very soon though. Thank you.
The headlines on BBC News:
Back to school for millions more children in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland — but will it spark
a rise in Covid cases?
The Taliban says it’s taken control of Panjshir Valley —
the last part of Afghanistan not under their control.
But the claim’s being disputed by rebel forces.
And a three—year—old boy is found ALIVE, in rugged
Australian bushland, after going missing
from his home on Friday.
Millions of pupils are returning to classrooms in England and Wales,
amid fears of a spike in students with Covid.
Scientists have warned of a rapid rise in school cases without such
measures and experts have not recommended jabs for healthy
12 to 15—year—olds.
In England, there are over 30 times more children with Covid
compared with last year.
In Scotland cases among the under—155 have trebled since
school restarted in mid—August.
We can’t say that the rise has been solely caused by schools returning.
This graph shows cases in 2020 — in green — and this year — in red.
Although cases were much lower at this point in 2020,
they followed a similar pattern, rising before schools went back
and then increasing more steeply later in September.
Martine Croxall is at a school in Stockton—on—Tees.
Welcome to the north Shore Academy in Stockton—on—Tees. Isn’t this an
in Stockton-on-Tees. Isn’t this an amazing space?
in Stockton—on—Tees. Isn’t this an amazing space? It is surrounded by
amazing space? It is surrounded by classrooms and incredible facilities
classrooms and incredible facilities at this Academy. As we know, the
at this Academy. As we know, the last academic year was immensely
last academic year was immensely disruptive for so many pupils. They
disruptive for so many pupils. They were in and out of school, they had
were in and out of school, they had to get used to online learning and
to get used to online learning and when they got back to school, if
when they got back to school, if their bubbles were affected by an
their bubbles were affected by an outbreak of Covid, they had to
outbreak of Covid, they had to isolate. It was all very disrupted.
isolate. It was all very dismpted. Everybody is
isolate. It was all very disrupted. Everybody is hoping for a much
Everybody is hoping for a much better year this year but it still
better year this year but it still won’t be quite back to normal as
won’t be quite back to normal as Brangwyn Jefferies
won’t be quite back to normal as Brangwynjefferies reports.
Teacher Owen Harvey started 2021 in hospital with coronavirus.
He was away from his primary school class for months.
Barely able to walk, Owen gradually built
back his strength in his garden.
So this school year is a big step back to normal for this teacher,
now vaccinated, and for pupils, who’ll be able to mix
freely in the playground.
We’re just excited to get everybody back into school and to get back
to something like a normal curriculum, do assemblies again,
get that lovely social feeling that schools have been missing out
on so much of, and just get back to being school as normal.
Testing started in some of England’s secondary schools last week.
It’s the main precaution in place this term.
The top government doctors across the UK have another decision.
Should they offer the vaccine to all 12 to 15—year—olds?
Experts say the benefits aren’t great enough.
It’s a milder illness in teenagers.
Schools will be trying to return to their usual routines
and to reassure pupils.
School leaders need the choice to be able to adapt the contingency
framework and actually make it relevant to the local need rather
than the national need.
So if we need to make adjustments to the measures we put in place
to minimise the risk, that we have the choice to do that,
and we can do it immediately, that we do not have to wait.
Owen has been walking his way back to health, back
to the classroom he loves, like many parents and pupils,
hoping this school year will be so much better than the last.
Branwen Jefferys, BBC News.
When it comes to Covid safety
when it comes to Covid safety protocols in
When it comes to Covid safety protocols in schools for this new
protocols in schools for this new academic year, the new commissioner
academic year, the new commissioner 5575
academic year, the new commissioner says we must place our trust in Head
says we must place our trust in Head Teachers.
We have to trust our heads, they know what they are doing
and they reach out and ask.
We are listening very hard, working with all professionals,
me particularly working with children, to make sure
that the right solutions that need to be global solutions are in place.
But things like masks and other issues are very much local issues.
Headteachers know their buildings, they note the size
of their corridors.
They know where their issues are and we need to support them to lead.
They are incredible trustworthy and, I can tell you, unbelievably excited
to have the children back and it’s just great to be
back at school and a big welcome back to everyone.
That was the Children’s Commissioner. As we have said,
Commissioner. As we have said, schools and pupils had to get used
schools and pupils had to get used to a lot of online learning last
to a lot of online learning last year, but some students need more
year, but some students need more help than others when it comes to
help than others when it comes to how they learn and I’m thinking of
how they learn and I’m thinking of children with special educational
children with special educational needs. I have been speaking to
needs. I have been speaking to special educational needs
special educational needs coordinator Emma and she was joined
coordinator Emma and she was joined by three year 11 students, Harley
by three year 11 students, Harley Clark, Logan
by three year 11 students, Harley Clark, Loganjefferson and Lorna and
Clark, Logan jefferson and Lorna and Emma said,
Clark, Loganjefferson and Lorna and Emma said, during the lockdown they
Emma said, during the lockdown they had to be very clear about what each
had to be very clear about what each child’s individual learning needs
child’s individual learning needs were. The Google class and allow the
were. The Google class and allow the for an interactive lesson. We were
for an interactive lesson. We were able to see what typing they were
able to see what typing they were making and how they were responding
making and how they were responding to questions and we were able to
to questions and we were able to provide feedback. We had to adapt
provide feedback. We had to adapt our resources to different
our resources to different situations and we were able to meet
situations and we were able to meet the needs through different coloured
the needs through different coloured workbooks, different screens and we
workbooks, different screens and we were able to adapt because we were
were able to adapt because we were teaching our own classes so we knew
teaching our own classes so we knew the students in front of me and that
the students in front of me and that was crucial to ensure the pace of
was crucial to ensure the pace of learning was where it needed to be.
learning was where it needed to be. Harley, you and your fellow students
Harley, you and your fellow students spent some of the ninth not in
spent some of the ninth not in school and pretty much all of year
school and pretty much all of year ten not in school. How did it suit
ten not in school. How did it suit you working online from home?
I had a very comfortable working environment where I was away
from the downstairs TV and I was just able to get
on with the work on my computer without worrying about many other
distractions around the house.
Sounds like you have got a good environment to work in.
What about you, Logan?
What were the difficult bits?
The difficult bits were definitely focusing, because a lot of the time
at home you had a lot of distractions like doing your
own things and stuff, but it was a lot easier at home
as well because you could find a place where you are comfortable
and do what you wanted and the work, obviously, like, it didn’t feel
as though you needed to get, like, seven things,
going at other people’s paces.
That is a really good point and during the second lockdown,
things had settled down quite a bit, haven’t they?
You are back now for your last year at North Shore Academy.
How different do you think this year is going to be?
I feel like it is going to be a lot easier
now we don’t have to wear masks as much, which is really
difficult, and back to our almost normal way of working.
Let’s hope so.
It will be a bit different but not as bad as last year, we hope.
Emma, looking forward to this year, how much catching up have
students got to do, particularly students
with special educational needs?
Because we keep hearing from the government about this need
for a recovery plan.
Absolutely, there is a need but I have been extremely proud
of how our students responded through the lockdown because we had
such a tailored programme that we were able to keep apace
with the curriculum, but now returning back into school,
ourjob is to find gaps in the learning, we have
significant revision classes, we have got workshops going on,
we have got weekend work.
The special educational needs coordinator here, acknowledging that
coordinator here, acknowledging that there that there is some catching up
there that there is some catching up to do but they are well placed to do
to do but they are well placed to do it. Those three students in their
it. Those three students in their last year here have got some good
last year here have got some good ambitions. Lorna was to be a
ambitions. Lorna was to be a children’s nurse, Harley intends to
children’s nurse, Harley intends to study politics and then go live in
study politic and then go live in Canada
study politics and then go live in Canada for a while, so no lack of
Canada for a whila, so no lack of ambition.
Canada for a while, so no lack of ambition. We are here all day. Hope
ambition. We are here all day. Hope you will stay with us throughout the
you will stay with us throughout the day and in about an hour ‘s time we
day and in about an hour ‘s time we will speak to two year seven
will speak to two year seven students who have just arrived here
students who have just arrived here today. It is their very first day at
today. It is their very first day at secondary school. We will find out
secondary school. We will find out how it is going for them.
Tributes have been coming in from across the music world
for the former Girls Aloud singer Sarah Harding — who’s died
from breast cancer at the age of 39.
Her mum Marie made the announcement on social media yesterday,
calling her a "bright, shining star."
Sarah found lumps under her arms in 2019 and in an extract
from her memoir published in The Times, she admitted putting
off getting medical help, which was further complicated
by the outbreak of the pandemic.
Let’s speak to Sophia Lowes from Cancer Research UK.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. It is a
Thank you for joining us. It is a really
Thank you forjoining us. It is a really understandable instinct, when
really understandable instinct, when somebody finds something that
somebody finds something that worries them to not want to deal
worries them to not want to deal with it. Yes. There is always a
with it. Yes. There is always a worry when we find something wrong
worry when we find something wrong but no matter what it is, it is
but no matter what it is, it is always better to get it checked out
always better to get it checked out because if it is cases, and in most
because if it is rases, and in most rases it
because if it is cases, and in most cases it won’t be, but if it is,
cases it won’t be, but if it is, earty
cases it won’t be, but if it is, early treatment is former likely to
earty treatment is former likely to be
early treatment is former likely to be successful. We will talk more
be successful. We will talk more about the statistics but in terms of
about the statistis but in terms of the impact of
about the statistics but in terms of the impact of the pandemic and the
the impact of the pandemic and the backlog for people who will be,
backlog for peopla who will be, every
backlog for people who will be, every single day finding lumps,
every single day finding lumps, something they are worried about and
something they are worried about and want to get checked out, how quickly
want to get checked out, how quickly can somebody be seen now? What is
ran somebody be seen now? what is the issue
can somebody be seen now? What is the issue of the backlog in terms of
the issue of the backlog in terms of waiting lists? We know that because
waiting lists? We know that because of the pandemic we have seen about
of the pandemic we have seen about 10,000 fewer cases of cancer
10,000 fewer rases of cancer diagnosed
10,000 fewer cases of cancer diagnosed between April 2020 and
diagnosed between April 2020 and April 2021, so that is a huge number
April 2021, so that is a huge number of peopla who
April 2021, so that is a huge number of people who haven’t been able to
of people who haven’t been able to be diagnosed. But GPs have adapted
be diagnosed. But GPs have adapted and we know a lot of GPs are now
and we know a lot of GPs are now more able to talk to people over the
more able to talk to people over the phone, so even if you can’t get a
phone, so even if you can’t get a face—to—face appointment, you might
face-to-face appointment, you might be able to
face—to—face appointment, you might be able to speak to a GP or nurse
be able to speak to a GP or nurse over the phone and if they are
over the phone and if they are concerned about any symptoms, they
concerned about any symptoms, they will organise further tests. It
will organise further tests. It probably can’t be said enough what
probably can’t be said enough what peopla
probably can’t be said enough what people need to look out for so tell
peoplo need to look out for so tell us what
people need to look out for so tell us what the warning signs are. With
us what the warning signs are. with breast
us what the warning signs are. With breast cancer or any other type of
breast cancer or any other type of rancer
breast cancer or any other type of cancer it is about telling your
cancer it is about telling your doctor if you notice anything that
doctor if you notice anything that isn’t normal for you. While
doctor if you notice anything that isn’t normalfor you. While in this
isn’t normal for you. whila in this use
isn’t normal for you. whila in this rase Sarah
isn’t normalfor you. While in this case Sarah noticed a lump, it isn’t
use Sarah noticed a lump, it isn’t just
rase Sarah noticed a lump, it isn’t just about
case Sarah noticed a lump, it isn’t just about lumps. It could be any
just about lumps. It could be any change to your breast, that could be
change to your breast, that could be the size, shape or feel. It could be
the size, shape or feel. It could be a rash, pain in your breast or a
a rash, pain in your breast or a change to your nipple. Just that
change to your nippla. just that wide range of
change to your nipple. Just that wide range of symptoms just to
wide range of symptoms just to breast cancer. It’s not about
breast cancer. It’s not about remembering a whole list, it is
remembering a whole list, it is about knowing what is normal for you
about knowing what is normal for you and telling your doctor if you
and telling your doctor if you notice something wrong. You would
notice something wrong. You would say anything that is not normal,
say anything that is not normal, just at the moment you spot it,
just at the moment you spot it, check in with your doctor? Exactly.
check in with your doctor? Exactly. There is no need to check your
There is no need to check your breast in a set time or set way, but
breast in a set time or set way, but if you know what your breasts
if you know what your breasts normally look and feel like, and you
normally look and feel like, and you notice something that is different
notice something that is different from that, particularly something
from that, particularty something that
from that, particularly something that doesn’t go away, that is when
that doesn’t go away, that is when it is important to talk to your
it is important to talk to your doctor and what is normal for you
doctor and what is normal for you might not be for someone else, so it
might not be for someone else, so it is about getting to know your body
is about getting to know your body and being confident when something
and being confident when something isn’t right. What difference does it
isn’t right. what difference does it make if
isn’t right. What difference does it make if there is an early diagnosis?
make if there is an earty diagnosis? It makes
make if there is an early diagnosis? It makes a huge difference. When
It makes a huge difference. when breast
It makes a huge difference. When breast cancer is caught at the early
breast cancer is taught at the earty stage, almost
breast cancer is caught at the early stage, almost everyone survives and
stage, almost everyone survives and that is because treatment is more
that is because treatment is more likely to be successful when the
likely to be successful when the fencer
likely to be successful when the cancer has spread, so that is why it
cancer has spread, so that is why it is so important to tell your doctor
is so important to tell your doctor because the earlier you talk to your
because the eartier you talk to your doctor, the
because the earlier you talk to your doctor, the greater your chances of
doctor, the greater your chances of an earty
doctor, the greater your chances of an early diagnosis.
You mention the 10,000 fewer breast rancer
You mention the 10,000 fewer breast cancer diagnosis during the
cancer diagnosis during the pandemic, people have been reluctant
pandemic, people have been reluctant to go and speak to their GP about
to go and speak to their GP about something that they think might wait
something that they think might wait when we are in the middle of
when we are in the middle of something as serious as the
something as serious as the pandemic. Is there evidence people
pandemic. Is there evidence people are getting in touch for things like
are getting in touch for things like this more now? With fewer cases,
this more now? with fewer rases, many could be
this more now? With fewer cases, many could be due to people not
many could be due to peopla not attending
many could be due to people not attending breast screening because
attending breast screening because over the last year, breast screening
over the last year, breast screening has paused during part of the
has paused during part of the lockdown, so those cases might have
lockdown, so those rases might have been
lockdown, so those cases might have been missed. But the important thing
been missed. But the important thing is that breast screening is for
is that breast screening is for those without symptoms, so if you do
those without symptoms, so if you do notice any symptoms or you have
notice any symptoms or you have missed your breast screening
missed your breast screening appointment, if you notice anything,
appointment, if you notice anything, do contact your doctor and we are
do contact your doctor and we are seeing the same number or more
seeing the same number or more people begin to contact their
peopla begin to contact their doctor,
people begin to contact their doctor, that is really reassuring.
doctor, that is really reassuring. But it is important those people are
But it is important those peopla are able to
But it is important those people are able to get access to a doctor and
able to get access to a doctor and the test they need. Thank you very
the test they need. Thank you very much for joining
the test they need. Thank you very much forjoining us. Time for a
much for joining us. Time for a sports
much forjoining us. Time for a sports round—up. Players under way
sports round-up. Players under way at the Oval
sports round—up. Players under way at the Oval on the final day of the
at the Oval on the final day of the fourth test. England start the day
fourth test. England start the day needing another 291 runs for victory
needing another 291 mns for victory against India
needing another 291 runs for victory against India with all ten wickets
against India with all ten wickets in hand. This is the latest.
A big target and it would be a record run chase if they get there.
record mn chase if they get there. The series
record run chase if they get there. The series is level at 1—1 and the
The series is level at 1-1 and the final test
The series is level at 1—1 and the final test starts on Friday.
England maintained their perfect start
to World Cup qualifying.
The 4—0 victory against Andorra made it five winds out of five
to stay well clear at the top of their group.
They were playing at Wembley for the first time since their Euro
2020 final defeat against Italy.
The starting XI was completely different
to the one that faced Hungary a few days earlier.
Manchester United’sJesse Lingaard scored twice,
Captain Harry Kane came off the bench and scored a penalty
before Bakayo Saka marked his 20th birthday by scoring a fourth.
Gareth Southgate praised the Arsenal man, who was one of those
to have his penalty saved in the Euro Final penalty shoot—out.
m:
We think he is a super player, his 20 years old, the way he has
20 years old, the way he has progressed and the maturity he has
progressed and the maturity he has played with and the talent that he
played with and the talent that he has, he is a hugely exciting player
has, he is a hugely exciting player and has already produced big
and has already produced big performances for England, so no need
performances for England, so no need from our side foreclosure. —— for
from our side foreclosure. -- for closure.
Gareth Bale scored his first competitive hatrick
for Wales to keep their hopes of Qualification alive.
They came from behind to beat Belarus 3—2,
with Bale’s winner coming in injury time.
They are third in the table but have two games in hand on Belgium
and Czech Republic above them.
If they beat Estonia on Wednesday, they’ll move up to second.
They might have a look at what happened in Tallinn last
night for a few pointers — Northern Ireland beat Estonia 1—0
in a friendly there.
Rotherham’s Shane Ferguson with this belter to win the game.
We’ve just had the opening weekend in the Women’s Super League.
Champions Chelsea lost against Arsenal 3—2
in a thriller at the Emriates.
It was 1—1 at halftime, but two second half strikes from Beth Mead
proved to be the difference in front of more
than 8,000 fans.
Covid quarantine confusion and chaos reigned in
Sao Paulo last night.
Brazil and Argentina’s World Cup qualifier was abandoned just
minutes after kick—off, when Brazilian health officials
walked onto the pitch to confront three UK—based
Argentine players.
They say that Giovani le Selso and Cristian Romero of Tottenham
and Aston Villa’s Emiliano Martinez all posed a serious health risk,
another Villa player, Emiliano Buendia, who wasn’t
in the squad, has also been accused of breaching Covid protocols
after travelling from the UK, a red list country.
The Brazilian health authorities say that all four had been told
to isolate and leave the country hours before the match,
but failed to comply, which is why they took
such drastic action,
forcing the game to be called off.
Fifa yet to comment on proceedings there. Or non—proceedings.
Or non—proceedings.
Britain’s Emma Raducanu faces home favourite Shelby Rogers in the last
16 at the US Open tonight.
The 18—year—old is playing in her first overseas Grand Slam,
and is yet to drop a set.
But Dan Evans is out.
He was outclassed in his fourth round match against the Russian
second seed Daniil Medvedev.
He went down in staright sets but his run in New York will see
Evans reach a career high ranking inside the world’s Top 25.
And over in Ohio, it’s all set for an enthralling final
day at the Solheim Cup.
The USA dominated yesterday’s early foursomes to reduce Europes
——Europe’s lead to a single point.
But after topsy—turvey afternoon fourballs,
Europe have a slender 9—7 lead going into todays singles.
They need just 5 points from the 12 matches to retain the trophy.
That’s all the sport for now.
I’ll have more for you in the next hour.
England’s opener still going strong as they are chasing 368 for victory
as they are chasing 368 for victory against India.
Conjoined twins from Israel have been able to see each
other for the first time after being separated.
The one—year—old sisters underwent a twelve—hour operation that took
months of preparation and involved dozens of experts.
Claire Sedman reports.
Sisters face—to—face for the first time after surviving
a miraculous marathon operation.
Conjoined at the back of their heads from birth
a year ago, separation surgery was meticulously planned
between major blood vessels in their heads.
A very delicate task — one bleed could be catastrophic.
TRANSLATION: Of course, after all the preparations
and all of the models we have built in a designated surgery room,
we specifically prepared for this thing with a surgical
theatre and VR of the twins and with 3 SD model
we prepared in advance.
Where the two were attached, there was no skin and skull,
so doctors needed the babies to essentially grow more skin.
Inflatable silicon bags were inserted into their heads
and gently expanded to stretch their skin slowly.
This meant that, when doctors reconstructed their skulls
after the separation, they had excess skin,
which could be used to seal their new heads.
We are just finishing the twins’ separation procedure.
It has gone extremely well and I’m delighted how well
the whole team’s done.
It’s an excellent team here and it’s been a real
pleasure to be a part of it.
Medics say this type of surgery, a first for Israel,
has only ever happened 20 times worldwide.
Separating them so young, they say there is now
a high chance they will live normal lives —
already breathing and eating on their own.
There is rehabilitation for their physical
and cognitive development planned which will, no doubt,
be spurred on by these remarkable sisters’
own determination to succeed.
Claire Sedman, BBC News.
The footballer Marcus Rashford is backing a new campaign
to end what he calls the "child hunger pandemic".
It’s part of Henry Dimbleby’s National Food Strategy.
The Manchester United forward is calling on people to write
to their MP to support the report’s recommendations, as
Lebo Diseko reports.
Marcus Rashford knows what it is like to go hungry as a child.
His mum worked three jobs just to put food
on the table and sometimes even that wasn’t enough.
Sometimes we didn’t even have a loaf of bread in house,
it’s embarrassing to say but we didn’t.
All them little struggles and sacrifices you made,
it helps you appreciate everything ten times more.
His campaigning on free school meals forced the government
to change its policy in the past.
Now the England and Manchester United player
is hoping to do so again.
He wants people to write to their MPs about backing
recommendations to end what he calls the child hunger pandemic.
They include raising the income threshold for free school meals
to include households earning £20,000 a year or less.
It comes as new data from the Food Foundation
shows that more households
with children under 18 are experiencing food insecurity
than during the first wave of the pandemic.
For Marcus, this is personal.
Speaking about the latest campaign he said...
He said...
And he continued...
Lebo Diseko, BBC News.
As pupils across England, Wales and Northern Ireland
start their first full week of the new school year,
research suggests there has been an increase in young people
suffering with mental health problems.
The NHS says that one in six may now have issues
with their mental health, that’s up from one in nine in 2017.
With me is DrJo Casebourne, Chief Executive at the Early
Intervention Foundation, and Luke, who is from Northampton
and is currently in his first year of A—Levels.
He was diagnosed with PTSD at 12 years old.
And I’m alsojoined by Deirdre Kehoe, Director
of Training And Services at the mental health
charity Young Minds.
Welcome all of you and thank you for joining us. Deirdre, first of all,
joining us. Deirdre, first of all, quite a statistic, up from one in
quite a statistic, up from one in nine to one in six now. Tell us
nine to one in six now. Tell us about what you are experiencing at
about what you are experiencing at the charity. Pandemic has had a
the charity. Pandemic has had a devastating effect on young people’s
devastating effect on young people’s mental health and there is a growing
mental health and there is a growing body of evidence to show the impact
body of evidence to show the impact is likely to be significant and
is likely to be significant and long-term.
is likely to be significant and long—term. As you say, the numbers
long-term. As you say, the numbers have
long—term. As you say, the numbers have increased in the year, and we
have increased in the year, and we also saw last year the number of
also saw last year the number of referrals to mental health services
referrals to mental health services went up 7296
referrals to mental health services went up 72% on the year before. It
went up 7296 on the year before. It has been
went up 72% on the year before. It has been incredibly difficult for
has been incredibly difficult for young people and we are seeing that
young people and we are seeing that when young people cannot get
when young people cannot get treatment, their problems get worse,
treatment, their problems get worse, so here at Young Minds, we have
so here at Young Minds, we have parents talking about their young
parents talking about their young person starting to self—harm, having
person starting to self-harm, having suicidal
person starting to self—harm, having suicidal thoughts,
person starting to self—harm, having suicidalthoughts, or
person starting to self—harm, having suicidal thoughts, or dropping out
suicidal thoughts, or dropping out from school in that period when they
from school in that period when they are waiting for treatment. And also
are waiting for treatment. And also that means that pressure falls on
that means that pressure falls on family to support those young people
family to support those young peopla which
family to support those young people which can be difficult. What have
which ran be difficult. what have you seen
which can be difficult. What have you seen happening with waiting
you seen happening with waiting times and treatment? It has been
times and treatment? It has been very very difficult, particularly
very very difficult, particularty duﬂng
very very difficult, particularty during the
very very difficult, particularly during the pandemic. We know that
during the pandemic. We know that the number of young people who can
the number of young peopla who ran be
the number of young people who ran be seen in
the number of young people who can be seen in services dropped
be seen in services dropped dramatically and only a third of
dramatically and only a third of those who are in treatment could
those who are in treatment could continue. We recognise the NHS
continue. We recognise the NHS services and those within it have
services and those within it have tried incredibly hard to keep the
tried incredibly hard to keep the service going, as had schools who
service going, as had schools who had schools counselling and school
had schools counselling and school services as well, they
had schools counselling and school services as well, theyjust haven’t
services as well, they just haven’t been
services as well, theyjust haven’t been able to keep up with the
been able to keep up with the treatment, unfortunately. Look,
treatment, unfortunately. Look, noticed Billy Mac noted that you
noticed Billy Mac noted that you were --
noticed Billy Mac noted that you were —— Luke, I mention that you had
were -- Luke, I mention that you had PTSD when you
were —— Luke, I mention that you had PTSD when you were 12 years old, so
PTSD when you were 12 years old, so what is your experience been? I was
what is your experience been? I was diagnosed when I was 12 years old
diagnosed when I was 12 years old and thankfully I have made a big
and thankfully I have made a big improvement so have not really
improvement so have not really needed to receive too much support
needed to receive too much support duﬂng
needed to receive too much support during the pandemic, but I
during the pandemic, but I definitely felt more isolated whilst
definitely felt more isolated whilst being at home and not at school. And
being at home and not at school. And obviously that is something echoed
obviously that is something echoed by so many kids. Did you feel like
by so many kids. Did you feel like you need it... Smack you say you
you need it... Smack you say you have come a long way since being
have come a long way since being diagnosed... Did you feel you needed
diagnosed... Did you feel you needed more support? Absolutely. I used to
more support? Absolutely. I used to have a lot of anxiety going to
have a lot of anxiety going to schools in the morning, and being
schools in the morning, and being out of a routine, it was quite
out of a routine, it was quite daunting to go back. It’s definitely
daunting to go back. It’s definitely tough time after being at home for
tough time after being at home for the lockdowns. You are from the
the lockdowns. You are from the earty learning
the lockdowns. You are from the early learning foundation —— early
early learning foundation —— early intervention foundation, and it
intervention foundation, and it speaks for itself, but with more
speaks for itself, but with more young people needing to be seen,
young people needing to be seen, what is happening in people being
what is happening in people being seen as soon as they need it now?
seen as soon as they need it now? What
seen as soon as they need it now? what we
seen as soon as they need it now? What we think is really important is
what we think is really important is the role
What we think is really important is the role schools can play because
the role schools ran play because schools
the role schools can play because schools are so well—placed to
schools are so well-placed to support
schools are so well—placed to support children and young people’s
support children and young people’s health because they see all children
health because they see all children regardless of circumstances and
regardless of circumstances and family backgrounds, so we think
family backgrounds, so we think schools have a vital role to play in
schools have a vital rola to play in the year
schools have a vital role to play in the year ahead with helping children
the year ahead with helping children with their mental health, and there
with their mental health, and there are things schools can do to do
are things schools ran do to do that. And
are things schools can do to do that. And what would they be? Say a
that. And what would they be? Say a school has one councillor and lots
school has one councillor and lots of children who need to see that
of children who need to see that counsellor, there is a finite amount
counsellor, there is a finite amount of resources there. We think it is
of resources there. We think it is vital schools spend what they have
vital schools spend what they have got on the things that need work and
got on the things that need work and our review looks at things and we
our review looks at things and we found that CBT, cognitive
found that CBT, cognitive behavioural therapy interventions,
behavioural therapy interventions, when delivered to pupils had strong
when delivered to pupils had strong results delivering results for
results delivering results for secondary school pupils. So you are
secondary school pupils. So you are talking about giving advice and
talking about giving advice and support to kids in a whole class
support to kids in a whola class setting or
support to kids in a whole class setting or maybe even bigger, in an
setting or maybe even bigger, in an assembly setting? Is that what you
assembly setting? Is that what you mean? Yes, these kind of programmes
mean? Yes, these kind of programmes ran be
mean? Yes, these kind of programmes can be delivered by teachers. There
ran be delivered by teachers. There is the Sparks
can be delivered by teachers. There is the Sparks programme going though
is the Sparks programme going though delivered in schools, and they are
delivered in schools, and they are in the classroom and the teacher is
in the classroom and the teacher is on hand to support them. Or another
on hand to support them. Or another programme is strong evidence is the
programme is strong evidence is the youth awareness of mental health
youth awareness of mental health programme, where students learn
programme, where students learn about a positive mental health and
about a positive mental health and well-being
about a positive mental health and well—being through a mixture of
well—being through a mixture of lectures from teachers and also
lectures from teachers and also role-play,
lectures from teachers and also role—play, and that seems to be very
role-play, and that seems to be very effective
role—play, and that seems to be very effective in reducing the symptoms
effective in reducing the symptoms of anxiety and depression. Deirdre,
of anxiety and depression. Deirdre, what are your thoughts on that? Some
what are your thoughts on that? Some kids only very specific individual
kids only very specific individual support, but in terms of getting as
support, but in terms of getting as much support as possible to as many
much support as possibla to as many as possible,
much support as possible to as many as possible, what
much support as possible to as many as possible, whatJoe was talking
as possible, whatjoe was talking about, it
as possible, whatJoe was talking about, it could be a helpful thing.
about, it could be a helpful thing. Presumably it is happening in a lot
Presumably it is happening in a lot of schools anyway. It is and we are
of schools anyway. It is and we are supportive of going a step further
supportive of going a step further than what has been described, is
than what has been described, is taking a whole school approach.
taking a whola school approach. Adults
taking a whole school approach. Adults from the person who might
Adults from the person who might greet you abrogate going in, to
greet you abrogate going in, to teachers and teaching staff, support
teachers and teaching staff, support staff, to the person who serves
staff, to the person who serves dinner, oil
staff, to the person who serves dinner, oilsports
staff, to the person who serves dinner, oil sports coaches, they all
dinner, oil sports coaches, they all have a really important part to play
have a really important part to play and that goes with the universal,
and that goes with the universal, doing things that are inclusive of
doing things that are inclusive of everybody and funnelling things
everybody and funnelling things through to giving very specific
through to giving very specific support to those who need that
support to those who need that professional help, that step up in
professional help, that step up in terms of the support they would
terms of the support they would need. We recognise that is very
need. We recognise that is very important and would love to see that
important and would love to see that reflected in the accountability
reflected in the accountability structures that schools have, so the
structures that schools have, so the Ofsted structure for example, we
Ofsted stmcture for example, we would
Ofsted structure for example, we would like to see that prioritised
would like to see that prioritised when in there. We are also conscious
when in there. We are also conscious that schools face intense pressure
that schools face intense pressure at the moment to prioritise academic
at the moment to prioritise academic catch and safety measures around
catch and safety measures around Covid as we go back to school, and
Covid as we go back to school, and even now in this first week of
even now in this first week of September when kids are going
September when kids are going back—to—school, it is not clear what
back-to-school, it is not clear what those safety
back—to—school, it is not clear what those safety measures will be until
those safety measures will be until the pandemic... Until later. We
the pandemic... Until later. We think schools have an important part
think schools have an important part to play. We are very keen in the
to play. We are very keen in the government to invest in local herbs,
government to invest in [oral herbs, [oral drop-in
government to invest in local herbs, local drop—in centres where young
[oral drop-in centres where young peopla ran
local drop—in centres where young people can come in that a least a of
peopla ran come in that a least a of when they
people ran come in that a least a of when they need
people can come in that a least a of when they need support and perhaps
when they need support and perhaps just getting that support Airlie,
just getting that support Airtie, they do not
just getting that support Airlie, they do not need a referral and
they do not need a referral and ran just drop in and
they do not need a referral and can just drop in and that may stop
just drop in and that may stop things getting to a crisis point and
things getting to a crisis point and getting to where it needs to go.
getting to where it needs to go. Luke, what have you found in your
Luke, what have you found in your experience that has been the most
experience that has been the most helpful thing and what would you say
helpful thing and what would you say to the many other kids out there who
to the many other kids out there who have been facing difficulties? The
have been facing difficulties? The most helpful thing for me was
most helpful thing for me was definitely being spoken to as an
definitely being spoken to as an individual, because many people when
individual, because many people when they see the letters PTSD, they
they see the letters PTSD, they automatically think, oh, it is
automatically think, oh, it is trauma, this is the therapy he
trauma, this is the therapy he needs, but it is important that it
needs, but it is important that it is individuals and we need
is individuals and we need specialised help, if that makes
specialised help, if that makes sense. So all the young people, it
sense. So all the young people, it is so easy to feel like a burden,
is so easy to feel like a burden, especially when you are struggling
especially when you are stmggling with
especially when you are struggling with mental health and when there is
with mental health and when there is so much else going on, but you
so much else going on, but you are still valid and still matter. That
still valid and still matter. That is so tme
still valid and still matter. That is so true and a really nice thing
is so tme and a really nice thing for you to say.
is so true and a really nice thing for you to say. Thank you so much to
for you to say. Thank you so much to all of you.
Thank you so much to all of you.
The original hands from Big Ben’s clock face are to be returned
to the Elizabeth Tower in London after three years
of conservation work.
Experts have painted them to match the original
Prussian Blue colour scheme.
It’s the latest stage of the £80 million
restoration project.
The iconic clock and bell were due to resume chiming this year,
but work was delayed because of the pandemic.
What a morning it is to be 96 metres above the streets of London.
I am standing just in front of the eastern clock face
of the Elizabeth Tower, home to the world—famous Big Ben.
Pretty much surrounded by scaffolding for four years.
The biggest restoration project in its history has been under way.
It has gone on for longer and cost more money than had
originally been planned.
The team behind us are delighted to say that the finish line
is finally in sight.
Countdown to completion.
One of the biggest restoration jobs ever undertaken on a landmark
British building is approaching the finish line.
Good to see you, Ian.
And you.
What is it you’re doing here?
We’re servicing the rollers.
This is one of the bits that we couldn’t actually get
to and service while the minute hands were on.
If you’re a clock mechanic, this is like the Champions League
and the World Cup rolled into one, I’d imagine, this project.
Working on this clock will be a once—in—a—lifetime opportunity.
To actually have taken it all to pieces, putting it
back together again, and then carry on looking after it
for a few more years — it’s just going to be fantastic.
Typically, it’s this — the Great Clock of Westminster —
that activates the hammer, which strikes the Great Bell —
or Big Ben, as it’s known.
We filmed the clock before it was taken off
site for restoration.
It should be reinstalled soon.
And five years ago, we also saw why restoration was necessary.
This elevation, the water ingress is actually coming
into this clock face.
And as you can see, it’s actually affecting
and rusting away the ironwork.
This is in so much better condition than it was four or five
years ago, isn’t it?
It’s all been taken back to the bare frame.
Any damage that was done to it, it’s now been coated, painted back
up to its original colour.
One of the most striking things you notice is the colour
of the clock faces.
For many years, the minute demarcations, the numbers
and the clock hands were painted black.
But during the refurbishment, as many layers of paint
were stripped away, it became clear that they were originally
this shade of blue — it’s called Prussian Blue —
and that is what they’ve been repainted in.
This restoration project was originally budgeted at £29 million.
The total bill is now set to exceed £80 million.
As you peel off the layers of this building, you find more and more
that needs to be done.
When we’re taking out one piece of stain, adjacent stains often
needed to be replaced.
It’s one of those things, until you can get up close to it,
it’s very difficult to see the scope of repair.
The pandemic also brought work to a halt for several months,
so the tower’s been covered up for longer than expected.
It’s sad that I can’t see it, you know — just, we’re
here for one night and then...
Big Ben’s, like, covered.
Yeah, it’s covered.
We’ve been here for two years.
We haven’t seen it open.
It looks ugly, doesn’t it?
Yeah, no, we need it back.
I mean, already, you can kind of see the restoration.
With the clock mechanism out of action, a computerised
system has meant that, on special occasions,
Big Ben has still been struck.
We’re standing in the belfry of the Elizabeth Tower
and it was specially constructed so that the chiming bells
for the four quarters could be heard right across London.
There’s one piece of damage here that’s been deliberately left alone.
This crack appeared when Big Ben was struck during a test in 1858.
The hammer was too heavy, but it gives the bell its unique tone.
This is London.
BONG.
It should be E — the note E — but it does give it
a slightly ﬂat sound — a very serious sound, in fact.
So, that’s one bit of repairing you didn’t want to do.
That’s right, yes.
No change to the bell whatsoever because it’s
become the familiar note.
A much—loved building — largely hidden for the past few years —
slowly revealing itself once more.
Tim Muffett, BBC News.
We can chat to the chair of the Elizabeth Tower project.
So many bits of restoration you can see but also a lot we cannot.
Such a huge project.
It is a huge project and there are amazing
things you can see today, the restored hand which has been
conserved and brought back and just finished reinstalling
the clock hands.
The paint work, which has gone back to the original colour scheme
from the 19th Century, gilding, stone work that has been
re—carved in many places by craftsmen working on site
and carving by hand.
That is amazing.
What you cannot see, maybe just as important,
we are installing a completely
new fire safety system.
So this building will be in good order for the next 160 years
as well.
And the range of skills that have been used to do this
restoration is extraordinary, isn’t it?
Hundreds of people based right around the UK.
Yeah, we reckon maybe around 500 people worked on the project
at different stages and obviously, as you say, it is a London project
but it is also a nationwide project.
The stonework has been quarried in Yorkshire,
cast—iron has been made and new parts made
or renovated in Scotland, South Yorkshire, the glass
has been hand cut
in a studio in London.
It is a huge range of skills.
Notjust those classic heritage skills, but also cutting—edge stuff
like the University of Lincoln doing work with us to help establish
through analysis of paint samples the original paint colour.
The timescale now, we are in the final stages,
when will the Elizabeth Tower and Big Ben be finished
and fully restored 7
We are in the home straight.
We are starting to take down the scaffolding.
Certainly by New Year’s Eve, these clock faces will be
visible to everyone.
From next year, we will be bringing back the Great Clock, which has been
taken apart and lovingly restored and reconnecting it to the bells
and you will be hearing Big Ben chiming again certainly before
Easter and then after that, we will be taking the scaffolding down,
I hope, before the summer.
It is spectacular to be up here.
The views are incredible and it will be great to see
this world—famous site with the scaffolding off, back
to its glory and restored in a way it has never been restored before.
Lucky Tim getting to go up there.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Matt Taylor.
Hello.
After a murky start to Monday for many, certainly across England
and Wales, lots of sunshine and building heat
through the afternoon.
Still a bit more cloud across parts of northern England,
a bit of mist and fog through the Irish Sea
and Northern Ireland, Scotland will see some sunny spells,
but there will be plenty of cloud here producing some rain
or drizzle in the West.
Temperatures at the highest across England and Wales,
even higher than yesterday, 27, 28 degrees possible.
This evening and overnight, the cloud will sit in place
across parts of Scotland, Northern Ireland.
Still a bit of drizzle in places but northern England,
north Midlands, North Wales into tomorrow morning,
a greater chance of some dense fog patches hampering the morning
commute and a humid start, 13—17 degrees.
The fog, though, will clear, England and Wales, lots of sunshine
around by late morning.
Some fog lapping onto the shores of Northern Ireland,
but for much of Northern Ireland, southern Scotland,
a sunnier day compared with today, feeling warmer, too.
Warmest of all, though, through the heart of and Wales,
29, maybe 30 degrees.
Similar sort of temperatures on Wednesday with the sunshine,
but storms make it cooler from Wednesday night onwards.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
The Prime Minister is facing a significant backlash
from his own MPs over plans to pay for social care reforms in England
by increasing National Insurance.
But ministers say the elderly desperately need reform.
The social contract in the UK is broken.
That contract between those of working age, paying taxes
to support those that aren’t of working age, it’s not affordable
any more, it doesn’t work.
The Taliban says it’s taken control of Panjshir Valley —
the last part of Afghanistan not under their control.
But the claim’s being disputed by rebel forces.
Back to school for millions more children in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland 7 but will it spark
a rise in Covid cases?
ﬂ
lam spending
I am spending the day
I am spending the day at a school in Stockton—on—Tees, looking at the
Stockton-on-Tees, looking at the impact of
Stockton—on—Tees, looking at the impact of Covid one education as the
impact of Covid one education as the new term gets under way.
Hello baby — twins joined at the back of their heads see each
other for the first time — after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour
operation to separate them.
Breast cancer charities urge people to get checked
after the death of Sarah Harding.
And coming up this hour — four years after restorations began,
Big Ben gets its hands back!
BorisJohnson is facing a backlash from MPs as they return
to Westminster, over plans for reforming the funding of social
care and the NHS in England.
Many, including prominent Conservatives, are angry
about reports that he’s considering raising
National Insurance rates, which would break a manifesto
pledge.
Reports suggest £5.5 billion of funding has been agreed
to plug NHS shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment
caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
The government is also considering increasing
National Insurance contributions by at least1% to
improve social care.
National Insurance is paid by workers until they reach
the state pension age, and by their employers.
For someone on average earnings of £29,500,
a1% increase in National Insurance would cost them about £200 a year.
Government ministers have been argueing there’s a need for a social
contract that’s fair for everyone.
Far too many of my constituents who are retired rely
on their state pension, and they’re certainly not
in a house that is entirely bought and paid for,
and they’re terrified of falling ill and not being able
to afford their own care.
This is something that shouldn’t be pitted as generation
against generation.
The social contract is that whilst you’re of working age,
you pay your taxes to pay for those who are not working,
in anticipation that when you yourself are retired,
those who are of working age at that time will do the same for you.
That social contract has become dangerously out of balance.
This isn’t an intergenerational thing.
There are people who are young who are in need and need support,
and there are people who are old who are in
need and need support.
We need a social contract that is fair for all.
ﬂ
I will speak to
I will speak to Jake Berry, Conservative MP, who is opposed to
Conservative MP, who is opposed to the increase in national insurance.
You don’t like the idea of increasing national insurance to pay
increasing national insurance to pay for social care?
increasing national insurance to pay forsocial care? None
increasing national insurance to pay for social care? None of us have
for social rare? None of us have seen the plans
for social care? None of us have seen the plans yet and the Prime
seen the plans yet and the Prime Minister must be congratulated for
Minister must be congratulated for grasping what is a difficult issue.
grasping what is a difficult issue. National insurance is an
National insurance is an exceptionally aggressive tax. One
exceptionally aggressive tax. One earning £35,000 will pay a high
earning £35,000 will pay a high proportion of their income or
proportion of their income or national insurance than someone
national insurance than someone earning a quarter of £8 million and
earning a quarter of £8 million and while I
earning a quarter of £8 million and whila I accept
earning a quarter of £8 million and while I accept this is something we
while I accept this is something we must do something about, this isn’t
must do something about, this isn’t the right way of going about it and
the right way of going about it and it sets north against South, high
it sets north against South, high earners against lower earners and
earners against lower earners and it’s not the way to solve the
it’s not the way to solve the problem. What is the way to solve
problem. what is the way to solve the problem? I
problem. What is the way to solve the problem? I don’t have access to
the problem? I don’t have access to all the data but it seems to me that
all the data but it seems to me that looking at income tax, which of
looking at income tax, which of course is a
looking at income tax, which of course is afar
looking at income tax, which of course is a far less of regressive
course is a far less of regressive tax and is a tax that everyone pays.
tax and is a tax that everyone pays. Those who are retired, even if they
Those who are retired, even if they have an eye income went pay national
have an eye income went pay national insurance and I favour the
have an eye income went pay national insurance and Ifavour the idea of
insurance and I favour the idea of looking at a
insurance and Ifavour the idea of looking at a one—off windfall tax on
looking at a one-off windfall tax on onUne
looking at a one-off windfall tax on online digital
looking at a one—off windfall tax on online digital platforms which we
online digital platforms which we all know which have made millions if
all know which have made millions if not billions of pounds to give a one
not billions of pounds to give a one off windfall payment to our NHS to
off windfall payment to our NHS to make sure it has the funds to fight
make sure it has the funds to fight the challenges that winter will
the challanges that winter will bring us.
the challenges that winter will bring us. With a way to even the
bring us. with a way to even the playing field
bring us. With a way to even the playing field would be to say that
playing field would be to say that anyone over 65 still earning should
anyone over 65 still earning should be paying national insurance on that
be paying national insurance on that income? That would be some way of
income? That would be some way of levelling the playing field but
levelling the playing field but let’s not forget if you are self
let’s not forget if you are self employed, you pay a different rate
employed, you pay a different rate of national insurance. Those earning
of national insurance. Those earning just over 50,000 just to pay 2%
just over 50,000 just to pay 2% national insurance and earnings over
national insurance and earnings over 51000 and below pay over 12%. It is
51000 and below pay over 1296. It is a complicate
51000 and below pay over 12%. It is a complicate acts with differential
a complicate acts with differential rates depending on your employment
rates depending on your employment status. A far
rates depending on your employment status. A farfairer way
rates depending on your employment status. A far fairer way seems to be
status. A far fairer way seems to be increasing income tax rates. It’s
increasing income tax rates. It’s not for me to say what bands should
not for me to say what bands should go
not for me to say what bands should 9° “P
not for me to say what bands should go up and by how much but it seems
go up and by how much but it seems an equitable way of doing this if it
an equitable way of doing this if it must be done. It would still break
must be done. It would still break the Tory party manifesto. What
the Tory party manifesto. what impact do
the Tory party manifesto. What impact do you think that would have
impact do you think that would have on voters’s trust when Boris
impact do you think that would have on voters’s trust when BorisJohnson
on voters’s trust when Boris johnson was on the
on voters’s trust when BorisJohnson was on the steps of Downing Street.
was on the steps of Downing Street. He said they had a plan. Not to
He said they had a plan. Not to increase any form of tax. I think
increase any form of tax. I think peopla will
increase any form of tax. I think people will understand that we have
people will understand that we have been through a huge crisis. It is
been through a huge crisis. It is clear the Prime Minister does have a
clear the Prime Minister does have a plan. This crisis hasn’t impacted on
plan. This crisis hasn’t impacted on social care, social care has been an
social rare, social rare has been an issue for a very
social care, social care has been an issue for a very long time and the
issue for a very long time and the Andrew Dall Mott report was a long
Andrew Dall Mott report was a long time ago. Boris
Andrew Dall Mott report was a long time ago. BorisJohnson said you
time ago. Boris johnson said you have a
time ago. BorisJohnson said you have a preprepared plan ready to go
have a preprepared plan ready to go and he was saying that at the same
and he was saying that at the same time on just
and he was saying that at the same time onjust winning
and he was saying that at the same time on just winning and election
time on just winning and elaction based
time on just winning and election based on a manifesto saying you
based on a manifesto saying you wouldn’t increase tax. What I would
wouldn’t increase tax. what I would say is there is a
wouldn’t increase tax. What I would say is there is a lot of public
say is there is a lot of public support out there to tackle this
support out there to tackle this hugely challenging issue. There were
hugely challenging issue. There were some polling over the weekend which
some polling over the weekend which showed over three quarters would
showed over three quarters would support finding a way to support
support finding a way to support social care but the government has
social rare but the government has to level
social care but the government has to level with the people. Let’s
to level with the people. Let’s understand the challenges that are
understand the challenges that are before us, the challenges facing us
before us, the challenges facing us with an older population and have a
with an older population and have a tax increase if required that is
tax increase if required that is fair and doesn’t see lower earners
fair and doesn’t see lower earners paving
fair and doesn’t see lower earners paying a larger proportion of their
paying a larger proportion of their income than people who are high
income than peopla who are high earners.
income than people who are high earners. I’ll
income than people who are high earners. I’lljust say one
earners. I’lljust say one additional thing, there was a 3% in
additional thing, there was a 396 in there or
additional thing, there was a 3% in there or thereabouts increase in
there or thereabouts increase in most people’s council tax bills to
most people’s council tax bills to fund social care and what we haven’t
fund social rare and what we haven’t heard
fund social care and what we haven’t heard from the government is what
heard from the government is what will happen to that health and
will happen to that health and social care precept on people’s
social care precept on people’s council tax bills if we move to a
council tax bills if we move to a system funded by National insurance.
system funded by National insurance. There are lots of questions still
There are lots of questions still outstanding, I look forward to
outstanding, I look forward to hearing the detail from the Prime
hearing the detail from the Prime Minister and his team but I hope
Minister and his team but I hope they think again, look at that one
they think again, look at that one off windfall tax on big online
off windfall tax on big online companies like Amazon and Google.
companies like Amazon and Googla. What
companies like Amazon and Googla. what do you
companies like Amazon and Google. What do you think that windfall tax
what do you think that windfall tax would
What do you think that windfall tax would raise? I don’t know, I don’t
would raise? I don’t know, I don’t have the data. I
would raise? I don’t know, I don’t have the data. Ijust hark back to
have the data. Ijust hark back to Tony Blair, not someone I find
Tony Blair, not someone I find myself often agreeing with, coming
myself often agreeing with, coming into power in 1997, having a
into power in 1997, having a windfall tax on the recently
windfall tax on the recently privatised utilities companies to
privatised utilities companies to fund this sort of issue. We should
fund this sort of issue. We should be looking at all these
be looking at all these possibilities including that
possibilities including that windfall tax on digital companies
windfall tax on digital companies and then talking to the British
and then talking to the British peopla
and then talking to the British people and levelling with them and
people and levelling with them and saying, this is one of the great
saying, this is one of the great challenges of our generation and
challanges of our generation and this is
challenges of our generation and this is the way we can solve it.
this is the way we ran solve it. Thank you for
this is the way we can solve it. Thank you forjoining us. In about
Thank you for joining us. In about 20
Thank you forjoining us. In about 20 minutes’ time I will speak to the
20 minutes“ time I will speak to the Shadow
20 minutes’ time I will speak to the Shadow care Minister Liz Kendall.
The Taliban say they have
defeated resistance forces
in the Afghan provice of Panjshir and that they are in full
control of the area — the final part of the country that
has remained outside their rule since they swept
to power last month.
This video, published by a senior Taliban official,
is said to show Taliban fighters raising their flag at the provincial
governor’s compound.
But anti—Taliban resistance forces in the mountainous provice
in eastern Afghanistan have denied the claim — and thousands
of their fighters may still be massed there.
They are famous for holding out against the Soviet army in the 19805
and the Taliban in the 19905.
The anti—Taliban movement calls itself the National Resistance
Front of Afghanistan.
You can see their fighters here in a series of training drills.
It’s made up of a multi—ethnic group of militias and former Afghan
security force members.
Its leader is Ahmad Massoud.
He 5 the son of the late Ahmad Shah Massoud 7 who was known
as the Lion of Panjshir.
Massoud says he is open to peace talks.
In the past few hours he has tweeted that he is safe,
although his precise whereabouts are unknown.
Let’s hear what the Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid,
had to say about the situation in Panjshir at a news conference
earlier today.
TRANSLATION: We have captured Panjshir with the will of God.
The local elders and religious leaders have been coordinating
with us and our operations went ahead with their help.
Some of those who are still wanting to fight are missing at the moment.
We are trying to tell them that if they want to join a normal life,
they are welcome to.
Afghanistan is their home, there is no problem from our side,
but they need to stop fuelling the instability.
That will be our condition.
We have received one report that says Amrullah Saleh has
escaped to Tajikistan, but we will work out on finding out
if this is true or not.
It is not confirmed yet.
m:
We still have these competing claims as we have had over the past few
as we have had over the past few days about what is happening in
days about what is happening in Panjshir but it seems today that the
Panjshir but it seems today that the Taliban are confident they have
Taliban are confident they have taken control of the province,
taken control of the province, announcing it through their official
announcing it through their official spokesman, something they had not
spokesman, something they had not previously done. We also saw videos
previously done. We also saw videos of the Taliban raising their flag
of the Taliban raising their ﬂag above
of the Taliban raising their flag above the Governor’s compound, the
above the Governor’s compound, the provincial capital of Panjshir.
provincial capital of Panjshir. These
provincial capital of Pa njshir. These fighters
provincial capital of Panjshir. These fighters calling themselves
These fighters calling themselves the resistance, they say they still
the resistance, they say they still occupy strategic positions within
occupy strategic positions within Panjshir. It is not clear yet where
Panjshir. It is not clear yet where their leadership is. They include
their leadership is. They include Ahmad Massoud, the son of a
Ahmad Massoud, the son of a legendary Taliban fighter and a
legendary Taliban fighter and a former vice president and staunch
former vice president and staunch opponent of the Taliban. The
opponent of the Taliban. The spokesman saying he may have fled to
spokesman saying he may have ﬂed to Ted Duke
spokesman saying he may have fled to Ted Duke is done though that is not
Ted Duke is done though that is not confirmed as yet. Ahmad Massoud has
confirmed as yet. Ahmad Massoud has said on Twitter he is safe but not
said on Twitter he is safe but not provided any further details. From
provided any further details. From the Taliban’s perspective, they are
the Taliban’s perspective, they are saying that this marks the moment
saying that this marks the moment they have captured the entire
they have captured the entire country, the whole of Afghanistan
country, the whola of Afghanistan and they say
country, the whole of Afghanistan and they say it also marks the end
and they say it also marks the end of decades of war in the country. We
of decades of war in the country. We will have to see if that is true,
will have to see if that is true, whether or not there are a further
whether or not there are a further dashes or
whether or not there are a further clashes or not but a significant
clashes or not but a significant moment nonetheless. If that is true
moment nonetheless. If that is tme and they now
moment nonetheless. If that is true and they now move on to form a
and they now move on to form a government, they are going to then
government, they are going to then have to deal with all of the detail
have to deal with all of the detail of mnning a
have to deal with all of the detail of running a government that they
of mnning a government that they haven’t
of running a government that they haven’t done before. How is it
haven’t done before. How is it envisaged that is going to work with
envisaged that is going to work with yellow absolutely. Transforming
yellow absolutely. Transforming themselves to a government will be a
themselves to a government will be a far bigger challenge. It has been
far bigger challenge. It has been more than three weeks since the
more than three weeks since the Taliban took over Kabul and they
Taliban took over Kabul and they have yet to announce or establish a
have yet to announce or establish a new government. Many Afghans feeling
new government. Many Afghans feeling they are in limbo, hoping that if
they are in limbo, hoping that if they are not necessarily supporters
they are not necessarily supporters of the Tella man, that a new
of the Tella man, that a new government ‘s announced so they have
government ‘s announced so they have an idea of what the future will look
an idea of what the future will look like, so potentially the economy can
like, so potentially the economy ran improve, a lot
like, so potentially the economy can improve, a lot of people facing
improve, a lot of people facing financial hardship at the moment. In
financial hardship at the moment. In this press conference, the spokesman
this press conference, the spokesman said a new government would be
said a new government would be announced in a number of days. One
announced in a number of days. One source telling me it could come by
source telling me it could come by the end of this week but the
the end of this week but the announcement has been pushed back on
announcement has been pushed back on a number of occasions. He could be
a number of occasions. He could be delayed further. We also had a
delayed further. We also had a question in that press conference
question in that press conference about the status of the Taliban’s
about the status of the Taliban’s supreme leader. He has not been seen
supreme leader. He has not been seen or heard from in public and we have
or heard from in public and we have been hearing there were some
been hearing there were some concerns being raised within the
concerns being raised within the Taliban about why that was.
This summer, the magic continues.
Welcome to the Proms.
With captivating performances and concerts...
..unique collaborations...
..heroic symphonies...
..and a final breathtaking flourish.
The greatest adventure in classical music, live.
The Proms season streaming now.
Last Night live...
You just open your mouth and the poison comes spilling out.
I’m scared of what you’re capable of! Not guilty.
It’s like I never left.
It’s Monday, it’s 12:15, it’s a new parliamentary term.
We’re back and we’re live in Westminster.
With me today — Conservative Vice Chair Andrew Bowie,
Shadow Policing Minister Sarahjones,
former Government adviser Anita Boateng,
and Tony Blair’s former Director of Communications
Alastair Campbell.
Today...
m:
We can do all of these things without raising our income tax, VAT
without raising our income tax, VAT or National Insurance contributions.
or National Insurance contributions. That is our guarantee.
Is Boris Johnson about to break that election promise to pay
for his social care plans?
Also today...
Supply issues and labour shortages —
employers say they could last for up to two years unless the Government
takes more action.
So what — if anything — should the Government do?
Our values are still those which free people choose.
Tony Blair says the West should still be ready
to intervene in foreign wars.
But is that era now over?
MUSIC: Breathe by The Prodigy
And Extinction Rebellion say their latest protests have been
"incredibly successful".
Have they?
So,
50, MP5 are back in Westminster, we
So, MPs are back in Westminster, we have two of
50, MP5 are back in Westminster, we have two of them here in the studio,
have two of them here in the studio, it is the first day for the new term
it is the first day for the new term of Parliament. The domestic
of Partiament. The domestic political
of Parliament. The domestic political agenda is packed, so,
political agenda is packed, so, after 18 months of focus on the
after 18 months of focus on the Covid pandemic in the main, does it
Covid pandemic in the main, does it look, Alistair and Anita, as if
look, Alistair and Anita, as if politic is
look, Alistair and Anita, as if politics is returning to normal? I
politic is returning to normal? I don’t find
politics is returning to normal? I don’t find anything normal about our
don’t find anything normal about our politic at all,
don’t find anything normal about our politics at all, I’m afraid. I think
politic at all, I’m afraid. I think it is
politics at all, I’m afraid. I think it is normal —— don’t think it is
it is normal -- don’t think it is normal we
it is normal —— don’t think it is normal we are still in the Covid
normal we are still in the Covid crisis and Sajid Javid hasn’t done a
crisis and Sajid javid hasn’t done a briefing in two
crisis and Sajid Javid hasn’t done a briefing in two months he has been
briefing in two months he has been here, and a speaker in Parliament
here, and a speaker in Partiament seems
here, and a speaker in Parliament seems more worried about whether you
seems more worried about whether you wear chinos than if the Prime
wear chinos than if the Prime Minister tells the truth and I don’t
Minister tells the truth and I don’t think is normal that
Minister tells the truth and I don’t think is normal that we have this
think is normal that we have this new code word for get Brexit done
new code word for get Brexit done with the supply chain issues, and my
with the supply chain issues, and my worry is we are normalising the
worry is we are normalising the abnormal, if that makes sense. It
abnormal, if that makes sense. It does, just about. We will talk about
does, just about. We will talk about some of the issues you have raised.
some of the issues you have raised. Anita, what about you? Do you think
Anita, what about you? Do you think the issues we are going to talk
the issues we are going to talk about today and the rest of the week
about today and the rest of the week is an indication of politics
is an indication of politic returning
is an indication of politics returning to normal? Yes, I think it
returning to normal? Yes, I think it is and it may shock you that I don’t
is and it may shock you that I don’t agree with Alastair, but the example
agree with Alastair, but the example of one of the things we are probably
of one of the things we are probably going to talk about today like
going to talk about today like social care is something that the
social care is something that the Government is grasping a big,
Government is grasping a big, fundamental challenge that has
fundamental challenge that has plagued this country for decades and
plagued this country for decades and I think that is the sign of the
I think that is the sign of the Government really tackling these big
Government really tackling these big issues in addition to dealing with
issues in addition to dealing with Covid. Sarah, slightly different, do
Covid. Sarah, slightly different, do you think the pandemic, which is
you think the pandemic, which is ongoing to some extent, has changed
ongoing to some extent, has changed politic for
ongoing to some extent, has changed politics for good? Andrew and I both
politic for good? Andrew and I both fame
politic for good? Andrew and I both came in in
politics for good? Andrew and I both came in in 2017 and there has been
fame in in 2017 and there has been no normal during
came in in 2017 and there has been no normal during that whole time,
no normal during that whole time, because we had a whole Brexit
because we had a whole Brexit situation and now we have had Covid
situation and now we have had Covid and Alastair because my point is
and Alastair because my point is important, Covid hasn’t gone away,
important, Covid hasn’t gone away, hundreds are being hospitalised
hundreds are being hospitalised every day still in our country and
every day still in our country and we need to deal with that. I think
we need to deal with that. I think what Covid has done, apart from
what Covid has done, apart from anything else, is expose a lot of
anything else, is expose a lot of the inequalities in the system that
the inequalities in the system that were there before that we need to
were there before that we need to tackle, so social care, the NHS,
tackla, so social rare, the NHS, income, jobs,
tackle, so social care, the NHS, income, jobs, there is a raft of
income, jobs, there is a raft of issues that have been there and
issues that have been there and rising for ten years that Covid has
rising for ten years that Covid has shone a light on and we need to
shone a light on and we need to begin to tackle them. Andrew? Like
begin to tackle them. Andrew? Like Sarah, I would like to know what
Sarah, I would like to know what normal is. Having dealt with Brexit,
normal is. Having dealt with Brexit, we were straight into the Oval
we were straight into the Oval crisis that was the global pandemic
crisis that was the global pandemic and dealing with that and Sarah is
and dealing with that and Sarah is right, there are hundreds of people
right, there are hundreds of people still being hospitalised by this
still being hospitalised by this virus every day so we can’t take our
virus every day so we can’t take our eye off the ball but it’s only right
eye off the ball but it’s only right and proper that the Government deals
and proper that the Government deals with some of the big picture issues
with some of the big picture issues we are grappling with as a country
we are grappling with as a country and I’m very glad to see that is
and I’m very glad to see that is what will dominate the agenda over
what will dominate the agenda over the next couple of weeks. That is
the next couple of weeks. That is what we are going to look at now,
what we are going to look at now, the issue of reform of social care,
the issue of reform of social rare, a pledge made
the issue of reform of social care, a pledge made by Boris
the issue of reform of social care, a pledge made by BorisJohnson in
a pledge made by Boris johnson in the
a pledge made by BorisJohnson in the election, or
a pledge made by BorisJohnson in the election, orjust after it.
the election, or just after it. Let’s
the election, orjust after it. Let’s have a look at some of the
Let’s have a look at some of the front pages, very clear where they
front pages, very clear where they stand. Daily Telegraph, Tory Party
stand. Daily Telagraph, Tory Party grandees
stand. Daily Telegraph, Tory Party grandeesjoint tax
stand. Daily Telegraph, Tory Party grandees joint tax rise revolt,
grandees joint tax rise revolt, about the plans

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 06/09/2021, BBC2 England, 135 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/18874A7F?bcast=135210968 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)