wants to test me gadgets?
lots of different drugs, all port and now hospital h.
to decide whether human or is the driver, we’re to raise the els that does have a cockpit, hich the developers used to test software.
tim peak!
the amazing tim peak re and the equally amazing mark re is pacing me at street fighter and what are we playing this on?
we were uite close to a dam, a lake near town of bargo, when this normous helicopter, a water bombing aft came down with a giant aircraft came down with a giant hose, sucking up water, before going fight the fires, so in many “75 off to fight the fires, so in many ways it is a military style ration, boots on the ground pported by those squadrons of bombing aircraft, tragically, deaths of those two firefighters illustrate the dangers on the ontline.
bushfires are of life in this country, but what worries many scientists and people is that they seem to be tarting eartier they are far re ore intense.
scientists cannot say that particular bushfire west sydney or a fire in western ustralia is directly caused by mate change, what what they can say is that bal warming is making he conditions here dryer, and that assive factor in these bushfires here in eastern australia ample, we have had a very long drought, so what you have our itions of conditions, no ain, strong winds and hot mperatures, and those conditions nspire to heighten the fire anger as we say here in new south es, three major areas facing atastrophic conditions, and that is it gets.
: what we can see is the mle more most is the mutation at is the date of ignores principle of national overeignty that ignores the hority of the nation.
5 years after the referendum, the new felt strong enough to declare britain after brexit would set its own rules and standards, not follow the ’s.
the law will require the is clear of rules by december 2020, with or without a deal.
after harry dunn died, anne sacoolas flew back to the united states under diplomatic immunity.
two weeks later, anne sacoolas left the , claiming diplomatic immunity.
it is emely positive because as far as ran see every equest that has sent the to the has successful.
the duke of edinburgh — husband of queen elizabeth — is spending the night in a london hospital.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station — but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
so a lot of things went right today, and i want to be really clear, a lot of things went right and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and because in fact elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all very positive.
another enterprise, the california space—x company, has already completed a test flight of its astronaut capsule.
is well aware that some cases reality not yet match the the reality does not yet match the aspiration -- sharan.
to make cement carbon negative by 2040.
and becoming on negative requires a huge investment in cutting—edge nology to remove the may remaining carbon dioxide.
have been closed, rail roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupt third, at with just a few days left until christmas, summer idaymakers hoping to go north, outh, and west of sydney have been to stay at home today and to elay their trip until tomorrow, use conditions are very, very dangerous, as you say, very hot eratures in parts of new south alas.
and of course there have deaths, as well, happened ere, including a couple of olunteer firefighters.
scientists are telling at this annual fire season is not only starting earlier, it is ely to longer, and is more intense.
now, scientists can’t say that that icular bushfire west of sydney a fire in western australia is rectly caused by climate change, hat they do say is that global warming is making the conditions dryer and that is a massive here dryer and that is a massive factor in these bushfires.
the local ownership development, i think another is his sis on education and on emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent, i don’t think it was something he began early in his career but over the 15 years or so he was ncreasingly involved in ing randomised controlled trials to test ventions and see how well they orked.
and that been a pioneering step in elopment, nobel prize for onomics went to three economists orked on them and in some cases with or on — inspired rammes i think he leaves a uge legacy at the top tiers of elopment but also in villages ound the world, kids who otherwise have died who are here because his work.
the duke of edinburgh, husband of queen elizabeth, is spending the night in a london hospital.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner craft could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station, but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
and i want to be really clear — a lot of things went right, and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and because, in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all very positive.
another enterprise, california’s spacex company, has already completed its test flight of its astronaut capsule.
russia and china have vetoed a security council resolution that would have allowed aid to continue flowing to civilians in northern a aid chief warned that without an agreement there’d be a rapid increase in hunger and disease, and more deaths.
where’s your mask?
brilliantly written by belfast playwright owen mccafferty and directed by glenn leyburn and lisa barros d’sa, who made the life—affirming good vibrations, ordinary love is a remarkable picture that approaches a difficult subject matter with wit, honesty and a large dose of humour.
roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupted, and what with just a few days left until christmas, summer holidaymakers hoping to go north, south, and west of sydney have been urged to stay at home today and to delay their trip until tomorrow, because conditions are very, very dangerous, as you say, very hot temperatures in parts of new south wales.
and of course there have been deaths, as well, haven’t there, including a couple of volunteer firefighters.
scientists are telling us that this annual fire season is not only starting earlier, it’s likely to last longer, and is more intense.
but what worries many scientists and other people is that they seem to be starting earlier and they are far more intense.
now, scientists can’t say that that particular bushfire west of sydney or a fire in western australia is directly caused by climate change, but what they do say is that global warming is making the conditions here dryer and that is a massive factor in these bushfires.
i think another is his emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent — i don’t think it was really something he really with began early in his career, but over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly involved in using randomised controlled trials to test interventions and see how well they worked, as if they were a pharmaceutical trial.
and that has been a pioneering step in development — the nobel prize for economics went to three economists who worked on them, in some cases with or —inspired programmes, so i think he, you know, he leaves a huge legacy at the top tiers of development, but also in villages around the world — kids who otherwise would have died who are here because of his work.
the duke of edinburgh, husband of queen elizabeth, is spending the night in a london hospital.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner craft could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station, but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
i want to be really clear — a lot of things went right, and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all — this is all very positive.
another enterprise, california’s spacex company, has already completed its test flight of its astronaut capsule.
russia faces a deadly epidemic of domestic violence, so last month, lucy ash went to meet some of the families whose stories have sparked a national debate.
after a public outcry, the sisters have been released from prison and are leading relatively normal lives, with some restrictions while awaiting trial.
beatings which didn’t require hospital treatment were classed as administrative offences, not crimes.
margarita has just published a book about her recovery.
she says the recent increase in russian domestic violence cases in the european court of human rights have embarrassed the government.
the appalling cases in this film might have been prevented, if only the right measures been in place.
: what weakens the rule law most of the mutation that we the state of udges, the state the judges is the state which ores the principle of national vereignty, that ignores the hority of the nation, the state the judges is the state in which judges ecide what law and what is not.
they and company were guilty of moral assment, bullying starting anxiety and depression and in the cases, suicide.
for worst cases, suicide.
i think another is his emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent — i don’t think it was really something he really with began early in his career, but over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly involved in using randomised controlled trials to test interventions and see how well they worked, as if they were a pharmaceutical trial.
and that has been a pioneering step in development — the nobel prize for economics went to three economists who worked on them, in some cases with or —inspired programmes, so i think he, you know, he leaves a huge legacy at the top tiers of development, but also in villages around the world — kids who otherwise would have died who are here because of his work.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner craft could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station, but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
i want to be really clear — a lot of things went right, and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all — this is all very positive.
another enterprise, california’s spacex company, has already completed the test flight of its astronaut capsule.
50 mask started with my mask started to fill with water.
this time my mask stayed put, but we decided not to too far from the ice whole, my confidence returned.
i much prefer having the oxygen tank.
over a 16 year od, the numbers in borneo fell more than 100,000, a decline amed on hunting and deforestation.
prince philip spends the night in hospital in london after being admitted for treatment for a pre—existing condition.
