those cold arctic winds, though, are out into the north sea on wednesday and we start to see our weather coming in from the atlantic, so that’s not such a cold direction.
the winds will be a lot lighter on wednesday as well, and after a chilly start we’ll see cloud amounts tending to increase, although many places will be dry.
now, it won’t feel as cold
but it’s still cold for the time of year.
those temperatures are way below what they should be at this time of the year.
and we’ve got an area of low pressure with that weather front turning it a little wetter and windier across the northwest of scotland and we’ll see that cloud thickening as it moves down and brings some rain into other parts of scotland and northern ireland through the day.
much of england and wales will be dry.
it’ll be a cold, potentially frosty start in the south, 3 lot of cloud to come, but those temperatures are rising to the heady heights of 11 or 12 degrees.
still not great for this time of year.
weather front that’s bringing the rain in the north then tracks its way southwards across the as we head into friday as that low pressure moves away.
and you can see we’ve got this line of rain.
uncertainty as to how quickly it’ll move away from southern parts of england.
once it does, though, there’ll be some sunshine and some showers, the wind direction goes back to a northerly, we get colder air coming down the north, and those showers turn wintry in northern scotland as temperatures drop away.
we’re not expecting a surge of cold air, though, across the next weekend.
high pressure is going to block that off and sit across the southern half of the .
will allow some weather systems to come in from the atlantic into some of that colder air across mainly northern parts of scotland.
so, you ran see from our city forecast there’s not a great deal of wet weather as we head into the outlook.
it’s going to be largely dry, still cold at night, but gradually by day those temperatures should be rising to nearer normal values.
the best—dressed show in town is back!
yay!
how are we all?
very excited!
they all look great.
your time starts now.
while the needles are stitching chill!
the dock keeps ticking.
sewers, you’ve had half your time.
who’ll be the first to come apart at the seams?
it’s quite sexy, isn’t it?
ooh, you are awful.
i heard what you said, and i like it.
it’s all so beautiful, isn’t it?
the return of the great british sewing bee got a secret can you keep it?
swear this one you’ll save they found alison’s body.
: it’sjenna.
taking this one to the grave "i’m still here.
" : "and i know everything — a.
" you rest assured i will find out what happened.
cos two can keep a secret if one of them is dead.
friends share secrets — that’s what keep us close.
the secret’s out.
the warning is stark.
: the number of covid—19 cases reported in the past 2a hours is alarming and is a matter of concern.
it could turn into a hazardous situation.
almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases, which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
if the cases increase in this proportion, the impact of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of covid—19 in india, the country recording 12.
5 million infections.
on sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest level since september with more than 93,000.
more than half of those were in maharashtra, the state facing tighter restrictions from monday.
that includes a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
: this is a very good decision by the government as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very beneficialfor all of us.
stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task, kling in a country with a population of 1.
3 billion.
—— particularly.
despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive, so far administering more than 68 million doses, it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
tanya dendrinos, news.
aid groups in mozambique say nearly 10,000 people have been evacuated from the northern town of palma, which was recently attacked by islamist militants.
the mozambican authorities say thousands are still hiding in the forests surrounding the area, in desperate need of food and water.
the ’s vumani mkhize brings us this report from nearby pemba, where many victims have sought refuge.
this man hasjust gotten off the rescue ferry at pemba harbour.
his tears are for his dead father, his brother still missing.
all morning, they arrived, a steady procession of over 1,000 survivors grateful to be alive, but in shock.
they spoke of decapitations, bodies on the streets, and fleeing through dense forest from the gun—wielding insurgents.
this distraught woman lost two sons during the attack.
: it hurts a lot.
every day, we saw mothers crying.
three, four of their children — they don’t know where they are.
it’s too painful.
isis—linked insurgents began the coordinated attack on palma just over a week ago, killing indiscriminately and displacing thousands.
the official death toll is still not yet known and, according to the , tens of thousands of people have been displaced.
among those missing is british man philip mawer.
his family fear the worst.
as victims made their way out of the besieged town, doctors struggled to keep up with the wounded.
we could not help everybody.
i mean, the need was huge there.
this population is really in need of medical care, protection and evacuation, and food.
i’m at a local community sports complex that’s been converted into a makeshift shelter for survivors of the deadly attack in palma.
now, these are some of the victims who have come here seeking shelter and refuge following the horrors that they encountered at the hands of the insurgents.
the people that made their way off the boat are the lucky ones.
thousands remain scattered in the forest surrounding palma.
many will not survive.
and with reports of an ongoing conflict in palma, mozambique will struggle to keep up with the escalated humanitarian crisis.
is.
vumani mkhize, news, pemba, mozambique.
to the now.
emergency workers in florida are trying to prevent catastrophic flooding as after a leak in a toxic wasterwater reservoir.
this is all happening in florida’s tampa bay, where the piney point reservoir is located.
more than 300 homes have been evacuated.
this is the wastewater reservoir which contains 480 million gallons — that’s over 2 billion litres — of polluted water.
and this is the leak itself, which is now a week old.
efforts to plug it have failed so workers are now using these pipes to pump dozens of gallons out to prevent any flooding, should the containment wall break.
here’s governor ron desantis on the emergency response efforts.
to be clear, the water being discharged to port manatee is not radioactive.
it is primarily saltwater from the port manatee dredge project, mixed with legacy process water and stormwater run—off.
we’re currently pumping out 33 million gallons per day.
this new process will help to significantly increase the volume of water that we are pumping out at piney point.
i asked florida’s agriculture commissioner nikki fried what’s happening in her home state.
so what is happening is that this is an old phosphate mining tion, where the phosphate location, where the phosphate mining has stopped for many, years but unfortunately, has been something that this has been something that has been on the radar for the rtment and for department of and for protection for decades that, in , there were leaks in the iping, which is exactly what happened, and these flumes the ater would start to kind of seep into the bay and the water and so while out of the water and so whila it is not radioactive, it is emely filled with nutrients at when they collide with something like tampa bay and the water he created by the so right now the has nsuccessfully stopped the pill to the waterways but unfortunately, at some point, this is going to have to all of this is going to have to be drained, significant blems here and it could end up being a tremendously rimental environmental disaster here in the state of ida.
just how preventable as this, your opinion?
xtremely preventable.
this was ething that back even in the 905 early 2000 was told to the vernors of our state over plus years was made aware hat this is a disaster waiting appen and it is not to happen and it is not just this mining location, we’ve got phosphate mining places across all across the state of florida and unfortunately, the past 20 have been under one years have been under one party’s control have really of spent time deregulating and not having enough ention, financial resources, his is something that should been addressed 20 years ago but unfortunately now, we itting a historic disaster ere in the state because tion was not taken, even our rent governor and you heard tier tonight, was made ware of this situation last and unfortunately, he also ook no action to have evented these leaks and this riority for the states are only are there homes the area but are really going to be cted but also the impacted but also the ecosystem, the environment, the and life in that community resourcing retired on our stal communities will not mean the killing of our but all of those communities are our impact on conomic revenue from people coming and visiting but ommunities are also of their survival rate is based on ishing industry that will ollapse and we will start eing a lot of these red tie algae blooms loss and cause of this discharge oming from the mining stay with us on news.
still to come: often someone’s best friend and often a lifeline in lockdown, but what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
this funeral became a massive demonstration of black power.
the power to influence.
today is about the promise of a bright future.
a day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
i think that picasso’s works were beautiful, they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody who loves art.
this is news.
the latest headlines: a royal crisis injordan — former crown prince hamza says he’s under house arrest, accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst affected state of maharashtra — as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
pope francis has used his easter urbi orbi message to focus on the victims of coronavirus.
he urged a quickening of the vaccine rollout around the world.
our rome correspondent mark lowen reports.
peter’s basilica echoed to its emptiness.
beneath michelangelo’s dome, a small group of worshippers gathering for easter mass, more a consolation than a celebration, a time to reflect on a painful year and for the leader of the world’s catholics to comfort those whose faith has been shaken.
pope francis focused on the pandemic in his message, calling the resurrection of christa symbol of hope for those who had lost loved ones, jobs, and time with friends or in the classroom.
and he spoke of the panacea.
:
vaccines are an essential tool in this fight.
i urge the entire international community in a spirit of global responsibility to commit to overcoming delays in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their distribution, especially in the poorest countries.
the pope talked of conflict across the world, condemning what he called "scandalous military spending amidst the pandemic.
" there were words too for the victims of the burmese coup.
: i am close to young people from all over the world, and at this time especially to those of myanmar who are committed to democracy, making their voices heard peacefully, aware that hatred can only be dissipated by love.
churches could stay open today despite the whole of italy being put into the tightest covid restrictions.
but the measures were strict with italians battling a third wave.
with shops and restaurants closed across the country, it’s a second straight lockdown easter.
"it’s just a few of us at lunch today," she says.
"we were hoping for a faster solution to all of this.
"
"i’m meeting with my family today, my mother has already been vaccinated, so we are beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel," he says.
not a moment too soon for the medics, who managed a touch of easter cheer today and some sweet treats.
how they keep their spirits up is itself a miracle, giving us all hope that real joy isn’t too far off.
mark lowen, news, rome.
exit polls for bulgaria’s parliamentary election suggest the centre—right party of prime minister boyko borissov has won the most votes with around 25%.
if confirmed, he will need the support of others to continue governing.
borissov’s main challengers are the pro—russia socialists, with approximately 16 percent of the votes, according to the exit polls.
the elections were held in spite of high levels of coronavirus infections.
the swimmer rikako ikee has qualified for the tokyo olympics three years after being diagnosed with leukaemia.
the 20—year—old athlete won the 100m butterfly at the trials in 57.
77 seconds.
she only resstarted her olympic training last year.
she cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was really surprised.
loretta race is a reporter for swimswam news.
thank you for coming on the programme.
pause for a second use i just want to show our ewers the moment of the because i just want to show our viewers the moment of the win.
see the joy and emotion because his is such a hugely nificant moment obviously her but represents for the as well
and she is clenching her and then the ears come as she realises the significance of has done.
wonderful photos.
i want to get your reaction.
you watching that.
what would were watching that.
what would your reaction when you saw it?
utter amazement.
she ust returned to racing, her official race back was ugust of last year.
here we even months later and she alified for the olympic ames.
she was targeting paris, 20—year—old, so the fact at she was way ahead of hedule and her body and her ind has persevered is a a testament to her character and fortitude.
and physical, then, ow.
how do you go bout tilting back treatment?
oh, my goodness.
in march 2020, that was her first in the pool.
in over 400 days.
all she did was walk und.
not even talking actual ysical swim workouts.
she had build back a lot of her usda cle mass that was lost and you see viously in the if you see obviously in the video, she is still very slim, had to fight her way
so she had to fight her way back in her mind and in the l.
the reaction of the wind, course it is huge personally.
are we reading too much into it to say actually it represents the country says something wider than her achievements?
allen absolutely not.
everyone around orld is rooting for her,.
the world is rooting for her,.
and the fact that everyone need positive news nowadays.
the olympics are a beacon of for all us and the fact hope for all of us and the fact that they are going to be going he fans and spectators, he is just a eacon of light and it is just to give us all inspiration as we move ward to uly for the forward to july for the olympics.
and what about listic chances come the actual main competition?
that ike a very good question.
she has a 100 freestyle coming wednesday.
it is very ealistic, even her lification for the medley relay, that she could entially oin he freestyle relay as well.
individual lification ould just be complete icing on the cake.
this point is so this point she is so overwhelmed that it is almost she has already won the like she has already won the gold medal.
great stuff
and to have you want, thank you.
for so many people, one of the worst things about the global pandemic has been loneliness.
millions unable to meet family orfriends and crying out for company.
one possible solution has been to get a pet, but some are worried about what will happen to those animals once the lockdown is over.
tim allman reports.
this is ooshie.
for marcus and his daughter, has made life that little bit more bearable.
around a million dogs and cats that have found new mes germany since the homes in germany since the covid crisis began.
: a pandemic is usily a time when we stay at me a lot, confined, that eans i have to work from home.
children are also at home so it is a good time to get used to a family.
across he country, there was a 20% increase ownership last increase in dog ownership last year.
one survey showing that than eight out of ten more than eight out of ten owners said animals like ooshie ided emotional support.
provided emotional support.
but the lockdown won’t last ever.
and the manager of this shelter in berlin is cerned about what happens xt.
: we estimate after the current lockdown s, there will unfortunately a crazy number of abandoned mals dropped off at our helter, when people return to normal lines.
—— lives.
is typical, staffordshire rrier mix, he is lovely but a to handle this the message simple one.
a dog is for fe, not a pandemic.
that is it from me.
get in touch ith me on your thoughts any of the stories we are covering now.
i’m on twitter — i’m @lvaughanjones.
this is news.
hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcester where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air.
and that cold air is now moving southwards behind this cold front, a much, much chillier feel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely, but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places, and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland.
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts, but actually, greater chance of seeing some showers inland, and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too, 2—9 celsius at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer or perhaps just a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us.
50, through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures, but then actually by friday, in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
but what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
this is news.
the headlines: the half—brother of the king ofjordan is being investigated for allegedly plotting with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
in a video sent to the , prince hamzah denied being part of any conspiracy, but said he’s under house arrest and accused jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
new coronavirus restrictions are being introduced in india’s worst—affected state maharashtra, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
on sunday, india recorded 93,000 cases.
the country now has the third highest number of cases in the world, after the united states and brazil.
emergency workers in the state of florida are trying to stop catastrophic flooding after a leak more than 300 homes have been evacuated.
of polluted water.
efforts to plug the leak have so far failed.
now on news, global questions talks to two former female presidents — one from africa and one from europe — who’ve both been trailblazers for women’s rights for decades.
hello, and welcome to global questions.
with me, zeinab badawi.
thousands of women all over the world are protesting against gender violence and sexism, and are demanding an end to the violation of their right.
this week, we have two distinguished former female presidents, one from africa and one from europe, answering questions about women still have to endure discrimination.
that is global questions — sexism and violence against women in a patriarchal world.
to bring you this edition of global questions, our two panellists and specialists are joining us via video link from all over the world.
let me tell you who is in the hot seat this week giving the answers.
well, we have two leading global stateswomen who were co—chairs of the women’s leaders network of the africa europe foundation.
mary robinson was the first female president in the republic of ireland, elected in 1990.
before becoming a politician, she trained as a lawyer.
on leaving office, she became the high commissioner for human rights.
and ellenjohnson sirleaf there must was the first woman to be elected a head of state in africa.
she was president of liberia until 2018.
an economist by training, she was the joint recipient of the nobel peace prize in 2011 for her work in promoting women’s rights and for her leadership during and after a liberia’s civil war.
welcome to you both.
and remember, you, too, can join the conversation — it’s bbcglobalquestions.
we have lots and lots of great questions and i’m sure some really brilliant on those from a two panellists so let’s get straight down to business and faith immanuel in lagos, nigeria.
faith, your question, please?
oh, good evening!
i’m really excited to be here.
my name is faith immanuel in lagos and my question is as follows — given our culture, is there a sense of male entitlement?
ellenjohnson sirleaf, this gets straight down to business, doesn’t it?
does the patriarch you still exist?
the long—standing cultural assumptions are what gave credence to the patriarchy.
women have been addressing this over the years.
fortunately, in more recent times as a result of this continued struggle on the part of women, some of these assumptions are increasingly no longer valid and we need to continue to make sure we make that point.
mary robinson.
i agree very much with ellen.
i think a lot of boys sense, in a lot of cultures, they are valued more than girls, then they see their role models — the president is a man, the prime minister as a man, judges are all men, and it reinforces that sense that men are more important and therefore have that sense of entitlement.
that’s what we need to change.
50 both of you think it’s a cultural problem, it’s not something that can be addressed with legislation, because faith asks there is a sense of male entitlement.
and it seems to be resistant to even good laws trying to eradicate it.
i think the laws can help.
removing the laws that descriminate can help and also a kind of an educational change based on equality.
which is what generation equality, the forum that is place in mexico and ris this year is all about.
it’s all about asserting the true equality and the more women move who high office in various ways and leadership at local deal, the more we will address it.
laws will help but unless those laws are implemented and unless we have the environment in which the implementation is insisted upon by those in society, both men and women, then it is most difficult to get away from those assumptions.
let’s go to casablanca, morocco.
what do you want to ask ellenjohnson sirleaf and mary robinson?
thank you, zeinab.
both madam presidents, what an honour to be with you in the session today.
thank you for the opportunity, global questions.
my question today is about women in leadership positions.
many of us in this position often hear that we are too articulate or too direct or even too confident.
do people make these kind of statements, and do you think that this can lead to self—limiting ambitions for women and many other girls who are growing to be these leaders?
thank you.
mary robinson, what is your answer to dana?
thank you, dana.
it is true that women in leadership are often judged differently than men.
the traits that are valued in men, like decisiveness, assertiveness, bold action, can often be seen as shrill, bossy — all the negative terms when a woman is doing exactly the same thing.
and that is a cultural trait itself.
i actually think the best way to counter it is to ignore it.
i remember when i was elected president of ireland in 1990, i was the first woman president.
i was absolutely determined to do it confidently, feeling that actually, i would do a betterjob precisely because i was a woman.
i didn’t want to be seen as being like the men, i wanted to do it differently and use all my skills and leadership qualities as a woman to do the job
and i think that is the way to counter it.
ellenjohnson sirleaf, i mean, societal expectations of women they shouldn’t fight in combat or go into space and not be too confident, as dana was saying.
what do you think about this?
if these values — articulate, direct — were the ones that are attributed to women, that would be great.
we would claim it.
most times, the values that are attributed are the ones that have a negative overtone.
too many times, when women are assertive, it’s said that they are aggressive even though men would be called assertive.
so i don’t think we have a problem with these particular attributes, and women are just prepared to stand up and accept those.
they have no problem with being called articulate.
we would like to see that.
and so, what we need to do is to make sure that women continue to speak out, women continue to have their voice, women continue to be regarded as the ones that are going to claim the leadership that they rightfully deserve.
alright, dana.
what do you want to say to what our two madam presidents have said?
thank you very much.
this is reassuring.
girl in the south ofjordan, fighting these stereotypes and trying to break them and go beyond.
and i’m so happy there are other leaders encouraging and inspiring girls in these emerging markets and around the world to really break these barriers and stereotypes.
thank you very much.
alright, let’s go to sydney, australia, to our next question.
our next question is from rachel wong, and i shoudl say, you are the of the think tank women’s forum australia.
fire away.
it really is a privilege to discuss these issues with such influential women.
my question today is, when are we going to wake up to the insidous end to objectification of women in culture, with shaped misogynistic attitudes in pornography among other things.
how can we address it?
this is a huge problem, isn’t it?
the sectoral objectification of women deeply embedded in particularly popular culture.
it really is.
objectification of women is a problem that’s got to be resisted in the strongest of ways.
representation of people is very critical to how we shape ttitudes of women in ociety.
and let me say, the media is a major concern in this regard.
the media can be positive, in being able to uplift the voices of women, but the media can also be very negative.
and we’ve seen so many cases in recent times where women who have achieved leadership roles are told — when conveying their leadership roles, are being put in a negative sense, which has happened in the case of the director of the world trade organization, in which she was accorded and elected to this poisition but in annoucing it, she was called names that were degrading.
you’re talking about ngozi okonjo—iweala, what are you referring to there?
she was being attacked because she was the first woman to be elected as director general of the world trade organization and they did not want to give her the credit for her talent and her managerial expertise.
theyjust wanted to put her as — she was merely a grandmother.
in other words, she should not be there.
and i think they need to apologise for that statement.
0k, alright, that is a disparaging statement l111: but let’s move onto the sexual of women and how they are shown easy access to porn and advertising and pop videos and he rest of it.
we need consumer revolt against that kind of objectification, that misuse of the image of women to sell products in a very sexy way and so on, and also the problems of social media, that ellen was talking about.
but we need to be careful that we do not intrude on freedom of expression and have a censorship that can be counter—productive, you know, that can actually cause another kind of reaction.
i mean, it goes right across the board.
women, when elected to high office, do suffer you know, complaints about how they dress, how they speak, how they work, how they smile.
it’s a much tougher world for women in public positions and we know that, and part of it is the fact that we allow an objectification and it’s how we really to counter that by having a society that values gender equality and that will not tolerate, as consumers, this objectification.
it will take time.
all right, rachel, do you have any ideas yourself about how governments can address this problem, because it is a question you posed?
yes, i couldn’t agree more that we need to ensure equality across the board for women with men, but i really don’t think we can do that unless we seriously address the issue of pornography.
to recognise that porn is normalising violence against women and that is conditioning men, many from when they are just young boys, to view girls as sexual objects to be used and abused and this and exploitation that takes place on the porn industry itself.
i think it’s time the government acknowledged the inherently obstructive nature of porn and address it in the correct way.
to stanford, california.
to audrey, your question, please?
thank you so much for having me.
madam presidents, i’d be interested to know what steps men can take to achieve gender equality.
mary robinson.
it is really important that we engage men because gender equality matters for both women and men, and there efforts like adopting a he for she approach, to be champions of gender equality.
actually, ellen has been seeking to bring male presidents in africa together on this issue, so i will pass to her in a moment, but i do think it is really important to have men take on the child—rearing, the home—making, the care of elderly, so that the burdens and responsibilities at home are shared because until we do that, we will not see a full equality.
how achievable is that?
ellenjohnson sirleaf, how achievable is it in africa to get the men to agree to be home—makers and take 50—50 share in the child rearing?
0h, we’re a long way off from that.
we have to ask the question, when will men recognise the value of women, to know the contribution that women can make to society?
they’re equally smart, knowledgeable, they are courageous.
what does it take for them to recognise those values that reside in there?
their wives, their daughters?
what does it take?
what does that take, ellenjohnson sirleaf?
you’re posing the question, we’re all agog, we want to know.
we need the policies, no doubt.
we need constitutional change, if that is required, but we haven’t able to change the attitudes.
for people to see women be young, that says they ought to be in the home.
audrey, what do you think about what you’ve just heard?
these are excellent responses and just brings me back to the thought that someone running an non—profit to get more than in the industry and talking about the 50, men will notjust disappear from the conversation, they need to be active allies and that means really calling to do or say certain things and these responses make me optimistic about being a woman in the industry.
we like optimism also.
not all doom and gloom.
it’s an honour to be here.
thank you so much.
my question is, what do you think the biggest hurdle to achieving gender equality and women’s economic empowerment across the globe?
biggest hurdle?
what’s the big obstacle?
attitudes.
attitudes.
male domination.
the world default for male power is what keeps women behind.
it’s still what keeps women behind.
how do we change the attitude?
that’s what we need to address.
lots of progress in there, as we mentioned, men who have now been liberated from these old attitudes, and we need to expand their numbers.
attitude, attitude, attitude.
yes, i agree with ellen, and i think what we really need is to have a sense that in the modern world, we all benefit from more equality, therefore, for men and women, this is the goal
and i think this is something that young people understand more.
young girls are leading as climate activists.
they are showing by the passion and how articulate they are that they will change the world, if i can put it that way, and i do think that a big hurdle is the fact that there’s a lack of resources for what women want to achieve.
very little trickles down to women at local level in their communities to make them resilient to climate, for example.
a very small amount.
and it’s all the way — not only is power on the side of men, are resources.
thank you.
now to saudi arabia for our last question.
thank you for having me.
i am 17 years old, i’m part of the generation of equality for youth group and i am also a delegate for girls learn international.
i also run my own non—profit, and my question is, how can we ensure that women have equal representation in power in places of decision—making and leadership.
thank you.
right, all that and you’re only 17 here.
my goodness me.
coming to you.
ellen, how do we ensure equal representation and power in decision—making and leadership?
i know i know in 2016 liberia introduced a new law reserve in iamentary seats for women, oung people and people with abilities.
our quota one is one of the ways ward?
——are quotas one of the ways forward?
we need more than that, we need an enabling environment.
for that, go back changing attitudes.
and women cannot be the only ones that fight to change these attitudes.
men have to weigh in.
we’re trying to write a letter to all the male presidents and male leaders and ask them to be willing to give an open commitment to gender equality.
how will they respond?
we do not know, but i think we ought to ask them to do it.
thank you.
what is your answer, mary robinson?
i agree but women have to be smart.
take, for example, the africa euro foundation that you mentioned at the beginning.
you mentioned we are co—chairs of a women as leaders network, and that did not exist.
we invented it because the africa europe foundation was going to be chaired by two men, we were invited to be honorary presidents, which is not very significant leaders network, and we already find the network is giving a gender lens to the whole of the africa europe foundation, all its strategy committees — all of what it’s doing.
and what it is a great power in women led networks at all levels, at local level, goals, networking.
i’m sure each of the questioners as part of a network.
there’s a lot of trust in women leader networks because we know that if we are not there for our ego but we are there to change things, they are to problem solve, they are to collaborate.
can i ask you both very ugly because your older states women and you’ve both been in positions of leadership, but frankly the progress hasn’t been great, how is it?
in both your countries, the number of women parliamentarians is only around a, i 107 one ten women leaders globally is female, so is it even when have women such as yourself positions of leadership that the numbers just don’t stack up on the progress isn’t as great as we would like it to be?
i was actually going to pick up on the importance of quotes.
i think they do help to accelerate the equality and i fully agree with them, i’ve seen it work in so many countries.
is scandinavia seen as being very good on women playing a 50—50 role in parliaments and cabinets?
because they began with quotes.
and i think we can all learn, we have quotes in ireland which are not working as well as they should, but i do agree
and i think it is very, very important that we work at this during this gender equality year.
very quickly, ellen, progress has been very slow here, you are on the world stage for many decades
but we still only have four countries in the world with more than 50% of their cabinet members are women.
the progress on women leadership is real and that may have led to a pushback — that we were moving too far, too fast.
but i think we need to just continue and the timing is now.
if there’s any time where inequities have been exposed, it is in this covid—19 year.
and now is the time to push even harder and i believe the progress women have made can now be discussed.
and mary mentioned the quota system, some countries have resisted the basis of competition and this would not llow competition.
but we agree with that might disagree with that because women are ready to compete fully for any leadership position or any position in society.
thank you.
saudi arabia, a country which in many people’s hasn’t got the bestrecord, let’s put it that way, on women’s rights.
i these past few years, saudi has seen a slow but steady and promising progress in terms of women’s rights, in recent years, we were given the right to drive in 2018, the patriarchal system is dissolving although it does still exist in some circumstances unfortunately and i think international pressure has been working release activist from jail and progressing women’s rights.
i’m an optimistic person
and i do believe in the country’s ability to make a lot of gender equality progress in the future.
well, thank you and very good to end this programme with a very articulate 17—year—old there.
thank you very much indeed to my two panellists.
and thank you to my questioners who joined us from all over the world and to you wherever you are watching this programme.
that’s all from this edition of global questions.
sexism and violence against women and a patriarchal world.
remember, we are the programme bringing you the trend lines behind the headlines and if you want to be part of our next programme, submit a question on the website.
for now, from me, zainab badawi, goodbye.
thank you very much indeed.
hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcestershire where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air.
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely, but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland.
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts, but actually, greater chance of seeing some showers inland, and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too, 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer or perhaps just a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us.
50, through the middle of the week, some in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
welcome to news, i’m lewis vaughanjones.
our top stories: royal crisis injordan, former crown prince hamza accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst affected state, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
the florida reservoir leaking toxic waste—water, and the battle to prevent an environmental disaster.
and tears ofjoy, the swimmer who’s qualified for the tokyo olympics after being diagnosed with leukemia.
the half—brother of the king ofjordan is being investigated to destabilise the kingdom.
in a video sent to the , prince hamzah bin hussein denied being part of any conspiracy, but he accused jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet reports on this unprecedented crisis withinjordan’s ruling family.
a young prince at the heart of a major royal rift.
hamzah, 41 years old, graduate of sandhurst in the , harvard in the .
now he says he’s under house arrest.
all my friends have been arrested.
my security has been removed, and the internet and phone lines have been cut.
this is my last form of communication.
and in this video, passed to the , rare public criticism from a jordanian prince.
i am not the person responsible for the breakdown in governance, for the corruption and for the incompetence.
today on state , a dramatically different account — prince hamzah and others accused of plotting to destabilise the kingdom.
: the investigations monitored interference and phone cells, including with foreign parties, which discussed the appropriate timing to start steps to shake the security of our stable kingdom.
king abdullah is being said to be trying to resolve this within the family — an effort failing so far.
so much is so unclear.
there have long been some strains between brothers.
hamzah was called the favourite of their father, the late king hussein.
there’s a striking resemblance between them.
but when the king lost his long battle with cancer in 1999, he chose his eldest son, abdullah, to succeed him.
hamzah became crown prince.
2004 was a pivotal yearfor the prince.
he got married and was stripped of his royal title.
the king made his own son second in line.
prince hamzah has expressed veiled criticism before, but nothing like this.
this crisis in a quiet corner of a volatile region has rattled neighbours, including other arab monarchies.
they’ve rushed to back the king.
already worried about discontent over an economic crisis made much worse by a painful pandemic, now there’s uncertainty over whether this is a family crisis or one which goes much further.
lyse doucet, news.
earlier, i spoke to annelle sheline, senior research fellow for the middle east programme at the sink tank the quincy institute.
i asked her how damaging this extraordinary family feud is.
this is really unprecedented and part of we saw other arab monarchies around the region, as well as the , very quickly expressing support, which is interesting because previously, especially under president trump, signed the abraham accords, and especially president trump’s efforts to shut down the two state solution.
king abdullah was somewhat frustrated and there was also the potential effort by the saudis to possibly take over control of the holy sites injerusalem.
there’ve been of ongoing tension injordan feeling somewhat and its neighbours, so it is interesting new to see the extent to which support is coming in from all its neighbours and the because the local monarchs know that if something were to happen to king abdullah, that could potentially be similar to the situation we saw in tunisia ten years ago with the fall of the tunisian government and subsequent falls of other republican governments around the region.
are you saying this is self interest among those countries preferring stability in that country rather than a potentially destabilising separation of powers?
absolutely.
for all that saudi arabia might prefer to take control of the harambe sharif injerusalem, they are not willing to allow king abdullah to be overthrown.
if that were to occur then that could set a precedent of destabilising monarchies all over the region.
when push comes to shove, the monarchs are all on the same side and that’s their own side.
from the king’s point of view, was it worth the risk?
was it a show of force from the authorities in the country, saying that they will not put up with this level of criticism, but they must have known there will be this public blowback as well.
yes.
in general, i worry a little bit that i have seen nothing that makes it look like there was in fact an actual coup attempt and these allegations that there was support from foreign forces.
a lot of this reminds me of erdogan in 2016 alleged a coup attempt and use that to really crack down on academics and journalists and tighten the screw in turkey, which had previously been seen as more democratic and previouslyjordan has had a functioning parliament, although the king remains the acting head of state and ultimately makes the decisions.
i do wonder what this means for the future ofjordan where king abdullah has felt quite insecure over the past year with covid cases, had economics and jordanians are very frustrated, which is part of what former crown prince hamza was expressing, thatjordanians are really frustrated
so i think king abdullah is showing he will not tolerate criticism from anyone, not even his half brother.
the indian state of maharashtra will see tighter restrictions from monday after a significant rise in coronavirus infections.
india has the third highest number of cases in the world, after the and brazil.
tanya dendrinos reports.
a crowded market in mumbai.
masks are on, but social distancing is virtually impossible, and coronavirus cases are rising rapidly.
the warning is stark.
: the number of covid—19 cases reported in the past 2a hours is alarming and is a matter of concern.
it could turn into a hazardous situation.
almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases, which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
if the cases increase in this proportion, the impact of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of covid—19 in india, the country recording 12.
5 million infections.
on sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest level since september, with more than 93,000 recorded.
more than half of those were in maharashtra, the state facing tighter restrictions from monday, including a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
: this is a very good decision by the government as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very beneficialfor all of us.
stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task, particularly in a country with a population of 1.
3 billion.
despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive, so far administering more than 68 million doses, it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
tanya dendrinos, news.
emergency workers in florida are trying to prevent catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic wasterwater reservoir.
this is all happening in florida’s tampa bay, where the piney point reservoir is located.
more than 300 homes have been evacuated.
this is the waste water reservoir which contains 480 million gallons, that’s over two billion litres, of polluted water.
and this is the leak itself, which is now a week old.
efforts to plug it have failed.
50 workers are now using these pipes to pump water out to reduce flooding, if the containment wall breaks.
here’s governor ron desantis with an update on the emergency response efforts.
to be clear, the water being discharged to port manatee is not radioactive.
it is primarily saltwater from the port manatee dredge project, mixed with legacy process water and stormwater run—off.
we’re currently pumping out 33 million gallons per day.
this new process will help to significantly increase the volume of water that we are pumping out at piney point.
i asked florida’s agriculture commissioner, nikki fried what’s happening in her home state.
this is an old phosphate mining location where the phosphide mining has stopped for many years but unfortunately this has been on the radar for the department for almost two decades, where if there are leaks in the piping and these flumes then the water will seep into tampa bay and seep out of the water.
while it is not radioactive, it is extremely filled with nutrients that, when they collide with tampa bay and the waterways, creates a red tide.
the department has been unsuccessfully stopping it spilling into the waterways but unfortunately at some point this will be have to do drained and significant problems could end up being a tremendously detrimental environmental disaster in florida.
how preventable was this, in your opinion?
extremely preventable.
this was something that even in the late 905 or early 20005 was told to the governors of our state that this was a disaster waiting to happen.
it is notjust this location, we have other phosphate mining places across florida.
unfortunately the past 20 years have been under the control of one party and they have spent time deregulating and not having enough attention and financial resources.
this is something that should have been addressed 20 years ago but unfortunately we are hitting an historic disaster in the state because action was not taken.
even the current governor, who you heard earlier, he was made aware earlier last year and he took no action to prevent the leaks and made this a priority for the state.
not only will homes in the area be impacted, but also the ecosystem, the environment and the fish lifeline in that community will be affected.
this will have a huge impact of red tide on the coastal communities, not only the killing of the fish but all of the communities impacted economically and also tourism.
a lot of these communities are based on a fishing industry that will collapse if the red tide and algae blooms from the mining location.
stay with us on news, still to come: .
a scaled back easter sunday, although the choir was able to perform at canterbury cathedral.
at the vatican, the pope called for vaccines to be shared with the world’s poorest countries.
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
this funeral became a massive demonstration of black power.
the power to influence.
today is about the promise of a bright future.
a day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
i think that picasso’s works were beautiful, they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody who loves art.
this is news, the latest headlines: a royal crisis injordan — former crown prince hamza says he’s under house arrest, accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst affected state of maharashtra, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
allegations of sexual harassment against three famed maestros of indian classical music, the gundecha brothers, have sent shockwaves across much of india in recent months.
heard multiple claims of a culture of systemic sexual abuse and intimidation.
from mumbai, nikhil inamdar has this report which contains disturbing accounts from the victims.
for me, the music was most important.
i really wanted to come to india and dedicate my life to music.
i was really impressed with how ramakant gundecha was teaching.
his teaching was mystical.
he had a lot of charisma.
he forced himself on me that morning.
he pulled my pants off and forcefully had sex with me.
this student says one of india’s most famous teachers of traditional indian music sexually assaulted her.
she left her home and family in europe and travel to india several years ago to learn dhrupad, an ancient form of indian classical music.
it brought her to the dhrupad sansthan, an internationally recognised music academy, run by three siblings known as the gundecha brothers.
now she’s one among several women from across the world who allege that one of the three brothers, the late ramakant gundecha, sexually assaulted her.
there are also allegations of sexual misconduct against the other two, akhilesh and umakant gundecha, who now run the academy.
ramakant died in 2019.
and akhilesh and umakant strongly deny all the allegations.
the allegations against the gundecha brothers first came to light in a facebook post in september, bringing metoo right to the heart of north indian classical music.
it’s since been reported by the indian media.
at least five women who’ve made the allegations against the gundechas have shared their experience with the , including rachel fairbanks, who says the late ramakant sexually molested her.
she decided to speak publicly and give us permission to show her identity.
he asked me to get in the back of the car with him.
and i did that.
and then he started kissing me.
and he pulled my pants down and touched my vagina.
and i left very soon after that had happened.
i ended up not being able to even sit in ramakant’s presence any more.
rachel’s allegations and those of the other women sparked an investigation by an independent panel appointed by the school.
but the law prevents us from disclosing details of the investigation and its results.
we contacted umakant and akhilesh gundecha, the two surviving brothers.
through their lawyers, both men have strongly denied the allegations against them, stating that vested interests were used in this episode as a tool to further their agenda of causing damage to the art and reputation to the dhrupad sansthan and gundecha brothers.
both men also declined to speak to us on camera.
for some in the industry, such as prominent vocalist neela bhagwat, the allegations expose deep—seated patriarchy and power imbalance entrenched in the guru—shishya — or teacher—student relationship.
the guru expects a complete submission and complete subservience.
in the relationship with the guru, the female student is vulnerable.
bhagwat along with a household name in indian classical music, are rare exceptions to have spoken out in support of the students.
the male maestros have largely remained silent.
it’s not known when or if the independent investigation will be made public.
for the women, the trauma of what they went through lingers.
i have my tambura in the living room right now, and it’s going to be sold, because, um, you know, unfortunately, can’t sing this music without having flashbacks.
nikhil inamdar, news, mumbai.
next, pope francis has used his easter urbi orbi message to focus on the victims of coronavirus.
he urged a quickening of the vaccine rollout around the world.
our rome correspondent mark lowen reports.
peter’s basilica echoed to its emptiness.
beneath michelangelo’s dome, a small group of worshippers gathering for easter mass, more a consolation than a celebration, a time to reflect on a painful year and for the leader of the world’s catholics to comfort those whose faith has been shaken.
pope francis focused on the pandemic in his message, calling the resurrection of christa symbol of hope for those who had lost loved ones, jobs, and time with friends or in the classroom.
and he spoke of the panacea.
:
vaccines are an essential tool in this fight.
i urge the entire international community in a spirit of global responsibility to commit to overcoming delays in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their distribution, especially in the poorest countries.
the pope talked of conflict across the world, condemning what he called "scandalous military spending amidst the pandemic.
" there were words too for the victims of the burmese coup.
: i am close to young people from all over the world, and at this time especially to those of myanmar who are committed to democracy, making their voices heard peacefully, aware that hatred can only be dissipated by love.
churches could stay open today despite the whole of italy being put into the tightest covid restrictions.
but the measures were strict with italians battling a third wave.
with shops and restaurants closed across the country, "it’s just a few of us at lunch today," she says.
"we were hoping for a faster solution to all of this.
"
"i’m meeting with my family today, my mother has already been vaccinated, so we are beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel," he says.
not a moment too soon for the medics, who managed a touch of easter cheer today and some sweet treats.
how they keep their spirits up is itself a miracle, giving us all hope that real joy isn’t too far off.
mark lowen, news, rome.
the swimmer rikako ikee has qualified for the tokyo olympics three years after being diagnosed with leukaemia.
the 20—year—old athlete won the hundred meter butterfly at the trials in 57.
77 seconds.
she only resstarted her olympic training last year.
she cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was really surprised.
loretta race is a reporter for swimswam news — i spoke to her a little earlier to get her reaction to the qualification.
thank you for coming on the programme.
thank you for having me.
let’s just pause for a second because i just want to show our viewers the moment of the win.
we can see the joy and the emotion because this is such a hugely significant moment, obviously for her, but it seems to represents a little bit more for the country as well, and she’s kind of clenching herfist and then the tears come as she realises the huge significance of what she’s done.
wonderful photos.
and i want to get your reaction.
you were watching that.
what was your reaction when you saw it?
it was utter amazement.
i mean, shejust returned to racing, herfirst official race back was august of last year.
and here we are about seven months later and she qualified for the olympic games.
she was targeting paris, this 20—year—old said, so the fact that she’s way ahead of schedule and her body and her mind has persevered is just a testament to her character and mental fortitude.
and physical, and then, wow.
how do you go about building back after that treatment?
so, in march 2020, that was her first time in the pool in over 400 days.
and all she did was walk around.
i mean, we’re not even talking actual physical swim workouts.
and so she had to build back a lot of her muscle mass that was lost, and if you see, obviously in the video she’s still very slim, and so she had to fight her way back both in mind and in the pool.
and it seemed to be — the reaction of the win, of course it’s huge for her personally, and are we reading too much into it to say actually it really represents the country and says something wider than just her achievements?
oh, my gosh, absolutely not.
everyone around the world is rooting for her, and the fact that everyone need some positive news nowadays.
and the olympics are a beacon of hope for all of us and the fact that they are going to be going on, even sans foreign spectators, she’s just a beacon of light and that’s just going to give us all inspiration as we move forward tojuly for the olympics.
and what about realistic chances come the actual main competition?
that’s a very good question.
so she has a couple of days off.
she has a 100 freestyle coming up on wednesday.
it’s very realistic, given her qualification in the butterfly for the medley relay, that she could potentially join the freestyle relay as well.
individual qualification would just be complete icing on the cake.
at this point she’s so overwhelmed, so excited, it’s as if she already won the gold medal.
brilliant stuff, brilliant pictures, and great to have you on, loretta race, thank you.
a lovely reflection on a remarkable achievement.
i will with the headlines but be back with the headlines but remember, get me online anytime cial media.
i’m @lvaughanjones.
hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcestershire where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air.
and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days snow showers quite widely, but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places, and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland.
and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts, but actually, greater chance of seeing some showers inland, and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too, 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer or perhaps just a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us.
50, through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures, but then actually by friday, in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
this is news, the headlines: the half—brother of the king of jordan is being investigated, for allegedly plotting with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
new coronavirus restrictions are being introduced in india’s worst affected state, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
emergency workers in the state of florida are trying to stop catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic waste—water reservoir.
more than 300 homes have been evacuated.
the reservoir contains over 2 billion litres of polluted water.
efforts to plug the leak have so far failed.
you you are watching world news.
now on news, dateline london.
hello, i’m shaun ley.
commentators, specialists and foreign correspondents who file their stories for audiences at home dateline london.
this weekend, as christians celebrate easter and renewal, we’re devoting the programme to one theme — after the pandemic, can we renew our world?
and is reconciliation possible when people in so much of it seem so angry?
to to answer that are catherine pepinster, the first woman to edit the tablet, the international catholic newspaper.
michael goldfarb, veteran foreign correspondent for public radio.
his podcast is inspired by the ambition ofjournalism as the first rough draft of history.
and in the studio, the broadcaster and china specialist, vincent ni.
welcome to all of you.
it is good to have you with us this easter weekend.
pope francis, who delivers his easter message for a second yearfrom inside the basilica, rather than to the thousands of catholics who gather most years in peter’s square, practised what he preaches when, last month, he made the first ever papal visit to iraq.
he was seeking not only to reconcile christianity and islam, but also to inspire muslims to heal the division within theirfaith.
yet faith is weaponised in conflicts around the world — used, if you’ll pardon the expression, to demonise minorities.
china this weekend marking qingming, the tomb sweeping festival, stands accused ofjustifying conversion and suppression of uighers on the grounds of their faith, islam.
it now permits catholics to worship.
is that reconciliation or has the vatican been co—opted to beijing’s cause?
how credible is reconciliation in brazil or the united states, where politics is now so polarised, and, perhaps not coincidentally, so ineffectual?
in a global pandemic, which we’re all in together, are we so angry with each other, especially when it’s manifestly not in our own best interest?
catherine pepinster, let’s start with the pope.
this visit to iraq was, on a personal level, in terms of his own safety, quite a big risk to run.
it’s the first time 3 pope has been to iraq, even though it is one of the countries of one of the of christianity.
it had quite a message designed to resonate beyond that one country?
yes, you are absolutely right.
this was an historic occasion for the pope to go to iraq, but he was really quite committed to trying to get it organised and he wanted to take there a message of reconciliation.
a word that has come up time and time again throughout the eight years that francis has been pope.
i think if you look at his writings, when he mentions reconciliation, he also always mentions dialogue.
that reconciliation means you have to talk to people, you have to find ways through your differences.
he was also keen in that visit to show his solidarity with the christian minorities who have had such a terrible time in recent years.
but alongside solidarity with one particular group, he is saying, you have got to talk to the other side, as it were, as well, you have got to have that encounter.
and i think it is something we see such a lack of at the moment in our world.
you’ve mentioned some of the countries in your introduction where this is such a problem.
we have also seen in places in the past such as in south africa and northern ireland that reconciliation and dialogue can make a difference.
michael, it might seem a trite to say, but plenty of people will be watching this programme who i suspect will be thinking it is all very well to say what the pope is trying to do, but religion, whether religious people themselves want it to be this way or not, probably they don’t, but religion has been used as a justification for what is otherwise unjustifiable, in terms of violence, in terms of political and economic colonisation as well as subjugation.
is faith the problem, not the solution?
faith is not the problem.
it is exploitation by politics, politicians and rulers that is a problem.
it has been a problem for a very, very long time.
we are still living, despite people’s concerns we are ending the age of enlightenment.
an as a response to 150 years of unimaginable barbarity and cruelty as christianity went through its great reformation in the west.
the foundational texts of the enlightenment, i will mention two — the theological and the letter concerning toleration byjohn locke are both written in a sense to say for too long, the clergy — whether it be catholic priests or ministers in the protestant faith — have had the ear of the prints and they have been using that access to foment division and impose their will on the whole of society.
and they called for toleration.
you can have a public space where you can be catholic you can be a sunni or a shia — although they were not referring to the islamic world then.
it has come now in modern times to the islamic world and we have been living less so today, but we have been living for several decades while the islamic world has a kind of civil war that has been going on.
but it has been fomented by politicians and used by politicians to cement their own power.
there is an element of hypocrisy in all of that.
my own view is faith is personal, faith is what you were brought up in, and it should stay personal but you have to be very careful when you bring it into the world of politics, because then it becomes a different game.
there is, catherine, a kind of depressing repetitiveness about this, isn’t there?
in the 16th and 17th century, it was catholics who were feared by some because they were said to have divided loyalties — how can they be loyal to our country when they still have this loyalty to the pope in rome who is a foreign prince?
we’ve heard the same aboutjewish people — well, they are a rootless people, they cannot have any loyalty.
we have heard it about muslims, we have heard it in various forms that sound benign, the early ‘805 — could you be truly british if you are cheering on india cricket, for example.
it is the benign end, but it can slide very quickly into something more sinister and more negative.
is part of the problem, though, that faith itself encourages this?
one thinks of the crime of apostasy — the idea that you can be of the same faith, but if you deviate in a particular way, you are somehow betraying that faith?
michaeljust mentioned that politics is the problem not faith.
i think it might possibly human nature that is actually the problem.
these difficulties keep coming over and over again.
i think one area where we are seeing this insistence on loyalty is in china.
we see this time and time again — the chinese communist party seems to not be able to abide the idea that people could have a loyalty, devotion to a particular religious faith and also be chinese, be accepting of their government.
and if there is one area of pope francis that is hugely controversial is his endeavours to form some kind of dialogue with the chinese, which doesn’t seem to be getting christians in the country any further down the road to some kind of normal life.
it seems to be an intractable problem and his attempts at reconciliation and dialogue with the chinese, i don’t know if he is naive, but is not getting anybody very far.
because that is an interesting example, isn’t it?
what had been the persecution of christians, catholics in modern day china, and then this kind of insistence from the chinese leadership, as i understand it, right, you can chinese bishops, you can have practice, but we kind of have to have a bit of approval about who these people are you are putting in charge, because you are almost setting them up as a rival authority.
i agree with what michael said — religion itself might not be a problem
but when it is mixed with politics, internal politics or external geopolitics, it is a problem.
from china’s perspective, when they look at the map where xinjiang lies, it is bordered by eight countries, pakistan to india to afghanistan and to russia.
we are talking about their divided loyalty concept and faith is one of the things that sometimes political leaders see as a potential threat?
yes, there was an element of internal security, also an element of external geopolitics here.
when it comes to faith and politics, if they are mixed together, this is where the controversy lies.
notjust in china, but also in myanmar in the plight of the rohingya muslims, buddhist monks becoming very political, some high—profile ones reportedly have said things like every muslim is dangerous.
this is where things start to get out of control.
you have religion mixed with politics.
that is an interesting example because we are at a point in myanmar, there is a kind of very — arguably quite poisonous link between ethnic identity and faith.
if you are a nationalist loyal to myanmar as a concept, you are likely to be buddhist.
90% of the population is buddhist.
and as you’ve said, this idea that any muslim is potentially dangerous.
we have seen an example of that in the treatment of the rohingya minority.
is there any pushback — is there a sense of any people who are uncertain about the way this has gone?
well, certainly, the international outrage over the last three or four years.
we have seen reporters going into either myanmar or in neighbouring countries and reporting on the plight of rohingya muslims.
also pope francis last year also mentioned yazidis, uighurs and rohingyas, calling them persecuted people.
so there is international pushback, but we all know what is happening in myanmar today and there doesn’t seem to be the opportunity to have a dialogue between what is happening in myanmar and what is perceived outside.
as you said, it is not dialogue, it is dispersal and execution for those who are protesting.
michael, this takes us back to idea of the politics.
if we are talking about reconciliation and we talk about politics, it’s hard not to think of the united states — and again, weirdly there is almost a sense that as the practice of religion has declined, or at least the organised practice of religion, some of that passion has gone from faith into politics and politics has become almost a form of religion in itself?
let me just — before i come back to that, i want to pick up on something vincent was saying.
this is again politics and religion, that neither pakistan nor turkey, which are muslim countries, has been particularly loud in criticising china for its treatment of its muslim minority in xinjiang, and that is politics writ large.
turkey, both leaders of both countries are very, very — they would call themselves islamic politicians, i think, but they are not standing up for their muslim brothers.
but coming back to america, some very, very interesting opinion research came out this week.
they have sampled all kinds of opinion which shows that despite the fact that americans profess religion, one of the most religious countries in the west, church attendance has gone way down.
they haven’t explained that should happen over the last four or five years, but my guess is so—called evangelical christians — and really, they are political christians — have become so dominant in parts of the country that there are many people in the south, in texas, in the west now, who would consider themselves in religious terms to be evangelical but don’t want to go to church on sunday and have a political agenda poured down their throats, so they have stopped going to church.
part of the problem in america, and one of the reasons people have such a hard time talking, it does seem to be going through — i think it is in a state of cold civil war, there is the religious element.
there is a sense that "this is my faith.
lam right.
my political opinion is right.
" that is more than just an intellectual thing, it is something they believe, that this is what the united states is, or was when it was founded and is no longer, and i will fight, people use the word "fight", to make it what it was at its founding.
and that is tied in with this political christianity.
it is a big problem.
that’s a really interesting aspect of this, catherine, when we talk about the idea of reconciliation.
you were saying about the importance of dialogue.
works if people are talking to each other and not past each other.
and there is this sense, in terms of the practice of politics, they don’t have to be convinced by fact any any more, it is an act of faith to believe in the ideology they believe in?
how do you start to disentangle that, to be able to change people’s minds if they fear that in changing their minds, somehow, they are losing their identity?
i think one of the problems that we have right now is the impact of social media.
because i think social media is upping the ante all the time, it is making people much more divided, rather than bringing them together.
and what it does is that it — people follow those who they agree with, except when they are unbelievably hostile to those they agree with.
and what we see lacking in social media — and i think we see lacking so often in these divisions and conflicts we are talking about here — is that there seems to be a complete lack of humility.
there’s an assumption that one side is right and the other side is completely wrong and can be completely dismissed.
and i hink if you are going to have dialogue, you have got to have that humility develop as well.
and i think we see an enormous lack of that in politics as well, that the conflicts often involving politics, whether religion is part of it or not, the situation is made even more difficult because of this lack of humility.
and i am not sure how quite you encourage people to develop that kind of humility
but when it is lacking, we just don’t get the dialogue that is needed.
ad we get in a country like brazil, a hugely successful and powerful country — a country that many admire and other countries aspire to be like brazil, to have gone from where brazil was to where it is now, but its politics has become increasingly polarised and distrustful, increasingly convinced the other side is corrupt and you cannot engage with them.
president bolsonaro now facing his former rival — former president, rather, president lulu silva, who has become the focus of this, it is hard to understand how a country like this gets to that stage of reconciliation without something much worse first?
totally.
completely, in a polarised world, it is ordinary people who hear the brunt of the polarisaion, really.
look at brazil when it comes to the covid health crisis and a vaccine is not largely rolled out yet in the country.
and top leadership — bolsonaro, president bolsonaro has been very reluctant to get people be inoculated, etc.
so it is ordinary people suffering from political polarisation, and that is the problem — that is the lack of leadership, whether it is in brazil or in the united states.
biden certainly wants to bring the country together but it will take him a long time, if not years, to make it happen.
he is now starting from building infrastructure, getting americans inoculated by some time the summer but again, we are facing this unprecedented scenario now.
we don’t know whether there will be an economic crisis following this health crisis.
we don’t know how the great power competition between the and china will develop.
so this is a really divided and a divisive world where there is no apparent leader who ran bring everybody together from the international level and from an individual countries level.
i want to perhaps end on the pandemic, butjust picking up on what we were talking about earlier, michael, and catherine gave examples of where places had dialogue and reconciliation — she mentioned south africa, northern ireland had a peace process of sorts but you could question whether there was truly reconciliation.
certainly there was a dialogue but was there any accounting ast crimes?
one country that seems to be happening in a way that has surprised people is colombia.
the big process has led to some former leaders of the farc rebel group actually being charged with war crimes.
so instead of saying we’re kind of going to, you know, we have ended this, they are taking the reverse approach.
is that a productive one, do you think?
in the case of colombia — i mean part of it, there are some countries where you ran bolster these things through aid.
and let’s be clear that is what happened in south africa, and to a very considerable degree in northern ireland, where there was a lot of inward investment from the united states to make sure that in this transition period where people who have been fighting insurgencies against one another for decades — in the case of colombia, going back to the 19605 — have an opportunity to talk and to deal with one another in a world where economic gain is being more evenly spread.
and this perhaps can bring us back to america, where because inequality has been growing at such a pace, people don’t feel like they have that kinda of economic stake in the overall health of the society.
whereas in colombia, that seems to be different.
it should also be said that if you know enough about the wars that were fought in colombia between the farc and other groups and various governments and you know what half a century feels like, and i’m now so old i do know what half a century feels like, you mightjust be inclined to say "we don’t have to fight about this stuff.
we really don’t.
" 50 time also heals, to a certain degree.
and that is some message of hope and optimism, catherine.
and i suppose one element is this — and we have heard it in different forms — we’ve had people trying to apologise and account for what has been done.
: not even necessarily by hand.
whether it is apologies for historic child sexual abuse, whether it’s apologies for slavery in the atlantic slave trade, whether, in the most recent example, it is a university, a relatively small institution in a part of the united kingdom saying - out of step with other institutions around the world — actually, we have got this thing, we have got this bronze that was pillaged from beinin, in what is now nigeria, and it is actually intolerable for us to keep it, we will give it back — small acts that might have a bigger resonance?
yes, when we look at an issue such as we have this morning, conflict across the world, it is easy to be very pessimistic.
but i think you have just mentioned small acts and if you look across society — and we have seen this particularly in the pandemic — that there are countless small acts that do make a difference.
the — i think the pandemic has exacerbated existing problems.
michael was just mentioning inequality.
we have seen how inequality in the has really been exasperated by pandemic, but the pandemic has also highlighted the capacity for humanity to do good as well.
and i think that is something perhaps at easter we can celebrate.
and vincent, just on that thought, we have had this call from a number of world leaders — including borisjohnson in the , angela merkel, president macron — in a sense acknowledging that they are not adequate as individuals for the crisis — who is?
— the talk of a future treaty for pandemics and say that we are all in this together, particularly the calls over vaccine nationalism.
has it been such a bad experience for the world that this might be the thing to galvanise us to do something together?
this is a really positive step.
some 25 countries have joined a cause to establish this treaty.
but i think the devil is always in the detail and also in process.
we are in a time of every country believes they have the right to set the rules.
it is ultimately about who sets the rules, it is about whether it is the , china, the or the .
it is a very positive step but it will take some time, especially contacts and negotiating a multilateral treaty — we know how notorious it can he sometimes — so it is positive but it will take some time.
time is one thing we have on our hands for now, not least many people sitting at home.
thank you for being with us.
thanks to catherine and to michael and to you vincent, and for you watching us.
i am remembering that sometimes, you have to make compromises.
what is it the protestant prince said?
that after years of religion, the massacre of terrible acts in france when he said "paris is worth a mass".
from all of us at dateline, have a good weekend.
we’re back next week at the same time.
goodbye.
good evening.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in where i got very close to 18 degrees.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air, and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland, and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts but actually, a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too — 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us, so through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures but then, actually, by friday in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
this is news — welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’m lewis vaughan jones.
our top stories: royal crisis injordan — former crown prince hamza accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst affected state, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
the florida reservoir leaking toxic waste—water, and the battle to prevent an environmental disaster.
and tears ofjoy, the swimmer who’s qualified for the tokyo olympics after being diagnosed with leukemia.
the half—brother of the king ofjordan is being investigated for allegedly plotting with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
in a video sent to the , prince hamzah bin hussein denied being part of any conspiracy, but he accused jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet reports on this unprecedented crisis withinjordan’s ruling family.
a young prince at the heart of a major royal rift.
hamzah, 41 years old, graduate of sandhurst in the , harvard in the .
now he says he’s under house arrest.
all my friends have been arrested.
my security has been removed, and the internet and phone lines have been cut.
this is my last form of communication.
and in this video, passed to the , rare public criticism from a jordanian prince.
i am not the person responsible for the breakdown in governance, for the corruption and for the incompetence.
today on state , a dramatically different account — prince hamzah and others accused of plotting to destabilise the kingdom.
: the investigations monitored interference and phone cells, including with foreign parties, which discussed the appropriate timing to start steps to shake the security of our stable kingdom.
king abdullah is being said to be trying to resolve this within the family — an effort failing so far.
so much is so unclear.
there have long been some strains between brothers.
hamzah was called the favourite of their father, the late king hussein.
there’s a striking resemblance between them.
but when the king lost his long battle with cancer in 1999, he chose his eldest son, abdullah, to succeed him.
hamzah became crown prince.
2004 was a pivotal yearfor the prince.
he got married and was stripped of his royal title.
the king made his own son second in line.
prince hamzah has expressed veiled criticism before, but nothing like this.
this crisis in a quiet corner of a volatile region has rattled neighbours, including other arab monarchies.
they’ve rushed to back the king.
already worried about discontent over an economic crisis made much worse by a painful pandemic, now there’s uncertainty over whether this is a family crisis or one which goes much further.
lyse doucet, news.
earlier, i spoke to jonathan schanzer.
he is senior vice—president of the sink tank foundation for defense of democracies.
i asked him how serious these meetings were against the king.
well, right now, thejordanian government is still, i would say, holding a lot of this information close.
it’s only being shared by a very small circle.
i think we’ll be hearing more in the coming days
but i would say that off hand, looking at the arrests that have taken place — right now, according to the news sources out ofjordan, it’s somewhere between 16—20 people — this does not sound like a widespread conspiracy that stretches across thejordanian bureaucracy and thejordanian military, so that would suggest that either it’s a small group of people that they caught very early on in a plot or perhaps, as your reporter suggested, maybe this is a bitter squabble between two royals.
and the position and the strength of the king in the country is crucial to many of its western allies.
it is, but i think it’s worth noting that really, over the last ten years, the kingdom has been rocked to its core, i think first from the arab spring and some of the challenges that met the kingdom on the street.
then, of course, the syrian civil war, which really had a devastating impact economically.
there are about a million syrian refugees that have crossed over the border — the second largest population centre in syria — or injordan right now, it’s basically a syrian refugee camp, the za’atari camp.
and then, of course, we’ve got covid—19, which has destabilised the country economically, and it was add to all of that the fact that the country has somewhere between let’s say 60 and 75% palestinian in terms of place of origin, where most of the — that’s where most of its population comes from.
it makes the country somewhat unstable and, of course, has a lot of western countries very nervous about what they’re seeing right now.
well, given the long list of potential problems, do you see now, in the coming weeks, months, years, more criticism or, on the other hand, more clampdowns?
well, i think maybe a bit of both, and that is not really a great prognosis for the country.
i think that the real issue is about, i think, quite frankly, as prince hamzah noted, that there are a lot of questions out there about institution—building, fighting corruption.
i think a lot of those things have been tabled primarily because these are all legitimate threats that i just noted — the arab spring and the syrian civil war and the palestinian population — all of these things have been very, very difficult for the kingdom to navigate
and i think it probably does sort of shine 3 spotlight on the needs of the country going forward.
of course, we’re going to hope that things remain stable, but this does not appear terrific at the outset here, as the reports start to come in.
the indian state of maharashtra will see tighter restrictions from monday after a significant rise in coronavirus infections.
india has the third highest number of cases in the world, after the and brazil.
tanya dendrinos reports.
a crowded market in mumbai.
masks are on, but social distancing is virtually impossible, and coronavirus cases are rising rapidly.
the warning is stark.
: the number of covid—19 cases reported in the past 2a hours is alarming and is a matter of concern.
it could turn into a hazardous situation.
almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases, which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
if the cases increase in this proportion, the impact of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of covid—19 in india, the country recording 12.
5 million infections.
on sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest level since september, with more than 93,000 recorded.
more than half of those were in maharashtra, the state facing tighter restrictions from monday, including a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
: this is a very good decision by the government as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very beneficialfor all of us.
stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task, particularly in a country with a population of 1.
3 billion.
despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive, so far administering more than 68 million doses, it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
tanya dendrinos, news.
flash floods triggered by heavy rainfall have left at least 44 people dead in the indonesian island of flores and the neighbouring state of east timor.
in one village in eastern flores, a mudslide buried dozens of houses.
a landslide killed three people in the east timor capital, dili with homes washed away.
power supplies were cut and floodwaters also engulfed the presidential palace.
aid groups in mozambique say nearly 10,000 people have been evacuated from the northern town of palma, which was recently attacked by islamist militants.
authorities say thousands are still hiding in the forests surrounding the area, in desperate need of food and water.
where many victims have sought refuge.
this man hasjust gotten off the rescue ferry at pemba harbour.
his tears are for his dead father.
his brother is still missing.
all morning, they arrived, a steady procession of over 1,000 survivors grateful to be alive, but in shock.
they spoke of decapitations, bodies on the streets, and fleeing through dense forest from the gun—wielding insurgents.
this distraught woman lost two sons during the attack.
: it hurts a lot.
every day, we saw mothers crying.
three, four of their children — they don’t know where they are.
it’s too painful.
isis—linked insurgents began the coordinated attack on palma just over a week ago, killing indiscriminately and displacing thousands.
the official death toll is still not yet known and, according to the , tens of thousands of people have been displaced.
among those missing is british man philip mawer.
his family fear the worst.
as victims made their way out of the besieged town, doctors struggled to keep up with the wounded.
we could not help everybody.
i mean, the need is huge there.
this population is really in need of medical care, protection and evacuation, and food.
i’m at a local community sports complex that’s been converted into a makeshift shelter for survivors of the deadly attack in palma.
now, these are some of the victims who have come here seeking shelter and refuge following the horrors that they encountered at the hands of the insurgents.
the people that made their way off the boat are the lucky ones.
thousands remain scattered in the forest surrounding palma.
many will not survive.
and with reports of an ongoing conflict in palma, mozambique will struggle to keep up with the escalating humanitarian crisis.
vumani mkhize, news, pemba, mozambique.
emergency workers in florida are trying to prevent catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic wasterwater reservoir.
this is all happening in florida’s tampa bay, where the piney point reservoir is located.
more than 300 homes have been evacuated.
this is the waste water reservoir which contains 480 million gallons, that’s over two billion litres, of polluted water.
and this is the leak itself, which is now a week old.
efforts to plug it have failed.
50 workers are now using these pipes to pump water out to reduce flooding, if the containment wall breaks.
here’s governor ron desantis with an update on the emergency response efforts.
to be clear, the water being discharged to port manatee is not radioactive.
it is primarily saltwater from the port manatee dredge project, mixed with legacy process water and stormwater run—off.
we’re currently pumping out 33 million gallons per day.
this new process will help to significantly increase the volume of water that we are pumping out at piney point.
i asked florida’s agriculture commissioner, nikki fried what’s happening in her home state.
so what is happening is that this is an old phosphate mining location, where the phosphate mining has stopped for many, many years but unfortunately, this has been something that has been on the radar for the department of environmental protection for at least two decades that if, in fact, there was leaks in the piping — which is exactly what’s happened — in these gypsum ﬂumes, then the water was starting to kind of seep into the tampa bay and seep out of the water.
and so while it is not radioactive, it is extremely filled with nutrients that when they collide with something like tampa bay and the waterway creates a red tide, so right now the department of environmental protection has been unsuccessfully stopping the spill into the waterways but unfortunately, at some point, all of this is going to have to be drained.
significant problems here
and it could end up being a tremendously detrimental environmental disaster here in the state of florida.
and just how preventable was this, in your — pinion?
extremely preventable.
this was something that back even in the late ‘905—early 20005 was told to the governors of our state, over 20—plus years was brought aware that this was a disaster waiting to happen.
and it is notjust this mining location — we’ve got other phosphate mining places all across the state of florida.
and unfortunately, the past 20 years have been under one party’s control have really kind of spent time deregulating and not having enough attention, financial resources.
this is something that should have been addressed 20 years disaster here in the state because action was not taken.
even our current governor, who you heard earlier tonight, he was made aware of this situation last year and unfortunately, he too took no action to have prevented these leaks and made this a priority for the states.
not only are those homes that are in the area really going to be severely impacted but it’s also the ecosystem, the environment — the fish lifeline in that community — so this is going to have a huge impact and if we start seeing red tide on our coastal communities, not only the killing of ourfish but all of those communities that are impacted on the economic revenue, not only from people coming and visiting, but a lot of these communities are very, you know, their survival rate is based on the fishing industry that will collapse if we will start seeing a lot of these red tide and algae blooms that will blossom because of this discharge coming from the mining location.
stay with us on news, still to come: often our best friend — and often a life—line in lockdown.
but what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
this funeral became a massive demonstration of black power.
the power to influence.
today is about the promise of a bright future.
a day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
i think that picasso’s works were beautiful, they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody who loves art.
this is world news, the latest headlines: a royal crisis injordan — former crown prince hamza says he’s under house arrest, accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst affected state of maharashtra, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
pope francis has used his easter message to focus on the victims of coronavirus.
he urged a quickening of the vaccine rollout around the world.
our rome correspondent mark lowen reports.
peter’s basilica echoed to its emptiness.
beneath michelangelo’s dome, a small group of worshippers gathering for easter mass, more a consolation than a celebration, a time to reflect on a painful year and for the leader of the world’s catholics to comfort those whose faith has been shaken.
pope francis focused on the pandemic in his message, calling the resurrection of christa symbol of hope for those who had lost loved ones, jobs, and time with friends or in the classroom.
and he spoke of the panacea.
:
vaccines are an essential tool in this fight.
i urge the entire international community in a spirit of global responsibility to commit to overcoming delays in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their distribution, especially in the poorest countries.
the pope talked of conflict across the world, condemning what he called "scandalous military spending amidst the pandemic.
" there were words too for the victims of the burmese coup.
: i am close to young people from all over the world, and at this time especially to those of myanmar peacefully, aware that hatred can only be dissipated by love.
churches could stay open today despite the whole of italy being put into the tightest covid restrictions.
but the measures were strict with italians battling a third wave.
with shops and restaurants closed across the country, it’s a second straight lockdown easter.
"it’s just a few of us at lunch today," she says.
"we were hoping for a faster solution to all of this.
"
"i’m meeting with my family today, my mother has already been vaccinated, so we are beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel," he says.
not a moment too soon for the medics, who managed a touch of easter cheer today and some sweet treats.
how they keep their spirits up is itself a miracle, giving us all hope that real joy isn’t too far off.
mark lowen, news, rome.
the swimmer rikako ikee has qualified for the tokyo olympics three years after being ——exit polls for bulgaria’s parliamentary election suggest the centre—right party of prime minister — boyko borissov — has won the most votes with around 25%.
if confirmed, he will need the support of others to continue governing.
borissov’s main challengers are the pro—russia socialists, with approximately 16% of the votes, according to the exit polls.
——the swimmer reekako kayay has qualified for the tokyo olympics three years after being diagnosed with leukaemia.
she only resstarted her olympic training last year.
she cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was really surprised.
loretta race is our reporter for swimswam news.
i spoke to her a little earlier to get her reaction to the qualification.
thank you for coming on the programme.
thank you for having me.
let’s just pause for a second because i just want to show our viewers the moment of the win.
we can see the joy and the emotion because this is such a hugely significant moment, obviously for her, but it seems to represents a little bit more for the country as well, and she’s kind of clenching herfist and then the tears come as she realises the huge significance of what she’s done.
wonderful photos.
and i want to get your reaction.
you were watching that.
what was your reaction when you saw it?
it was utter amazement.
i mean, shejust returned to racing, herfirst official race back was august of last year.
and here we are about seven months later and she qualified for the olympic games.
she was targeting paris, this 20—year—old said, so the fact that she’s way ahead of schedule and her body and her mind has persevered is just a testament to her character and mental fortitude.
and physical, and then, wow.
how do you go about building back after that treatment?
oh, my goodness.
so, in march 2020, that was her first time in the pool in over 400 days.
and all she did was walk around.
i mean, we’re not even talking actual physical swim workouts.
and so she had to build back a lot of her muscle mass that was lost, and if you see, obviously in the video she’s still very slim, and so she had to fight her way back both in mind and in the pool.
and it seemed to be — the reaction of the win, of course it’s huge for her personally, and are we reading too much into it to say actually it really represents the country and says something wider than just her achievements?
oh, my gosh, absolutely not.
everyone around the world is rooting for her, and the fact that everyone need some positive news nowadays.
and the olympics are a beacon of hope for all of us and the fact that they are going to be going on, even sans foreign spectators, she’s just a beacon of light and that’s just going to give us all inspiration as we move forward tojuly for the olympics.
and what about realistic chances come the actual main competition?
that’s a very good question.
so she has a couple of days off.
she has a 100 freestyle coming up on wednesday.
it’s very realistic, given her qualification in the butterfly for the medley relay, that she could potentially join the freestyle relay as well.
individual qualification would just be complete icing on the cake.
at this point she’s so overwhelmed, so excited, it’s as if she already won the gold medal.
brilliant stuff, brilliant pictures, and great to have you on, loretta race, thank you.
for so many people, one of the worst things about the global pandemic has been loneliness.
millions unable to meet family orfriends.
one possible solution has been to get a pet — but some are worried about what will happen to those animals once the lockdown is over.
tim allman reports.
this is uschi.
for markus and his daughter, analie, she’s made life just that little bit more bearable.
one of around a million dogs and cats that have found new homes in germany since the covid crisis began.
: a pandemic is obviously a time when we stay at home a lot, confined.
that means i have to work from home.
the children are also at home a lot
so it’s obviously a good time to get a dog used to a family.
across the country, there was a 20% increase in dog ownership last year.
one survey showing that more than eight out of ten owners said animals like uschi provided emotional support.
but the lockdown won’t last forever.
and the manager of this shelter in berlin is concerned about what happens next.
: we estimate that after the current lockdown ends, there will unfortunately be a crazy number of abandoned animals dropped off at our shelter, when people return to their normal lives.
marty is typical of the kind of animal returned to the shelter — a staffordshire terrier mix, he’s friendly, lovable, but a lot to handle.
the message is a simple one — a dog is for life, notjust a pandemic.
tim allman, news.
that’s about it from me.
i will be back with the headlines.
is always plenty more there is always planty more online.
download the news app.
and you can get in touch with me and most of the team on twitter, i’m @lvaughanjones.
i’m lewis vaughan jones and this is news.
bye—bye.
hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air, and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland, and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts but actually, a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too — 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us, so through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures but then, actually, by friday in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
this is news, the headlines: the half—brother of the king of jordan is being investigated, for allegedly plotting with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
in a video sent to the , prince hamzah denied being part of any conspiracy, but said he’s under house arrest and accused jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
new coronavirus restrictions are being introduced in india’s worst affected state, maharashtra, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
on sunday, india recorded 93,000 cases.
the country now has the third highest number of cases in the world, after the united states and brazil.
emergency workers in the state of florida are trying to stop catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic waste—water reservoir.
more than 300 homes have been evacuated.
now on news, it’s hardtalk with stephen sackur.
welcome to hardtalk, i’m stephen sackur.
the proportion of wealth owned by a super—rich elite continues to grow in societies around the world.
the glaring disparity between the have—mosts and the have—nothings has fuelled a wave of political angen well, my guest today, the former newspaper columnist and editor, and one—time high society hostess, barbara amiel, has written a memoir which, wittingly or not, paints an extraordinary, even grotesque picture of the lives of the wealthy.
so, on earth did she do it?
barbara amiel in toronto, welcome to hardtalk.
thank you, good to be here.
pleasure to have you on the show.
let us begin by discussing your memoir, friends and enemies, that you wrote last year.
most people write memoirs, i would say, to make themselves look good.
your memoir, perhaps you would agree, didn’t really do that.
so, did you write it?
i don’t know whether it made me look good or bad, but to be perfectly honest, i tried to be honest.
when you reach the stage in life that i’ve reached, 80, there is really no point in gilding the lily.
you hope it’ll work out, you hope that there’s something redeemable in the life you’ve lived, and you tell it — to use a horrible phrase — "like it is".
and i tried to do that.
right,
but it is full of anger.
it seems to be fuelled by a desire for vengeance, and it tells a whole host of anecdotes and stories about friends who have become enemies.
and i guess you would accept that that perhaps doesn’t reflect very well on them, when we get to the content, but it also, in terms of its motivation, doesn’t really reflect very well on you, either.
well, i think there are a number of things that don’t reflect well on me.
i wouldn’t put that at the top of the list.
i think that, erm, you people may desert you, or at least that’s what you think they’ve done.
but, as you live the life i’ve lived, you gradually realise that you are not the centre of everyone’s life, and that, when bad things happen to you, it’s not a crime on the part of many people not to want to be around you.
they’ve got their own lives to live.
they don’t want to hear about your troubles nonstop, and theyjust get on with living.
so, i don’t think that everyone should be classed as an enemy just because they don’t stand by you and hold your hand.
before we get to your life in the very top of high society, let us go back a little bit to the young barbara, who grew up in very difficult circumstances.
you were born in the in a suburb of london, but by the time you were a teenager, you were taken by your mum and your stepfather to canada, because your own birth father had committed suicide.
and by the time you were in your mid teens, you’d basically been chucked out of the family home.
that must have had a huge impact upon you.
actually, it didn’t have as much impact as you think.
and i didn’t really think of myself as hard done by.
it seemed to me a logical thing.
my mother was a
i think the phrase now is borderline personality.
she was an emotionally and mentally disturbed woman.
i reminded her of my father, who she apparently loved very much, and i certainly loved him very much.
and, on looking at me, she would invariably go into the bathroom, lock the door, and attempt suicide.
and my stepfather decided that, for the sake of his wife, it was better i not live at home.
and so, it was a bit of a surprise to come home and see my things in cardboard boxes on the doorstep.
but i understood the rationale behind it.
and, in fact, living alone when you’re 1a is not so bad.
you have no rules, you have no parents.
if you can find a job and keep things going, you can make a perfectly decent life for yourself.
in those days, it was easier to do — bear in mind, we’re talking about the ‘505.
i think it might be harder now, but i could get a job, i could lie about my age, and i managed.
what strikes me is that after what, in anybody’s terms, i think was a pretty tough adolescence and young womanhood, you showed extraordinary resilience.
you chose ultimately to go into the media, and you actually broke some ground.
i think i’m right in saying you became the first female editor of the toronto sun in canada.
so you were extraordinarily successful, actually, despite the difficulties of your past.
and yet — and i don’t wish to sound like a pop, sort of, — that professional success doesn’t seem to have been enough.
and i’m wondering why.
well, i think most people — and i suspect, if you looked into your own soul, you’d find that most people want to do better professionally.
they also, in my case, want to have a parallel life — in my case, a love life.
and i wanted to enjoy things.
it was hard for me to enjoy things because i have this incredibly pessimistic nature, and assume that, around the corner, the next ghastly thing is going to happen.
i was the first woman in canada to be the editor of a daily metropolitan newspaper.
and my british assistant keeps telling me that i was the first woman in north america who got it through her own merits, rather than inheriting it from mummy or daddy.
but i didn’t think of it in terms like that.
ijust wanted to get better.
and i never lived up to my own expectations, and i never lived up to my own standards.
so, it was jolly disappointing.
when you were independent and successful, did you see yourself as a feminist?
not remotely.
i mean, stephen, i come from a family where my great—grandmother worked, my grandmother worked.
every woman i knew worked.
and i didn’t know anything about glass ceilings.
and i think european women are somewhat more sophisticated about work than north american women.
ays struck me as the most coddled women in the world, but the ones that complain the loudest.
so, i didn’t see myself as a feminist because it was just not something on my radar screen.
i found that it was difficult to get ahead, but i did not attribute that to gender.
in fact, i found that my gender injournalism, at least, was as much a help as a hindrance.
interesting — to my previous question, you said that you not only wanted professional success, you wanted love, you wanted relationships.
your memoir — and this is where it gets intensely personal — suggests that you actually saw friendships, relationships with men and, indeed, sex in transactional terms.
you know, it’s funny, that’s a favourite word of interviewers.
and i don’t think it’s totally inaccurate, but it certainly isn’t the whole story.
when i fell in love, i fell in love in absolutely crazy, hopeless ways.
if i used sex transactionally, it wasn’t in quite the way that you’re suggesting.
in other words, i didn’t sleep with someone to get ahead inajob.
i think the one incident you’re referring to is my relationship with george weidenfeld, who i adored.
and, if i may, barbara, to interject, lord weidenfeld — who actually we’ve had on hardtalk, as well, of course, no longer alive — but he was renowned in london as a great publisher and socialite, and womaniser.
you very bluntly say that, i think, while you were still in your third marriage — but you’re in the — you became close to weidenfeld, and he clearly became besotted with you.
and you say, and i’m going to quote this at some length, "being with him, i thought rather calculatingly "gave me access and status.
"he threw great parties.
"i was trying to hang on to the social advantages "without incurring the payment required sexually.
"and the only way i could deal with it was to avoid actual "body—to—body contact and pleasure him orally.
" i’m reading it out, but there is a question underpinning it, which is, if that is not calculating, manipulative, and transactional, i don’t know what is.
well, i do think it is calculating, manipulative, and transactional.
although you have left out other lines that i wrote, in which i said how much i loved his conversation, how much i loved his being, his sense of humour, and his intellectual brilliance.
but the part that you read, i cannot take back.
i might have written it a little more, erm
oh, i don’t know, a little more gently, but it’s true.
i did enjoy the notion of sitting next to great writers, politicians.
i did want to hang on to ourfriendship.
and what would’ve happened was, under normal circumstances — because he had many, many women friends with whom he did not have a sexual relationship — under normal circumstances, i would’ve liked to have just been a friend that he wanted to be with, because my conversation was so sparkling and brilliant.
but obviously, my conversation wasn’t so sparkling and brilliant, and he had otherfeelings for me.
and in order to hang on to the parts that i liked, i had to cope with his feelings.
now, if i had been a totally honest and decent person, i would just have turned my back and said, "all right, i’m going to give up the dinners.
"i’m going to give up the good conversation and the laughter, "and the fun i had with him, because i can’t make the payment he requires for it.
" but unfortunately, i wasn’t that decent a person.
in that one relationship, there was a transactional sexual aspect.
yeah.
i mean, i don’t wish to dwell on difficult stuff, because there’s lots to talk about.
butjust one more relationship i do wish to ask you about, which is with the australian media mogul, kerry packer.
it’s a very bizarre episode.
and again, you’ve written about it, so i feel entitled to ask you because you’ve been very open about it, but i just don’t know what was going on inside your head.
he asked you a couple of times, at least, i think, to go to a casino with him, just to sit with him, be close to him, and watch him gamble vast amounts of money.
and when he won even more vast amounts of money, he just gave you £100,000 on two different occasions.
and, rather than refuse it out of any, sort of, sense of, i don’t know, dignity, you pocketed the money.
what was going on then, do you think?
well, i think you’re playing it, if i may say so, not quite accurately.
i had no relationship whatsoever with kerry packer.
i was actually out to dinner with a gentleman that i did know.
and kerry packer, who i had never met in my life, appeared.
and it turned out that the gentlemen i was having dinner with was his adviser in gambling matters, and said, "would you like to come upstairs "and see what we’re doing?
" and i’m a journalist, i’ve never been in a casino before, i hadn’t seen these private rooms, so i had no idea what i was going to see — but it could have been a column.
and i went upstairs.
it was just kerry gambling.
i didn’t know who he was.
i didn’t know how much he gambled.
and i sat there and watched in astonishment as this stranger next to me insisted on showing me that he was writing cheques for £500,000 3 hand.
when it was all over, he had won, i don’t know, 12 or £15 million for the evening.
and we went downstairs, and my date said, "just wait a moment," and came back and handed me this cheque for £100,000.
and i did protest, as i wrote in the book.
i said, "look, i can’t possibly take this," and i went on and on.
my date looked at me with this, sort of, world—weary thing and said, "this is the way it works.
kerry always does this.
" the next night was a repeat.
i tried to get out of it because i was on a column deadline.
his chauffeur turned up.
i could have said no, but at that point, it seemed pointless.
the same thing happened.
i was told to wear the same clothes — i guess they’re superstitious.
i sat next to him, i drank the same cup of tea.
he won again.
this time, we had half of south america with us, because his polo team joined us, as well.
every member of the polo team got the same cheque.
and apparently, this is what kerry does and what many big—time gamblers do.
when they win, they have a, sort of, superstition, and they give part of it to everyone around.
now sorry, barbara.
i mean, the stories are, in their own right, fascinating, kind of spellbinding.
but when the amalgam of them comes together, including just the more prosaic detail of the houses that you and your husband—to—be, conrad black, bought in the course of your great successes in the 19905 in london and new york, and palm beach, and all the vast closets of manolo blahnik shoes and thejewellery, and the birkin and hermes handbags — all this stuff you write about at great length, the obsession you had with, for a while, material things and being seen at the right parties and hosting the right dinners for the best—connected people in the world.
from the outside, it all looks kind of repulsive, and i wonder whether you get that?
and are you, in a way, repulsed by the world that you occupied at that time?
i’m repulsed, isuppose, by the years i wasted, because life ends up being rather short.
and it pains me very much that i wasted time on this.
it doesn’t pain me that i was with conrad.
i think that’s the best decision i ever made in my entire life.
in terms of the collecting of shoes and chaneljackets, i appear to have been ahead of my time.
london now seems to be awash with people who have a thousand times more pairs of shoes.
but nevertheless, i was certainly excessive in my consumption.
i always had been when i was much younger, although i didn’t have the budget.
i was always having to write an extra article to pay for the jacket i had just got.
so, this was not something new, it was just on a bigger scale.
i think what was repulsive about my life — and actually, i rather resent being told i’m completely repulsive of my lifestyle, but it is probably a fairjudgment on your part — i think what was repulsive was that i wasted time, particularly in new york.
because in london, you see, conrad was a proprietor.
the parties he gave were all part of meeting people that the paper could then take advantage of, could interview, contacts, news department.
but in new york, it wasn’t like that at all.
in new york, it was purely social.
and it was a society that, by and large, bored the living daylights out of me.
except i was fascinated with their consumption and, because i was a weak and shallow person — and i don’t say this in any breast—beating way, i mean, it’s rather matter of fact — i wanted to be like them.
i want to ask you about i wanted to sorry, i want to ask you about one particular question, which i think is important.
and the word that i’m interested in is "entitlement".
a former editor of yours on the daily telegraph, sarah sands, said, "there’s something of the ancient greek about barbara "and conrad’s disdain for ordinary people and their "belief in the entitlement of the elite.
" and it’s an important word because entitlement often, it seems, to people not in this elite world, leads elite people to think that there’s one set of rules for them, and another set of rules for everybody else.
was that yours and conrad’s approach to life?
well, with all due respect to sarah sands, who’s actually a person i like very much and whose talents i admire, i think that’s absolute bunk.
the reason — it’s almost proven bunk, because i knew conrad was going to be all right in prison — was because he was always interested in everyone.
he was as interested in the janitor as much as he was in the high society.
but, if i may, never mind all that and how he coped in prison, butjust on this point of entitlement — and for people who aren’t remembering so well, your husband, conrad black, was ultimately convicted in a court of serious crimes, obstruction ofjustice and fraud, he was originally sentenced to 78 months, it was shortened later.
but he did spend a significant amount of time in prison as a convicted criminal.
and ijust wonder, first of all, whether you knew, as his wife, that he was up to crooked business?
and second of all, whether you and he felt that somehow, it was , that you were somehow allowed to get away with it?
are you mad?
do you think that i would have stayed with a criminal?
i know that i’m the spouse, and therefore, she would say it, wouldn’t she?
but my husband was 100% innocent, which is the most left—wing justice on the supreme court, ruth bader ginsburg, wrote in herjudgment vacating all the convictions against him that they had to use invented law to convict him.
and that was part of herjudgment.
the fact was that when it went down to a lower court, there was a judge of great hostility who managed to reinstate one or two charges.
and i think he was, in the end convicted of stealing something like $200,000 by wire fraud — which is a crime which doesn’t even exist in most countries.
the obstruction ofjustice was complete nonsense.
it took place theoretically in canada, and the canadian court said there was no obstruction ofjustice.
so, i think you’re being — you’re slanting things.
my husband was entirely innocent.
and, were he not, i would not have been there.
i am many bad things, i am many horrible things, possibly, you make your ownjudgments.
but one thing i am not is a criminal.
when he came out, you built a life with him, but it was a life very different from the life before.
and you, again, going back to the concept of enemies and, indeed, maybe vengeance as well, you do dish the dirt on all the people who, after the fall of conrad, and i suppose that meant your fall, as well, in social and it goes from all of your high—society friends in new york city to even your hairdresser.
has that made you has it made you feel that the life you led for so long was a completely false and fantasy life?
is that how you feel about it now?
not entirely, although that’s an aspect of it.
you know, it’s ironic because one of the first articles i wrote before i had a full—time job writing was called "in defence of vengeance".
i did not see this book as a vengeful book.
and it may be that i should never have kept the title — which was the working title, friends and enemies — because it doesn’t tell the whole truth about the book.
my hairdresserfired me, and it really is horrid to be fired by your hairdresser.
so, what i did in the book was i mentioned exactly what happened to us, and i let the chips fall where they may.
are you, er, and i’m thinking of an earlier part of our conversation, you began life as this extraordinarily strong—willed, independent, resilient journalist, and yet, in the end, you lived a life which was much more — and again, i don’t mean to be pejorative — but much more about networking, social climbing, and living the grandest of grand lives than it was about, you know, reporting on the way the world works, socialjustice issues, perhaps, you know, issues of fairness in this world, challenges to the inequality in this world.
if you could live your life over again, would you choose to prioritise very differently?
and what lessons do you think can be learned from your life by young women in 2021?
well, because i am not an entirely vengeful person, i will not send you all my columns.
but i never stopped working for one day when i was in fact, if anything, i wrote more when i was married with him in terms of political columns, social issues, than when i wasn’t working.
so, i never set back and just enjoyed myself.
i kept working all through it.
did i waste my life?
what can i tell young women?
at they should take a course in financial planning, because i bitterly regret that i did not know how to conserve money when i had it.
and i think that taking courses in financial planning would be a hell of a lot more useful than taking courses in gender studies.
do i regret the time i wasted?
of course i regret it.
what the hell is the point of going to endless charity dinners, talking to people that really do bore you, when in fact you could be staying at home writing — which later on, even before the troubles began, is what i started doing.
but i didn’t do it soon enough.
final thought.
in a way, i’m very confused because your book is so honest.
and yet, obviously, as you’ve frankly said to me, you know that quite a lot of it reflects very badly on yourself.
would you say today that you are someone who enjoys a high level of self—awareness, or not?
you know, it’s funny, some critics say that i’m blatantly unaware because i say my husband is innocent.
believe me, as a research journalist, i researched every aspect of what he did.
so, i’m not blatantly unaware of that.
i hope i have some understanding of my weaknesses and frailties.
i think i have some understanding of the value i bring to life.
i don’t know.
you have to be the judge.
i really, you know, it’s very hard for a person to judge themselves, because we always want to be better than we are.
and, as i said, i wrote as honestly as i could, and that’s the best any writer can do.
barbara amiel, it’s been a pleasure having you on hardtalk.
thank you very much.
thank you, stephen.
hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air, and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland, and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts but actually, a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too — 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us, so through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures but then, actually, by friday in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
this is news.
and around the world.
royal crisis injordan, former crown prince hamza accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
state, as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
the florida reservoir leaking toxic waste—water, and the battle to prevent an environmental disaster.
and tears ofjoy, the swimmer who’s qualified for the tokyo olympics after being diagnosed with leukemia.
hello and welcome.
the half—brother of the king ofjordan is being investigated for allegedly plotting with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
in a video sent to the , prince hamzah bin hussein denied being part of any conspiracy, but he accused jordan’s leaders of corruption and incompetence.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet reports on this unprecedented crisis withinjordan’s ruling family.
a young prince at the heart of a major royal rift.
hamzah, 41 years old, graduate of sandhurst in the , harvard in the .
now he says he’s under house arrest.
all my friends have been arrested.
my security has been removed, and the internet and phone lines have been cut.
this is my last form of communication.
and in this video, passed to the , rare public criticism from a jordanian prince.
i am not the person responsible for the breakdown in governance, for the corruption and for the incompetence.
today on state , a dramatically different account — prince hamzah and others accused of plotting to destabilise the kingdom.
: the investigations monitored interference and phone cells, including with foreign parties, which discussed the appropriate timing to start steps to shake the security of our stable kingdom.
king abdullah is being said to be trying to resolve this within the family — an effort failing so far.
so much is so unclear.
there have long been some strains between brothers.
hamzah was called the favourite of their father, the late king hussein.
there’s a striking resemblance between them.
but when the king lost his long battle with cancer in 1999, he chose his eldest son, abdullah, to succeed him.
2004 was a pivotal yearfor the prince.
he got married and was stripped of his royal title.
the king made his own son second in line.
prince hamzah has expressed veiled criticism before, but nothing like this.
this crisis in a quiet corner of a volatile region has rattled neighbours, including other arab monarchies.
they’ve rushed to back the king.
already worried about discontent over an economic crisis made much worse by a painful pandemic, now there’s uncertainty over whether this is a family crisis or one which goes much further.
lyse doucet, news.
james dorsey is a senior fellow at the rajaratnam school of international studies.
he’s in singapore.
very good have you with us.
what do you make of all that been going on over the last 48 hours with the rdanian 24, 48 hours with the jordanian royals?
there have been g—standing fissures within family as well as within anian societies.
i would jordanian societies.
i would think again there is much that not know, that this is we do not know, that this is primarily omestically driven and there has been widespread icism, both within the ruling family and within ciety corruption of society of corruption of economic mismanagement.
that is say that other countries the middle east, articularly the israelis, the udis, emirati is don’t saudis, the emirati is don’t have an interest in what is pening
but i think it would remature to suggest that they are the driving force in .
in terms of rdan’s this.
in terms ofjordan’s neighbours, how worried would be by all of this, given they be by all of this, given that jordan is a relatively le, consistent, safe stable, consistent, safe country and what can be a very atile gion?
again it volatile region?
again it depends on what neighbours you alking about.
relations are talking about.
relations between israel and king ullah in weeks and months have not been good, as we have on multiple incidents.
the dis and the emirati’s are very critical of king ullah’s refusal to endorse he middle east peace plan for palestinians that have been put forward by the former president donald trump and the anians suspect that particularly the saudis would have a say in the like to have a say in the administration of one of the holy sites of islam in emsalem most holy sites of islam in jerusalem and deep down they spect the saudi and suspect that the saudi and emirati endorsement of the plan plan at the time, in effect meant that they were than willing to see rdan more than willing to see jordan as the palestinian state rather the west bank.
just rieﬂy, than the west bank.
just briefly, how do you see this being all being resolved, then?
i think what you are going to see at you have already seen.
a crackdown on critics within thejordanian elite, both hin the ruling family as well in the broader elite.
he king, and that is also very a jordanian adition, much a jordanian tradition, will to resolve this house.
i think you are going see less of the kind of ackdown that we saw with ohammed —— mohammed bin salman.
dan has really structural social and nomical problems and it is economical problams and it is not going to be resolved hout addressing those.
0k, ames dorsey there, thank you much.
pleasure.
the indian state of maharashtra will see tighter restrictions from monday after a significant rise in coronavirus infections.
india has the third highest number of cases in the world, after the and brazil.
tanya dendrinos reports.
a crowded market in mumbai.
masks are on, but social distancing is virtually impossible, and coronavirus cases are rising rapidly.
the warning is stark.
: the number of covid—19 cases reported in the past 2a hours is alarming and is a matter of concern.
it could turn into a hazardous situation.
almost 15 days ago, there were about 23,000 cases, which have increased four times now, which is a very big thing.
if the cases increase in this proportion, the impact of the pandemic will be as dreadful as last year.
165,000 people have died of covid—19 in india, the country recording 12.
5 million infections.
on sunday, the number of daily cases peaked at its highest level since september, with more than 93,000 recorded.
more than half of those were in maharashtra, the state facing tighter restrictions from monday, including a night—time curfew and full lockdown on weekends.
: this is a very good decision by the government as coronavirus cases are surging and the chain of transmission of the virus will break, which will be very beneficialfor all of us.
stopping the spread of the virus is a mammoth task, particularly in a country with a population of 1.
3 billion.
despite having the world’s largest inoculation drive, so far administering more than 68 million doses, it has not yet been enough to halt transmission.
tanya dendrinos, news.
in bulgaria the centre—right party of prime minister boyko borissov has emerged as the leader in the parliamentary election, according to exit polls.
borissov had this to say to the anti—corruption parties who opposed him.
: so, my dear opponents, i know you all.
most have worked with me.
celebrate!
you are in the liament, you have become deputies.
at was your goal ince the summer.
you’ve wanted up, you were saying that peopla did want us.
now you e, the , the most peaceful, the tolerant, the most ositive, the cheapest mpaign, we did it.
party have not won enough to give them a majority in the assembly, and they will need to find partners to form a coalition.
efforts to find those partners will be complicated by the anti—corruption and anti—establishment parties who oppose them, and did well in the polls.
the former owner of adidas, bernard tapie and his wife have been attacked in a violent burglary at their estate near paris.
the 78—year—old, a former french finance minister, is a controversial figure who’s been at the centre of legal battles concerning corruption and fraud for decades, and spent time injail.
he and his wife were asleep when four men slipped passed security guards and broke into their home.
the couple were tied up with electrical cords, physically assaulted and robbed of theirjewellery.
emergency workers in florida are trying to prevent catastrophic flooding after a leak in a toxic wasterwater reservoir.
more than 300 homes have been evacuated in florida’s tampa bay, where the reservoir is located.
azadeh moshiri reports.
thousands of gallons of toxic waste water pumping out by the te.
this is what emergency minute.
this is what emergency workers in florida’s tampa bay oping will prevent an environmental catastrophe.
this the pony point leak in the pony point reservoir is now a week old.
ially workers to plug initially workers to plug the hole with rocks and other rials but that failed, forcing overnment to forcing the government to declare a state of emergency vacuate 300 homes.
what we re looking at is trying to event and respond to if need a real catastrophic flood uation.
to be clear, the water being discharged to point manatee is not radioactive.
it is primarily water from point tee dredge project mixed stormwater run—off upright rgency peration is both emergency operation is both ambitious and urgent.
by flying hese pipes, teams are hoping to pump out enough water event a total collapse of reservoir which would flood he rea.
the reservoir itself nearty 2 billion litres of polluted water.
the pipes urrently are currently pumping out 85,000 litres per minute pping at close to 125 illion litres a day.
but while water being released is not oactive, experts say it is lled with nutrients that uld devastate the local nvironment by creating algae oms that can suffocate arine life.
it’s a man—made aster critics say could have prevented.
this is mething that back even in the 905, early 2000, was told to the vernors of our tates over 20 plus years, was aware this was a disaster waiting to happen.
is is something that should have addressed 20 years ago but ortunately now we are itting a historic disaster in the state because it tually was not taken.
workers scrambling to fix the tuation but even if they can prevent the minated water prevent the contaminated water from crashing into the area, ong—term concert answers the ironment are ill to the environment are ill unknown.
—— are still unknown.
stay with us on news, still to come: often a best friend, and a life—line in lockdown.
but what happens to our pets after the pandemic?
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
this funeral became a massive demonstration of black power.
the power to influence.
today is about the promise of a bright future.
a day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
i think that picasso’s works were beautiful, they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody who loves art.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: a royal crisis in jordan: former crown prince hamza says he’s under house arrest, accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst—affected state of maharashtra as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
aid groups in mozambique say nearly 10,000 people have been evacuated from the northern town of palma — which was recently attacked by islamist militants.
authorities say thousands are still hiding in the forests surrounding the area, in desperate need of food and water.
the ’s vumani mkhize sent this report from nearby pemba, where many victims have sought refuge.
this man hasjust gotten off the rescue ferry at pemba harbour.
his tears are for his dead father.
his brother is still missing.
all morning, they arrived, a steady procession of over 1,000 survivors grateful to be alive, but in shock.
they spoke of decapitations, bodies on the streets, and fleeing through dense forest from the gun—wielding insurgents.
this distraught woman lost two sons during the attack.
: it hurts a lot.
every day, we saw mothers crying.
three, four of their children — they don’t know where they are.
it’s too painful.
isis—linked insurgents began the coordinated attack on palma just over a week ago, killing indiscriminately and displacing thousands.
the official death toll is still not yet known and, according to the , tens of thousands of people have been displaced.
among those missing is british man philip mawer.
his family fear the worst.
as victims made their way out of the besieged town, doctors struggled to keep up with the wounded.
we could not help everybody.
i mean, the need is huge there.
this population is really in need of medical care, protection and evacuation, and food.
i’m at a local community sports complex that’s been converted into a makeshift shelter for survivors of the deadly attack in palma.
now, these are some of the victims who have come here seeking shelter and refuge following the horrors that they encountered at the hands of the insurgents.
the people that made their way off the boat are the lucky ones.
thousands remain scattered in the forest surrounding palma.
many will not survive.
and with reports of an ongoing conflict in palma, mozambique will struggle to keep up with the escalating humanitarian crisis.
vumani mkhize, news, pemba, mozambique.
everyone in england will be offered two rapid covid tests each week under the government’s plans to expand its programme.
the health secretary matt hancock says the additional tests will play a crucial role in curbing future outbreaks of the virus as life returns to normal.
our health correspondent jim reed has this report.
rapid lateral flow tests are lready being used to test ondary school pupils, amilies with children and ose who cannot work from ome.
from the end of the week, will be offered to veryone in england.
these ces give a result in 30 minutes.
they can be picked up a ocal testing centre or from a oral testing centre or pharmacy ordered online and vered in the post.
even when people have no symptoms, may be fected and they they may be infected and they may be infectious and if we can hose people early, then match those peopla earty, then we ran break transmission.
and reduces the number of eople who are infected, it duces the likelihood of new iants, and it helps keep everybody say.
the vernment 5575 the says the twice-weekly test will be crucial to help prevent breaks in the future.
but abour aid the mass testing rogramme must be backed by proved financial support so ose told to self—isolate can ford .
and some scientists ave questioned the accuracy of tests, especially in people don’t have symptoms.
the are not good at ruling saying you don’t have covid.
we have to be very eful to get a message to verybody that says if the test gative, behave the same.
don’t believe you have not got d.
don’t go and kiss and cuddle your granny or grandad use it is not a test which tells us that, it is not a enough test.
the government the kits are extremely claims the kits are extremely accurate, particularly when it identifying the most comes to identifying the most infectious cases.
in england, roblems are to drive.
this eek to convince people to make ular testing part of their ekly routine.
in scotland, and northern ireland, walas and northern ireland, mass testing is also being anded in places like fficers, factories and care mes.
jim reed, news.
for so many people, one of the worst things about the global pandemic has been loneliness — millions unable to meet family orfriends and crying out for company.
one possible solution has been to get a pet, but some are worried about what will happen to those animals once the lockdown is over.
tim allman reports.
this is uschi.
for markus and his daughter, analie, she’s made lifejust that little bit more bearable, one of around a million dogs and cats that have found new homes in germany since the covid crisis began.
: a pandemic is obviously a time when we stay at home a lot, confined.
that means i have to work from home.
the children are also at home a lot, so it’s obviously a good time to get a dog used to a family.
across the country, there was a 20% increase in dog ownership last year.
one survey showing that more than eight out of ten owners said animals like uschi provided emotional support.
but the lockdown won’t last forever, and the manager of this shelter in berlin is concerned about what happens next.
: we estimate that after the current lockdown ends, there will unfortunately be a crazy number of abandoned animals dropped off at our shelter when people return to their normal lives.
marty is typical of the kind of animal returned to the shelter.
a staffordshire terrier mix, he’s friendly, lovable, but a lot to handle.
the message is a simple one — a dog is for life, not just a pandemic.
tim allman, news.
hello, i’m chetan pathak with your latest sports news.
we start with golf.
the first women’s major of the year has been won by 21—year—old patty tavatanakit, the first rookie to win the inspiration since198h.
there was a brilliant final—round charge from lydia ko, who shot 62 — the lowest final—round score in a women’s major — but tavatanakit, from thailand, held her nerve to complete a wire to wire victory tour win.
she closed with a four—under 68 — herfourth round in the 605 — finishing 18—under, two shots ahead of ko.
after a drought of nearly four years without winning a title, former world number one jordan spieth has won the texas open by two shots.
the american — whose last win came in the 2017 open at royal birkdale, which was the third major title of his career — hit seven birdies in a final—round 6—under—par 66 to finish on 18 under and beat his playing partner charley hoffman by two strokes.
a good time to return to winning ways, a week before the masters.
staying with sport.
the swimmer rikako ikee has qualified for the tokyo olympics two years after being diagnosed with leukaemia.
the 20—year—old athlete won the 100m butterfly at the trials in 57.
77 seconds.
she only restarted her olympic training last year.
she cried when she realised she’d won, saying she was really surprised.
mikako kotani is a the sports director and spokesperson for the tokyo olympics committee and joins me now.
this is quite extraordinary, you were there, i believe, when happened.
please talk us through that moment.
i was watching television, i was in a ifferent venue watching a different sport, but give chicken bumps and i was in tears, seeing her happy.
have you be so happy.
and have you spoken to her about how she is ing?
feeling?
no, she is still competing, she has more races so i’ve tried not to to go so i’ve tried not to bother her.
and what does this you?
what indication does his tell you about the sort of of competition we are going to be seeing at the tokyo pics this year?
what was he uestion, the first part?
exciting do you think this makes the competition this year look ahead to the limbic ames?
-- ympic games.
while, or sure, i have hearing lots and lots of comments that are so looking forward to tching her race at the okyo olympic.
as a former olympics.
but as a former athlete myself, ijust want to back, kind of.
ijust want to wish her good health and be happy.
how much of a difference do you think it for athletes like rikako not have spectators because ourse numbers will be limited.
again, as being an ete, if you focus in your race or performance, it does atter, because you are inside your zone so you can etend ere is a big crowd, pretend there is a big crowd, so it doesn’t matter if they here or not.
but from my experience when i was swimming, hear and feel the atmosphere through the water so to send my cheers to her, which goes through the r.
0k!
mikako kotani.
thank you so much for joining us.
a reminder of our top story — jordan has accused prince hamzah bin hussein, the half—brother of king abdullah, of plotting with foreign parties to destabilise the kingdom.
the deputy prime minister ayman safadi said communications had been intercepted in which the conspirators discussed steps to undermine the country’s security.
prince hamzah has categorically denied involvement in any conspiracy, but says he’s under house arrest with his communications cut.
you can reach me on twitter.
i’m @benmboulos hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air, and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland, and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts but actually, a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too — 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us, so through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures but then, actually, by friday in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
airline bosses pressure the govenment to allow travel earlier than planned.
remote learning has become the new normal in the pandemic.
but will it become a permanent normal?
we find out.
and the massive surge in the sales of garden furniture.
let’s run through some of the ain business news for you.
we start in greece, where the govenment is relaxing some coronavirus restrictions today, despite an increase in infections.
shops will reopen for customers to pick up online orders and to on clothes and shoes in person.
but department stores and shopping malls remain closed.
people are also now allowed to travel between municipalities.
but with the economy so reliant on tourism, which employs one in every five people, what plans are being made to open up for the summer season?
bethany bell reports from athens.
the boats are in the dock, waiting for torres’s.
this man is team rent out catamarans and yacht for trips greek islands.
their to the greek islands.
their clients come from four the , nited states and south ca.
april is normally the africa.
april is normally the start of the season.
things are because of the on hold because of the pandemic.
greece is ing to open up to visitors and may but not clear which countries ill be ready.
this uncertainty sure does not help anyone.
on our end, we are doing the effort possible in order be ready and we will be eady when the borders open and an welcome all guests the world.
ere are still tough overt restrictions in groups have seen a surge of infections but people are oming increasingly rustrated.
one in five workers a job and rism.
they are has a job and tourism.
they are worried about the summer the acropolis is again after months of lockdown.
this would normally be packed place would normally be packed with people but now it’s mainly living ally and no—one those living orally and no-one is quite sure when the foreign ists will be able to tourists will be able to return.
greece is planning to inate all tourism workers vaccinate all tourism workers and it is leading calls for cination certificates or passports to allow foreign tors to travel.
it’s very important to have the passport, use everybody will feel because everybody will feel really safe and our motto is first, for the staff of the ecological sites and the ums, and of course for the public.
after the worst year lobal terrorism on record, reece is really hoping for a ter summer.
the bosses from some of the biggest airlines have asked prime minister boris johnson to give them the approval for international travel in just weeks.
authorities have said that the ban on foreign travel will be in place on the at least until the 17th of may.
the chief executives of airlines like british airways and virgin atlantic have warned the government that economic recovery is not possible without aviation.
they added that restrictions should not affect vaccinated passengers.
the british prime minister is expected to outline the government’s approach to easing those restrictons later on monday.
joining me now is russ mould, investment director, bell.
good to see you.
what do you make of this claim by the tine that recovery is impossible without aviation?
i think they are possibly rstating the significance.
t’s interesting that the ntral bank governor addresses very issue announcing it in the financial times this ing and morning
and i think he calls it a spurious claim.
they clearly me role to play in the consumer part of the economy they are essential to the that they are essential to the full economic recovery is hing it a little bit.
it is nteresting that they suggest orst—case scenario they in a worst-case scenario they would be allowed to enter kruptcy protection, keep protection, keep operating, , preserve jobs and restructure their debts simply their debts and and come out the other side.
so in that case they would keep erating the only people operating but the only peopla who lose out our own holders hareholders and they should know the risks anyway.
i suppose, though, when you put context, you think about when when you go on holiday or a business trip, you may be take in or a cab to the a train or a rah to the airport, you may be by a coffee eakfast when you get or breakfast when you get there, and so it supports more just he aviation sector, than just the aviation sector, doesn’t it?
puts money into in retail, transport, food drink and all sorts of ings.
gama, obviously we just listened there that greece one in five people re employed in tourism
it is doarty a are employed in tourism
so it is clearly a key contributing actor, but to say, i think with the airlines are trying to rotect themselves financially, they have got a , very operationally geared del.
one seat sold makes a difference to their profits one seat not sold makes a big difference to their losses hink they are trying to predict themselves financially as best they possibly ran.
i suppose the danger though, is pressure on the if the pressure on the government as if they relaxed ules sooner than they perhaps ould have done and they find there is a ituation where they have to ten the rules again, in tighten the mles again, in some ways that chopping and ging and uncertainty is resumably worth four airlines ther businesses.
olitically, the government ommitted to know lockdowns which is something we will all be looking forward to mously but clearly safety enormously but dearty safety is mission—critical.
the greeks got their ear systems in have got their dear systems in place to keep people safe and wants to see the virus spread extending beyond where now so this is the it is now so this is the extremely difficult balancing the airlines have tried to act.
the aidines have tried to protect themselves by raising from lenders, selling money from landers, selling aircraft, they are trying to hemselves through to the her side as best as they sibly can.
what they desperately need now is bottoms ats and people buying rinks and sandwiches on the oplane and going through irports.
what the government is that as well but what doesn’t want is the virus to ad and the economy to be set back yet ain.
0k, we will ave it there but thank you much for that.
the indian state of maharashtra, which is home to the country’s financial capital mumbai, will impose tighter restrictions after a sharp spike in covid—19 infections.
the country saw the highest day of infections since mid—september over the weekend, with more than 90,000 .
n’ﬁ h4?
more than half of those were in maharashtra.
joining me now is india business correspondent arunoday mukharji.
so with these tighter restrictions, what does that and?
essentially, this is state of maharashtra which mposed restrictions which you pointed out overs more than half of the ronavirus cases, so the overnment is essentially ying that from seven in the morning to eight in the evening re than five people will no more than five peopla will be able to in a be able to congregate in a particular area, restaurants ther public areas will be ut, there are restrictions on des of transport, no more an two individuals on public ansport and the buses have imilar rules, they are trying inforce these fresh to reinforce these fresh restrictions and maintain a nce so that the economy oesn’t go off track once ain.
a lot of the considerations are being made government but the by the government but the situation is going from bad to in the words of the health ministry self.
just to update you over the weekend we 3,000 cases but india this orning crossing another grim estone of having more than 100,000 cases in the last 24 hours.
that is a first for since the pandemic broke last year.
in fact india is the second country in the only the second country in the world after the to register 000 cases daily, so it is 100,000 cases daily, so it is certainly on the upward jectory has.
and of course mbai, the financial capital ndia within the state that got these estrictions, what sort of reaction is therefore from businesses?
do they accept this as necessary they very concerned?
hey are concerned, and it’s a balance that the fine balance that the government really has to make sure that businesses ntinue to stay afloat at a time india was limping ack to some sort of normalcy.
bai and itself also mumbai and itself also recording more than 11,000 in the last 2a hours so cases in the last 24 hours so that is another huge cause for ern.
on the weekends the government has also enforced downs, a curfew, rather, a complete lockdown, and in evenings from eight in the ening to seven in the rning, no—one will be allowed the streets of mumbai.
that nother decision that has been taken so very strict restrictions for a city like ai, the financial capital, more restrictions are being put ace in terms of contact acing, they are increasing number of testing.
there is lso a directive to the central ernment of the state government of maharashtra to hat it is not only enough ncrease testing but you lso have to ramp up contact acing in order to ensure that ple actually isolate themselves if they do test itive and if people are found found violating protocols, they will be alised.
0k, hanks very much for that.
let’s get some of the day’s other news.
south korea’s electronics has announced an exit from the smartphone business.
the company’s smartphone division has logged nearly six years of losses, amounting to nearly $5 billion.
shareholder of parent company have earlier approved a plan to spin off five secondary affiliates, as part of its wider restructuring.
and it seems people are ready to go back to the movies again.
the hollyfood film godzilla kong raked in nearly $50 million in ticket sales across north american cinemas between wednesday to sunday.
it’s the biggest turnout for a movie since the pandemic began.
and that’s happened even with the movie being made available on the max streaming platform.
i dare say, many people in scotland will be very excited today as hairdressers open their doors for the first time in over two months.
the grown out, choppy, faded coloured will be tamed once again.
according to grooming experts, the desire for reinvention and marking a new beginning will be as vital to our mental health as it is for our appearance, many of us have spent the past year staring at ourselves through a screen, experiencing ‘zoom fatigue’, and now with the hope of the vaccination roll out, many will be looking for a new look to match their new found freedom.
joining me now is marc mccune, salon owner & board member of the national hair & beauty federation and owner of two salons in glasgow.
i’m guessing you are fully booked for the next few days?
e, the appointments are looking great for the next or four weeks, agine three or four weeks, i imagine it is the same for most salons otland, similar to a eriod that we experience every in december before year in decemberjust before christmas so i am confident the has lockdown affected your business?
short—term, the rnment as provided government has provided financial support and has owed us to keep all of our eam employed.
it has been a range year for our team.
they only worked for really months in the last year, really we are concerned more their mental well—being.
are apprehensive bout coming back to work after off for such a being off for such a long period of time, and we’re just to be as supportive as for that.
nger term, we are not sure what the impact is venient.
were you worried during the lockdown that people to do with doing their had to make do with doing their home colours, home trims and that, that they might decide that they’ve actually quite at it
and they got quite good at it
and they might not need to come to the dresses anymore?
you are ways up against colour mpanies, producing home uring anyway, so it’s always been a thing that we been up against.
i think people’s habits will ange due to change due to this, as it had through the first ckdown when you have a lot treatments at , a lot more clients home, a lot more clients embracing going grey.
one thing a lot of people would do that a lot of peopla would do is cut the hair themselves, were 0k there, but all has an impact on us at moment, and if you are taking somebody who colours the hair regularly in a salon and more regularty in a salon and they are no longer doing it, has come off of our that has come off of our turnover
but i think, the skill that headdresses have the opla eople can’t do at home.
and esumably are having to presumably you are having to put covidsafe urges in place, have to pass that cost do you have to pass that cost onto customers?
does the price now?
prices went up after the first lockdown anyway.
if you imagine you are the client came in every six weeks to have their colour done, you , you are using three times amount of colour so we’ve a pricing structure in got a pricing in place to compensate that, and cially going back after especially going back after this period, wages have gone inimum wage has risen, and we covered the cost of our because we had our discount in to remove because we had to remove because would be closed for so long, so that happen again, the extra will happen again, the extra 101: ill cover the cost of extra eaning products and .
thank you very much.
h&m has found itself in yet another controversy, this time, with the vietnamese government.
the company recently faced a boycott in china because of its stance on cotton from xinjiang.
let’s go to mariko oi, who’s following the story from our asia business hub in singapore.
good to see you.
what has happened this time?
are it at it controversy with -- that it is controversy with vietnam?
this time it bout a map on the company’s website, we on’t know exactly which it is.
first beijing was happy with that map so ina told and correct it.
hen the changes made consumers etnam angry who said the in vietnam angry who said the company was infringing on tnam’s maritime vietnam’s maritime sovereignties —— h&m.
we think as omething to do with the uth china sea.
of course, hina claims more than 80% of it but ers like the it but others like the philippines, brunei, malaysia aiwan claim part of the same area as well, and vietnam een the most forceful, if you like, nation in pushing against back against beijing’s claims.
as you say it does not been a busy weeks for h&m, facing a boycott in for standing against human rights abuses hina’s xinjiang which produces about one fifth of the d’s cotton but this renewed ontroversy that it finds self between vietnam and ina will be a very tricky one well because china obviously a huge market there for the mpany but numb is up—and—coming.
—— but vietnam.
riko.
—— thank you, mariko.
stay with us on news.
still to come: remote learning has become the new normal in the pandemic.
but will it become a permanent normal?
we find out.
25 years of hatred and rage as theyjump up on the statue.
this funeral became a massive demonstration of black power, the power to influence.
today is about the promise of a bright future — a day when we hope a line can be drawn under the bloody past.
i think that picasso’s works were beautiful, they were intelligent, and it’s a sad loss to everybody who loves art.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: a royal crisis in jordan: former crown prince hamza says he’s under house arrest, accused of plotting to destabilise the country.
new coronavirus restrictions in india’s worst—affected state of maharashtra as the country records the world’s highest number of daily infections.
remote learning has been difficult for many parents and students, but it’s also unleashed a boom in the education sector.
companies that blend education and technology are suddenly very appealing to investors.
samira hussein is our very exhausted parent of a remote learner, and she has this report from new york.
for millions of students across the country learning no longer ens in the classroom but on happens in the classroom but on a computer.
students as young years old can spend as five years old ran spend hours on mine.
learning.
come to kindergarten in the andemic.
goodbye!
and it is just at house, has been tough on dents, teachers and arents, but one group has seen benefit.
this is an nune a real benefit.
this is an online educational resource, ult of netﬂix for assault of netﬂix for learning, taking content from a ety of sources newspapers speeches and rewrites them ifferent grade for different grade levels and because it is online it can be raded in a that i have upgraded in a way that i have updated in a way that ditional schools cannot.
one people realises how little textbooks are used more.
matthew is the founder newsela and a former ucator himself.
his company ently raised an additional 100 million in funding.
great hnologies are assistive to teacher, they are doing eir bidding and empowering social classroom with a eacher at the centre of it, ’s what great education looks like.
there is already a educational software out there, which is great, but aking from my own speaking from my own experience, my daughter and her who are all five are already on the computer for hours a day.
they don’t enjoy ning on the computer and miss being in a classroom.
so the remote learning experiment ind of work from this has kind of work from this particular period in time but hard to see this as it’s hard to see this as something more permanent.
but stors still see an investors still see an opportunity in educational nology.
investment in the technology.
investment in the sector has been steadily reasing over the last five ars but morgan battles as the id—19 pandemic has put that nto overdrive.
three years ago ad a really good idea, the likelihood is you would not into the market.
with break into the market.
with covid—19 obviously as we have about how changed that’s really good ideas funded bysmart investors.
so
yeah.
it is a different ball me now than it ever was.
vestors see a new sector xpanding, even if many users wait to get back to the cannot wait to get back to the real world classroom.
samira hussein, news, new york.
with people allowed to meet again outside in the this easter, sales of garden furniture have soared.
the leisure and outdoor furniture association said they’ve seen runaway demand from consumers who have been stuck at home for months.
but retailers are facing soaring shipping costs and delays to shipments, not helped by the latest suez delays.
furniture giant ikea is among the retailers experiencing supply issues.
the leisure and outdoor furniture association said that last year its members were being charged about $1,200 to get a container over from china and indonesia.
this year, it’s between $7,000 and $10,000.
joining me now is tim pennell, director and the sales director of bramblecrest.
that is quite a sharp rise in costs for the industry.
doesn’t we are seeing prices that stomers pay having to go up harply as well?
hello.
the ices eventually do go down he line to retail price nsumers will say in shops and den centres.
it has to be assed on and eventually it be absorbed by the resale
so yes, the prices have gone up.
but you do fit a fair of product into one container so once it’s absorbed of products, is by lots of products, is possibly not as bad, but we are increases of in the egion of 10—15, as much as 20% some on some retail prices.
of course it’s all very well if ave got the products to you have got the products to sell and pass the cost on but products have been held up and you have got the stock, that is an even ger problem.
are you finding there hortages of stock available?
so very much, i mean, we had a recent surge in uter for onsumer demand commuter for consumer demand which has been enforced focus outdoor space and the prospect of another staycation, imism optimism for a great summer.
we are finding that garden centres have been open throughout he recent lockdown have orted record sales because the delays, they are now elling all the way into the gust deliveries so it has aken an awful lot longer to he product to the stomer, so yes, we are xperiencing huge shortages.
what are tim, what are proving to be the most most popular items that peopla are desperate to get their on?
in terms hands on?
in terms of garden furniture and from a personal rience experience from our company bramblecrest, we are ding that fire pits are particularly ular.
so sofa seating, popular.
also sofa seating, relaxed casual dining and ormal sofas, swing chairs gazebos.
also outside post rasols, cantilevered, but imately asual dining sets, seating are popular, with pits inbuilt.
i can quite imagine fire pits are popular, given the way the ther has turned in england in the last with the rules allowing people to gather outdoors, i suppose are going to want those sofas but also to keep warm as .
tim, really good to speak well.
tim, really good to speak to you.
tim from the outdoor —— rom the eisure and tim from the leisure and outdoor furniture association.
you can find me on social media.
if you’re on one, kfast is coming up but if you are on world, you have ain!
you very much for watching.
-- ank you.
hello, there.
easter sunday’s highest temperature was in worcestershire, where it got very close to 18 celsius.
but at the other end of the , the weather was changing, and it was changing drastically.
that was shetland with some snow showers and some cold air, and that cold air is now moving southwards.
behind this cold front, a much, much chillierfeel to the weather for easter monday.
the start of the new week bringing much colder days and some frosty nights.
snow showers quite widely but especially across northern scotland, where there will be blizzard conditions with some really strong winds.
so as we start monday morning, then, the remnants of our cold front bringing some patchy rain into the south.
behind that, sunny spells, yes, but plenty of showers, especially for coastal areas.
the showers falling as a mixture of hail and snow in most places and the showers most plentiful across northern scotland, where we’ll see the snow really piling up over the highest ground.
and there will be blizzard conditions here, as i said, with wind gusts of 50—60, maybe 70 mph.
and even if you see sunshine through monday afternoon, 4—9 degrees the maximum temperature.
factor in the strength of that northerly wind, this is what it’s going to feel like.
it will feel subzero for many, feeling like “4 there in aberdeen.
now, as we head through monday night into the early hours of tuesday, you can see the snow showers continuing, particularly for eastern and western coasts, some for northern ireland and plenty more for northern scotland, and it is going to be widely a cold and frosty night, and there could be some icy stretches around as well first thing on tuesday morning.
and another cold and wintry day to come on tuesday with some spells of sunshine.
showers especially around the coasts but actually, a greater chance of seeing some showers inland and again, those showers are likely to be wintry.
and it’s another cold day, still windy too — 2—9 degrees at best.
a subtle change as we head towards the middle part of the week, and it comes courtesy of this little frontal system here.
it is a warm front running in from the west.
as the name suggests, the air behind it will be warmer, or perhapsjust a little bit less cold.
temperatures will slowly nudge upwards.
that front will bring a little bit of rain for some, but not quite all of us, so through the middle of the week, some higher temperatures but then, actually, by friday in northern areas, it will turn cold once again.
i’m notjust going to let him get away with it.
we have got to find that money.
i think we might have a bit of a problem.
where do you stay when you’ve got 27 million?
where do we start?
what if we can’t find frank?
come on!
kay mellor’s the syndicate.
the creek of the auditorium door.
the gentle hum of the orchestra tuning.
the adrenaline.
the uncertainty.
lights dimming.
the curtain slowly rising.
the music.
the dancing.
camaraderie.
the applause.
without theatre, this isn’t a city.
it brings people together.
it brings joy.
laughter.
happiness.
sensation.
a place to escape.
to connect.
to feel if only for a short while truly alive.
live theatre lights up four this spring.
every time they come out, i doubt myself.
brand new cases like this, faith, are once in a career, if you’re lucky.
my advice is — be prepared.
abercorran is becoming toxic.
if she’s going to take away my kids, i might take away everything that’s precious to her.
we’re on the hunt for britain’s next big jewellery star, and what better way to do that than through a competition slash talent search format?
jewellery’s so tense!
have you ever thought of just buying jewellery?
often!
lights.
touker, i don’t want your answers.
i’m thinking, deborah.
have you built a business model?
i beg your pardon?
it’s a little bit like you’ve sold your soul.
ssh!
my heart is literally pounding.
if this is what i think it is, it’s going to be genius.
i’m going to make you an offer.
dragons’ den continues good morning.
welcome to breakfast with rogerjohnson and louise minchin.
our headlines today.
an expansion of the coronavirus testing programme.
everyone in england will have access to two free rapid tests a week from this friday.
borisjohnson will give more details about his plans to further ease the lockdown in england today, including a covid passport scheme to restart big events.
m: we are at a very empty manchester airport talking about the sibility of a foreign holiday on he horizon.
with the downing street uncement later today.
lockdown continues to ease in scotland, as garden centres, homeware shops and hairdressers all reopen.
after a half—time rocket from their manager, manchester united come from behind to beat brighton and tighten their grip on second place in the premier league.
we’ll also speak to actor riz ahmed, who’s been oscar—nominated for his portrayal of a drummer who loses his hearing.
a colder day today with a significant wind chill and snow ers in the forecast down to levels, especially in the r.
in between, there will be unshine.
i will have the details er.
it’s easter monday, april the 5th.
our top story.
everyone in england will be offered two free rapid covid tests each week from this friday, under the government’s plans to expand its testing programme.
the health secretary, matt hancock, says the additional tests will play a crucial role in curbing future outbreaks of the virus as life returns to normal.
our health correspondent jim reed reports.
rapid lateral flow tests are already being used to test secondary school pupils, families with children and those who cannot work from home.
from the end of the week, they will be offered to everyone in england.
these devices give a result in 30 minutes.
they can be picked up from a local testing centre or pharmacy or ordered online and delivered in the post.
even when people have no symptoms, they may be infected and they may be infectious.
and if we can catch those people early, then we can break transmission and that reduces the number of people who are infected, it reduces the likelihood of new variants and it helps keep everybody safer.
the government says that twice—weekly tests will be crucial to help prevent outbreaks in the future.
but labour said the mass—testing programme must be backed by improved financial support so that those told to isolate can afford it.
and some scientists have questioned the accuracy of the tests, especially in people who don’t have symptoms.
the tests are not good at ruling out and saying you don’t have covid.
we have to be very careful to get a message to everybody that says if the test is negative, behave the same way, don’t believe you haven’t got covid.
don’t go and kiss and cuddle your granny or your grandad, because it’s not a test that tells us that.
it’s not a good enough test.
the government claims the kits are extremely accurate, particularly when it comes to identifying the most infectious cases.
in england, a new publicity drive will start this week to to convince more people to make regular testing part of their weekly routine.
in scotland, wales and northern ireland, mass testing is also being expanded in places like offices, factories and care homes.
jim reed, news.
the next stage of the government’s plan to ease lockdown measures in england from april 12th is expected to be approved by cabinet ministers today.
the prime minister will also give details of a traffic—light system for restarting international travel, and his plans to trial covid passports at major sporting events.
our political correspondent, nick eardley, has more details.
in a week, we should be seeing this again in england.
pubs and restaurants serving outside.
nonessential shops opening their doors.
hairdressers back open.
those lockdown haircuts finally brought back under control.
the cabinet will meet to discuss the latest data on coronavirus this morning.
borisjohnson will confirm his plans in a press conference this afternoon.
he will also be talking about holidays.
but don’t expect firm dates or a list of where we will be allowed to go.
there will in future, though, he a traffic light system.
green will mean you don’t have to quarantine on return to england.