this is news for viewers in the and around the globe.
i’ victoria fritz.
our top stories — a wildfire menace.
the greek prime minister urges people to unite, as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns and villages across greece.
protests across italy, as covid vaccine—passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
: i come to the venue in person, present my pass.
i present ard, and i’ allowed to my card, and i’ allowed to enter.
a fifth of all the ’ covid hospital patients are aged between 18 and 34.
doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated — we have a special report.
one of the world’ greatest footballers, lionel messi, is leaving barcelona after more than 20 years.
the international olympic committee says it’ ordered two belarusian coaches to leave the athletes’ village to protect the rest of their team.
greece has been plunged into an unprecedented environmental crisis, according to the country’ prime minister.
days of heatwaves have turned the country into a powder keg — and he predicts the worst is yet to come with strong westerly winds expected to fan the flames.
as mark lobel reports, villagers are coming under pressure to abandon their homes, as villages like these burn, the greek prime minister is urging extreme caution.
houses can be rebuilt, he says, trees can regrow, however human life cannot be replaced.
but abandoning your home is never easy in your 705.
: leave and go where, and let my house burn?
if we had left, this place would have burned.
we told the women and elderly and kids to go, and whoever was able stay to help, however they could.
crops are at risk, too.
so far, 6,000 hectares of and have burned in three days of wildfires.
over half of last year’ total.
decimated.
nothing is left.
olive trees, sheep, goats, stables, everything.
westward winds have blown a new life into these fires north of athens.
with temperatures well over a0 celsius, the past week has been greece’
worst heatwave since the late ‘805.
with fires continuing to spread, local politicians have denounced a lack of resources.
the army is doubling its efforts, but is our changing environment to blame?
climate change is producing hotter temperatures, and making droughts more frequent, conditions that can fuel wildfires.
: we have a debt to shield the country against the reality of climate change.
i’ not looking for excuses.
we have made important strides in organising the country, but these are not enough when you’re faced with a phenomenon of such magnitude.
invites them to visit the fires for themselves.
fires now spreading across southern europe, where many including spaniards, turks, italians, albanians, and north macedonians are also asking, just what is behind the summer heatwave that is causing familiar seasonal fires to act in such extreme ways?
mark lobel, news.
luke strutt is a brit.
he has been visiting the country for 30 years.
he has a holiay home just to the east of athens.
thank you for joining me.
you have only recently been able to make it to your home.
describe the last —hour is.
i went out on tuesday ternoon, having smoke rising rom the hills just behind re, ere, went out my oat to see what the extent of the smoke was, and further he coast, huge flames down the coast, huge ﬂames were empting from the hillside, preading i suppose like wildfire.
uickly engulfing hotels, houses, and from the boat, it was apocalyptic scenes.
and i know hat you have filmed some pictures rself, and we are able to roadcast them now to our viewers.
as it like seeing those scenes for yourself?
was a very scary perience, not knowing where the re was going to, or when it could stopped, or if it could be topped at the time.
it was just pletely out of control.
people ere throwing gas canisters into the stop them exploding in the ires.
this of course is a danger, isn’ it?
you yourself have pending some of this crisis on the boat because you felt safer , but of course being at sea with its own risks.
absolutely, yeah.
smoke was ading across the water, so ctually it was raining hot ash onto oats, so you were really questioning where was the safest to be.
it was just awful scenes.
and what have you found on return to your home?
in the tual town itself, last night, guy behind me was glowing red as the continued to burn —— the behind me.
was a general sense in the town that these fires have burning for nearly four days, been burning for hearty four days, and, you know, haven’ they been under control?
i think that despite the heroic efforts of the ls, their general sense is that hey did not get enough support from re services in the rest of the ountry, and the air support is what were really worried about, that planes were being taken to but not coming to hear to douse the flames here.
so is it sense hese city is being a sense that these city is being prioritised here?
i do feel that is the general sense, speaking locals last night, they were to the locals last night, they were thinking that the cities were ing the priority, put us the orests were effectively left to .
thank you very much for your ime, luke strutt in the port of a, thank you very much.
thank ou.
barcelona have announced their all—time top—scorer, lionel messi, will be leaving this summer, after failing to agree the terms of a new contract.
messi has been at the club since he was 13.
during that time, he helped the team win more than 30 trophies and forged a reputation as one of the greatest players of all time.
tanya dendrinos reports.
in the eyes of many, he’ the greatest footballer of all time, a god amongst men, for those who view the beautiful game as somewhat of a religion.
in barcelona, this is their temple.
it didn’ take long for despondent fans to gather outside camp nou as news of lionel messi’ departure hit home.
: it’ a soap opera from last summer to this summer, and it has finished in a harsh way for the fans and the barca club members.
it should’ve finished in a year without a pandemic, with people filling in the stadium, and the whole of spain applauding his presence.
the 34—year—old has been a free agent since the 1st ofjuly, when his contract expired.
two weeks later, he agreed a new deal with reduced wages, but it was still dependent on barca selling players to afford his salary.
the shocking blow came on thursday, when barcelona announced messi’ 21—year association with the club would be ending, putting the blame on financial and structural obstacles imposed by liga.
: it’ a big loss, and football will generate less money and we have less important players.
we will notice that.
so where might messi be heading?
who does have the money?
the best candidates i think our paris germain, who are the most likely club to sign him.
the other club who might have the finances to sign him, manchester city, do not appear to want to.
that is, of course, if this is the end of the road.
not everyone’ so sure.
i think barcelona can make a pretty convincing case that it is in the interests not only of barcelona but of spanish football as a whole to bend the rules 3 little bit and retain the services of the man who could well be the greatest player, some would argue the greatest player in the history of the world.
nothing is certain until this messiah signs on the dotted line.
for now, barca fans are left hoping their dreams will be resurrected.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the dixie fire has torn through the historic mining town of greenville in california, engulfing everything in its path.
the massive fire started last month, but exploded this week.
it’ been fueled by high temperatures, low humidity, and strong winds.
it now covers more than 300,000 acres.
president biden has announced that hong kong residents who are currently in america will be granted temporary safe haven.
they will be allowed to stay for 18 months in the , and could also work there.
biden said the move was a response to china’ continuing assault on hong kong’ autonomy and the repression of political and press freedoms.
apple has revealed new safety tools will be introduced in the united states, which can scan photos and messages on people’ phones to check for material showing child sex abuse.
the company insists the measures will protect users’ privacy, but some security experts are concerned.
venues across italy are introducing an obligatory covid "green pass" from today, meaning access will only be allowed with either a vaccination certificate, a negative test, or proof of recovery from the virus.
the measure will be extended to universities and transport next month.
our correspondent, mark lowen reports from verona.
a night at the opera — tickets, temperature check, and, from today, the mandatory green pass — a covid vaccination certificate, negative test, or proof of recovery, as italy tightens its mles from theatres to restaurants, to cafes.
this is how it will work in practice.
i come up to the venue in question.
i present my green pass, which, in my case, is a vaccination certificate.
it’ verified.
this device doesn’ save the data.
i present my card, and i am allowed to enter.
it is a big change and a big challenge for those involved.
nobody told us how to face covid, you know, so at the beginning we were afraid, we were nervous, we were anxious.
then, month by month, we solved new problems giving new solutions, and after 18 months we built a little bit of self—confidence, so let’ say now that the situation is — it is not a problem.
this is another problem regarding covid.
tonight’ treat — aida.
ajewel of verdi.
this ancient amphitheatre in a new pandemic era.
verona’ arena has already adapted to covid.
fewer performers, masks, and half capacity.
but, with the green pass, the drama has moved offstage, too.
parliament had to be suspended after protests from far—right mps.
and while polls show most italians in favour, vocal demonstrations have broken out across the country.
much of the opposition is from restaurateurs, their patience already worn by lockdowns.
: we shouldn’ have to police this, it’ not ourjob, and we shouldn’ deal with sensitive data.
the government will make us argue with customers who want to sit inside without the pass.
we will have to comply, but we have already had cancellations.
are you no—vax?
absolutely not, i am neither for nor against, i am a restauranteur.
it has gotten nasty for medics supporting the green pass.
this woman received a death threat through whatsapp, evoking the nazi trials at nuremberg.
other messages were on facebook and they came from her colleagues.
: i really felt in danger.
what upset me most was that the threats were from health workers.
they, like us, were heroes of the pandemic and now some of them are no—vax.
i felt broken and thought about giving up everything, but then i realised i must go on and show them that they are the ones at fault.
at the arena, too, the show will go on, though with new checks for the opera lovers.
italy is beginning another act in its covid story, but the unity felt last year is fading.
mark lowen, news, verona.
stay with us on news, still to come — the international olympic committee has ordered two belarusian coaches the athletes’ village.
this is news, the latest headlines — the greek prime minister urges people to unite against a wildfire menace, as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns and villages across greece.
there have been protests across italy, as covid vaccine—passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
olympic officials say two coaches from belarus have been stripped of their accreditation and asked to leave the olympic village in tokyo, over their alleged attempt to force an athlete, simannovskaya, out of competition.
the ’ sarah mulkerrins in tokyo has more.
tarted with the athlete from belarus it started with the athlete from belarus who alleges that she was ced board a plane back home.
forced to board a plane back home.
she had previously competed in the tres, it was due to compete in the 200 metres on monday.
she asked compete in the four by 400 her to compete in the four by 400 metres relay, she criticised that blic post on instagram, and then said subsequently to this she belarusian officials tell her to pack her bags, go to the ort, and board a flight home.
airport, and board a ﬂight home.
when she was at the airport, she ested elp.
we soon found out he did that through translation vices when she was at the airport, asking the police for ection, saying she did not want board the plane back home to ms, rus, she was in fear for her belams, she was in fear for her safety.
subsequently, she had police ction, and we now know that she arrived in warsaw on a manitarian visa.
the have been estigating this, the latest date we got this morning was the moval of accreditation from two arusian delegates and also emoval of them from the olympic lage.
-- the .
there are village.
-- the .
there are still belarusian athletes staying there, course the games finish on and of course the games finish on sunday.
the so there will be a hance for legates to have chance for the delegates to have their say, but they wanted to remove rom the pit village in order protect the welfare of the arusian athletes still at the mes.
sarah, unless you have been ing under a rock rather than limbing up it, you will know that mbing is the new branch.
everyone doing it, and people have absolutely hooked on these new ts, the climbing, surfing, kateboarding, karate, it goes on, been fantastic to watch these new spots, and they found real fans across the world, right across the world, haven’ they?
it has been brilliant, uring so many new fans.
it has hugely entertaining to watch.
the atmosphere at all of them the competitors cheering other on and supporting each other.
brought in a lot of ports like this in order to bring the ger generations with them for he future of the olympic games, and certainly looking like it has een a very successful and rewd move on from them.
let’ speak to body who has been covering them or sport here in tokyo, tim, must be living the olympics far, because seen you at the urfing, the skateboarding, the , been good.
it looks like i am on holiday, essentially.
i have to of what i consider the best spots, have to be careful how i say that, it is brilliant and to these spots on the world stage, have been a fan since i was ten old when i got my first skateboard, so to be here, not as a etitor, nowhere near that, to here is a to see these ports, is brilliant.
i do think have resonated so much of ople?
i think it’ the drama.
you everything on screen, you get action comedy tricks, the nitude, the speed, it all comes cross, but also the colourful racters that these sports bring the games.
the brazilian ateboarder who sounds like he is lling into godzilla after his run.
turning into.
stories —— turning into.
50 many stories and angles to it, and i think it comes on reen for the viewer.
alive on screen for the viewer.
and the culture around the sport is a ifferent from the real competitive nature we’re used to in elite sport, and it has ansferred into the olympics.
very so, and his is not a case of much so, and this is not a use of square sports fitting into a olympic hole, this is a case of we at lympics, but here’ are at the olympics, but here’ skateboarding in its absolute daily this is what skateboarding is, and here it is at the olympics, it different, and we spoke eartier about it that in between the but between the gold—medal temps, you ave an extra practice, the guy who has just put down he best run, he is not moaning mplaining because this skateboarding is.
conversely, we have seen guys knocked off the top , and they are the first person congratulate the person that has ked them off.
so it is knocked them off.
so it is completely different, a weird ure, but i am part of it.
it is completely different.
thank you, appreciate your time and tim, i appreciate your time and enthusiasm for those new sports that een so successful.
i know when ’re talking about these new ts, victoria, in the streaming downloading and watching of new sports, they were out of the top ten watched and most for the international olympic ittee of these games so far, so hey have certainly gone down a at with viewers the world.
doctors in leeds in west yorkshire in the north of england say they are treating greater numbers of coronvirus patients in hospital who are younger and unvaccinated.
it comes as the head of england has said that one in five patients on wards in the country is aged between 18 and 34.
leeds teaching hospital has taken the unusual step of allowing us to film on one of their covid—19 wards to highlight the risks younger people face by not having the jab.
our health correspondent jamie coulson has this exclusive report.
can you imagine yourself being stabbed in the back?
that’ what it feels like.
you breathe, and you’re getting stabbed at the same time.
every time you take a breath, someone stabs you.
three days ago, this man was admitted to stjames’ hospital in leeds in excruciating pain.
the 25—year—old international student is like many patients hospitals are now seeing in greater numbers.
he is younger and unvaccinated.
i am really worried, because all the pain is going on inside my lungs, and it’ moving around.
i heard some people after they recover from covid, their lungs don’ work 100%.
were you vaccinated?
i haven’.
i was booking for a vaccination, but i got the covid twice.
hello.
sorry to interrupt your dinner.
this is one of the respiratory consultants on the covid wards.
he says it is concerning they are seeing a greater proportion of younger patients.
what he has got is a complication of covid, it’ a blood clot on his lungs.
secondary to the covid inflammation.
now, we now know that covid increases the chance of getting blood clots significantly, and there has been a big surge in the number of patients we are seeing with blood clots following covid.
hopefully he will get better in the next day or so.
these people are young and fit, most of them, and they are still getting serious covid, and we have to provide them with a lot of support.
they are staying in hospital, some of them, for quite long periods, and there is also a cost in terms of their recovery, and because they are in their working life, it has got complications long term.
this is one of three dedicated covid wards at the trust, and here, like elsewhere, they have seen an increase in the number of patients needing help in recent weeks.
and a significant proportion of them are either unvaccinated or only singlejabbed.
after weeks of rising cases, the number of covid patients at the trust has remained at about 100 for the last seven days.
without the vaccine, doctors say the situation could be much worse.
if you think about the total number of patients testing positive in the country, compared to the number of hospital admissions, there is no comparison compared to the first and second wave.
so the overall numbers of admissions have significantly gone down, and the only thing that is different is the vaccine.
and when they end up in hospital, what i am seeing, the patients who have had a vaccine tend to do better.
take the vaccine.
i don’ think any other people want to experience what i am experiencing right now, like feeling in pain every day, not to mention even the painkillers couldn’ help you.
jamie coulson, news.
business news coming up in about five minutes’ time.
hello, lots of talk about heavy showers on this forecast, but rtant to point out it will not rain all the time.
some drier, ier moments, too.
some areas on friday will be dealing with heavy ntense thundery downpours, particularty cross northern parts , he , whereas further south, here will still be some heavy ers to contend with.
it will end to move through more quickly, of sunshine, to the more an of sunshine, to the north, because to the southern of this area of low pressure which ming, the winds are tronger, so the showers move through more kly, but if you’re close to the quickly, but if you’re dose to the centre of this area, across land, northern ireland, northern land, north wales, too, the owers just around for longer, the rain totals mount command is nse downpours could well ﬂooding intense downpours could well flooding and some disruption in some ots.
eastern and is with spots.
eastern scotland is with more persistent rain, again rain totals and with the risk of flooding.
mount and with the risk of ﬂooding.
still some sunny spells in between avy showers, but with the ronger winds across south wales uthern england, whose average peeds of 40, a0 five miles per ur, the owers will tend to move through more quickly.
and i might be laces avoiding them some places avoiding them altogether.
more on the web content he day here as well.
up to ound 22 in east anglia, most bliss not getting that high.
culation of showers around this of low pressure continuing on rough friday night, and of aturday morning, temperatures ding up into the mid to low teens.
nothing really changes turday for the bulk of the , re will be some sunshine around es, there will be heavy at times, there will be heavy thundery showers.
it looks like a ter chance of picking up some avy thundery showers across thern areas compared with friday.
the temperatures, some spots eeping into the low 205, although will not.
and then on sunday, area of the pressure still here, oks to be centred close to cotland.
could be the most onged thundery downpours.
but hey are flaring up elsewhere across , but might well be towards the , but it might well be towards south wales and southern england, to icture of fewer back to a picture of fewer showers and more in the way of sunny spells.
rea of the pressure looks to finally get out of the way by day, to allow us a couple of tuesday, to allow us a couple of fine days before another area of low ure comes in later next week.
and around the globe.
our top stories.
on a charge — president biden says half of all cars sold in the must be electric by 2030.
we have a play book and it’ going to work.
today, i’ announcing steps we’re taking to set a new pace for electric vehicles.
no pass, no entry — italy and france to start enforcing covid vaccine certificates for restaurants, cinemas and public transport — but will it hit tourism?
blasting the bro—culture — does the video game business need a reset?
plus, leaving a sour taste — how a $10 billion corporation sued a family—run farm, and lost.
welcome.
we start in the , where president biden has taken a step towards his goal of slashing greenhouse emissions.
how?
he’ signed an executive order requiring half of all vehicles sold in the united states to be electric by 2030 — a move backed by the top auto companies.
he signed off and fired up an electricjeep.
the biden administration is also proposing new, tougher emissions rules over the next few years.
these would reverse former president trump’ lowering of fuel economy standards.
: we have a playbook and it is going to work.
today i’ announcing steps a new pace for electric vehicles.
i am following through on campaign itment to reverse the campaign commitment to reverse the previous administration’ short of vehicle emissions and ficiency standards.
i’ doing so the support of the auto ndustry.
the automobile industry.
the environmental protection gency and the department of nsportation are unveiling oposals to do just that.
these encies are beginning to work on next round of standards for a oad class of vehicles, for cars, , pick-up ucks, medium and heavy duty ehicles.
importantly, we heavy duty vehidas.
importanﬂy, we have announcements today from —makers representing nearly the tire der market, who are positioned around the ambition of a0 : of all vehicles are sold by to 5096 of all vehidas are sold by 2030 america, being electric.
note the word there — ‘ambition’.
the executive order is not legally binding.
so will it work?
swetha ramachandran is investment manager at investments, i asked her if there’ public support for the move.
that’ a really interesting question.
and i think the one part address is the consumer of not address is the consumer uptake side, where the industry has obbying the government for been lobbying the government for some time to put in place tax credit ould encourage consumers to increase their adoption of electric les, even though this year we seeing an increase from 2% last to roughly 3% in terms of year to roughly about 396 in terms of total lectric vehicle adoption, hat pales mparison to led say that pales in comparison to lad say norway, which has 75% of its auto les sales elactric.
the and the are at ten to 11% each.
the has a way to go in of long way to go in terms of convincing consumers to actually ase their adoption of electric increase their adoption of electric vehicles.
that is the demand side.
bout the supply side?
biden what about the supply side?
biden said, were used to leading this nology and we can lead again.
given the rmous headstart china has in this market, is he’ a realistic ambition to even have?
it is tme that china has stolen the tra tra of the , but we can’ orget that tesla is a company, hough notably left out of the mmit.
and increasingly, the other ompanies are making important trides in electrification, with itious goals of their own.
has aid it would stop selling —electric vehicles by 2030.
other companies are ing similar companies are proposing similar measures on a voluntary basis
so so the measures on a voluntary basis so far.
50 the critical technology does on supply side.
it needs exist on the supply side.
it needs to be given this further impetus to vernment is trying to do in erms of providing backing frastructure.
charging points in are still a pinch point.
there are estimated to be about 00 charging points.
the plan would require the establishment of 00.
that is an area the 500,000.
that is an area the government needs to get more heavily ved in.
but that particular spect of it will see a major ade, wanted, in this infrastructure bill?
yes, lutely.
the proposal looks for 7.
5 billion to be earmarked towards stablishment of infrastructure the establishment of for the electric vehicle industry, would be very welcome by the which would be very welcome by the auto—makers.
didn’ set a goal halfway the moon, and to get halfway to the moon, and franklin roosevelt didn’ set out to in world war .
can biden go half win world war .
“an biden go down as a great limate change sident by setting what is a dest goal or electric vehicles, alf by 2030?
at this point in time eems like a work in progress.
direction of travel is probably re relevant than the ultimate al, which i suspect will be weaked and made more ambitious as industry makes further strikes this area.
for now it seems very a shot and beyond to reverse some of the rollbacks the trump nistration had made in its oncessions to the auto industry.
in that i think we need to look it as a step in the right rection rather than an end point.
let’ turn to the travel industry now, because as you’ve been hearing, european countries are beginning to demand proof of covid immunity for access to a wide range of venues and services.
as of monday, in france, to visit a cafe or board a train you’ll need to show a health pass, proving two vaccine doses or recent negative covid test.
it’ part of an —wide scheme.
but what about tourists from outside the bloc?
could it deal another huge blow to the tourism business, just when travel restrictions are beginning to lift?
elodie bertah is a paris tour guide.
i asked her what the impact on paris would be.
nfortu nately, i think it will be limited because already we have very urists from outside the .
50
so it will not as devastating as you pected be, sadly.
if you don’ a double vaccine in france, you to have a test.
how much of at is a restriction on trade and conomic activity in the country?
will be harder, i think.
it has be either the vaccine, the or ther test.
a number of people a still do not the full vaccine heme.
and it means that even if want to go for a beer on a terrace in a bar one day, you need to ave a test will need to have a test certificate.
i was hearing yesterday mber of bar owners saying in a number of bar owners saying they will return to the previous away for their beers and coffees and so on.
they will ask for the code so as not to lose too many nts.
this is the problem.
these tests only last a couple of days.
efore, if you don’ have a therefore, if you don’ have a double vaccine, you’re going to have doing these tests to go out a beer with your friends.
feel this health pass is going to an impact on the vaccination status of french nationals?
are more a going to peopla going to take up the jab?
it has started, actually.
when the ident announced the upcoming easures, the ones that arrive on ay, there was a huge boost on vaccination activity around the try.
even people on holiday were ing to get the vaccination ecause it also includes some people he job, eople re work in for the job, peopla are work in hospitals etc.
so these people, if ant to go back to work after their holidays, they need to have ull vaccination.
so they were hing to get their first dose, to the time to get the second dose fore september.
it already has a impact on vaccination activity the country.
but still, a few remain very hostile to this accination.
paris, of course, mally such an international tination.
perhaps a little bit of elief this week that france has off the amber plus watch list the .
do you foresee a boost trade over the next few weeks, or you think this will be a barrier rade?
again, i’ afraid we still on’ have very many visitors, so it have a big effect on the numbers.
at least not in paris, use paris is not a very big because paris is not a very big destination in the summer.
generally like to go elsewhere in people like to go elsewhere in france in the summer.
again, the ers are not very high right now.
was very satisfactory that the was lifted for france, of course.
but it will not translate a huge amount of people coming in and out ris right now.
now, to a classic david and goliath battle, over oat milk.
on the one side a multinational business valued at $10 billion on the nasdaq stock market.
on the other, a small family run—farm in the .
on thursday, farmers philip and rebecca rayner won their high court battle against swedish oat milk giant oatly, which accused them of trademark infringement.
michelle fleury has more.
the swedish company oatly is a ioneer in dairy alternatives found in plants.
it produces milk titutes made from oats.
it is rowing quickly.
in fact, it has a with a beverage company to ing its products to asia.
it has ready helped to popularise the new ilk in the , where it began selling shares to the public later ear.
but with success comes imitators.
at least that is the ment oatly sought to make in a british court.
the brand, endorsed ebrities including oprah winfrey, took britain’ glebe to urt in a bid to stop it farm to court in a bid to stop it selling the pure oti drink, accusing rademark infringement.
it of trademark infringement.
however, a high court judge has in in favour of the firm, saying that ile there were imilarities between the initial out milk and packaging, it ould be hard to see how this would to onfusion among consumers.
he swedish firm is caught up in ther legal dispute in america, an activist investor accusing ompany of overstating revenue.
this week, one of the world’ top video games companies, activision blizzard, unveiled a management shake—up, following employee protests over sexism and harassment, and a discrimination lawsuit by the state of california.
it describes a toxic workplace environment, with male staffjoking about rape and allegedly groping female colleagues.
the company has promised to review its workplace conditions, and the depiction of women in some of its games.
there have been similar allegations at other games developers.
so does the industry have a broader problem?
anisa sanusi is game designer and the founder of limit break, a mentorship program for under—represented people working in the games industry.
i asked her earlier if any progress had been made.
nfortu nately, it is not an isolated use.
it is quite rampant, no matter you are in he world.
most of he games are quite similar, rtunately.
is it fair to assume this culture is the direct result of of diversity in the industry, or is it more than that?
yes, i would say that is one of the sons.
in the at least the most cent census that we had, 70% of the industry is only 28% is the industry is male and only 2896 is female.
how does increasing the ortion of female representation within the industry change anything?
sentation definitely matters.
representation definitely matters.
we do want more women and people of our to be eadership roles, in senior roles as well, because that’ change happens, when those people up top who care about these ings.
i would ore people in things.
i would say more peopla in higher positions need to listen to .
stay with us on news.
still to come back on stage, and on the streets and online — the edinburgh festival returns after its covid—enforced absence.
an increase in gas and electricity bills for 11 million homes in england, wales and scotland will be announced today.
the energy regulator, ofgem, will reveal its maximum price cap in about an hour.
experts predict a rise of £150 per customer, meaning the average annual bill could be almost £1,300.
there’ been a call for people with needle phobia to be exempt from any covid vaccine passport scheme.
an oxford university study suggests the phobia — which causes an extreme fear of injections and often anxiety around just seeing a needle — accounts for around 10% of vaccine hesitancy in the .
music festivals and other live events are to be protected by government—backed insurance if they have to cancel because of covid.
the £750 million scheme, which begins next month, comes after organisers appealed for more support.
more than half of all festivals have been cancelled this summer.
in wales can re—open tomorrow, in the biggest easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings will no longer apply, but face masks will still be required in shops and on public transport.
the welsh government has warned the lifting of restrictions shouldn’ be seen as a "free—for—all".
this is news.
the latest headlines.
the greek prime minister urges people to unite against a wildfire menace, as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns and villages across greece.
there have been protests across italy, as covid vaccine passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events and live performances.
career changes can be daunting — but they’ve become increasingly popular.
the pandemic has led millions to be furloughed, or accept a change in their pay and conditions — and that’ prompted lots of us to reassess our working lives.
the business site linkedln says that in the the number of people changing jobs is up 36% since before the pandemic.
here’ the story of one man who swapped fashion’ big business for a bar.
i’ i’mjohn.
i used to be a senior figure in the fashion world and now own own wine bar.
if there was no pandemic i absolutely would still be working same company that i was for the same company that i was working for.
i had a wonderful er.
i travelled all over the orld.
i was probably travelling a tle bit too much.
last year, with andemic, i had to make some cisions about whether i wanted to inue my career.
i am at the age where i am looking at the next squad of ten to 15 years.
and i wanted to create something that is and something that i would my own and something that i would enjoy day today.
i think it is a mix nancial and also of financial and also job satisfaction.
being on my own onal environment.
i was personal environment.
i was wholesale director and franchise tor.
there are a lot of transferable skills that i had loped in my past career that are enefiting me now.
i think it is a nce for me to sort of really ther everything that i have rned over the years.
and to apply to my own siness.
i’ very it to my own business.
i’ very excited at the prospect of seeing esults from that.
going into this i visualised exactly what i wanted it to look like.
and we’ve ged to accomplish it.
so every morning when i open the doors, i get that sense of achievement where i think, wow, we achieved this.
and viewers on world news can get more on talking business with aaron heslehurst this weekend.
the times are on your screen now.
finally, the world’ biggest arts festival returns to edinburgh this weekend, after a pandemic—induced year off in 2020.
the 2019 summer season was the biggest in the edinburgh festival’ history, with more than 4.
4 million people attending.
this year’ scaled down event combines everything from opera to literary criticism, to impromptu street performances, in a hybrid mix of live audience and digital distribution.
organisers say online—only events in 2020 proved they could engage wider audiences around the world.
marshall dallas is of the edinburgh international conference centre, which will host 1a shows part of the edinburgh fringe, as well as the international festival.
i asked him earlier what it’ like to be back.
it’ no understatement to say the past 16 months have been extremely for all of us.
particularly tough for all of us.
particularty those that are working and living in urgh.
but now, as we are heading into august, we are nitely turning a corner.
and of ourse edinburgh has hosted the nge festival since 1910.
and it fringe festival since 1947.
and it was designed then to boost the omy, to bring new to people economy, to bring new jobs to peopla just after the war.
and probably importantly, bring some joy into people’ lives.
50 for me this stival is symbolic to festival is hugely symbolic to edinburgh.
as we come out of this pandemic.
and this is also a big week for the residents of burgh, for small businesses.
and haps they will be a bit emotional his week as the fringe gets under .
edinburgh has taken its first entative steps back to delivering hospitality and events, which is so important to the city.
heaven we are all in need of a good knows we are all in need of a good laugh after the last year.
if sort uchstone on it there.
i wonder you could sort of explain to ewers how important these tivals are to the city?
well, this festivals are to the city?
well, clearly this year because of covid ictions, and an obviously restrictions, and an obviously greatly reduced international travel festivals will be on a bit of a smaller scale.
50 this year we ’ be ting the biggest won’ be hosting the biggest festival in the world.
like we ally do.
but i know it will be the greatest.
marshall dallas.
let’ check in with the markets.
the asian markets failing to catch a from a umper ession on wall break from a bumper session on wall street.
the spread of the delta ant heightening concerns about he economic recovery in the region.
where i say goodbye to the international viewers.
thank you uch for your company.
have a lovely weekend.
here in the , there’ a call for people with needle phobia to be exempt from any possible coronavirus vaccine passport scheme.
having a phobia of needles can cause an extreme fear of injections, and in many cases raises anxiety levels when just catching a glimpse of a needle.
a recent study suggests the phobia accounts for around a tenth of vaccine hesitancy in britain, as luxmy gopal reports.
adam is getting his first covid jab, or desperately trying to.
the ear-old uffers from needle 23-year-old suffers from needla phobia and anxiety.
it’ not widely nised, 0?
a lot of people just recognised, 0?
a lot of peopla just say shut your eyes, forget about it, on something else.
it doesn’ ork that way.
it is far more severe just a fair and an aversion to eedles.
if you love the world is type of thing at that moment.
an’ focus on anything.
it’ not so much the pain of the ection, it’ the thought of it iercing the skin.
three days ago, he came in for his first attempt.
we spent five hours.
we went from being ate of severe panic to being ble to sit with a needle 3 inches away.
i didn’ get the jab.
i rebooked for today.
then we had hours.
vaccine clinics have esources for those who need resources on hand for those who need more time or one—to—one support.
the ity and specially the younger majority and especially the younger generation, we have a lot of people worried and stared about needles.
my advice to me —— them as they can friends, ily members, they bring friends, family members, they ran ask for a side room, they can the the vaccine cites beforehand to idea of what precautions, hat steps are being put in place to them.
tackling this phobia uld make a real dent in vaccine itancy rates.
a study by esearchers from oxford university cates that of those who are accine hesitant in the , for und one in ten the significant ctor is a fear of needles.
the ity, anxiety , hopes any plans or covid passports would have mptions for people with the ndition.
we shouldn’ be iscriminating against those with needla phobia or needla anxiety.
it must be recognised that there is a ine and real in ome genuine and real fear in some peopla.
they need help and support.
uld be unfair to not allow them be considered to be included in form of exemption scheme if hat was allowed, if that was taken ward.
the department of health 575 ays it encourages people to have the vaccine as it ran save lives.
it 5575 it is working to ensure those who can’ have it for medical ons and disadvantage.
but this “ roup -- for this of roup of unvaccinated, it is not about being vaxxer.
after hours of trying gain, adam esn’ quite manage the but has rebooked and is termined to give it another shot.
me go pal, news.
as we’ve been hearing, in wales can re—open tomorrow, in the biggest easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings will no longer apply, but face masks will still be required in shops and on public transport.
the welsh government has warned that the lifting of restrictions shouldn’ be seen as a "free—for—all".
what we hope is that people will continue to treat others with ect and to think about those mple things we can all do that tinue to keep ourselves and other ple say.
so that does include eing a spectful distance when you an.
and washing.
wearing masks you are in owded public when you are in crowded public places.
those simple things that all learned to do and which cumulatively continue to make a real rence.
we all know that keeping a routine during lockdown can be tricky, particularly if you’re used to the limelight.
despite the absence of admiring crowds, the march of the penguins has continued at this zoo in thailand.
their keepers say it is important for them to get out and about, to help prevent them getting sick.
so, despite the pandemic, they’ve been enjoying a little sunshine and the chance for a swim, before before returning to an air—conditioned enclosure.
not a bad life, while they wait for their adoring public to return.
and away from the olympics, there’ another aquatic sports events that’ really got peopla in a ﬂap.
the annual rubber duck derby got underway when the competitors plunged from the columbus bridge in chicago.
and no less than 65,000 the bath toys are taking part.
and there’ no need to worry about pollution.
they’re reused in different cities around the country.
some of these stories we do, honestly, i don’ know what our ers must think.
matt taylor loves a good rubber duck.
he has got ather.
good morning.
we are about to get through the weather equivalent of nse and spin cycle.
plenty of showers in the next few days, some and thundery.
they are all evolving around an area of low sure which is stubborn to shift.
here it is today, here it is through ekend, and only slowly moving its way eastwards.
plenty of showers it.
not until tuesday will be he get a break from those sherry itions.
low pressure is centred across parts of southern scotland rthern england today.
this is ere the downpours, if they come way, will be longer lasting.
rential places.
could cause some ding.
more persistent rain in of northern scotland, quite a ze.
the showers in the south ill through quicker.
a bit more shine in between.
blustery onditions, winds gusting to a0 to ph.
it does make for a cool day.
enough if you get in the unshine between those downpours.
hen the downpours come your way will feel disappointing for the in august.
even as you go into night quite often you expect wers to fade.
the showers continue to fading throughout the .
most persistent in some parts orthern ireland, north wales and into rthern ireland.
temperatures holding up, even though the are cool and the night is not rticularty old.
as you go into aturday, low pressure centred oss parts of scotland.
a day for northern scotland.
more downpours.
the showers pushing across parts of england and walas.
a pell through east lia and the south east during the ddle part of the day.
temperatures on today.
there you go, down on today.
there you go, confirmation as we go through rday night into sunday, the area pressure is with us.
the strongest winds wrapped around the flank.
another blustery day outside ﬂank.
another blustery day in the south.
fewer showers here ared to elsewhere.
the showers longest lasting across parts of scotland and northern ireland.
i ran, they could be heavy, thundery, torrential.
temperatures itting in the teens for most.
as we nto next week, there will be look into next week, there will be respite, particularly on tuesday.
ern areas only seeing a few showers.
more rain will arrive in orth and west at times.
this is world news.
our top stories — a wildfire menace.
the greek prime minister urges people to unite, as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns and villages across greece.
protests across italy as covid vaccine—passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
i come up to the venue in question.
i present my green pass, which, in my case, is a vaccination certificate.
it’ verified.
this device doesn’ save the data.
i present my card, and i am allowed to enter.
one of the world’ greatest footballers, lionel messi, is leaving barcelona after more than 20 years.
a fifth of all the ’ covid hospital patients are aged between 18 and 34.
doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated.
we have a special report.
hello, and welcome to world news.
greece has been plunged into an unprecedented environmental crisis, according to the country’ prime minister.
days of heatwaves have turned the country into a powder keg, and he predicts the worst is yet to come with strong westerly winds expected to fan the flames.
as mark lobel reports, villagers are coming under pressure to abandon their homes, as villages like these in the peloponnese burn, the greek prime minister is urging extreme caution.
houses can be rebuilt, he says, trees can regrow, however human life cannot be replaced.
but abandoning your home is never easy in your 705.
: leave and go where, and let my house burn?
if we had left, this place would have burned.
we told the women and elderly and kids to go, and whoever was able stay to help, however they could.
crops are at risk, too.
so far, 6,000 hectares of and have burned in three days of wildfires, over half of last yea ’ total.
: the agricultural wealth of the village has been decimated.
nothing is left.
olive trees, sheep, goats, stables, everything.
westward winds have blown a new life into these fires with temperatures well over a0 celsius, the past week has been greece’ worst heatwave since the late ‘805.
with fires continuing to spread, local politicians have denounced a lack of resources.
the army is doubling its efforts, but is our changing environment to blame?
climate change is producing hotter temperatures, and making droughts more frequent, conditions that can fuel wildfires.
: we have a debt to shield the country against the reality of climate change.
i’ not looking for excuses.
we have made important strides in organising the country, but these are not enough when you’re faced with a phenomenon of such magnitude.
for those that believe such talk is merely a smokescreen, the invites them to visit the fires for themselves.
fires now spreading across southern europe, where many including spaniards, turks, italians, albanians, and north macedonians are also asking, just what is behind this summer heatwave that’ causing familiar seasonal fires to act in such extreme ways?
mark lobel, news.
nikolia apostolou is a freelance journalist, and she travels between athens and kalamata, greece, which is where she joins us from now.
thank you for joining us.
please bring us up to date on the latest ure.
this is the fourth day greece is battling the wildfires, ousands of greeks have fled saw thousands of greeks have ﬂed their homes, and fios even ched an archaeological site.
right now, ggest fire is in athens, on the outskirts, and in evia.
the rnment is saying that the fire athens could have been contained on tuesday, something that did not happen, and has resulted in houses being destroyed.
finally, not enough is being done limate change, for example fire rotection zones, so the economic sis in 2008, the austerity policy eft the fire department understaffed and without enough pment.
yeah, the greek prime nister has set the time for ticism will come but it is not opping those criticising the rnment, and there’ a fear that ere just is not the staff within ire service to deal with atastrophic fires.
exactly.
there uropean help on the way, 100 rench and cypriot firefighters are ng, but the winds we are coming, but the winds we are expecting this afternoon, that might enough.
and what are people a saying about urgency with which are being told to leave their es?
because as we saw in hat report, many are determined to stay, they?
yes, they are staying especially in cases where they do see any , any firefighters there, any helicopters and planes.
i think that is when people are ying to their homes.
and the fear is that the fires will worse?
exactly.
thank you very much update.
barcelona have announced their all—time top—scorer, lionel messi, will be leaving this summer, after failing to agree the terms of a new contract.
messi has been at the club since he was 13.
during that time, he helped the team win more than 30 trophies and forged a reputation as one of the greatest players of all time.
tanya dendrinos reports.
in the eyes of many, he’ the greatest footballer of all time, a god amongst men, for those who view the beautiful game as somewhat of a religion.
in barcelona, this is their temple.
it didn’ take long for despondent fans to gather outside camp nou as news of lionel messi’ departure hit home.
: it’ a soap opera from last summer to this summer, and it has finished in a harsh way for the fans and the barca club members.
it should’ve finished in a year without a pandemic, with people filling in the stadium, and the whole of spain applauding his presence.
the 34—year—old has been a free agent since the 1st ofjuly, when his contract expired.
two weeks later, he agreed a new deal with reduced wages, but it was still dependent on barca selling players to afford his salary.
the shocking blow came on thursday, when barcelona announced messi’ 21—year association with the club would be ending, putting the blame on financial and structural obstacles imposed by liga.
: it’ a big loss, and football will generate less money and we have less important players.
we will notice that.
so where might messi be heading?
who does have the money?
the best candidates i think are paris germain, who are the most likely club to sign him.
the other club who might have the finances to sign him, manchester city, do not appear to want to.
that is, of course, if this is the end of the road, but not everyone’ so sure.
i think barcelona can make a pretty convincing case that it is in the interests not only of barcelona but of spanish football as a whole to bend the rules 3 little bit and retain the services of the man who could well be the greatest player, some would argue the greatest player in the history of the world.
nothing is certain until this messiah signs on the dotted line.
for now, barca fans are left hoping their dreams will be resurrected.
manchester city has smashed the british transfer—fee record — after signing midfielder jack grealish from aston villa for £100 million.
the move makes him the ninth most expensive footballer in history — and it comes one year after the 25—year—old signed a five—year contract with villa.
music festivals and other live events are to be protected by government—backed insurance if they have to cancel because of covid in the .
the £750 million scheme — which begins next month — comes after organisers appealed for more support.
more than half of all festivals have been cancelled this summer.
venues across italy are introducing an obligatory covid "green pass" from today, meaning access will only be allowed with either a vaccination certificate, a negative test, or proof of recovery from the virus.
the measure will be extended to universities and transport next month.
mark lowen reports.
a night at the opera — tickets, temperature check, and, from today, the mandatory green pass — a covid vaccination certificate, negative test, or proof of recovery, as italy tightens its mles from theatres to restaurants, to cafes.
this is how it will work in practice.
i come up to the venue in question.
i present my green pass, which, in my case, is a vaccination certificate.
it’ verified.
this device doesn’ save the data.
i present my card, and i am allowed to enter.
it is a big change and a big challenge for those involved.
nobody told us how to face covid, you know, so at the beginning we were afraid, we were nervous, we were anxious.
then, month by month, we solved new problems giving new solutions, and after 18 months we built a little bit of self—confidence, so let’ say now that the situation is — it is not a problem.
this is another problem regarding covid.
tonight’ treat — aida.
ajewel of verdi.
this ancient amphitheatre in a new pandemic era.
verona’ arena has already adapted to covid.
fewer performers, masks, and half capacity.
but, with the green pass, the drama has moved offstage, too.
parliament had to be suspended after protests from far—right mps.
and while polls show 70% of italians in favour, vocal demonstrations have broken out across the country.
much of the opposition is from restaurateurs, their patience already worn by lockdowns.
: we shouldn’ have to police this, it’ not ourjob, and we shouldn’ deal with sensitive data.
the government will make us argue with customers who want to sit inside without the pass.
we will have to comply, but we have already had cancellations.
are you no—vax?
absolutely not, i am neither for nor against, i am a restaurateur.
it has gotten nasty for medics supporting the green pass.
this woman received a death threat through whatsapp, evoking the nazi trials at nuremberg.
other messages were on facebook, and they came from her colleagues.
: i really felt in danger.
what upset me most was that the threats were from health workers.
they, like us, were heroes of the pandemic and now some of them are no—vax.
i felt broken and thought about giving up everything, but then i realised i must go on and show that they are the ones at fault.
at the arena, too, the show will go on, though with new checks for the opera lovers.
italy is beginning another act in its covid story, but the unity felt last year is fading.
mark lowen, news, verona.
a beautiful morning here in verona, and a big day as well as businesses to introduce this change, mong them cathy is with indoor ing eating areas.
you can see seating areas.
and as you ran see here, they have already put up the pass signs for green pass signs for customers telling them they will have to show code before they go in to ake a table.
let’ go in and see this is shaping up.
still how this is all shaping up.
still the mask obligation to come inside like this.
you can see how places like this.
you ran see how difficult life is in italy these , with these fantastic cakes and the ian espresso there as well.
and marco, my first question, how do sure you do not eat you ensure you do not eat everything before you serve it?
it is so tiful.
thank you.
i try.
are you ready for the een pass change?
how difficult is , do you have the app already our phone?
yes.
press here, hen the person shows the green 5- , and i see if it is right or not.
have you already have to use it stomers this morning?
yes, once this morning.
and she had green pass.
50
we do not the green pass.
so we do not have any problems.
what was her titude?
what you about the what do you feel about the behaviour, the response of the omers you will have.
are you orried you will have argumentative omers or people will reject it?
i think me customers will be ouble, will complain.
but hope we find ople with the green pass.
you supportive of this, do you ieve it is the right idea?
yes, support.
thank you very much, marco.
ink this is an attempt really by the government to ensure that ians vaccinate.
about 60% of alians are now fully vaccinated.
reen pass measure is now going be extended to transport, ools, and universities also by ext month, is the first country in west to have been crushed by the pandemic no chances.
mark, thank you very much.
those pastries delicious, do enjoy one now do look delicious, do enjoy one now if you ran.
stay with us on world news, still to come — a stark warning for the ’18—34—year—olds about the dangers of being young and unvaccinated against covid.
fuel poverty campaigners are warning of a "harsh winter" for low income families as gas and electricity bills are expected to rise by around £150 per year.
the energy regulator, ofgem, is to reveal its maximum price cap which will affect around 11 million homes in england, scotland and wales.
the new limit could mean the average annual bill may be almost £1,300.
justina miltonite is from the comparison website uswitch.
the price gap primarily affects customers who are on a default ffs, so these are customers that ave not switched their energy uer for a really ong time, supplier for a really long time, or have moved homes and have not yet their deals.
the other group people will be prepayment omers, who are usually in a more recarious financial situation eady, so it will really affect ople who could do with a bit of lief.
this is news, the latest headlines — the greek prime minister urges people to unite against a wildfire menace, as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns and villages across greece.
there have been protests across italy as covid vaccine—passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
in wales can re—open tomorrow in the biggest easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings will no longer apply, but face masks will still be required in shops and on public transport.
the welsh government has warned that the lifting of restrictions shouldn’ be seen as a "free—for—all.
" doctors in leeds in west yorkshire in the north of england say they are treating greater numbers of coronavirus patients in hospital who are younger and unvaccinated.
it comes as the head of england has said that one in five patients on wards in the country is aged between 18 and 34.
leeds teaching hospital has taken the unusual step of allowing us to film on one of their covid—19 wards to highlight the risks younger people face by not having the jab.
our health correspondentjamie coulson has this exclusive report.
can you imagine yourself being stabbed in the back?
that’ what it feels like.
you breathe, and you’re getting stabbed at the same time.
every time you take a breath, someone stabs you.
three days ago, this man was admitted to stjames’ hospital in leeds in excruciating pain.
the 25—year—old international student is like many patients hospitals are now seeing in greater numbers.
he is younger and unvaccinated.
i am really worried, because all the pain is going on inside my lungs, and it’ moving around.
i heard some people after they recover from covid, their lungs don’ work 100%.
were you vaccinated?
i haven’.
i was booking for a vaccination, but i got the covid first.
hello.
sorry to interrupt your dinner.
this is one of the respiratory consultants on the covid wards.
he says it is concerning they are seeing a greater proportion of younger patients.
what he has got is a complication of covid, it’ a blood clot on his lungs.
secondary to the covid inflammation.
now, we now know that covid increases the chance of getting blood clots significantly, and there has been a big surge in the number of patients we are seeing with blood clots following covid.
hopefully the pain will get better in the next day or so.
these people are young and fit, most of them, and they are still getting serious covid, and we have to provide them with a lot of support.
they are staying in hospital, some of them, for quite long periods, and there is also a cost in terms of their recovery, and because they are in their working life, it has got complications long term.
this is one of three dedicated covid wards at the trust, and here, like elsewhere, they have seen an increase in the number of patients needing help in recent weeks.
and a significant proportion of them are either unvaccinated or only singlejabbed.
after weeks of rising cases, the number of covid patients at the trust has remained at about 100 for the last seven days.
without the vaccine, doctors say the situation could be much worse.
if you think about the total number of patients testing positive in the country, compared to the number of hospital admissions, there is no comparison compared to the first and second wave.
so the overall numbers of admissions have significantly gone down, and the only thing that is different is the vaccine.
and when they end up in hospital, what i am seeing, the patients who have had a vaccine tend to do better.
take the vaccine.
i don’ think any other people want to experience what i am experiencing right now, like feeling in pain every day, not to mention even the painkillers couldn’ help you.
jamie coulson, news.
here in the , there’ a call for people with needle phobia to be exempt from any possible coronavirus vaccine passport scheme.
having a phobia of needles can cause an extreme fear of injections and in many cases raises anxiety levels when just catching a glimpse of a needle.
a recent study suggests the phobia accounts for around a tenth of vaccine hesitancy in britain, as luxmy gopal reports.
adam is trying to get his first covid jab.
he suffers with needle bia and iety.
it is not widely phobia and anxiety.
it is not widely recognised.
a lot of people say shut yes, forget about it, focus on omething else.
it doesn’
work that is far more severe than just aversion to needles, it is a full on is ending type thing in that moment.
you cannot focus nything.
it is not the pain anything.
it is not so much the pain of the injection, it is the thought iercing my skin.
three days go, he came in for his first mpt.
we spent five hours.
when unding being a state of severe panic to being able to sit with a just a few needla just a few inches away, but i didn’ get the job, i wasn’ ready.
ebooked the other day for
but i rebooked the other day for today.
—— i didn’ get the jab.
and had hree hours.
which and you want, this ?
vaccine clinics have more available for people who are orried about needles.
my advice is that they can bring ends with them, family mbers, they can ask for a side om.
they ran up the vaccine ites room.
they can call up the vaccine sites beforehand just to get an idea what precautions can be put in about what precautions ran be put in place to help them just so that the ine programme is accessible all.
back on this phobia could make dent in vaccine hesitancy ates.
a study by researchers from ord university indicates that of who are vaccine hesitant in , for around one in ten, the ignificant factor is a fear of needles.
the charity anxiety hopes any plans for covid vaccine ports would have exemptions for peopla with the condition.
we shouldn’ be discriminating against with a needle phobia or those with a needla phobia or anxiety, we must recognise that is a genuine and real and there is a genuine and real fear and some people.
they need help and ort, and it would be unfair to allow them to be considered to ncluded in some form of xemption scheme if that was owed, that was taken forward.
the artment of health says it ourages people to have the vaccine, as it can save lives.
it’ is working to re those who as it is working to ensure those who cannot have it for medical reasons disadvantaged.
for this oup of unvaccinated, it is not being anti—vaccine.
after urs of rying again, adam doesn’ uite manage the jab, but has ooked and is determined to give another shot.
extra flights have been scheduled from mexico to help hundreds of britons return to the ahead of new quarantine rules which come into force on sunday morning.
anyone arriving after ham will need to pay for the hotel where they self—isolate.
the country is being added to the red list as part of changes to the ’ traffic light system.
meanwhile, some of the ’ biggest arejoining the drive to encourage young people to get vaccinated.
ministry of sound and heaven are among the clubs promoting the benefits of getting shots, while heaven is also hosting a pop—up vaccination site.
from next month, anyone entering a club in england will need to have had two doses of the vaccine.
in scotland, the fringe festival gets under way from today, featuring hundreds of shows taking place online and in venues throughout edinburgh.
the biggest arts festival in the world is returning after the pandemic forced it online last year.
for the first time in the fringe’ history, the event will be a mix of live audience and digital shows.
the fringe usually attracts more than four million people to the city every summer.
plenty more on all the stories were covering online on the website, be back shortly with more of the days top ories.
in the eantime, can reach me on twitter.
plenty of showers of the next few days, some of them heavy and dery at times, all revolving round an area of low pressure which ubborn to shift.
here it is oday and through the weekend, only moving its way eastwards.
20 showers around it, not until we to tuesday will we get a break those shower conditions.
out re today, low pressure centred ross parts of southern scotland northern edward thomas of ers centred, the winds are light .
if the downpours come your way, re will be longer lasting, torrential in places, could cause looding.
more persistent rain cross parts of thern scotland ith quite a breeze, the showers in south pushing through much icker, so a small portion of the here wet with something in between.
winds up to 50 at .
making ery fairly cold day, times.
making very fairty cold day, nice enough of you get in the hine between those downpours, when the rain comes your way, it feel a bit disappointing for time of year.
into the night, often expect showers to fade, because of the area of low pressure right over us, the showers nue to fade into the net.
most persistent parts of northern and, north wales and then to rthern ireland.
but temperatures holding up, even though the days are a cool know it’ not icularty cold, temperatures in he teens for most.
saturday, low ssure across parts of scotland, a drier day for northern tland, warning new way of downpours, longer lasting ones, hern scotland and northern reland and northern england.
wers pushing through across parts england and wales, 3 spell through east ia, and the through east anglia, and the south—east, during the middle part day.
emperatures of anything of the day.
temperatures of anything a little bit down on today at’ es.
into saturday night into unday, the area of low pressure us, the strongest winds wrapped round the outside like, so another ery day across the south.
fewer showers here compared to what we see elsewhere.
showers longest asting across parts of scotland and hern ireland, and again, could heavy, thundery, even torrential aces.
temperatures for most tting in the teens.
as we take next week, there will be espite as i said, particularly on esday, thern areas are missing tuesday, southern areas are missing two showers around, some of them stay for much of the will stay for much of the week, but more rain arriving at times in orth and west.
this is news.
the headlines.
wildfires are threatening large parts of greece, as strengthening winds fuel more than 150 blazes.
dozens of towns and villages have been evacuated.
the greek prime minister has said many people are facing what he called a menacing stage.
there have been protests across italy after the introduction of obligatory covid green passes to gain access to restaurants, sporting events and live performances.
the measure will be extended to universities and transport from next month.
in the , music festivals and other live events are to be protected by government—backed insurance worth £750 million if they have to cancel because of covid—19.
one of the world’ greatest footballers, lionel messi, is leaving barcelona, where he’ spent his entire career.
the spanish club said financial and structural obstacles had prevented a new contract deal with the argentine striker.
in wales can re—open tomorrow, in the biggest easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings will no longer apply, but face masks will still be required in shops and on public transport.
the welsh government has warned that the lifting of restrictions shouldn’ be seen as a "free—for—all".
let’ speak to stephanie egeler, who owns the horse and jockey inn in in knighton in wales, near the border with england.
thank you for being with us.
how are you feeling about these easing of restrictions after all this time?
we are excited.
i think it’ really , especially for staff, that they don’ have to adhere to the any more.
making sure that verybody eeps their restrictions.
xcitement, but also a little it cautious.
not sure how to —— to expect, people behave.
it will be good for us, i think.
we have earty warning that this is not for or all.
there is a warning that peopla ad plans have you in place?
for omorrow, because is a saturday, and also because a very busy day for us, we will list all of the restrictions.
or example, for the bar
but, for example, for the bar especially, because our drinking trade has been affected most.
we have a bouncer on in case it gets busy or aff can’ cope.
but too busy or staff ran’ cope.
but apart from that i’ just hoping that body will still keep their everybody will still keep their distance a little bit.
and just be ible about things.
how has the ndemic impacted on you and your taurant and bar?
we have a eparate bar, restaurant and we have ight rooms as well.
we have een lucky that we have been busy.
hen we reopened we were busy the get go.
we have been very in that respect.
but it has really hard mentally and ysically, especially on staff, by not knowing what to expect, not nowing what to do, conflicting les, pecially because we are so close to the border it has been hard ave rtain rules in england, to have certain mles in england, and having to explain the rules in land -- re wales are england —— where wales are different.
how have people reacted at?
very well.
we have had to argue with people saying, look, are the roads in wales.
yes, these are the roads in wales.
yes,
but anything then it’ different.
we are in wales, we are not in england.
we were made responsible sure that when england was to make sure that when england was unlocked and that we kept on these out of the pub, which shouldn’ be our really.
we’re ost looking forward to welcoming ?
you have got people coming from over border with england lots of tourists?
yes, we get a of tourists.
at the moment it is peopla rom the .
i think it ill just be good to get the feeling he pub ack to normal and not as a bare minimum, making sure that we ﬂowers on a bare minimum, making sure that we can put flowers on tables, just a mple things we haven’ been simple things that we haven’ been able to do.
and provide a level of ice that we think is better than at we are offering now.
0, enjoy full eopening.
we hope it is too crazy ekend for you.
thank ou.
thank you very much.
the says it’ committed to getting more british asian women into football.
its figures show on average only one in ten of those playing at grassroots level is asian, and under—representation is even more of a problem when it comes to the professional game.
it comes as government research suggests asian women are the least physically active group.
now clubs — like the newly set—up southall athletic — are trying to change that.
anisa kadri caught up with them at training 7 she shoots, she scores.
southall athletic women’ side welcomes from all backgrounds.
because location within a very asian of its oration within a very asian area, it provides opportunities for ritish asian women to play.
you just need a release with a group is that nderstand you.
you of girts that understand you.
you just want to have fun but play at a etitive level.
there is a big taboo.
indian girls shouldn’ play ball, should get married, football, they should get married, they shouldn’ be doing certain gs.
for us, as a team we are ing to beg -- eak the taboo.
the team as already won a urnament, but they have faced ism along the way.
they would say words like curry, the word.
he said something underneath her ath, igot itated, i went into her face the eferee goes to me, are you trying to get sent off?
he didn’ hear what he said.
the club peopla let them know if wants peopla to let them know if they are racially abused so it can ealt th.
everybody should be be dealt with.
everybody should be concerned with racism in the game.
omething that has, myself, it is something that has, myself, when i was playing as a younger kid, i was about 20, i encountered racism the whole way.
the goal of thall hletic to make the southall athlatic to make the sport more accessible, more diverse ore citing.
it comes at a and more exciting.
it comes at a time of the is trying to ourage more asian girls and women in play football.
ideo of in play football.
this video of rising star laila has been released by the to age more asian by the to encourage more asian giris and women to get involved in tball.
we are doing research with oung giris round what they want.
are also working with various pla from the muslim faith on the ort hijah and how important that to help them on the pitch.
we are doing some work in masks as well.
we are trying to do as much as we can isten to at our asian women’ to listen to what our asian women’ football group says to us.
so, is ’ football frowned upon and sian communities?
my family is open, but not every family is ike that.
i still get a few people ublic ying, you are a girl, in public saying, you are a girt, you should be at home, you shouldn’ ying in a football short —— for certain hoice because you are an.
it is hoped clubs like this ill help to kle asian will help to tackle asian underrepresentation in parts of the let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the dixie fire has torn through the historic mining town of greenville in california, engulfing everything in its path.
the massive fire started last month but exploded this week.
it’ been fueled by high temperatures, low humidity and strong winds.
it now covers more than 300,000 acres.
apple has revealed new safety tools will be introduced in the united states, which can scan photos and messages on people’ phones to check for material showing child sex abuse.
the company insists the measures will protect users’ privacy, but some security experts are concerned.
president biden has announced that hong kong residents who are currently in america will be granted temporary safe haven.
and could also work there.
biden said the move was a response to china’ continuing assault on hong kong’ autonomy and the repression of political and press freedoms.
state media in north korea save thousands of people have been uated from their homes after ays of heavy rain led to widespread oding.
rge areas of farmland are flooding.
large areas of farmland are underwater.
there is concern the damage to crops and the ect on food supplies.
a new kind of content creator is emerging on youtube.
so—called virtual youtubers are people who use character models to engage with their audience anonymously on the video—sharing site.
these —tubers — as they’re called — are becoming more and more popular with some reportedly earning millions.
our reporter miles emmanuel spoke to two of them using their online personas.
hello.
you are watching the .
meet veepaii and apricot — two british women, aged 22 and 23, who work as online content creators and use animated avatars to replace their identity.
some virtual youtubers, ‘vtubers’, use body tracking technology, like this, to animate the characters, while others have a much simpler set up.
but the industry only started in 2016 and some need convincing it is a viable career choice.
she didn’ understand what i was doing at first
and she was definitely not happy about me leaving university to pursue my career online.
i took a year off of university and that is when my career blew up.
with a host of colourful characters, accessibility and anonymity can play key parts in streamers deciding to take the digital plunge.
for vee, it was after she contracted a viral infection which ruptured her spleen and left her bedridden for six months that she decided to stream online.
any disability you may have, it definitely works around it.
you need to deal with harassment rom people.
you would probably deal it if you your camera up.
with it if you had your camera up.
they assume that everybody who ses this career, having their ace as a rtoon character, they ust instantly assume that everyone erweight or some guy, and is overweight or just some guy, and it’ really not the case.
vtubers are now amongst the highest—earning content creators, with some receiving up to around £2 million in the last 1.
5 years.
now, major companies are looking into using mascots for customer—facing roles.
if you are asking if this is the future of things, i see us moving towards it as these art styles are being seen as engaging and more attractive to them, right?
you do not have to hire make up artists or crazy video to have someone talking about your wares.
you canjust run a game engine and have it fully rendered.
and although vtubers, like many content creators, can be subject to abusive and sexist comments, veepaii and apricot say their careers have allowed them to learn important life skills.
i grew out of my social anxiety through being a vtuber.
i used to be really shy.
i would be afraid to speak in english classes.
ifa kid has a dream of their own or a goal in mind, i think everyone should to pursue that.
miles emmanuel, news.
stay with us on news, coming up next world business report.
on a charge — president biden says half of all cars sold in the must be electric by 2030.
no pass, no entry — italy and france to start enforcing covid vaccine certificates for restaurants, cinemas and public transport.
but will it hit tourism?
welcome to world business report.
i’ victoria fritz.
we start in the , where president biden has taken a step towards his goal of slashing greenhouse emissions.
how?
he’ signed an executive order, requiring half of all vehicles sold in the united states to be electric by 2030 — a move backed by the top auto companies.
he signed off and fired up an electricjeep.
the biden administration is also proposing new, tougher emissions rules over the next few years.
these would reverse former president trump’ lowering of fuel economy standards.
we have a play book and it is going to work.
today i’ announcing steps to set a new pace for electric vehicles.
first, i am following through on the campaign commitment to reverse the previous administration’ short—sighted roll—back of vehicle emissions and efficiency standards.
i’ doing so with the support of the auto industry, the automobile industry.
today, the environmental protection agency and the department of transportation are unveiling proposals to do just that.
these agencies are beginning to work on the next round of standards for a broad class of vehicles, for cars, suvs, pick—up trucks, medium and heavy duty vehicles.
importantly, we have announcements today from auto—makers representing nearly the entire auto market, who are positioned around the ambition of a0 to 50% of all vehicles are sold by 2030 america, being electric.
of all vehicles are sold by 2030 note the word there — ‘ambition’.
of all vehicles are sold by 2030 the executive order is not legally binding.
swetha ramachandran is investment manager at investments.
thank you for joining me.
if it is not lagally binding, is it going to ?
that is certainly the million llar question, given that it is untary at this moment.
the individual auto-makers in the have been making their own pledges.
motors, for instance, wants phase out non—electric vehicles ely by 035.
ford are saying entirely by 2035.
ford are saying they want to sell non—electric cles as up more than 40% of the vehidas up to more than 4096 of the total portfolio by the same period.
aid, it requires a lot of work that said, it requires a lot of work behind the scenes to go right for voluntary target to even be et, which is mainly in the form of rastructure and charging points, which is omain of the which is the domain of the government.
tesla has arguably done han any other company to progress the agenda of electric cles.
they do make up about 70% vehidas.
they do make up about 7096 of all the lectric vehicles in the ted states.
but crucially, they re sort of frozen out at this mit where biden up was swarming ing around in that cheap.
what ing on here?
it is surprising is going on there?
it is surprising that such a home—grown success as a ould have been left out.
the nformation from the press secretary hat the auto—makers invited to he ummit world basically ionised, which tesla isn’.
there particular sensitivity in that he auto industry, which contributes 3% of , is also among to about 396 of , is also among the , irectly and indirectly ough the supply chain the auto dustry is said to employ about 8 llion people.
the components are wer and the production process is ler, which may lead to a loss of bs, and that is the balance the inistration is trying to tread.
you think president biden will go the great climate president?
it seems to be what he is gunning this time i think a lot of the measures are really dialling back of asures that were reversed the measures that were reversed duﬂng the prior administration.
50 sident obama is really the who set out very stringent targets issions reduction, which were hen rolled back by the trump inistration, which offered more cessions to the auto industry.
we are seeing these measures ing dialled back again in favour hat president obama had reviously announced.
this is a step right direction.
i don’ hink it is necessarily as a basis planned for the or the , to ban all non—electric vehicles the 20 305, a step in by the 20 305, but it is a step in the right direction.
thank you for ime and our insights.
let’ turn to the travel industry now.
european countries are beginning to demand proof of covid immunity for access to a wide range of venues and services.
as of monday, in france, to visit a cafe or board a train you’ll need to show a health pass, proving two vaccine doses or recent negative covid test.
it’ part of an —wide scheme.
elodie bertah is a paris tour guide.
i asked her what the impact on paris would be.
unfortunately, i think it will be limited because already we have very few tourists from outside the .
so it will not be as devastating as you expect it to be, sadly.
if you don’ have a double vaccine in france, you have to have a test.
how much of that is a restriction on trade and on economic activity in the country?
that will be harder, i think.
it has to be either the vaccine, the or another test.
that is less bothering than the or under the results are to get.
but a number of people still do not have the full vaccine scheme.
and it means that even if you want to go for a beer on a terrace in a bar, as of monday, you will need to have a test certificate.
i was hearing yesterday in a number of bar owners saying they will return to the previous takeaway for their beers and coffees and so on.
they will ask for the code so as not to lose too many clients.
this is the problem.
these tests only last a couple of days.
therefore, if you don’ have a double vaccine, you’re going to have to keep doing these tests to go out for a beer with your friends.
do you feel this health pass is going to have an impact on the vaccination status of french nationals?
are more people going to take up the jab?
it has started, actually.
when the president announced the upcoming measures, the ones that arrive on monday, there was a huge boost on the vaccination activity around the country.
even people on holiday were rushing to get the vaccination because it also includes some people forthejob, people are work in hospitals etc.
so these people, if they want to go back to work after their holidays, they need to have the full vaccination.
so they were rushing to get their first dose, to have the time to get the second dose before september.
it already has a big impact on vaccination activity in the country.
but still, a few people remain very hostile to this vaccination.
paris, of course, normally such an international destination.
perhaps a little bit of relief this week that france has come off the amber—plus watch list for the .
do you foresee a boost in trade over the next few weeks, or do you think this will be a barrier to trade?
again, i’ afraid we still don’ have very many visitors, so it won’ have a big effect on the numbers.
at least not in paris, because paris is not a very big destination in the summer.
generally people like to go elsewhere in france in the summer.
again, the numbers are not very high right now.
it was very satisfactory that the ban was lifted for france, of course.
but it will not translate into a huge amount of people coming in and out of paris right now.
now to a classic david and goliath battle — over oat milk.
on the one side a multinational business valued at $10 billion on the nasdaq stock market.
on the other, a small family run—farm in the .
on thursday, farmers philip and rebecca rayner won their high court battle against swedish oat milk giant oatly, which accused them of trademark infringement.
michelle fleury has more.
the swedish company oatly is a pioneer in dairy alternatives made from plants.
it produces milk substitutes made from oats.
it is growing quickly.
in fact, it has a deal with a singaporean beverage company to bring its products to asia.
it has already helped to popularise the new oat milk in the , where it began selling shares to the public later this year.
but with success comes imitators.
at least that is the argument oatly sought to make in a british court.
the brand, endorsed by celebrities including oprah winfrey, took britain’ glebe farm to court in a bid to stop it selling the pure oaty drink, accusing it of trademark infringement.
however, a high courtjudge has ruled in favour of the firm, saying that while there were similarities between the initial pure oat milk and packaging, it would be hard to see how this would lead to confusion among consumers.
the swedish firm is caught up in another legal dispute in america, with an activist investor accusing the company of overstating revenue.
that is all your business news.
don’ forget you can get in touch with me and some of the team on twitter.
i’ @vfritznews.
thank you for your time.
good morning.
we are about to get put through the weather equivalent of the rinse and spin cycle.
plenty of showers in the next few days, some heavy and thundery.
they are all revolving around an area of low pressure which is stubborn to shift.
here it is today, here it is through the weekend, and only slowly moving its way eastwards.
plenty of showers around it.
not until tuesday will he get a break from those showery conditions.
low pressure is centred across parts of southern scotland and northern england today.
this is where the downpours, if they come your way, will be longer lasting.
torrential in places.
could cause some flooding.
more persistent rain in parts of northern scotland, quite a breeze.
the showers in the south will push through quicker.
a bit more sunshine in between.
blustery conditions, winds gusting to a0 to 50 mph.
it does make for a cool day.
nice enough if you get in the sunshine between those downpours.
but when the downpours come your way it will feel disappointing for this stage in august.
even as you go into the night quite often you expect showers to fade.
the showers continue to feed in throughout the night.
most persistent in some parts of northern ireland, north wales and into northern ireland.
temperatures still holding up, even though the days are cool and the nights not particularly cold.
as you go into saturday, low pressure centred across parts of scotland.
a drier day for northern scotland.
more downpours.
the showers pushing through across parts of england and wales.
a spell through east anglia and the south east during the middle part of the day.
temperatures down on today.
there you go, confirmation as we go through saturday night into sunday, the area of low pressure is with us.
the strongest winds wrapped around the outside flank.
another blustery day in the south.
fewer showers here compared to elsewhere.
the showers longest lasting across parts of scotland and northern ireland.
they could be heavy, thundery, even torrential.
temperatures sitting in the teens for most.
as we look into next week, there will be respite, particularly on tuesday.
southern areas only seeing a few showers.
more rain will arrive in the north and west at times.
and around the globe.
i’ samantha simmonds.
our top stories — wildfires spread rapidly in greece, with emergency services tackling hundreds of fires across the country.
the prime minister warns the worst is yet to come.
protests across italy as covid vaccine passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
a fifth of all the ’ covid hospital patients are aged between 18 and 34.
doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated — we have a special report.
and after making its olympic debut, skateboarding made quite an impression in tokyo.
we’ll be speaking to the team before they head back home.
hello, and welcome to news.
greece has been plunged into an unprecedented environmental crisis, according to the country’ prime minister.
days of heatwaves have turned the country into a powder keg, and he predicts the worst is yet to come with strong westerly winds expected to fan the flames.
as mark lobel reports, villagers are coming under pressure to abandon their homes, as villages like these in the peloponnese burn, the greek prime minister is urging extreme caution.
houses can be rebuilt, he says, trees can regrow, however human life cannot be replaced.
but abandoning your home is never easy in your 705.
: leave and go where, and let my house burn?
if we had left, this place would have burned.
we told the women and elderly and kids to go, and whoever was able stay to help, however they could.
crops are at risk, too.
so far, 6,000 hectares of and have burned in three days of wildfires, over half of last yea ’ total.
: the agricultural wealth of the village has been decimated.
nothing is left.
olive trees, sheep, goats, stables, everything.
westward winds have blown new life into these fires north of athens.
with temperatures well over a0 celsius, the past week has been greece’
worst heatwave since the late ‘805.
with fires continuing to spread, local politicians have denounced a lack of resources.
the army is doubling its efforts, but is our changing environment to blame?
climate change is producing hotter temperatures, and making droughts more frequent, conditions that can fuel wildfires.
: we have a debt to shield the country against the reality of climate change.
i’ not looking for excuses.
we have made important strides in organising the country, but these are not enough when you’re faced with a phenomenon of such magnitude.
for those that believe such talk is merely a smokescreen, the invites them to visit the fires for themselves.
fires now spreading across southern europe, where many including spaniards, turks, italians, albanians, and north macedonians are also asking, just what is behind this summer heatwave that’ causing familiar seasonal fires to act in such extreme ways?
mark lobel, news.
nikolia apostolou is a freelance journalist.
she travels between athens and kalamata in greece, and she gave us an update on developments.
this is the fourth day greece is battling the wildfires, so thousands of greeks have fled their homes, and fires even reached an ancient archaeological site.
right now, the biggest fire is in athens, on the outskirts, and in evia.
critics are saying that the fire in athens could have been contained quickly on tuesday, something that did not happen, and has resulted in so many houses being destroyed.
finally, not enough is being done for climate change, for example fire protection zones, so the economic crisis in 2008, the austerity policy has left the fire department understaffed and without enough equipment.
yeah, the greek prime minister has said the time for criticism come, but it is not stopping those criticising the government, and there’ a fear that there just is not the staff within the fire service to deal with catastrophic fires.
exactly.
there is european help on the way, 100 french and cypriot firefighters are coming, but the winds we are expecting this afternoon, that might not be enough.
and what are people saying about the urgency with which they are being told to leave their homes?
because as we saw in that report, many are determined to stay, aren’ they?
yes, they are staying especially in cases where they do not see any help, any firefighters there, any helicopters and planes.
i think that is when people are staying to save their homes.
and the fear is that the winds will continue fires will get worse?
exactly.
the prime minister said that yesterday, basically.
what are being told today?
how many eopla are affected by these fires ?
thousands.
it is hard to count now because there are many fferent fires around the country.
venues across italy are introducing an obligatory covid "green pass" from today, meaning access will only be allowed with either a vaccination certificate, a negative test, or proof of recovery from the virus.
the measure will be extended to universities and transport next month.
mark lowen reports.
a night at the opera — tickets, temperature check, and, from today, the mandatory green pass — a covid vaccination certificate, negative test, or proof of recovery, as italy tightens its mles from theatres to restaurants, to cafes.
this is how it will work in practice.
i come up to the venue in question.
i present my green pass, which, in my case, is a vaccination certificate.
it’ verified.
this device doesn’ save the data.
i present my card, and i am allowed to enter.
it is a big change and a big challenge for those involved.
nobody told us how to face covid, you know, so at the beginning, we were afraid, we were nervous, we were anxious.
then, month by month, we solved new problems giving new solutions, and after 18 months we built a little bit of self—confidence, so let’ say now that the situation is — it is not a problem.
this is another problem regarding covid.
tonight’ treat — aida.
ajewel of verdi.
this ancient amphitheatre in a new pandemic era.
verona’ arena has already adapted to covid.
fewer performers, masks, and half capacity.
but, with the green pass, the drama has moved offstage, too.
parliament had to be suspended after protests from far—right mps.
and while polls show 70% of italians in favour, vocal demonstrations have broken out across the country.
much of the opposition is from restaurateurs, their patience already worn by lockdowns.
: we shouldn’ have to police this, it’ not ourjob, and we shouldn’ deal with sensitive data.
the government will make us argue with customers who want to sit inside without the pass.
we will have to comply, but we have already had cancellations.
are you no—vax?
absolutely not, i am neither for nor against, i am a restaurateur.
it has gotten nasty for medics supporting the green pass.
this woman received a death threat through whatsapp, evoking the nazi trials at nuremberg.
other messages were on facebook, and they came from her colleagues.
: i really felt in danger.
what upset me most was that the threats were from health workers.
they, like us, were heroes of the pandemic and now some of them are no—vax.
i felt broken and thought about giving up everything, but then i realised i must go on and show that they are the ones at fault.
at the arena, too, the show will go on, though with new checks for the opera lovers.
italy is beginning another act in its covid story, but the unity felt last year is fading.
mark lowen, news, verona.
a beautiful morning here in verona, and a big day as well as businesses begin to introduce this change, among them cafes with indoor seating areas.
and as you can see here, they have already put up the green pass signs for customers telling them they will have to show their code before they go in to take a table.
let’ go in and see how this is all shaping up.
still the mask obligation to come inside places like this.
you can see how difficult life is in italy these days, with these fantastic cakes and the italian espresso there as well.
and marco, my first question, how do you ensure you do not eat everything before you serve it?
it is so beautiful.
thank you.
i try.
are you ready for the green pass change?
yes, i to be.
how difficult is it?
do you have the app already on your phone?
yes.
press here, and then the person shows the green pass, and we see if it is right or not.
have you already have to use it for customers this morning?
yes, only once this morning.
and she had the green pass.
so we did not have any problems.
what was her attitude?
what do you feel about the behaviour, the response of the customers you will have?
are you worried you will have argumentative customers or people who will reject it?
i think some customers will be trouble, will complain.
but i hope we find people with the green pass.
are you supportive of this, do you believe it is the right idea?
yes, i support.
thank you very much, marco.
so i think this is an attempt really by the government to ensure that italians vaccinate.
about 60% of italians are now fully vaccinated.
the green pass measure is now going to be extended to transport, schools, and universities also by next month, as the first country in the west to have been crushed by the pandemic takes no chances.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
two coaches from belarus have been stripped of their accreditation and asked to leave the olympic village in tokyo, over their alleged attempt to force an athlete to return home.
the president of the international olympic committee, thomas bach, has said the treatment of the sprinter timanovskaya was deplorable.
he said the was happy that she was now safe in poland, where she has been granted a humanitarian visa.
apple has revealed new safety tools will be introduced in the united states, which can scan photos and messages on people’ phones to check for material showing child sex abuse.
the company insists the measures will protect users’ privacy, but some security experts are concerned.
extra flights have been scheduled from mexico to help hundreds of brits return to the ahead of new quarantine rules which come into force on sunday morning.
anyone arriving after ham will need to pay for the hotel where they self—isolate.
the country is being added to the red list as part of changes to the ’ traffic light system.
and here in the , music festivals and other live events are to be protected by government—backed insurance if they have to cancel because of covid.
the £750 million scheme, which begins next month, comes after organisers appealed for more support.
more than half of all festivals have been cancelled this summer.
stay with us on news, still to come — it’ not just parts of europe suffering from rapidly spreading wildfires, as thousands of residents are urged to evacuate in california.
and we will speak to the olympic skateboarding team before they back home.
fuel prices for around 15 million homes in england, scotland and wales will rise by £139 in the autumn.
the regulator, ofgem, has increased prices for a second time this year, as wholesale gas prices reach a record high.
campaigners are warning of a "harsh winter" for families on low incomes.
the new limit could mean the average annual bill may be almost £1,300 pounds.
justina miltonite is from the comparison website uswitch.
the price gap primarily affects customers who are on a default tariff, so these are customers that have not switched their energy supplier for a really long time, or have moved homes and have not yet fixed their deals.
the other group of people will be prepayment customers, who are usually in a more precarious financial situation already, so it will really affect people who could do with a bit of relief.
this is news, the latest headlines — wildfires spread rapidly in greece, with emergency services tackling hundreds of fires across the country.
the prime minister warns the worst is yet to come.
there have been protests across italy, as covid vaccine passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
doctors in leeds in west yorkshire in the north of england say they are treating greater numbers of coronavirus patients in hospital who are younger and unvaccinated.
it comes as the head of england has said that one in five patients on wards in the country is aged between 18 and 34.
leeds teaching hospital has taken the unusual step of allowing us to film on one of their covid—19 wards to highlight the risks younger people face by not having the jab.
our health correspondent jamie coulson has this exclusive report.
can you imagine yourself being stabbed in the back?
that’ what it feels like.
you breathe, and you’re getting stabbed at the same time.
every time you take a breath, someone stabs you.
three days ago, this man was admitted to stjames’ hospital in leeds in excruciating pain.
the 25—year—old international student is like many patients hospitals are now seeing in greater numbers.
he is younger and unvaccinated.
i am really worried, because all the pain is going on inside my lungs, and it’ moving around.
i heard some people after they recover from covid, their lungs don’ work 100%.
were you vaccinated?
i haven’.
i was booking for a vaccination, but i got the covid first.
hello.
sorry to interrupt your dinner.
this is one of the respiratory consultants on the covid wards.
he says it is concerning they are seeing a greater proportion of younger patients.
what he has got is a complication of covid, it’ a blood clot on his lungs, secondary to the covid inflammation.
now, we now know that covid increases the chance of getting blood clots significantly, and there has been a big surge in the number of patients we are seeing with blood clots following covid.
hopefully the pain will get better in the next day or so.
these people are young and fit, most of them, and they are still getting serious covid, and we have to provide them with a lot of support.
they are staying in hospital, some of them, for quite long periods, and there is also a cost in terms of their recovery, and because they are in their working life, it has got implications in the long term.
this is one of three dedicated covid wards at the trust, and here, like elsewhere, they have seen an increase in the number of patients needing help in recent weeks.
and a significant proportion of them are either unvaccinated or only singlejabbed.
after weeks of rising cases, the number of covid patients at the trust has remained at about 100 for the last seven days.
without the vaccine, doctors say the situation could be much worse.
if you think about the total number of patients testing positive in the country, compared to the number of hospital admissions, there is no comparison compared to the first and second wave.
so the overall numbers of admissions have significantly gone down, and the only thing that is different is the vaccine.
and when they end up in hospital, what i am seeing, the patients who have had a vaccine tend to do better.
take the vaccine.
i don’ think any other people want to experience what i am experiencing right now, like feeling in pain every day, not to mention even the painkillers couldn’ help you.
jamie coulson, news.
to the olympics now, and there’ been a number of events so far on day 1a, with 23 medals up for grabs.
the summer heat has been taking its toll, with some events being resheduled to avoid the highest temperatures.
the ’ sarah mulkerrins has all the latest from tokyo.
the heat has been a big factor today in tokyo.
the first medal awarded the men’ 50 kilometre race lk, that set off in northern japan der to have a cooler in order to and have a cooler climate for those athletes.
that set .
303 local time in order off at 5.
30am oral time in order for the athletes to to get ugh that gruelling endurance ent, and the winner was able to etch clear in the second half of race to claim the gold medal ere.
really good talking point as from that race was a spanish hlete and his eighth olympics, he mpeted in every one since arcelona 1992, he is 51 years old, that is a record in athletics.
sewhere, cing themselves for elsewhere, bracing themselves for the heatwave was the woman’ ball final, the gold medal match between canada and sweden.
they organisers to move it from the orning to the evening, that has ened, so they will now play ter in the day here in tokyo in gold medal match.
a couple of other medals awarded, the bronze match in women’ hockey, that ent the way of great britain, a illing game between great britain india, a goal in the final rter had great britain winning at one for — three.
and a gold dal for he and he women’ beach volleyball —— winning 4—3.
beat stralia by two sets to they beat australia by two sets to love.
one of the new events debuting at the tokyo games winning fans around the globe has been the skateboarding.
many of the competators are young and the comaraderie between the athletes has added to their popularity.
bryce wettstein competed in the skateboarding final.
at tokyo’ narita airport, and joins me now.
welcome.
hello.
bryce, you’re 16, you started skateboarding when you even.
tell us what it is like competing in an olympic games esenting your country.
it is ind of the biggest dream in the world.
i thought i was going go to the mpics last year when i was 16, and is probably one of biggest honours of our lives to able to represent the place we born in and that we love at olympic.
and has it been for ?
it has been good.
such a great perience being there, we skated ether when we were nine years , so just eing here and experience that, we will remember forever, it was really special.
much pressure did you feel peting in the first ever skateboarding at the olympics?
nitely a lot of pressure going nto this, just to be able to esent our country on such a high evel.
the first ever skateboarders olympics.
but when it comes down to it, or really had to hink about we are here to get hat pressure off, and that is ecause we love skateboarding.
so we out, did the best we could, and made history, so it is a eally awesome viewing.
i am interested to hat in one interview, you said ere not in it for the gold.
does that mean?
because for most olympic etes, it is all about the medals.
what i am in it because there is so much love, more and more conversions and this beauty that comes out more of this beauty that comes out of doing it with the people love, mething you love, ather than going towards something a goal.
you have to remember to momentous and grasp everything omes to you, rather than lways trying to strive towards the medals, if you do that you miss out ften the presence in the sheer love you were brought up with.
my team—mates are part of my family, ers kateboarding, so that is answers skateboarding, so that is we are here, too,
because those things we will cherish the st.
you said you have been kateboarding from overly young age.
ier his year we saw british skateboarder skye brown, who 13, and we ere covering the story passengers, it is a dangerous ort, isn’ it?
when you go to this, is there a of fear, do just have to put that to the of your mind?
—— brown.
kateboarding a lot of skateboarding has a lot of musda memory to it, , it is really just fun, ere’ lso a lot of but there’ also a lot of discipline as well, and i think at skateboarders cannot do with think that, cause if you do, you about that, because if you do, you are not going to skate well, so it more fun than focusing on urting yourself, i guess.
tell us what it has been like competing in this olympics, and what for the future of it means for the future of skateboarding now, do you think you a whole new generation of have got a whole new generation of fans?
absolutely.
ithink that skateboarding being in the ympics has really opened the eyes a lot people who don’ really nderstand our sport, and kind of down on skateboarding.
sol eel like after seeing us and eeing that we are actually real etes who are competing in a real ort, ifeel like more parents to their kids to skate, more opla are going to want to ate, so it is think, the one thing you will hold with you for the rest of your life these olympics?
that’ really ard.
hard.
obviously all the memories i have with these two and the rest of eam, but there was a moment
ere we all lifted up one of our am—mates, appears so dedicated to she does, and we lifted her up just show her that what she holds so much more than just a dium or a gold medal, she can present so much than that.
she is probably one of the biggest ibutes that i will remember, eing able to lift her out.
thanks all of you for talking to , safe ourney home, and enjoy all times you have had and the emories you will hold dear.
thank so much.
thank you for watching, for now.
plenty of showers over the next few days, some of them heavy and thundery at times, all revolving around an area of low pressure which is stubborn to shift.
here it is today and through the weekend, only slowly moving its way eastwards.
plenty of showers around it, not until we get to tuesday will we get a break from those showery conditions.
out there today
, low pressure centred across parts of southern scotland and northern england, so where it’ centred, the winds are light us.
if the downpours come your way, there will be longer lasting, torrential in places, could cause some flooding.
more persistent rain across parts of northern scotland with quite a breeze, the showers in the south pushing through much quicker, so a small portion of the day here wet with something in between.
winds up to 50 at times.
making very fairly cold day, nice enough of you get in the sunshine between those downpours, but when the rain comes your way, it will feel a bit disappointing for the time of year.
into the night, you often expect showers to fade, but because of the area of low pressure right over us, the showers continue to fade into the net.
most persistent parts of northern england, north walas and then to northern ireland.
but temperatures still holding up, even though the days are a cool know it’ not particularly cold, temperatures in the teens for most.
saturday, low pressure across parts of scotland, a drier day for northern scotland, warning new way of downpours, longer lasting ones, southern scotland and northern ireland and northern england.
showers pushing through across parts of england and wales, a spell through east anglia, and the south—east, during the middle part of the day.
temperatures if anything a little bit down on today at’ values.
saturday night into sunday, the area of low pressure with us, the strongest winds wrapped around the outside like, so another blustery day across the south.
fewer showers here compared to what we will see elsewhere.
showers longest lasting across parts of scotland and northern ireland, and again, could be heavy, thundery, even torrential in places.
temperatures for most sitting in the teens.
as we take a look into next week, there will be respite as i said, particularly on tuesday, southern areas seeing a few showers around, some of them will stay for much of the week, but more rain arriving at times in the north and west.
this is news.
the headlines.
wildfires are threatening large parts of greece, as strengthening winds fuel more than 150 fires.
dozens of towns and villages have been evacuated.
the greek prime minister has said many people are facing what he called a menacing stage.
there have been protests across italy, after the introduction of obligatory covid green passes to gain access to restaurants, sporting events and live performances.
the measure will be extended to universities and transport from next month.
in the , music festivals and other live events are to be protected by government—backed insurance worth £750 million if they have to cancel because of covid—19.
one of the world’ greatest footballers, lionel messi, is leaving barcelona, where he’ spent his entire career.
the spanish club said financial and structural obstacles had prevented a new contract deal with the argentine striker.
1 now for all the sport, here is mike bushell.
thank you very much indeed.
team ’ women’ hockey team have kept up their tradition of winning olympic medals, by claiming bronze in a thrilling roller—coaster of a match, against india.
the olympic champions from rio may have missed out on the final, which will feature the netherlands and argentina later, but they’ve still managed to get on the podium in tokyo, as michael redford reports.
under the burning sun in tokyo, one final chance to shine.
for great ain and india, it was now or ver.
who could handle the heat?
two eams had already met in the oup stage, with great britain nning 4-1.
early stages here suggested a ilar scoreline seemed kely.
britain’ dominance entually told.
came off an indian er.
and great britain are ahead.
was a gold that woke india up.
i save from maddie hinch!
that was the more important that ortly after sarah robertson picked erfect time to score her first oal of the tournament.
great tain in control.
maybe not.
gorge ore with a decisive finish.
when ndia had cond penalty corner moments later, great britain didn’ their lesson.
level!
the momentum are changed.
india now in and in front at half—time.
hat ad begun as a dream quarter rned nto a bit of a nightmare.
needed somebody to awaken them their slumber.
step forward aptain hollie pearne—webb.
all captain hollie fume-webb.
all square, the he match now delicately ed.
it swung in favour of .
grace balsdon with the effort.
the clear for all to see.
this relief dear for all to see.
this time time there would be no comeback.
it has been a tough five years.
really, tough.
and i can be proud of all.
are all here because we them all.
we are all here because we still had that little bit of believe own.
they have been lots of imes over the years when we doubted ould achieve this.
and i’ just so pleased and proud of yone that we have.
bronze in 2012, gold in 2016, bronze in 2021.
hird successive olympic for a third successive olympic games, great britain’ hockey team lebrating once again.
michael adford, news.
great news for team boxer lauren price, who will fight for a gold medal on the final day of tokyo 2020, after winning her middleweight semi—final on friday.
it was nip and tuck all the way, and got even tougher for price against her dutch opponent, nouchka fontjin, when she was docked a point for excessive holding in the second round.
but against an opponent she has faced in several major finals, price fought back in the last round to edge victory, to book her place in the gold—medal contest on sunday.
the olympic gold medallist diver, tom daley, is going for a second medal at these games, this time in the 10 metre, individual platform.
it’ qualifying today, with the semi—finals tomorrow.
but daley and fellow brit noah williams have work to do if they’re to make the cut, after disappointing first dives, daley has improved and is currently in the last of the 18 qualifying places.
the are on top of the beach volleyball world again, and they really are the a team.
the american duo of april ross, and alix klineman only dropped one set in the entire tournament on their way to gold.
and after the final win over australia, they had a new fan.
now, away from the olympics, records have been broken in football.
it’ a dream come true, joining manchester city, says jack grealish, after his transfer from aston villa for a british record fee of £100 million.
the lure of trophies and champions league football was enough for grealish to leave the club he’ supported since he was a boy.
he’ signed a six—year contract at city, and will wear the number 10 shirt, recently vacated by sergio aguero.
meanwhile, it’ got rather messy for leone messi at barcelona.
financial issues and complying with the transfer and wages rules in liga forced the club to say the 34—year—old star won’ be getting a new contract now and his time there was over.
he has been a free agent for a month now, but had been set to stay.
although pundits in spain, believe it’ not the end of the matter.
a lot of talking to be done, apparently.
the opening test match india and england is likely to face more disruption today use of rain.
england back in the atch after mes anderson starred ith he ball.
that is all the sport.
see later.
there’ a call for people with needle phobia to be exempt from any covid vaccine passport scheme.
the condition causes an extreme fear of injections and in many cases anxiety around just seeing a needle.
a recent study suggests the phobia accounts for around a tenth of vaccine hesitancy in the .
luxmy gopal reports.
adam is getting his first covid jab, or desperately trying to.
the 23—year—old suffers from needle phobia and anxiety.
it’ not widely recognised, 0?
a lot of people just say shut your eyes, forget about it, focus on something else.
it doesn’ work that way.
it is far more severe than just a fear and an aversion to needles.
it’ as if the world is ending type of thing at that moment.
you can’ focus on anything.
it’ not so much the pain of the injection, it’ the thought of it piercing the skin.
three days ago, he came in for his first attempt.
we spent five hours.
we went from being in a state of severe panic to being able to sit with a needle a few inches away.
i didn’ get the jab.
i rebooked for today.
then we had three hours.
vaccine clinics have resources on hand for those who need more time or one—to—one support.
the majority, especially the younger generation, we have a lot of people worried and scared about needles.
my advice to them is they can bring friends, family members, they can ask for a side room, they can call the vaccine cites beforehand to get an idea of what precautions, what steps are being put in place to help them.
tackling this phobia could make a real dent in vaccine hesitancy rates.
a study by researchers from oxford university indicates that of those who are vaccine hesitant in the , for around one in ten the significant factor is a fear of needles.
the charity, anxiety , hopes any plans for covid passports would have exemptions for people with the condition.
we shouldn’ be discriminating against those with needle phobia or needle anxiety.
it must be recognised that there is a genuine and real fear in some people.
they need help and support.
it would be unfair to not allow them to be considered to be included in some form of exemption scheme if that was allowed, if that was taken forward.
the department of health says it encourages people to have the vaccine as it can save lives.
it says it is working to ensure those who can’ have it for medical reasons and disadvantage.
but for this group of unvaccinated, it is not about being anti—vex.
after hours of trying again, adam doesn’ quite manage the jab but has rebooked and is determined to give it another shot.
luxmy gopal, news.
ofgem announce their latest price cap today, for those on dualfuel bills — and it’ expected that rising wholesale costs for gas and electricity could see consumers face record price rises.
with me isjonathan brearley, of ofgem.
welcome to you.
thank you for being with us.
bring us up on what exactly is going be and it this rap is going to be and it is so high?
the price cap does limit pla who ’ shop around for the peopla who don’ shop around for the best tarot.
what we have done today rause use we have seen a record is, because we have seen a record increase impossible fuel prices the board, also petrol and iesel, we had to think that through calculation that due to the to the ralmlation that due to the price rap.
what the price cap does make ure we don’ go back to he bad old days when companies ged on fair profits on top of he amount you pay.
clearly when put costs ge, that limit does input costs change, that limit does need to change.
our advice is really .
we know this is going to put eopla in very ifficult ircumstances and we work closely harities and indeed with with charities and indeed with customers themselves, so we would rage every customer who is ncerned to get in touch with their uer ier and make sure they get supplier and make sure they get access to the help and support lable.
and if you can, shop available.
and if you ran, shop around and get the best possible ff.
this will affect about half households?
about 15 million seholds.
for each and every one them, get in touch with your plier, ask them to put you in a tter tariff and equally get access he health and support available.
hat kind of health and support is re?
here are a range of things uppliers ran .
we have the warm me discount scheme.
customers can about £140 energy bill.
get about £140 off the energy bill.
equally, off gem have put very rules in place to make sure companies you fairly if you’re companies treat you fairty if you’re to ay your bills.
we have bout 1 illion people on affordable repayment plans as a lt.
there are a range of things hey ran do.
hey can put you in touch with advisers if it turns that customers are struggling to ay their bills face other pay their energy bills face other financial issues within their ly.
there are a lot of things ran do to manage this.
we accept is a big hange.
my message to he industry, and my message to all arities and others, including government, is we need to redouble forts and make sure that we pport people through this big ange.
we have worked well during covid crisis and we need to ntinue to do so.
when the energy was ntroduced it was to protect customers from unscrupulous energy nies.
is it working when we see companies.
is it working when we see a rise like this?
if you go back a time before the cap, energy into a time before the rap, energy profits were very high.
the price akes £1 llion in profit away rap takes £1 billion in profit away from the company and put that back the pockets of customers.
nfortunately, we have to adjust it the going price of gas itself changes, because we can’ ask anies to sell you energy at a price that is less than they have to to buy it.
ase do get in pay to buy it.
please do get in touch with your supplier and get to all the help and support at is out there.
there’ a lot ran an be done to support you rough this difficult change.
thank or being with us.
music festivals and other live events are to be protected by a government—backed insurance scheme if they have to cancel because of covid.
it will begin next month with a £750 million budget to cover cancellation costs if events are legally unable to happen due to government covid restrictions.
let’ speak now to jamie njoku—goodwin, chief executive of music.
with us.
this is something the music industry has long been calling you for.
you must be pretty please?
we are thrilled with this.
we have had for the past year where issues for the past year where insurers have not wanted to ensure events because of the risk of calculation.
many events have not to go ahead without that insurance.
you had a market failure.
seen lots of events this summer been cancelled already.
tonbury, boom town, british ummertime.
we were very concerned would still be seeing that we would still be seeing cancellations into next year because would that lack of they would be that lack of insurance.
there would still be a risk of potentially things been ancelled and the industry would not the confidence to plan events.
we have been calling for action from rnment on surance and the government on insurance and the government has delivered that today.
thrilled.
labour say it is we are thrillad.
labour say it is the bare minimum and relieve oters at risk.
do you share promoters at risk.
do you share those concerns?
it is a key point.
scheme covers cancellations in the event of a full lockdown.
it doesn’ cover cancellations because cial stancing or enforced of social distancing or enforced capacity reduction.
we would like to is conversation moved away rom thinking that if case rates ould up are going to go back to educe capacity.
that is not viable the dustry
and it is not for the industry and it is not covered by the scheme.
none of us want to see more restrictions.
we hope we are out of this.
if we do to see a situation emerging choir the government is looking at strictions, those new restrictions, those conversations should be around like certification and esting at full capacity, rather reduced capacity.
that would be strophic for the industry.
with this nsurance now, do you see certs returning to the levels they were at, festivals as well?
it is going to be a really long road this pandemic.
but this insurance issue, across the sector have said this is one of the key hings that i stopped us coming to where we were before.
as we re looking to come out of this emic, economic recovery, music festivals, large events are going to of the things that help be some of the things that help that.
glastonbury generates hundreds lions of pounds for the local of millions of pounds for the oral area.
concerts across the country create jobs, growth, growth throughout the supply chains, as we oking to recover from this andemic large risk events can be river of this post pandemic conomic and cultural recovery.
this ance scheme is a good example that.
thank you.
the says it’ committed to getting more british asian women into football.
its figures show on average only one in ten of those playing at grassroots level is asian, and under—representation is even more of a problem when it comes to the professional game.
it comes as government research suggests asian women are the least now clubs — like the newly set—up southall athletic — are trying to change that.
anisa kadri caught up with them at training.
she shoots, she scores.
southall athletic women’ side welcomes women from all backgrounds.
but because of its location within a very asian area, it provides opportunities for lots british asian women to play.
you just need a release with a group of girls that understand you.
you just want to have fun, but play at a competitive level.
there is a big taboo.
indian girls shouldn’ play football, they should get married, they shouldn’ be doing certain things.
for us, as a team we are trying to break the taboo.
the team has already won a tournament, but they have faced racism along the way.
they would say a few words like curry, the word.
she said something underneath her breath, i got agitated, i went into her face and the referee goes to me, are you trying to get sent off?
he didn’ hear what she said.
the club wants people to let them know if they are racially abused so it can be dealt with.
referees, coaches, players, they should all be concerned with racism game.
it is something that i had myself, when i was playing as a younger kid, until i was about 20, i encountered racism the whole way.
the goal of southall athletic to make the sport more accessible, more diverse and more exciting.
it comes at a time of the is trying to encourage more asian girls and women in play football.
this video of rising star layla has been released by the to encourage more asian girls and women to get involved in football.
we are doing research with young girls around what they want.
we are also working with various people from the muslim faith on the sport hijab and how important that is to help them on the pitch.
we are doing some work in mosques as well.
we are trying to do as much as we can to listen to what our asian women’ football group says to us.
so, is women’ football frowned upon and asian communities?
it’ become a bit more open, but not every family is like that.
i still get a few people in public saying, you are a girl, you should be at home, you shouldn’ be playing in a football shirt and shorts because you are asian.
it is hoped new women’ teams like southall at a cab to tackle asian rrepresentation at various parts the game.
the tokyo olympics opened with a ceremony which featured two mixed race japanese athletes in very high—profile roles.
many see it as a watershed moment in the way japan views its growing multi—ethnic population.
rupert wingfield—hayes reports.
it was the crowning moment of the opening ceremony and a big surprise — two of japan’ most famous mixed—race athletes given the honour of leading the team and lighting the cauldron.
but in the two weeks since, naomi osaka in particular has been targeted with online abuse, with some questioning whether she is really japanese.
it’ something ariana miyamoto knows as well.
back in 2016, she also caused shock here, becoming the first mixed—race women to be crowned miss universe japan.
watching the olympic opening ceremony, ariana says she was pretty sceptical.
: i don’ know they were chosen.
it seems like it was to get good publicity.
japan has a lot of mixed—race celebrities and sports stars.
biracial people are often held up as being more beautiful, even more intelligent.
but ariana says within that, there is still a hierarchy.
: half—white people are greatly celebrated injapan, but when it comes to half—black people, it’ different.
when i was working as a model, i was told that a lot of japanese wouldn’ want the clothes that i wear since my skin colour is very different.
so they wouldn’ allow me to model their outfits.
i kind of look atjapan as a mcneil is a writer who has lived injapan for 17 years.
he says naomi osaka lighting the olympic cauldron will not change the fact that most japanese still think this is a mono—ethnic society.
so, first thing japan would need to do is disperse with that rumour, with that fallacy that they’re a homogeneous country.
it’ a misconception, and the fact that they haven’ been correcting it is feeding this negativity, the response to naomi osaka and rui hachimura and all these people, because most japanese people don’ understand this basic fact, that their country is not homogeneous.
biracial people are not the only ones who face exclusion and discrimination in japan.
in the southern okinawan islands, there are nearly 1.
5 million people who are not even recognised as an official minority despite having their own culture and language.
in the far north, there are more people, and then injapan’ big cities like here, there is the group that perhaps faces the greatest hostility, and those are ethnic koreans.
they never mentioned the ethnic koreans in the opening ceremony, where we are where are we, i mean?
his korean grandparents were brought here over 80 years ago.
he has never known another home.
but that fact means little to japan’ many right—wing nationalists.
mostly, they say, , you are utilising japan, so you guys are taking all the resources from japanese people, so you should go home.
it doesn’
matter, like, which passport you are, for them, the origin is very important.
those who yearn for a more inclusive japan look at the opening ceremony and wonder whether it really was a sign this country is changing or a pretence, an attempt to make japan look more open than it really is.
rupert wingfield—hayes, news, in tokyo.
a new kind of content creator is emerging on youtube.
so—called virtual youtubers are people who use character models to engage with their audience anonymously on the video—sharing site.
these —tubers — as they’re called — are becoming more and more popular with some reportedly earning millions.
our reporter miles emmanuel spoke to two of them using their online personas.
hello.
you are watching the .
meet veepaii and apricot — two british women, aged 22 and 23, who work as online content creators and use animated avatars to replace their identity.
some virtual youtubers, ‘vtubers’, use body tracking technology, like this, to animate the characters, while others have a much simpler set up.
but the industry only started in 2016 and some need convincing it is a viable career choice.
she didn’ understand what i was doing at first
and she was definitely not happy about me leaving university to pursue my career online.
i took a year off of university and that is when my career blew up.
with a host of colourful characters, accessibility and anonymity can play key parts in streamers deciding to take the digital plunge.
for vee, it was after she contracted a viral infection which ruptured her spleen and left her bedridden for six months that she decided to stream online.
any disability you may have, it definitely works around it.
you don’ need to deal with harassment from people.
you would probably deal with it if you had your camera up.
they assume that everybody who chooses this career, having their face as a cartoon character, theyjust instantly assume that everyone is overweight orjust some guy, and
it’ really not the case.
vtubers are now amongst the highest—earning content creators, with some receiving up to around £2 million in the last 1.
5 years.
now, major companies are looking into using mascots for customer—facing roles.
if you are asking if this is the future of things, i see us moving towards it as these art styles are being seen as engaging and more attractive to them, right?
you do not have to hire make up artists or crazy video to have someone talking about your wares.
you canjust run a game engine and have it fully rendered.
and although vtubers, like many content creators, can be subject to abusive and sexist comments, veepaii and apricot say their careers have allowed them to learn important life skills.
i grew out of my social anxiety through being a vtuber.
i used to be really shy.
i would be afraid to speak in english classes.
ifa kid has a dream of their own or a goal in mind, i think everyone should to pursue that.
miles emmanuel, news.
let’ just show you the live picture coming into us from grace.
this is a north of athens.
those scene north of athens.
those devastating wildfires.
really ing the scale of the smoke showing the scale of the smoke hanging over the city of athens.
the prime minister has said that many people face what he called a cing night.
he said firefighters struggling to contain ldfires, not in athens but cross he country.
the prime nister said the worst was sadly to come, with strong westerly inds expected to fan the flames today.
we will nue to keep an today.
we will continue to keep an eye on the situation in greece.
and you as it changes.
that’ it from me.
you can reach me on itter.
the weather with matt taylor.
hello.
whilst a few of you will get away with decent weather in the days, the emphasis will be the few.
plenty of downpours to , some pretty torrential and undery.
the weather equivalent of rinse and spin cycle.
low ressure necrosis.
those showers olving around that area of low essure as it moves eastwards, inging respite eventually, efully, for most of us by tuesday.
the area of low pressure entred across parts of southern tland.
strongest winds around the ges of that.
winds gusting at 44 0 to 0 mph.
any showers you see ill be ﬂaeting.
—— a0 to 50 mph.
any showers you see will be fleeting.
more persistent in on far north of scotland.
rain on the far north of scotland.
for southern scotland, northern and, northern ireland, where the latest, torrential thunderstorms could bring quite a rain.
the risk of flooding.
lot of rain.
the risk ofﬂooding.
that said, if you managed to avoid howers, it should feel pleasant in the sunshine.
overall fairly cool his stage august.
low for this stage of august.
low pressure still with us overnight.
see those showers revolving you ran see those showers revolving around it.
most frequent up across of scotland, northern ireland, of north—west england, north west ales.
some pushing towards he uth—east corner.
the night is particularty chilly.
in temperatures holding in double res.
on saturday it is as you re.
showers brewing again.
probably ore towards wales and a few more towards wales and south—west lincoln.
a few to begin east anglia and the within east anglia and the south—east.
turning for a time.
and thunderstorms across scotland, northern ireland and hern england would be slow oving in the afternoon.
brighter scotland.
for of us for scotland.
for all of us temperatures down.
the area of low pressure still around the .
as centred through scotland, the iest of the downpours will be.
ewing through the afternoon as peratures rise.
fewer showers owards the south coast of england south wales.
some of you will by largely .
temperatures get by largely dry.
temperatures still in the high teens for the vast ity.
as we go into next week we are not settling down into a long of summery weather by any eans.
tuesday probably the widest across the country.
still some hine at times.
this is news with the latest headlines: are to go up this winter.
the energy watchdog says the increase is needed because of rising wholesale prices.
because we have seen a record increase in fossil fuel prices, not as and electricity but also etrol and diesel we have fed that ough to the calculation.
the bronze medal at tokyo 2020.
a third successive medal at the olympics for britain’ women hockey team — thanks to a a— win over india.
team are also guaranteed at least another silver in the boxing.
most remaining coronavirus restrictions in wales will be scrapped from tomorrow — limits on the number of people that can meet indoors will end, social distancing rules will ease — and can reopen.
a fifth of all the ’ covid, hospital patients are aged between 18 and 3a — doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated — we’ve a special report.
firefighters in greece continue to battle wildfires across the country — it’ predicted that worse is still to come.
and the end of an era — barcelona say lionel messi will leave the club after 21 years — due to "financial obstacles".
gas and electric prices will go up for millions of people across the in october.
the energy watchdog, ofgem, has confirmed its biggest increase so far to the price cap for domestic deals to cover suppliers’ extra costs.
on average, households in england, wales and scotland on standard tariffs will pay an extra 139 pounds a yearfrom october.
prepayment customers will see an increase of £153 according to the regulator.
the cap, which is reviewed every six months, rose by nearly a hundred pounds in april.
charities, such as national energy action, say this latest increase couldn’ have come at a worse time, but ofgem insists the changes are necessary because of the rising wholesale costs of energy.
ofgem’ chief executive, jonathan brearley, has this message for customers : we have a price cap in britain and that people who do not switch lier, and what we have done supplier, and what we have done today is because we have seen a increase in fossil fuel prices ross the board, not gas and lectricity but also petrol iesel, we have had to feed that through the calculation and into the ice rap.
that does is make price rap.
what that does is make sure we don’ go back to the bad old where companies charge on fair rofits on top of the amount you but input changes, that limit has change.
our advice is really .
we know it is going to put opla in difficult circumstances we work closely with charities customers themselves, we encourage every customer to get in with their supplier and make sure they get access to the help and which is available to them.
justina miltonite is from the comparison website uswitch.
the price cap impacts customers on default tariffs who have not switch energy supplier for a really ong time or have moved homes and ’ fixed their deals.
the other roup of people would be prepayment omers who are usually in a more recarious financial situation eady, so it will really affect ople who could do with a bit of lief.
with me now is peter smith, director of policy and advocacy at fuel poverty charity national energy action.
i’ also joined by anthony lyman who’ a single dad of two